-- Commodities Climb to 4-Week High on U.S. Budget Optimism
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-11-19T16:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/commodities-climb-to-4-week-high-on-u-s-budget-optimism.html
Commodities rose to a four-week high
on optimism that a deal will be reached to avoid automatic U.S.
spending cuts and tax increases, boosting the outlook for
economic growth and demand for metals, energy and grains.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose as much 2.3 percent to 651.75, the highest since Oct. 22.
Gains were led by sugar, which jumped the most since June. Oil
reached the highest in four weeks amid concern that unrest in
the Middle East will disrupt supplies. Copper climbed the most
in nine weeks.  Commodities erased their 2012 loss after President  Barack
Obama  said yesterday he’s “confident” about reaching an budget
agreement with lawmakers to avoid the $607 so-called fiscal
cliff. A group of European finance officials met in Paris today
to try to forge a common position on  Greece ’s next aid payment.
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes climbed in October, a
private report showed.  “Investors are saying here that the politicians are taking
steps in the right direction to find some resolution,” Greyson Colvin, the managing partner at New York-based Colvin & Co.,
which manages $22 million of assets said in a telephone
interview. “Bullish home data is also giving us some hope that
2013 may be a better year.”  Crude Rally  Twenty two of the commodities tracked by S&P climbed today.
The gauge rose 2.3 percent to 651.44 as of 11:54 a.m. in New
York, leaving it up 1 percent for the year.  Crude oil jumped as much as 2.9 percent as Israeli put
ground forces on stand-by to invade the Gaza Strip for the first
time in almost four years, should cease-fire efforts fail.  Raw materials are still headed for the smallest annual gain
since a 43 percent loss in 2008 as stagnating global economies
crimped demand. The “super cycle” of commodity prices gains
has ended as  China ’s economy shifts to slower growth and
supplies increase, Citigroup Inc. said today.  Prices won’t move “sharply” higher even as stimulus
measures from global central banks lift growth and demand
rebounds by the end of 2013, analysts led by New York-based
Edward L. Morse, Citigroup’s global head of commodities
research, said today in an e-mailed report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  