-- Correlation Breakdown as Asia, Latin America Diverge: Currencies
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-11-20T19:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/correlation-breakdown-as-asia-latin-america-diverge-currencies.html
Asian currencies that once moved in
lockstep with their Latin American peers are diverging by the
most ever as  China  attracts investors to the region without
boosting commodities, the main exports for  Brazil  and Chile.  The four-week  correlation  between the currencies of the two
regions reached minus 1 last month, meaning they always move in
the opposite direction, according to index  data  compiled by
Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co. As recently as May, the
correlation was plus 1 as the indexes moved in tandem. The
Chinese  yuan  has climbed to 19-year highs amid gains in retail
sales and the South Korean won reached the strongest since 2011,
while Brazil’s real and the pesos in Mexico, Chile and  Colombia 
weakened over the past two months.  “Usually when people buy China, it boosts currencies in
both  Latin America  and Asia,” Dirk Willer, the head of Latin
American local-markets strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  New York ,
said by phone. “But this time around, given that the commodity
link isn’t working, people get bought up on Asia but not on
Latin America. There’s a long-term structural story.”  As  China’s economy  has slowed, with gross domestic product
forecast to increase 7.7 percent this year after gains of 9.3
percent and 10 percent the two previous years, it is moving away
from commodity-dependent investment in factories and houses,
sapping demand for Brazil’s  iron ore , Chile’s copper and
Colombia’s oil. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials has fallen 7.7 percent from a six-month high Sept. 14.  Sustainable Growth  While China’s imports from Brazil slumped 17 percent in
October from a year earlier, the Asian nation is buying more
South Korean cars and smartphone chips from  Taiwan .  China is targeting more sustainable growth as it undergoes
a once-a-decade leadership transition, with Xi Jinping replacing
President  Hu Jintao  as head of the Communist Party last week.  Hu said in a Nov. 8 speech that the world’s second-largest
economy after the U.S. must double per-capita income and GDP by
2020 by innovating and boosting domestic demand. A stronger yuan
increases the purchasing power of Chinese consumers by making
imports cheaper.  The Bloomberg Asian index, which tracks 10 currencies in
the region including the yuan, won and Malaysian ringgit, has
gained 2.3 percent this year through yesterday to 117.77, while
a similar gauge for Latin American  currencies  fell 0.9 percent
to 103.43. The two measures are poised to diverge on an annual
basis for the first time since 2006.  The Asian index was little changed as of 2:04 p.m. in New
York. The Latin American gauge rose 0.1 percent.  Smartphones, Cars  The correlation was minus 0.2 last week, after reaching
minus 1 on Oct. 19, and has been negative for six consecutive
weeks, the longest stretch since 2004, Bloomberg data show.  As China cut its growth target to 7.5 percent this year,
following an expansion of 11 percent annually over the last
decade, imports from Brazil slowed after surging more than 18-
fold between 2003 and 2011.  In contrast, China’s rising demand for smartphones helped
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing (2330)  Co., the world’s largest
contract manufacturer of chips, post record sales and profit in
the third quarter. Seoul-based  Hyundai Motor (005380)  Co. reported a 13
percent increase in earnings, beating analysts’ forecasts, as
sales in China, the world’s largest car market, exceeded its
target.  Asian currencies make up six of the top seven performers in
 emerging markets  this quarter, led by the 2.7 percent gain in
the South Korean won.  The currencies rallied after China, the largest trading
partner for South Korea and  Malaysia , said retail sales climbed
in October at the fastest pace since March. Sales of furniture
and communication appliances increased at least 24 percent.  Peg Defended  The yuan rose 0.2 percent last week and reached 6.2252 per
dollar on Nov. 14, the strongest level since China unified
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It traded at 6.2326
per dollar today in  Shanghai , after reaching 1 percent premium
to the central bank’s daily official rate, the maximum it’s
allowed to fluctuate.  In  Hong Kong , the capital inflow was so strong that the
central bank had to buy $4.2 billion this month to defend its
dollar peg for the first time since 2009. South Korea’s won rose
to a 14-month high of 1,080.95 today as stock exchange data
shows that overseas investors bought the country’s shares for
the first time in nine days.  Currencies in Latin America are slumping with prices in
commodities, which account for half of the region’s exports. The
Chilean peso has declined 0.7 percent this quarter and the
Brazilian real fell 2.6 percent and reached 2.0851 per dollar on
Nov. 16, the weakest level since May.  Fiscal Stimulus  China has overtaken the U.S. as Brazil’s largest trading
partner since 2009, buying everything from iron ore to soybeans.
It’s also the world’s largest consumer of copper, which accounts
for half of Chile’s exports.  Three years ago, China fueled a rally across emerging-
market currencies and prompted a commodities boom with 4
trillion yuan ($642 billion) of spending on housing, highways
and airports amid the global financial crisis. The real and
Chilean peso rallied at least 26 percent in 2009, while the
Indonesian rupiah rose 18 percent and the won gained 8 percent.  China has avoided a similar fiscal stimulus as government
curbs on property sales reduced production of steel and cement.
Domestic commodity prices, such as coal, copper, steel and
aluminum, have slumped 32 percent from the peak in July 2008,
data compiled by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. show .  Relative Consumption  “Beijing has been focusing more on the quality of the
growth, rather than the size of the growth, which is very, very
important,” Stephen Jen, the managing partner at hedge fund SLJ
Macro Partners LLP in  London  and the former head of currency
research at Morgan Stanley, said in a telephone interview. “The
actual demand for commodities is not growing even though things
are stabilizing,” which may be hurting Latin currencies, he
said.  China’s consumption is on track to surpass investment as
the biggest contributor to growth for only the second year since
2001. In the first nine months, consumption accounted for 55
percent of the expansion, exceeding that from investment, Sheng Laiyun, a spokesman at the National Bureau of Statistics, told
reporters in Beijing on Oct. 18.  Retail sales  rose 14.5 percent in October from a year
earlier, outpacing the growth in industrial production for the
20th month, which  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, called “an extremely good sign that the Chinese
economy is rebalancing.”  Buying Reals  The nation’s current-account surplus, the broadest measure
of trade and service, probably shrank to 2.3 percent of its
gross domestic product this year from a record 10 percent in
2007, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Global economic growth will eventually lead to an increase
in commodity prices that will benefit some currencies in Latin
America, said Yerlan Syzdykov, who oversees emerging-market
bonds at Pioneer Investments, which has 153 billion euros ($195
billion) of assets. His $933 million  emerging-market bond fund 
has returned 24 percent over the past year, beating 98 percent
of its peers, Bloomberg data show.  “We might see better commodity prices going forward,”
said Syzdykov, who’s buying the real and Mexican peso, in a
telephone interview on Nov. 13. “We will see a pickup in
selective Latin American currencies.”  Ringgit, Pesos  The U.S. is also showing signs of a revival. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary  consumer sentiment 
index rose to 84.9 in November, the highest since July 2007,
after employers hired more workers than forecast in October,
with payrolls expanding by 171,000 after a 148,000 gain the
previous month.  Asian currencies remain the cheapest among emerging markets
based on the Economist’s Big Mac index, which measures the local
cost of McDonald’s Corp.’s burgers around the world.  The Malaysian ringgit is undervalued by 45 percent, while
the Philippine peso is 34 percent below its fair value, the
index shows. In contrast, Brazil’s real is overvalued by 11
percent.  While countries such as Brazil and Colombia are taking
measures to weaken their currencies in an attempt to shore up
exporters, the strengthening yuan is encouraging Asian export
competitors to be more tolerant of currency appreciation,
according to  David Loevinger , former senior coordinator for
China affairs at the U.S. Treasury Department.  “There seems to be less resistance to currency
appreciation now than in previous recoveries,” Loevinger, now a
managing director for Asia economics and investment strategy in
Los Angeles at TCW Group Inc., which oversees $135 billion, said
in an interview on Nov. 13. “The composition of China’s growth
is changing. Consumption looks pretty strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  