-- Crowds Are This Election’s Real Winners
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-11-19T23:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/crowds-are-this-election-s-real-winners.html
Forget about Obama versus Romney.
The real contest in the 2012 election was about analytics.  Politics is just the latest front in a war being fought in
businesses and consulting firms around the world, with this
round pitting quants such as  New York  Times blogger Nate Silver
against the intuition of pundits like  James Carville  or  Karl Rove . The quants bring data, computers and formal models. The
pundits -- though they do use data -- rely more on gut feelings,
industry experience and personal contacts.  In the latest skirmish, the quants won. They predicted the
election outcome far more accurately than the pundits did.
Therein lies a lesson for executives and policy makers alike:
Wisdom and intuition may actually be hurting your firm or
organization.  Consider the  Federal Reserve , arguably the most powerful
economic institution on the planet. The Fed’s staff economists
do for economic statistics what Silver does for poll numbers,
crunching piles of data into a very accurate forecast. By
contrast, the members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  are
more like Carville, wisened by years of experience and equipped
with anecdotes from their industry contacts. A surprising  study 
by economists  Christina Romer  and David Romer found that adding
the opinions of these pundits to the staff forecast actually
produces an inferior result. The surprising conclusion is that
we would be better served if the members of the FOMC simply
withheld their judgment.  Better Forecaster  This doesn’t mean the quants can declare victory. As it
turns out, there is an even better forecaster: crowds. Political
prediction markets, such as Intrade, which rely on the wisdom of
crowds rather than any individual uber-pundit, have historically
done a better job of predicting elections than even very
sophisticated statistical models do. In 2008, the prediction
markets were  more accurate  than Silver in forecasting the
election results. In 2012, the scorekeepers at  PunditTracker.com 
called it  a draw , despite attempts by Romney supporters to
manipulate the odds at Intrade.  The implications go far beyond elections. Research has
 shown  that prediction markets can forecast  economic , business
and sporting outcomes better than relevant experts can. They
even  helped  Hewlett-Packard Co. predict printer sales better
than its own analysts could. What these markets do is
efficiently aggregate many different types of information
pertinent to the forecast at hand -- not merely the parts that
are quantifiable and thus easy to subject to the quants’
analytical tools. The quant may be smarter than any other person
in the room, but he’s not smarter than the room as a whole.  Prediction markets can be difficult for businesses to use.
For one, you need to find a lot of people who are willing to bet
on the outcome that interests you. That can be particularly
problematic in places that have anti-gambling laws.  Luckily, you don’t need a market to draw upon the wisdom of
crowds. In recent  research , David Rothschild and  Justin Wolfers 
analyzed the results of election polls that asked random samples
of Americans who they thought would win -- another way to crowd-
source insight. They found that polls of voters’ expectations
consistently outperformed standard polls, which asked voters
whom they plan to vote for. In 345 separate races, the
expectation polls correctly predicted 81 percent of all election
winners, compared with 69 percent for the regular polls.  The recent election provided an ideal real-world test of
the different types of polls. Quants such as Silver based their
projections on polls asking people whom they intended to vote
for. These projections  varied  sharply over time, picking up the
strong pro-Obama sentiment only in the last few days of the
campaign. Some polls predicted a close contest, and a few even
pointed to a victory for Republican nominee  Mitt Romney . By
contrast, surveys of voter expectations pointed to President
 Barack Obama ’s win much earlier and more consistently, and also
correctly suggested that he would win by a healthy margin.  Sample Size  Asking the crowd for its forecast yields useful insights
because it treats poll respondents as mini-anthropologists,
asking them to report back not just on their own thoughts and
feelings, but also on those of their friends, neighbors and
coworkers. This boosts a poll’s effective sample size, as each
respondent may end up speaking for the preferences of 10 or 20
others.  The same logic that works for political forecasts might
work well in other contexts. Think about how most market
research works. A clothing manufacturer may convene a dozen
people in a focus group, and ask them whether they prefer a red
shirt to a blue shirt. Such exercises have only limited value,
partly because the opinions of so few people may not represent
the broader population. If, however, each of these people is
asked to reflect on the preferences of his or her friends and
family, the responses may actually mirror hundreds of people
from a dozen separate communities.  The approach may be helpful in constructing better economic
indicators, as well. For instance, economists are very
interested in tracking employment. Rather than just asking a
sample of people if they have a job (as the Bureau of Labor
Statistics currently does), why not also ask whether the firm
where they work is hiring or firing? Gallup Inc. has recently
started asking precisely this  question , and some preliminary
analysis suggests that it can help explain labor market
developments. (Disclosure: Justin Wolfers is a senior scientist
at Gallup.)  The 2012 election had a clear winner: Analytics beat
intuition. This is threatening both to the likes of Carville and
Rove and to their intuition-driven counterparts in the corporate
world. But the quants also have to respect the crowd. The
success of prediction markets and expectations polls tells us
something truly humbling -- that knowledge doesn’t just reside
in the executive suite or in a quantitative model. For
executives nimble and humble enough to accept this, it presents
a great opportunity.  (Betsey Stevenson is an associate professor of public
policy at the  University of Michigan . Justin Wolfers is an
associate professor of business and public policy at the
 University of Pennsylvania , and a non-resident senior fellow of
the  Brookings Institution . Both are Bloomberg View columnists.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how California voting reforms
hint at wiser politics  and on  how to achieve a Hamas-Israel
cease-fire ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Hamas-Israel fighting ; William
Pesek on  Christine Lagarde ’s  giving short shrift to Asia ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on  Republicans’ leverage in fiscal-cliff negotiations ;
Cass R. Sunstein on the  broken Senate confirmation process ;
 Megan Greene  on why  the euro is sunk  if German intransigence
continues.  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@umich.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@umich.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  