-- Leverage Under Attack in Danish Mortgage Review: Nordic Credit
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-11-20T09:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/danish-fsa-says-stricter-home-loan-rules-will-avert-next-crisis.html
Denmark, home to the world’s highest
household debt burden, is exploring the option of requiring home
buyers to cough up bigger down-payments in an effort to wean the
 recession-stricken economy  off leverage.  The nation of 5.4 million, which has seen house prices
slump about 25 percent since a 2007 peak, has relied too much on
credit to finance home ownership, according to the  Financial
Supervisory Authority . The regulator now says bigger mandatory
down-payments may be a way to force households to delay property
purchases until they can really afford them.  The comments come as Danes refinance as much as 475 billion
kroner ($81 billion) in adjustable-rate mortgages at near
record-low yields. While the bond-backed portion of Denmark’s
residential property market complies with an 80 percent loan-to-
value rule, access to bank loans to help home buyers finance the
rest may have been too lax, the FSA said.  “With the Danish model in general, you don’t have to come
up with a lot of down-payment, if any, to finance a house,” FSA
Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said in an interview in
Copenhagen. The system needs to become “more robust,” he said.  The regulator wouldn’t push for stricter rules until the
housing market stabilizes, he said.  Stressed Markets  Denmark ’s private debt burdens swelled to 322 percent of
disposable incomes in 2010, Standard & Poor’s estimates. While
that’s backed by a high savings rate in the form of pensions and
home equity, those assets can be hard to access when financial
markets are stressed, central bank Governor Nils Bernstein has
warned.  The FSA is now looking at “the amount of leverage that
households can take up, for example, by regulating over the
housing cycle the amount of down-payment you have to come up
with,” Noedgaard said. “We want to think through the various
instruments; this is planning for the future.”  The Association of Danish Mortgage Banks said it’s willing
to consider the idea, which it said parliament should decide on.
A government committee is examining the origins of Denmark’s
bubble and potential measures to prevent another.  Still, the Copenhagen-based industry group said it doubted
requiring minimum down-payments would be effective, because
buyers would probably find funding outside the financial system.  ‘Not Convinced’  “We are not convinced, but we are open minded,” Ane Arnth Jensen, the association’s director, said by phone today. “It’s
too early to make a final judgment now but it’s not easy to
prevent bubbles. If it were easy, a solution would have been
invented already.”  Though Denmark’s household liabilities are high, government
debt is less than half the euro-zone average, the European
Commission estimates.  Denmark pays less than  Germany  to borrow over 10 years,
with the yield on the nation’s benchmark 3 percent note due
November 2021 at 1.117 percent at 10:33 a.m. in Copenhagen, or
about 24 basis points less than the yield on similar-maturity
bunds. Denmark’s government charges investors to hold its two-
year debt, which yielded minus 0.166 percent.  Low government yields have helped ease borrowing costs in
Denmark’s mortgage bond market, which is the world’s third-
largest after the U.S. and Germany. Danish refinancing auctions
for one-, three- and five-year mortgages generated yields as low
as 0.5 percent at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s mortgage unit, the bank said
yesterday. Realkredit Danmark A/S, the mortgage arm of  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE) , sold one-year bonds at 0.56 percent, it said.  Cost Increase  The yield on the January 2014 note issued by Nykredit A/S,
Denmark’s biggest mortgage lender, had a bid-to-maturity yield
of 0.40 percent in Copenhagen trading, bringing the spread to
the government’s benchmark 2 percent note due 2014 to 57 basis
points.  Yet bank loans, which don’t have the same collateral
backing as mortgage bonds, have gone up in cost. The effective
 interest rate  on new lending to households for residential
property purchases was 6.2 percent in September, central bank
data show. That compares with 5.9 percent a year earlier,
according to the bank. That’s putting more pressure on household
finances as property values continue to sink.  Denmark risks sliding into its second recession as
continuing house price declines undermine  consumer spending ,
Thomas Dorsey, head of the International Monetary Fund’s Danish
mission, said Nov. 5, after concluding a review of the economy.  Setting Limits  Any new restrictions would apply to both mortgage and
regular lenders, Noedgaard said. “Setting limits for what
mortgage institutions can do, without getting a grip on what
banks can do, will not do the job,” he said.  Denmark’s real estate crisis sent impairment levels
soaring, resulting in the failure of more than a dozen
commercial banks since 2008. Toender Bank A/S, the most recent
insolvency, underscores the continued pressure on Danish bank
assets, Moody’s Investors Service said in a Nov. 8 note.  The FSA in April imposed tougher writedown rules as it
pushes stricter solvency standards. The regulator is also
forcing banks to document the extent to which their boards
fulfill minimum professional requirements. In addition, the
watchdog is taking a closer look at how banks calculate risk in
internal ratings models.  Next Crisis  Mortgage banks, which in Denmark operate under separate
licenses from regular lenders, have had to meet additional
collateral demands from regulators and ratings companies to
compensate for falling  house prices  and refinancing risks. The
industry has responded by putting up 246 billion kroner in extra
collateral since 2007, the central bank said in June.  The FSA’s proposals will help avert the next crisis and are
not a measure the regulator would enforce in the middle of the
current turmoil, Noedgaard said. Requiring a minimum down-
payment “is not a thing that we want to do now,” he said.
“This is an instrument we want to get comfortable with.”  The central bank has signaled it’s unlikely to back
mandatory down-payments, cautioning that implementation may be
too complicated and could spawn a shadow market for loans.  “It would be difficult to enforce a requirement that some
or all of the remaining payment must be covered by savings,”
central bank spokesman Karsten Biltoft said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Such a measure might also inadvertently
create a gray market for loans.”  Banks should be left to resolve the matter on their own,
Biltoft said.  ‘Significant Changes’  “We have confidence that lenders, in connection with
housing purchases, will find a sensible balance between own-
financing and debt financing as part of a total credit
assessment,” he said.  The financial industry has already taken steps to tighten
lending, according to the most recent quarterly lending survey
by the central bank. Mortgage banks have raised fees on
interest-only, adjustable-rate loans. Regular banks have raised
interest rates on  consumer lending .  Danske Bank, the country’s largest lender, said Oct. 30 it
had tightened its credit policy for customers whose homes had
declined in value. The lender’s LTV ratios for home loans in
Denmark were second only to ratios Ireland, rising to 73.7
percent as of Sept. 30, compared with 69.5 percent a year
earlier.  Internal industry controls are sufficient for now,
Noedgaard said.  “We feel that, where we are in the business cycle and the
housing cycle, the right approach now is self-regulation,” he
said. “I see significant changes in the way the institutions
are addressing this, and we are quite happy with what we see
right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  