-- Deutsche Bank to Offer Physical-Replication ETFs
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-11-19T10:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/deutsche-bank-to-offer-physical-replication-etfs.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  will follow  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  in offering exchange-traded funds backed by bonds
and shares amid concern over the use of derivatives to track the
performance of underlying indexes.  The Frankfurt-based bank’s DB X-Trackers unit,  Europe ’s
second-largest ETF manager, will, as of next month, sell ETFs on
a number of benchmark equity indexes, joining existing swap-
based products, the company said in a statement today. SocGen’s
Lyxor Asset Management said in September it will offer funds
that buy physical assets.  Investors last year pulled money from European ETFs that
use derivatives to track performance, moving record amounts into
ETFs backed by physical assets as the euro area’s debt crisis
sparked concern about the finances of the banks that sell so-
called synthetic products. DB X-Trackers manages 33 billion
euros ($42 billion) in ETFs, according to its website.  “Investors will be able to go to a single provider and
choose not only the type of market exposure they want, but also
the type of tracking method they feel most comfortable with,”
Thorsten Michalik, global head of DB X-trackers, said in the
statement. “Some client segments have shown a preference for
direct replication, and as a provider we aim to meet that
demand.”  Regulators and companies such as Fidelity Investors have
criticized ETFs that use derivatives to mimic stock, bond or
currency returns. They have argued that clients risk losing
money if the banks writing the swaps become insolvent. Managers
of synthetic-replication methods say their products follow the
underlying investments more accurately than ETFs that have to
buy the physical assets. They also argue that their reporting
standards are often higher than mutual funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  