-- Di Matteo Is Fighting to Save Job at Chelsea: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-19T06:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/di-matteo-is-fighting-to-save-job-at-chelsea-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Di Matteo Danger  Chelsea manager Roberto Di Matteo is fighting to save his
job six months after guiding the team to its first European Cup
title, the  Daily Mail reported .  Club owner  Roman Abramovich  is losing his patience after
the team won three of its past seven games, while goalkeeper
 Petr Cech  was at the center of a locker-room row following the
2-1 loss at West Bromwich Albion two days ago, the Mail said
without saying where it got the information.  Sterling Contract  Liverpool is set to offer winger Raheem Sterling a new
long-term contract worth 30,000 pounds ($47,751) a week
following the teenager’s rise to the first team and England’s
national squad, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Sterling, 17, is currently earning about 100,000 pounds a
year, the Mirror added.  No January Sale  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said  Theo Walcott  won’t leave
the club in January even if the England forward fails to agree
on a new contract, the  Sun reported .  If a deal cannot be reached, Wenger has made it clear the
Gunners will let Walcott go as a free agent at the end of this
season rather than sell him during the January transfer window,
the Sun added.  Ferdinand’s Options  Rio Ferdinand  may leave  Manchester United  when his contract
expires at the end of this season and is considering options
including playing in China, the  Guardian reported .  The defender has told friends he has no intention of
retiring, with a move abroad the most likely outcome should he
leave the club he joined for 30 million pounds in 2002, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  