-- The SEC’s Braggadocio Mysteriously Disappears
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-11-19T19:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/the-sec-s-braggadocio-mysteriously-disappears.html
When the Securities and Exchange
Commission sued  Edward Steffelin  last year, the agency issued a
 press release  telling the world it had accused him of fraud. So
how did the world first learn that the SEC had dropped its
claims against him?  Not from the SEC.  New York  Times columnist  James Stewart 
broke the story.  As of midafternoon, there still was no mention on the SEC’s
 website  of the fact that the case against Steffelin had been
dismissed on Nov. 16. Every document on the website that
mentions his name makes him out to be a fraudster. (Steffelin,
43, a former GSC Capital Corp. executive, was sued in June 2011
over his work on a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  collateralized debt
obligation that defaulted.)  The SEC is more than happy to issue unflattering public
statements when it sues people or reaches settlements with them.
When the defendants win, however, the SEC tends to keep quiet.  In May, for instance, a federal judge in  California 
dismissed all of the SEC’s claims against Scott Keys, the former
chief financial officer of the failed thrift IndyMac Bancorp. In
February 2011, the agency’s public affairs office issued a  press
release  trumpeting the securities-fraud allegations against him.
The SEC’s  enforcement division  issued a separate release saying
he “participated in the filing of false and misleading
disclosures.” The case against Keys has been closed for almost
six months. Yet the SEC still hasn’t updated its statements
about him on its website.  Similarly, the SEC didn’t post a release on its website
when it  lost  a jury trial this summer against former  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  executive Brian Stoker. The SEC enforcement’s division and
public-affairs office  both  issued  releases  when the SEC sued him
in October 2011, saying that he had been accused of fraud. The
agency hasn’t updated its website to show that he was  cleared .  Same with Bruce Bent Sr., the former manager of the Reserve
Primary money-market fund, who took the SEC to court and  won  a
jury trial this month. The SEC  thumped  its chest when it sued
him in 2009, the year after the fund “broke the buck” following
Lehman Brothers’ collapse. The SEC didn’t update the press-
release or litigation-release sections of its website when Bent
was absolved in court. (His son, Bruce Bent II, was found liable
for negligence at the same trial.)  Money managers can go to jail for burying their losers and
telling investors only about their winners. When the SEC does
the same thing, it’s par for the course.  An SEC spokesman,  John Nester , provided Stewart a statement
for his New York Times column last week, although the statement
was not posted on the SEC’s website. “Our duty in all cases is
to achieve a just and appropriate outcome,” Nester said. “Our
decision here appropriately reflects information that came to
light as the litigation progressed.”  I began asking Nester on Friday why the SEC hadn’t made a
public announcement itself of the dismissal in the Steffelin
case. The document in which the SEC agreed to dismiss its case
against him is dated Nov. 8, more than a week before Stewart’s
column was published. In an e-mail this morning, Nester said an
update would be posted on the SEC’s website later today. We’ll
see about the other cases, and whether the SEC changes its
practice.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on 
Twitter.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .
 