-- ECB’s Weidmann Says Banking Union Can’t Solve Debt Crisis
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-11-19T10:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/ecb-s-weidmann-says-banking-union-can-t-solve-debt-crisis-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said a banking union can’t solve
the euro-area debt crisis.  “Done correctly, a banking union can be an important
building block, even a pillar of a stable monetary union,”
Weidmann, who heads  Germany ’s Bundesbank, said in a speech in
Frankfurt today. “But is it also the key to finding a solution
to the crisis? No, it’s not, and we shouldn’t overburden it with
this expectation.”  European leaders in June agreed to hand the ECB powers to
oversee all 6,000 euro-area banks as part of a so-called banking
union that would unlock joint recapitalization funds for the
region’s ailing lenders. Weidmann said the banking union
shouldn’t take responsibility for legacy risks and debts.  “The current problems in the banking system are above all
a result of past mistakes on the national level,” he said.
“Balance-sheet risks that occurred under national
responsibility must also be overcome by the respective member
state.”  To spread these risks via a banking union would amount to
fiscal transfers and contradict the purpose and justification
for the banking union, Weidmann said, adding such a course could
reduce the incentive for countries to reform their banking
systems.  The banking system needs to be better protected from the
effects of the debt crisis, he said, proposing that the banking
union be flanked by other regulatory measures.  “Two are particularly important to me,” Weidmann said.
“First, there should be a limit on lending to sovereigns for
each bank. Second, banks should have capital buffers that take
into account the risk of their sovereign debt or lending to the
state.”  Banks can currently hold sovereign debt without setting
aside capital for it because it is still treated as risk-
free.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in Frankfurt at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  