-- Hedge Funds Led by Paulson Bet on Nexen Offer: Corporate Canada
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-11-19T22:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/hedge-funds-led-by-paulson-bet-on-nexen-offer-corporate-canada.html
Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by
billionaire John Paulson, and mutual fund firm  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN)  are among foreign investors betting Canada will
approve  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion acquisition of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   Paulson & Co., Franklin, Arrowgrass Capital Partners LLP,
Mason Capital Management LLC and Eton Park Capital Management
LP, all based outside Canada, bought shares in Calgary-based
Nexen in the third quarter, regulatory filings  show . Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan tripled its stake while T. Rowe Price
Group Inc. and Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd. sold.  The purchases were made before Canada rejected a C$5.2
billion ($5.2 billion) bid by Petroliam Nasional Bhd. for
 Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  on Oct. 19, which cast doubt on
the Nexen deal. Nexen shares have risen since, with the spread
between China-owned Cnooc’s $27.50 offer and shares of the
Calgary-based energy company the lowest since Oct. 18 as of Nov.
16, suggesting investors are growing more optimistic the deal
will be completed, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Most people believe that Nexen will get completed,” said
Sachin Shah, a merger-arbitrage strategist with Tullett Prebon
Americas Corp. in Jersey City, New Jersey.  Hedge funds that bet on events such as mergers will
probably buy more Nexen stock once  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) ’s
$2.6 billion purchase of  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG) 
closes and cash is freed up, Shah said last week in a telephone
interview. U.S. antitrust regulators approved the acquisition on
Nov. 16.  Event Trades  “Nexen will jump,” Shah said. “The event guys are
putting money into Nexen but they can’t absorb all of Nexen
because of the size of the market cap. They don’t have enough
liquidity.”  Nexen fell 0.7 percent to $25.42 at the close in New York
today, 7.6 percent below the offer price and up 60 percent this
year.  The Canadian government is reviewing the sale of Nexen
under the country’s foreign-takeover law. Canada extended its
review of the deal for a second time on Nov. 3, setting the
deadline to Dec. 10.  “We feel there’s a good chance it gets approved,” said
Phil Skolnick, an analyst in New York with Canaccord Genuity
Corp. “It’s not really a household name in Canada. Most of its
production’s outside Canada, although it has a big resource base
in Canada. In order to get that resource base developed so it
can start generating tax revenue in Canada and  Alberta , you need
somebody with deeper pockets.”  Net Benefit  Bloomberg reported on Nov. 16 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia-based
Petronas submitted a revised bid for the Calgary firm, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter. That helped send the
stock up 2.3 percent to C$20.43 in Toronto.  In blocking the Petronas offer for Progress Energy,
Industry Minister Christian Paradis said the deal hadn’t
satisfied Canada’s requirement that foreign takeovers represent
a “net benefit” to the nation. Paradis gave Petronas 30 days
to appeal or make concessions, resetting the deadline to Nov. 18
or Nov. 19, depending on how the period is counted.  Investors have overcome the “initial shock” of the
Progress decision and now believe the government wanted more
time to develop new foreign-investment guidelines that Prime
Minister Stephen Harper has promised, Skolnick said in a phone
interview.  Paulson & Co. acquired 6.05 million Nexen shares during the
quarter, a stake valued at $153 million, according to a filing
with regulators that show the fund’s holdings as of Sept. 30.  Rowe Reduces  Spokespeople for Paulson & Co., Arrowgrass Capital, Mason
Capital and Eton Park declined to comment. Franklin Resources,
manager of the Franklin and Templeton mutual funds, bought 22.5
million shares in the quarter. Matthew Walsh, a spokesman for
the San Mateo, California-based company declined to comment.  The majority of Nexen’s shareholders, or 53.3 percent, are
based in the U.S., and 34.7 percent are in  Canada , according to
Bloomberg data.  T. Rowe Price, the Baltimore-based asset manager that has
posted a profit every quarter since going public in 1986, sold
16.1 million Nexen shares in the third quarter, reducing its
stake by 64 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  “Many deals fall apart so I thought, ‘Why not take some
risk off the table and sell a portion of the holdings,’’ Timothy Parker, portfolio manager of the $4.4 billion T. Rowe Price New
Era Fund, said in a telephone interview.  ‘‘I can’t guarantee it, but my personal opinion is the deal
is likely to go through,’’ Parker said. ‘‘The Canadian
government wants to be seen as open to deals and business. It is
not in their interest to say no.’’  Deal Deliberations  Denis Durand, a senior partner at Jarislowsky Fraser, which
sold 2.7 million shares, said the Montreal-based money manager
reduced its Nexen stake before Cnooc’s bid for Nexen was made
public on July 23. The company reinvested proceeds in other
Canadian energy producers, which he didn’t identify.  While Harper has called it a national priority to sell more
of his country’s energy resources to Asia, he has said the Nexen
sale raises ‘‘difficult policy questions.”  The government’s hesitation has created the most
uncertainty about Canada’s stance on foreign investment in
“some considerable time,” said Tony Baldanza, a partner with
expertise in foreign-investment law at Fasken Martineau DuMoulin
LLP, a Toronto-based law firm. “There are many, many deals
parked waiting for these outcomes,” he said in a phone
interview.  Both Cnooc and Petronas will likely secure approval for
their takeovers, Baldanza said. The government will probably
also release guidelines designed to discourage state-owned
enterprises from trying to acquire Canada’s biggest energy
producers, without imposing quantitative ownership limits on
foreign investors.  “I don’t think the government wants to see a flood of SOE
deals,” he said. “It’s going to want to manage this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  