-- MegaFon Names Former U.K. Minister Myners Director
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-11-19T15:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/megafon-names-former-u-k-minister-myners-director.html
OAO MegaFon (MFON)  said it will appoint
 Paul Myners , a former U.K. Treasury minister, as an independent
director, bolstering its board before a planned initial public
offering in London this month.  The appointment still requires shareholder approval,
MegaFon, Russia’s second-largest wireless carrier, said today in
a statement. Myners also served as chairman of  fund manager 
Gartmore Investment Management and U.K. retailer  Marks & Spencer
Group Plc. (MKS)   The Moscow-based company, controlled by billionaire  Alisher Usmanov , is seeking $1.7 billion to $2.1 billion by selling 15
percent of its shares and is trying to reassure investors before
the IPO. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. withdrew as an adviser for the
IPO because of corporate governance issues, the Financial Times
reported Oct. 10.  “I am sure Paul will have done a lot of due diligence
prior to taking this role,” said  Robert Talbut , chairman of the
Association of British Insurers’ investment committee, which
represents firms with 1.5 trillion pounds ($2.4 trillion) of
assets. “If a company thinks they can simply buy respectability
without there being genuine change, I think there will be a lot
of disappointment.”  Myners’s mobile phone was turned off, and his office didn’t
answer a call seeking comment.  Usmanov, MegaFon’s controlling shareholder, spent six years
in a Russian jail after he was convicted in 1980 of fraud and
embezzlement, the company said in its IPO prospectus. In 1989, a
Soviet court expunged his record, according to the prospectus.  Myners is a former fund manager and was chairman of
Guardian Media Group, publisher of the  Guardian newspaper . As
Treasury minister from 2008 to 2010, he helped oversee the
bailout of the British banks and earned a reputation as a critic
of the City, London’s financial district. His so-called Myners
Report, published in 2001 as a U.K. review, became a blueprint
for much of European pension-fund governance.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  are managing MegaFon’s
share sale, with help from  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and VTB Capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  