-- Egypt Pays Less Than Spain for Euros as IMF Talks Persist
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-11-20T11:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/egypt-pays-less-than-spain-for-euros-as-imf-loan-talks-persist.html
Egypt locked in lower borrowing
costs than higher-rated  Spain  in selling a more-than-planned
640.2 million euros ($817 million) of debt, as prospects for an
International Monetary Fund loan accord improved.  The government, whose debt carries a junk grade of B2 from
Moody’s Investors Service, raised 60 percent more than it sought
yesterday through the offer of one-year notes, paying an average
yield of 2.548 percent, central bank data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The yield compares with 2.8 percent on similar-maturity
notes from Spain, rated the lowest investment grade of Baa3 by
Moody’s, and 12.985 percent on Egyptian pound notes.  Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said in an interview in
Cairo that “some small modifications” are being made to the
agreement with IMF officials and a letter of intent may be
signed today. The government has requested a $4.8 billion loan
from the Washington-based lender.  Egypt ’s economy may expand 3.2
percent next year after growth fell to 1.8 percent in 2011, the
slowest pace in about two decades, according to the median of 10
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Expectations that an IMF deal will be reached are driving
demand especially for local banks which are trying to cover
rising foreign-currency deposits,” Nour Mohei-El-Din, assistant
general manager for treasury at BNP Paribas Egypt, said by phone
yesterday.  Egypt first sold euro-denominated notes in August, as the
pound weakened 0.4 percent against the dollar and 2.6 percent
versus the euro. One-month volatility on the pound has risen 70
percent this quarter, the biggest advance among 10 Middle
Eastern currencies tracked by Bloomberg after  Israel ’s shekel,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Increased Appetite’  At the first sale, international investors bought 20
percent of securities and there was “increased appetite” from
both locals and foreigners for yesterday’s issue, the central
bank said in a statement. The government has said the IMF
agreement would unlock international aid and help lower the
highest  budget deficit  in at least five years. The shortfall
reached 11 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year
that ended in June, government data show.  Egypt’s foreign-currency reserves plunged more than 50
percent after the chaos that accompanied the January 2011
uprising. The confusion and political vacuum that followed the
overthrow of President  Hosni Mubarak  prompted foreign investors
to dump  government securities , pushing yields on dollar-
denominated government debt due in 2020 to as high as 8.79
percent in January. The bonds yielded 5.34 percent at 1:22 p.m.
in Cairo, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  IMF ‘Key’  “From a macroeconomic perspective, considering the reserve
loss they had, the IMF program is the key,” Raza Agha, chief
Middle East and Africa economist at VTB Capital Plc, a unit of
 Russia ’s second-largest bank, said by phone yesterday from
London. “A successful auction or two should not make the
Egyptian authorities or investors complacent. Yes you are being
helped by global liquidity positions, and by promises of donor
support, but you need a policy program that is provided
credibility with an IMF program.”  Facing higher domestic borrowing costs, the government
started selling foreign-currency domestic debt a year ago,
raising $5.82 billion from dollar-denominated notes and 1.15
billion euros. Egypt plans to raise $1.5 billion of one-year
dollar T-bills on Nov. 26, the central bank said in a statement.
A similar amount of debt matures this month.|  “Over a one-year horizon few people would be worried about
Egypt defaulting on a foreign-currency bond,” Gabriel Sterne, a
fixed income economist at Exotix Holdings Ltd. in  London , said
by phone yesterday.  Mursi Election  The average yield on Middle East sovereign debt has tumbled
98 basis points, or 0.98 percentage point, this year to 4.015
percent yesterday, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai Middle
East Conventional Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index.  Yields on Egypt’s 2020 dollar bonds have plunged 253 basis
points since the June election of President Mohamed Mursi, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Mursi, who won Egypt’s first free
election, restarted IMF talks and raised the loan request by 50
percent.  Gross official reserves  rose $440 million to $15.5 billion
in October from a month earlier after the country received $1
billion in loans from Qatar and  Turkey . Qatar is set to provide
another $500 million on Nov. 30, part of a $2 billion aid
package, Egypt’s Finance Minister El-Saieed said in a phone
interview Nov. 11.  “We see long-term growth opportunity in Egypt and the euro
presents a more attractive investment compared with the Egyptian
pound due to its volatility,” Hakim Aziez, the London-based
head of investment at GCA Asset Management, which bid for the
notes yesterday, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  