-- Emerging Stocks Gain as Resource Rebound Boosts Bovespa
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-11-19T22:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/emerging-stocks-rise-first-time-in-eight-days-on-obama-pledges.html
Emerging-market stocks posted their
biggest gain in two months, led by resource shares, as oil and
commodity prices gained on prospects the U.S. budget crisis will
be resolved, bolstering the world’s largest economy.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, rose 1.7
percent, the most since Sept. 13. Russia’s Micex and Brazil’s
Bovespa advanced as oil surged.  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  jumped the most
in three years as earnings beat estimates and talks on
cooperating with Deutsche Lufthansa AG progressed. Utility
 Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  fell the most in 15 years
after Barclays Plc cut the stock to sell. Shandong Weigao Group
Medical Polymer Co. led declines on the  emerging markets  gauge
after third-quarter earnings missed analysts’ estimates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.8 percent to
977.98, the biggest gain since Sept. 14, snapping a seven-day
losing streak. U.S. President  Barack Obama  started a new round
of deficit-reduction talks with congressional leaders on Nov. 16
to avoid automatic tax increases and spending cuts that threaten
to throw the country into a recession. Crude oil advanced to the
highest level in a month amid concern that  Middle East  unrest
will disrupt supply.  “There’s now the emerging hope that a deal to address the
U.S.  budget deficit  will be reached,” Aryam Vazquez, an
economist at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said by phone from New York.
“That’s the key catalyst behind this risk-on climate that we’re
seeing, particularly in emerging-market assets. And oil is more
a reflection of tensions in the Middle East.”  The S&P GSCI Spot Index rose 2.1 percent to the highest
level in a month. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, sank 12 percent, the most
in almost a year.  ‘Improved News’  Existing home sales in the U.S. climbed more than forecast
last month and a gauge of builder confidence reached a six-year
high, bolstering confidence in the housing market.  “With improved news flow of progress being made on
bipartisan talks regarding the fiscal cliff, we are seeing a
technical relief rally in equity markets today,” Geoffrey Ng,
who helps oversee $1.8 billion as chief executive officer at
Hong Leong Asset Management Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur , wrote in an e-
mail. “Investors remain guarded and apprehensive for a quick
fix to the fiscal cliff issue.”  Brazil’s Bovespa index rose 1.9 percent, the biggest gain
since Nov. 6, as commodity producers followed  raw materials 
higher.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  surged 7.5 percent,
the most since July 27, and steelmaker Usinas Siderurgicas de
Minas Gerais SA jumped 6.4 percent.  Raw Materials  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index climbed 0.9 percent and Russia’s
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 1.1 percent, the most in a month. The Shanghai
Composite Index rebounded in the final hour of trading after
dipping below 2,000, rising 0.1 percent from earlier losses of
as much as 0.9 percent. Its trading volumes were about 31
percent below the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Mexico’s IPC index was closed for a local holiday.  Gauges of raw material and energy in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index advanced at least 1.4 percent. They led gains
among the 10  industry  groups, rebounding from at least seven
days of declines.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has climbed 6.7 percent
this year, compared with the 8.3 percent gain by the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  of developed countries. The emerging-markets gauge trades
at 11.3 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s
13.2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I am confident we can get our fiscal situation dealt
with,” Obama said in Bangkok yesterday, where he began a three-
nation trip in Southeast Asia that includes the first visit by a
sitting U.S. president to Myanmar.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 301 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  South Korea’s won rebounded from its worst week in four
months, strengthening 0.5 percent versus the dollar. Russia’s
ruble strengthened 0.7 percent versus the dollar as crude
advanced.  Preferred shares of Eletrobras, as Centrais Eletricas is
known, tumbled 15 percent, the most since Oct. 1997 on volume
that was triple the three-month average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Barclays cut the stock to the equivalent
of sell from neutral because of “unfavorable” conditions to
renew licenses under a government plan to cut rates.  OTP Bank Nyrt. slid 2.8 percent in Budapest, the most in a
month. Hungary will raise taxes to narrow 2013 budget deficit,
the Economy Ministry said late Nov. 16. The bank tax will stay
“permanently,” it said.  Missing Estimates  Turkish Airlines surged 9.1 percent in Istanbul, the most
since October 2009. The carrier is examining potential for
stronger ties short of equity investments, Turkish Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said today in Ankara. The airline
reported third-quarter net income of 704.6 million liras ($391
million) beating the average 452 million-lira estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shandong Weigao plunged 17 percent, the most in four years,
in Hong Kong trading. Third-quarter earnings rose 8.8 percent to
271.3 million  yuan  ($44 million), missing the 318.7 million-yuan
average of three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index, the  Tadawul All Share
Index (SASEIDX) , fell for an eighth day, the longest losing streak since
March 2011, amid speculation about the king’s health after he
underwent a back surgery.  Recommendations  OAO Novatek gained 2.5 percent, the most since Oct. 31,
after the country’s second-biggest natural-gas company said it
will start its buyback program.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  surged 5.7 percent in South
Africa, the most since Sept. 7, as Nomura upgraded its
recommendation to buy from reduce.  Tata Global Beverages Ltd. (TGBL) , Starbucks Corp.’s Indian
partner, declined 5.3 percent in Mumbai, the most since
February. Morgan Stanley downgraded its recommendation on the
stock to the equivalent of sell on concern there will be limited
gains from its venture with Starbucks.  Kangwon Land Inc. (035250) , a casino and hotel services provider,
jumped 5.1 percent in Seoul, the most since September 2011.
Korea’s Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism will approve as
early as this month a plan by the company to increase casino
tables and  slot machines , MoneyToday reported on Nov. 16, citing
unidentified industry officials. Kim Hong Dae, a spokesman for
Kangwon Land, declined to comment, while Lee Jun Hyub, an
official at the ministry’s tourism promotion division, said
nothing has been decided.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  