-- EMI Ends Era With Sale of Assets From Motorhead to Coldplay
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-11-19T09:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/emi-ends-era-with-sale-of-assets-from-motorhead-to-coldplay-2-.html
EMI, the music company that housed
The Beatles until it was split up and sold last year, goes on
the auction block again this week as new owner  Universal Music
Group (VIV)  divests some assets to meet antitrust requirements.  Parlophone, home to Coldplay, the Pet Shop Boys and Tina Turner, accounts for about half of a package of labels with a
valuation of about 400 million pounds ($635 million), according
to a person familiar with the process who asked not to be
identified because it is confidential.  A data room detailing the assets for sale, artist rosters
and financial information will be opened this week for entities
that have expressed interest, including  Warner Music  Group, BMG
Rights and  Sony Music  Entertainment, the person said. Other
assets being offered include the Sanctuary label, home to The
Kinks and Motorhead, and the Mute label, which represents Moby.  Vivendi SA’s  Universal Music , the world’s largest record
company, bought EMI’s recorded music unit for 1.2 billion pounds
last year and must sell almost two-thirds of the business to win
approval from competition regulators in Europe and the U.S.
Universal Music will retain London-based EMI’s rights to The
Beatles and  Robbie Williams  among other assets.  Vivendi rose as much as 1.6 percent to 16 euros in Paris
trading and was up 0.8 percent as of 10:27 a.m.  Representatives from Universal Music, BMG Rights and Sony
Music declined to comment, while officials at Warner Music
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Parlophone, Chrysalis  Among the labels for sale, Parlophone, Chrysalis, EMI
Classics and EMI Records, whose acts include  Pink Floyd ,
increased revenue in the 12 months through March by 42 percent
to 375 million pounds from a year earlier, according to
information released to bidders that is obtained by Bloomberg.
Sales in the five months through August climbed 5 percent to 105
million pounds, while gross profit margin rose 2 percentage
points to 52 percent, according to the data.  The first round of bidding is expected in mid-to-late
December and Universal Music is seeking to complete the sales
process in the first half of next year, the person said.  Simon Fuller , creator of the “Idol” television show
franchise, and Chris Blackwell, founder of Island Records, have
jointly approached Universal about bidding, and billionaire Ron Perelman has also talked to the company, the person said.  Representatives for Fuller and Perelman didn’t return
messages seeking comment.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
are managing the sale.  Citigroup seized EMI from  Guy Hands ’s private-equity firm
Terra Firma Partners Ltd. in February 2011 after it failed to
meet loan terms. Hands bought EMI in 2007. Under Hands, who cut
jobs and reorganized the business, acts including the  Rolling
Stones ,  Paul McCartney , Queen and Radiohead left the label.  A Sony Corp.-led group agreed to pay $2.2 billion for EMI
publishing when the company was split up last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  