-- Environmental Risks Threaten Government Debt Markets, UNEP Says
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-11-19T11:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/environmental-risks-threaten-government-debt-markets-unep-says.html
Depleting natural resources such as
water and forests could reduce government revenue within the
next five years, adding to the risk of investments in sovereign
bonds, the United Nations Environment Program said.  Competition for resources such as metals and minerals is
increasing as more countries depend on goods they can’t provide
themselves, UNEP said in a report drawn up with the Global
Footprint Network. Government finances will start to feel the
strain as these resources decline, it said.  “The whole risk of environmental change connected with the
loss of natural resources such as forests and freshwater has
until very recently been at the fringes of economic discords and
economic planning,” Nick Nuttall, a spokesman from UNEP, said
by phone from Nairobi. “The issue of ecosystems, of natural
resources that keep the planet functioning, have until now been
almost invisible in accounts of profit and loss of nations.”  The E-RISC, or Environmental Risk in Sovereign Credit
Analysis tool can be used to incorporate natural resource risks
into sovereign credit risk assessments. Investors want to better
understand emerging risks in the bond market, the report said,
because concerns that debt levels in  Europe  and the U.S. have
shaken the perception government bonds are risk free.  The report analyzed five countries --  Brazil ,  France ,
 India ,  Japan  and  Turkey . It found a 10 percent fluctuation in
commodity prices can shift a country’s trade balance equivalent
to 0.2 percent and 0.5 percent of a nation’s gross domestic
product.  A 10 percent reduction in resources, assuming other things
remain the same, may cause a reduction in trade balance equal to
1 percent and more than 4 percent of a country’s GDP. Sovereign
debt at the end of 2010 was $41 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  