-- EPA’s Weaker Coal Rule Not Weak Enough for Coal Industry
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-11-19T19:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/epa-s-weaker-coal-rule-not-weak-enough-for-coal-industry.html
In response to industry complaints,
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has proposed softening
its rule to cut mercury and other pollution from new coal-fired
power plants.  An industry trade group says the changes, which include a
slightly higher level of allowable mercury emissions, don’t go
far enough to ensure coal remains an alternative to natural gas.
The EPA released its revised rule Nov. 16.  “I’m not sure it’s sufficient to fix the problem, even for
new sources,” said Scott Segal, director of the Electric
Reliability Coordinating Council, a utility group that includes
Atlanta-based  Southern Co. (SO)   While Segal said utilities were reviewing the proposal, he
said the revisions would still constrain a utility’s ability to
build a new coal plant.  EPA’s mercury rule is one of several environmental
regulations Republicans in Congress and industry lobbyists have
argued will raise electricity costs and hurt the economy. The
administration of President  Barack Obama  has said the health
benefits outweigh the costs.  The changes proposed by the EPA last week don’t affect
requirements the agency issued in December for existing coal-
fired plants. Both limits seek to cap pollution of mercury, air
toxics and particulate matter from coal.  The EPA said it reconsidered the pollution limits after new
information and analysis became available. The changes announced
won’t go into effect until March, after a public comment period.  ‘Modest Weakening’  John Walke , clean air director for the  Natural Resources
Defense Council , said the changes amounted to a “modest
weakening” of the limits the agency had set.  Most of the associated health benefits of the pollution
limits come from the requirements for existing coal-fired power
plants, which weren’t affected by EPA’s announcement, Walke
said.  “The updated standards would only apply to future power
plants, would not change types of state-of-the-art pollution
controls that they are expected to install, and would not
significantly change costs or public health benefits of the
rule,” the EPA said in a statement.  Both Segal and Walke predicted industry critics would
continue to challenge the limits in court.  Southern, one of the biggest users of coal in the U.S., and
other power producers had complained the requirements for new
plants under the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards rule, or MATS,
were unattainable.  The company is pleased that the EPA “acknowledged the
flaws” in the rule, Tim Leljedal, a Southern spokesman, said in
an interview. He said executives were still reviewing the
changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  