-- Erdogan Calls Israel a Terror State, Sends Minister to Gaza
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-11-19T17:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/erdogan-calls-israel-a-terrorist-state-sends-minister-to-gaza.html
Turkey’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  called Israel a terrorist state because of its offensive
in Gaza and said he does not trust the  United Nations  because it
lacks a Muslim voice.  Some delegates listening to Erdogan speak at an Islamic
conference in Istanbul today burst into applause when he
attacked Israel and accused the UN of bias. Turkey is one of a
number of Islamic states seeking to broker a cease-fire in the
 Gaza Strip  and end exchanges of fire that have killed 96
Palestinians and three Israelis since last week.  “Israel is a terrorist state,” Erdogan said. He also
accused the West of ignoring the “sufferings of Muslims in
Palestine, Syria and Myanmar because of lack of oil” and said
the UN was merely watching the killings in Syria.  Inter-government ties between  Turkey  and Israel, once a
close military ally, have been strained since an Israeli raid
left nine Turks dead on a Gaza-bound aid ship in 2010. On Nov.
6, Islamist demonstrators cheered as a Turkish court began the
trial in absentia of four Israeli officers accused of ordering
the raid. Even so, trade between the countries has flourished,
reaching a record $4.4 billion last year, up from $2.6 billion
in 2009, according to official Turkish data.  While Hamas is considered a terrorist group by Israel, the
U.S. and the European Union, Erdogan’s government has cultivated
diplomatic relations with the group.  Patriot Batteries  Some Turkish television stations that support Erdogan’s
Islamic-rooted government have been repeatedly broadcasting
images of Palestinian children killed or wounded by Israeli
attacks.  Turkey’s foreign minister,  Ahmet Davutoglu , will visit Gaza
tomorrow along with foreign ministers from the  Arab League ,
Davutoglu’s office said today.  Erdogan also said the UN fails to work for world peace and
does not represent all faiths. “No Islamic country is
represented at the  Security Council ,” he said.  While there are three Islamic states on the Security
Council -- Morocco, Pakistan and Azerbaijan -- there are no
Muslim states among the permanent membership of China, Russia,
the U.S., France and Britain.  Germany’s Defense Minister Thomas de Maiziere meanwhile
said that Turkey was poised to seek North Atlantic Treaty
Organization support for the stationing of  Patriot missile 
batteries on its border with Syria, the  Associated Press 
reported.  Erdogan also urged Islamic countries to overcome
differences based on sects and unite under Islam, pointing out
such divisions as the underlying factor in the civil conflict in
Syria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  