-- MetroPCS Climbs After Company Reports on Pre-Merger Talks
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-11-19T21:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/metropcs-shares-jump-after-company-discloses-pre-merger-talks.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. (S)  climbed
today after saying it held deal talks with at least eight
companies before agreeing to a merger with  T-Mobile USA , raising
the possibility that a counteroffer may surface.  The Richardson, Texas-based company released a  filing  on
the afternoon of Nov. 16 describing a frenzy of deal discussions
leading up to the merger agreement with T-Mobile and its parent
company,  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  One of the unnamed suitors,
referred to as “Company G,” offered $13.39 a share in cash and
stock before backing away from the bid in February. People
familiar with the matter have identified Sprint Nextel Corp. as
the company bidding for MetroPCS at the time.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, has
considered making a counteroffer to the T-Mobile bid, people
familiar with the situation said last month. The company will
probably study the filing for insight into the T-Mobile-MetroPCS
deal, said Walt Piecyk, an analyst with BTIG LLC in  New York .  “The filing could provide Sprint more details to consider
whether to launch a competitive bid for MetroPCS,” Piecyk said
in an e-mail.  MetroPCS shares rose 2.2 percent to $11 today in New York,
bringing its year-to-date gain to 27 percent. The stock jumped
as much as 5.9 percent during the trading session.  Merger Terms  Deutsche Telekom announced plans on Oct. 3 to merge
MetroPCS with its T-Mobile USA division. Under the deal,
Deutsche Telekom will hold 74 percent of the merged business and
pay MetroPCS shareholders $1.5 billion in cash. The combined
entity will keep the T-Mobile name and be run by John Legere,
the former chief executive officer of Global Crossing Ltd., who
took charge of T-Mobile USA in September.  Bill White , a spokesman for  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment on the filing, as did MetroPCS and
T-Mobile.  Before the agreement was reached, MetroPCS also discussed a
range of transactions with a party called “Company C,” which a
person familiar with the matter says is  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the
second-largest U.S. satellite-TV provider. In August, the
satellite company offered $11 a share for MetroPCS, including
about $1.2 billion in cash. MetroPCS turned down the bid,
according to the filing.  Leap Combination  MetroPCS and Deutsche Telekom also discussed doing a three-
way merger with another party, described in the filing as
“Company E.” That company was  Leap Wireless International
Inc. (LEAP) , one of MetroPCS’s competitors in the pay-as-you-go
wireless market, according to a person with knowledge of the
negotiations.  After conversations with this company, MetroPCS CEO Roger Linquist and the board decided the talks were unlikely to be
productive and could complicate the Deutsche Telekom
negotiations, according to the filing.  Along the way, MetroPCS considered deals to buy more
wireless airwaves from other companies. In March 2011, MetroPCS
met with senior executives from “Company D” about acquiring
spectrum or possibly all of the business. That party was
Clearwire Corp., a person familiar with the matter said.  Clearwire, a money-losing company that’s attempting to
build a nationwide wireless network, has been under pressure
from investors to sell some of its unused spectrum. Discussions
with MetroPCS continued until at least June 2012, though they
didn’t lead to an agreement, according to the filing.  Back to Sprint  As talks with Deutsche Telekom advanced, MetroPCS continued
to view Sprint as the most likely company to provide a competing
bid. Sprint, described as Company G, rekindled talks with
MetroPCS in August. That month, Sprint said President Keith Cowan, who handled strategic planning for the carrier, would be
stepping down. A senior executive from Sprint told T-Mobile that
the reasons why the deal hadn’t proceeded earlier in the year
were no longer applicable. Company G indicated that it was
considering another bid, according to the filing.  On Oct. 15, Softbank Corp. agreed to buy a stake of about
70 percent in Sprint for $20.1 billion. The Japanese company
will pay $12.1 billion to Sprint shareholders, and the deal
includes $8 billion of new capital. That has provided Sprint
will funds to make its own acquisitions.  Sprint also has seen its stock more than double in value
since the February MetroPCS talks. The shares rose 1.3 percent
to $5.55 today.  According to the filing, a senior Company G executive
indicated in October that his company was still considering a
bid for MetroPCS and that if the T-Mobile deal moved forward,
“he hoped any breakup fee payable by MetroPCS to pursue an
alternative transaction would be reasonable.”  Under its deal with Deutsche Telekom, MetroPCS would pay
$150 million if it backs out of the arrangement. The reverse
breakup fee for T-Mobile is $250 million. Bonn-based Deutsche
Telekom is prepared for a counterbid from Sprint and would
consider better terms if necessary, a person familiar with the
matter said in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  