-- Yen Rallies From 7-Month Low as BOJ Refrains From Easing
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-11-20T11:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/euro-declines-versus-most-peers-after-moody-s-cuts-france-rating.html
The yen rallied from near its
weakest level in almost seven months against the dollar after
 Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the opposition
party’s proposals to weaken the currency are unrealistic.  The Japanese currency rose versus most of its 16 major
counterparts as the BOJ refrained from adding to stimulus
measures. Shinzo Abe, favored to topple  Japan ’s prime minister
in Dec. 16 elections, has advocated unlimited easing. The euro
weakened against the pound after Moody’s Investors Service cut
 France ’s top rating, renewing concern that Europe’s debt crisis
will deepen.  “Shirakawa is being cautious, pouring some cold water on
some of the ideas that have been put out by the opposition,”
said  Derek Halpenny , European head of global-markets research at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “It’s a reason to
pare short positions on the yen.” A short position is a bet
that an asset will fall in price.  The yen climbed 0.2 percent to 81.28 per dollar at 11 a.m.
London time. It touched 81.59 yesterday, the weakest level since
April 25. Japan’s currency rose 0.2 percent to 104.10 per euro.
Europe’s currency was little changed at $1.2807.  The pound appreciated 0.2 percent to 80.43 pence per euro,
after depreciating to 80.65 pence on Nov. 15, the weakest since
Oct. 31.  The yen will strengthen toward 79 per dollar within the
next six weeks, amid demand for the safest assets, Halpenny
forecast.  BOJ Independence  Shirakawa told reporters in  Tokyo  he wants people to
respect the BOJ’s independence and that unlimited money printing
would be damaging. He spoke after the central bank said it would
keep its asset fund at 66 trillion yen and a credit-lending
facility unchanged at 25 trillion yen. All of 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News had forecast no change.  Abe, leader of Japan’s Liberal Democratic Party, has
advocated an increase in the central bank’s inflation goal to as
much as 3 percent from 1 percent. The BOJ is scheduled to hold a
policy meeting three days after the election, with 16 economists
forecasting easing.  “The markets are pausing for breath in dollar-yen,” said
Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in Singapore. “They’re now thinking about
the election, who’s likely to win it and what form the next
government would take.”  Dollar-Yen Overdone  The 14-day relative strength index for the dollar against
the Japanese currency rose to 71 yesterday, above the 70 level
that some traders see as a sign an asset’s move may change
direction.  “The move looks a bit overdone,”  Mitul Kotecha , Hong
Kong-based head of currency strategy at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “I don’t think we’re
going to see a quick move up to 85.”  The yen has declined 3.7 percent over the past three
months, the biggest decline among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro has gained 2.9 percent, while the dollar has dropped
1.2 percent.  Moody’s cut France by one grade to Aa1 from Aaa late
yesterday and said the nation’s outlook remains negative “as a
result of its deteriorating economic prospects.”  The move follows similar action by Standard & Poor’s in
January. Since S&P’s rating action, French government bonds have
returned 9.4 percent, compared with 3.4 percent for German debt,
and 2.5 percent for that of the U.S., according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data.  ‘Kneejerk Reaction’  “There is probably more downside ’til the kneejerk
reaction is out of the way,” Steven Englander, Citigroup Inc.’s
New York-based global head of Group of 10 strategy wrote of the
euro in an e-mail to clients. “On the whole, it seems likely
that this more reflects an already existing reality than new
information for the market, so the downside should be relatively
limited.”  Europe ’s shared currency may slide as it trades near the
so-called neck line of an M-shaped trading pattern known as a
double-top formation, according to Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  The euro may drop toward $1.2450 as it trades near $1.28,
the neck line between a high of $1.3172 on Sept. 17 and a peak
of $1.3140 on Oct. 17, Marc Chandler, New York-based global head
of currency strategy at BBH, wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients yesterday. The $1.2450 level was last seen on Aug. 22,
when it dipped to as low as $1.2431.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  