-- Euro Group Mulls Greek Aid Via Bond Profits, Urpilainen Says
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-11-20T07:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/euro-members-debate-greek-help-via-bond-profits-urpilainen-says.html
Euro area finance ministers are
discussing using profits on Greek bonds held by the  European
Central Bank  to boost the country’s debt sustainability target,
Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said.  “We’re currently negotiating on what the whole picture
will look like,” Urpilainen said in an interview in Helsinki
yesterday. “The situation is live.”  Asked whether profits arising from the ECB’s Securities
Markets Program can be used to ease  Greece ’s debt burden,
Urpilainen said: “There are different proposals on the table,
of which this is one. We’ll have to see how it looks as a
whole.”  The ECB has about  208 billion euros  ($266 billion) of
European government debt bought through the SMP outstanding. The
program was announced in May 2010 and mothballed in March. The
Frankfurt-based central bank sterilized its purchases by taking
the cash back as deposits to avoid boosting inflation.  Urpilainen told reporters in parliament today that many
issues blocking a decision on Greece remain, though she
“hopes” an agreement will be reached at today’s meeting of
finance ministers. Finland is willing to give Greece more time,
though the northernmost euro member won’t back proposals to give
the government in Athens more money, she said.  Brussels Today  The Brussels meeting today, the second in a week after
finance chiefs agreed seven days ago to keep Greece’s bailout
aid flowing, underscores skirmishing among EU officials
confronting rising unemployment and a slowing economy. In
addition to a tussle between the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund  over extending Greece’s debt target by two years
to 2022, the ministers are struggling to re-engineer the bailout
without putting up more money.  While ministers aim to find agreement today, it’s
“impossible” to say whether they’ll reach that goal,
Urpilainen said in the interview.  The IMF target is for a reduction of Greece’s debt to 120
percent of gross domestic product by 2020, from a projected peak
of 190 percent of GDP in 2014. Euro area governments are trying
to work out how to plug Greece’s 15 billion-euro financing gap
through 2014, opened up by their decision to give the country
two extra years to reduce its  budget deficit .  Taxpayer Stress  Even as European leaders have signaled willingness to avert
a Greek exit from the single currency, they are attempting to
manage the bailout without added stress on taxpayers. Finland’s
Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen , speaking on YLE Radio Suomi on
Nov. 18, rejected providing Greece with further funds, saying
that extending the existing loans may be “one way” to ease the
country’s burden.  Greece’s economy has contracted for 17 quarters in a row
and by the end of this year output will have dropped by a fifth
since it entered its recession in 2008. The nation has
negotiated two rescue programs after losing access to financial
markets in 2009, sparking the debt crisis that pushed Ireland,
 Portugal , Cyprus and  Spain  to also seek bailouts.  Greece’s jobless rate climbed to more than a quarter of the
workforce in August, extending its record high as Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras pushed through more austerity measures linked to
the country’s bailouts from international lenders.  The euro area is also in a recession, its second in four
years, as output in the 17-nation bloc slipped 0.1 percent in
the third quarter after a 0.2 percent decline in the previous
three months.  Europe ’s economic malaise is deepening as
governments across the region impose budget cuts to narrow their
fiscal deficits.  “Countries on an unsustainable economic path must lay out
long-term plans to remedy the situation,” Urpilainen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  