-- Europe Utilities Will Cut Dividends to Pare Debt, Capgemini Says
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-11-19T10:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/europe-utilities-will-cut-dividends-to-pare-debt-capgemini-says.html
European utilities will trim
dividend payments, accelerate asset sales and cut costs next
year to manage debt in a weak economy, a report by consultant
Capgemini NV said.  Stagnant power and gas consumption will keep hurting
utilities balance sheets as long as the sovereign crisis remains
unresolved, the study published today said. Debts accumulated in
the pre-crisis years will force them to accelerate the sale of
assets in 2013 to Chinese investors and Australian and Canadian
infrastructure and pension funds.  “Utilities are trying to cut expenditures everywhere, all
companies have cost-cutting programs,” Colette Lewiner, author
of the study and head of utilities at Capgemini, said in an
interview. “There will be more divestments because if you need
to restore your business, there’s nothing else you can do.”  The Portuguese government sold a 21 percent stake in  EDP (EDP)  to
China Three Gorges Corp. for 2.7 billion euros ($3.4 billion) at
the end of last year, while in February it disposed of a 40
percent stake in electricity transport operator  REN (RENE)  to State
Grid International of China and  Oman Oil Co. (OOMS)   Money on the Table  “We need capital and they have it,” Lewiner said about
possible investors outside  Europe . “Those funds have money and
they have decided to invest in infrastructure. They are ready to
put their money on the table.”  As companies finance current operations and invest an
estimated 1.1 trillion euros in power generation, transmission
and distribution by 2020, they will continue cutting costs. The
biggest challenge will be firing people, especially in countries
like  France , Lewiner said.  While utilities are trying to protect dividend payments,
they are likely to come under pressure as companies try to shore
up balance sheets, she said.  From 2011 until mid-July 2012, the sector has
underperformed the broader equity market by around 11 percent,
the study shows.  EON SE’s shares plunged last week the most since the
company was formed in June 2000 after the Dusseldorf-based
company said it may have to cut dividends and close power
stations because of lower electricity prices in  Germany .  Nuclear Phase-Out  “They are very negatively impacted by the decision of
closing nuclear plants,” Lewiner said. “E.ON is also impacted
by a real gas problem in Europe, because they are less
profitable than coal plants.”  Following  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster, German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  ordered the permanent halt of all nuclear reactors
by 2022. EON said its 2013 profit forecast is no longer
achievable and that its disposal program may exceed the
originally targeted 15 billion euro.  German utilities “had to include the nuclear plants
dismantlement costs in their balance sheets earlier than
expected and had no choice but to sell non-core assets in order
to compensate,” the Capgemini report says.  Germany’s second-largest utility  RWE AG (RWE) ’s net debt
increased by 14 percent at the end of the third quarter. RWE is
seeking to reposition itself after the German nuclear decision,
Capgemini said.  RWE’s Executive Board Member Bernhard Guenther, who is due
to take over as chief financial officer in January, said it is
“hard to predict whether our divestments will be sufficient to
achieve the desired reduction in our leverage factor,” as the
company is going through a 7-billion euro asset disposal
program.  “It’s difficult to say when the utility companies will
reach the bottom because it is quite dependent on when we get
out of the crisis,”  Lewiner said. “It is going to be
difficult, we don’t hear about the economy rebounding, and 2013
should be similar to 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  