-- European Stocks Advance Amid U.S. Budget Talks Optimism
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-11-19T16:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/european-stock-futures-rise-on-u-s-budget-talk-optimism.html
European (SXXP)  stocks climbed the most in
more than two months as U.S. President  Barack Obama  expressed
confidence that he will strike a deal with Congress on a new
budget to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  added 3.8 percent after the bank said it
has held talks to sell its $9 billion stake in Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co.  BP Plc (BP/)  gained 3.6 percent following a report that
the  oil company  plans a 3.7 billion-pound ($5.9 billion)
buyback.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  advanced 3.7 percent after the European
Commission granted it more time to sell its insurance operations
in the region.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 2.2 percent to 268.58 at
the close, rebounding from its lowest level since Aug. 3, as the
Republican U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  said after the close
of European trading last week that he has held constructive
budget talks with Obama.  “This is good news and a relief,” said Bruno Ducros who
helps oversee about $3.9 billion in equities at CamGestion in
Paris. “The risk of a very strong slowdown in the U.S. had
scared the market. It was a negotiation game before the
election. Now, both sides are ready to agree.”  The  S&P 500  erased its decline on Nov. 16 after Boehner
also said he would accept increased government revenue coupled
with spending cuts. Speaking at a news conference in Bangkok,
Obama said “I am confident we can get our fiscal situation
dealt with.”  Budget Talks  Before Obama left for Asia, he met with senior Democrats
and Republicans for talks to avoid a $607 billion-package of
automatic tax increases and spending cuts that if allowed to
come into force would push the country into a recession next
year. Congress returns from its Thanksgiving holiday on Nov. 26.  The Stoxx 600 dropped 2.7 percent last week to its lowest
level since Aug. 2 as concern mounted that U.S. lawmakers would
fail to agree on a new budget. The gauge has  lost 2.2 percent 
since the re-election of Obama on Nov. 6 set up a showdown with
the Republican-controlled  House of Representatives .  In the  Middle East , Israel’s Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
said the army was prepared to invade the  Gaza Strip  for the
first time in almost four years. Air strikes and rocket attacks
have killed 96 Palestinians and three Israelis. Crude oil
advanced for a second day in  New York .  House Sales  A U.S. report showed that  sales of previously owned houses 
climbed to 4.79 million in October, near a two-year high. The
 median economist estimate  in a Bloomberg survey had called for
sales of 4.74 million.  National benchmark indexes climbed in every western-
European market, except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rallied 2.4
percent.  Germany ’s DAX Index gained 2.5 percent and France’s CAC
40 advanced 2.9 percent.  HSBC climbed 3.8 percent to 618.3 pence for the biggest
contribution to the Stoxx 600’s advance. Europe’s largest lender
by market value said in a statement that it has held
“discussions which may or may not lead to the sale of the
shares” in China’s second-biggest insurer.  BP gained 3.6 percent to 431.6 pence. The Sunday Times
reported that the company plans a buyback to lift its share
price, without saying where it got the information. Mark Salt, a
spokesman for the oil producer, declined to comment.  ING rose 3.8 percent to 6.76 euros after the European
Commission extended the company’s deadline to sell the insurance
businesses. ING pledged to repay state support from the Dutch
government by 2015 under an amended restructuring plan.  SAS Surges  SAS AB (SAS)  soared 23 percent to 6.90 kronor after SAS Group won
the backing of all eight of the unions that represent its
employees to cut jobs and shrink the business.  Scandinavia’s
biggest airline  seeks to extend credit lines and cut costs by 6
billion kronor ($891 million).  Copenhagen Airport A/S, the owner of the Nordic region’s
biggest hub, added 1.1 percent to 2,000 kroner. SAS is the
company’s largest customer.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  climbed 6.6 percent to 249.8 pence after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation for the
shares to buy from neutral before the U.K.’s second-largest
lender reveals details of its strategic review in February.  “If Barclays delivers on a business plan to generate
returns that match the group’s cost of capital, the stock could
offer sector-leading upside on our analysis,” Frederik Thomasen, an analyst, wrote in a note to clients dated Nov.16.  Hochtief, Ocado  Hochtief AG jumped 5.1 percent to 37.82 euros, snapping a
seven-day retreat, after the German builder announced the
possible withdrawal of its chief executive officer, Frank Stieler, from the executive board.  The potential management change led to speculation that
parent company Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA will
buy the shares it doesn’t already own in the  builder , wrote
analysts at Commerzbank AG in a note to clients. ACS holds 54
percent of Hochtief, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  surged 24 percent to 75 pence after the
British online grocer extended a 100 million-pound credit line,
the biggest of  the company’s debts , by 18 months until July
2015. The retailer also said it will raise 35.8 million pounds
through a sale of shares to existing investors at 64 pence
apiece, ending doubts over the company’s immediate survival.  Nokia, Lonmin  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  surged 9 percent to 2.30 euros after the company
said it received reports that its new Lumia 920 smartphone had
sold out in many shops in Germany. Nokia started selling the
device, which uses Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 8 operating
system, earlier this month.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  gained 9.3 percent to 515 pence. The world’s
 third-largest platinum producer  has won support for a proposed
$817 million stock sale from shareholders including its  biggest
investor , Xstrata Plc.  Fugro NV (FUR)  sank 14 percent to 42.14 euros, its biggest drop
in four years, after the Dutch oil-services company lowered its
forecast for full-year profit to 280 million euros ($359
million). It cited low seismic-vessel utilization and a
writedown at its subsea business.  The shares also fell after the company’s chief executive
officer, Arnold Steenbakker, resigned because of a “difference
of opinion” over the future direction of the company, according
to a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  