-- Euro Finance Officials Meet to Jump-Start Agreement on Greece
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-11-19T13:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/euro-finance-officials-meet-to-jump-start-agreement-on-greece.html
A group of European finance
officials met in Paris today to try to forge a common position
on  Greece ’s next aid payment as a sputtering economy and a spat
with the International Monetary Fund cloud efforts to resolve
the crisis.  Finance officials from  France ,  Germany , Italy and Spain
convened a day before a meeting of the 17 euro nations in
Brussels, according to a European Union official. Lengthening
maturities on Greek debt and lowering rates on the country’s
bailout loans are the main options being discussed to plug a
funding gap, said the official, who declined to be named because
the talks aren’t public.  The discussions on Greece are “likely to be tense as all
players set out their positions,” Thomas Costerg, an economist
at Standard Chartered in  London , said in an e-mail. “Greece’s
debt can is likely to be kicked further down the road, but we
could see some constructive statements.”  The Brussels meeting tomorrow, the second in a week after
finance chiefs agreed seven days ago to keep Greece’s bailout
aid flowing, underscores skirmishing among EU officials
confronting rising unemployment and a slowing economy. In
addition to a tussle between the EU and IMF over extending
Greece’s debt target, the ministers are struggling to re-
engineer the bailout without putting up more money.  Funding Gap  Euro-region finance ministers are trying to come up with a
way of plugging a Greek funding gap they had a role in creating
without putting up additional funds. In addition to the
extension on debt reduction, Greece was given another two years
to meet its deficit- reduction targets, leaving a funding
shortfall.  Today’s Paris meeting was earlier reported by Market News
International. Spokesmen for the German, Spanish, Italian and
French finance ministries declined to comment.  The Brussels talks precede a Nov. 22-23 EU summit to
resolve the bloc’s budget, a project threatened by a dispute
with the U.K.  With tens of thousands of Europeans staging protests last
week against austerity measures and unemployment, shifting
dynamics in other European countries could foreshadow renewed
conflict -- an early election in  Italy , a regional vote in Spain
and an approaching bailout package for Cyprus.  IMF Spat  Greek bonds rallied as analysts at Commerzbank AG, BNP
Paribas SA and Societe Generale speculated the finance ministers
will achieve their aims. The yield on 10-year Greek notes fell
25 basis points to 17.23 percent.  IMF Director Christine Lagarde took issue with European
governments’ decision to push back Greece’s debt-reduction
target by two years to 2022 against the fund’s recommendations,
raising questions over whether the IMF would keep financing
Greece.  Lagarde, who cut short a visit to Southeast Asia to return
to  Europe , signaled a potential clash in an interview in  Manila 
on Nov. 17 by saying she’ll defend the IMF’s credibility.  Lagarde said that she was approaching the talks feeling
“patient and resilient.” Even so, “we never leave the
table,” she said when asked about dropping support.  The IMF target is for a reduction of Greece’s debt to 120
percent of gross domestic product by 2020, from a projected peak
of 190 percent of GDP in 2014. An agreement on what qualifies as
sustainable debt in Greece is required to plug a finance gap of
as much as 32.6 billion euros ($42 billion).  More Aid?  Greece will probably need another aid package for after
2014, European Central Bank Board Member Joerg Asmussen said in
an interview with German broadcaster ZDF yesterday.  Even though European leaders have pledged to do all they
can to avert a Greek exit from the single currency, they’ve
refused to return to parliaments for more funding. Finnish
Premier Jyrki Katainen, speaking on YLE Radio Suomi at the
weekend, again rejected further funds to Greece.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told reporters
last week that the current package could be re-jigged by cutting
rates on loans or giving Greece extra time. In an interview on
ARD television yesterday, he reiterated his rejection of a third
option: write-offs of the country’s debt held by public
institutions.  Greece, which has already undergone the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history after private investors forgave more
than 100 billion euros of debt in March, may need another write-
off, European Central Bank Governing Council member Jens Weidmann said at an event in Berlin on Nov. 16.  Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who oversees
the finance chief meetings of the 17 euro nations, last week
predicted a “definite decision” on releasing the next aid
payment. He said the ministers might have to consult once more,
possibly by teleconference, by the end of November to formally
sign off on the updated rescue package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  