-- Ex-Axius CEO Kaufman Asks Judge to Throw Out Stock Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-19T19:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/ex-axius-ceo-kaufman-asks-judge-to-throw-out-stock-case.html
Axius Inc. (AXIU) ’s former chief executive
officer Roland Kaufman accused the U.S. government of violating
Swiss and United Arab Emirates laws by recording phone calls as
part of stock-manipulation probe.  Kaufman, a Swiss citizen, on Nov. 16 asked a judge in
 Brooklyn ,  New York , federal court to dismiss an indictment
alleging he tried to artificially inflate the stock of Dubai-
based Axius, a maker of wind- and sun-powered boilers.  Robert Nardoza , spokesman for Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch,
declined to comment on Kaufman’s claims.  Kaufman and Swiss financial professional Jean-Pierre Neuhaus
were accused of scheming to bribe brokers to buy the company’s
stock and increase the price. The scheme turned out to be a
government sting operation, according to court filings.  In an affidavit filed on behalf of Kaufman on Nov. 16,
attorney Mohammed Hassan Al Baher said that U.S. law enforcement
agents must receive permission to covertly record U.A.E.
residents’ phone calls. In another affidavit, attorney Sonja
Maeder said the same is true of  Switzerland .  “I believe this to be the case even if the ‘consensual
recording’ is done as part of a U.S. law enforcement
investigation from U.S. soil and is solely to support a
prosecution for violations of United States law,” Maeder said.  ‘Manufactured’ Case  The U.S. violated Swiss and U.A.E. laws in gathering
recordings of phone conversations of both Kaufman and Neuhaus, a
lawyer for Kaufman, Eric Snyder, said in a Nov. 16 memorandum.
He said the government “manufactured” its case against his
client after failing to apprehend two previous targets.  The U.S. actions amounted to “outrageous government
conduct” that calls for dismissal of the indictment, Snyder
said in the filing. Short of a dismissal, evidence seized under
search warrants should be suppressed, he said.  Kaufman is free on a $2.5 million bond, according to court
records. Neuhaus, who is being held in federal custody, pleaded
guilty on Oct. 10 to a single count of conspiracy before U.S.
District Judge John Gleeson. He is scheduled to be sentenced on
Feb. 15, 2013.  The case is U.S. v. Neuhaus, 12-cr-00439, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  -- Editors:  Andrew Dunn , Glenn Holdcraft  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  