-- Ex-Olympus Chairman Says Stopped From Disclosing Losses
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-11-19T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/ex-olympus-chairman-says-stopped-from-disclosing-losses.html
Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, the former
 Olympus Corp. (7733)  chairman who pleaded guilty to concealing losses
at the Japanese camera maker, said his predecessors prevented
him from disclosing the deficits after he became president.  Kikukawa told the Tokyo District Court yesterday that
former presidents Masatoshi Kishimoto and Toshiro Shimoyama
vetoed his suggestion to announce about 100 billion yen ($1.2
billion) in losses he was only told about a few months after he
was appointed president in 2001.  “Former presidents stopped me and scolded me, saying,
‘Don’t be stupid,’” the former executive said in court.  Kikukawa, former Executive Vice President Hisashi Mori and
Hideo Yamada, a former auditing officer, pleaded guilty in
September to using fraudulent takeover transactions to hide
losses for 13 years starting in the 1990s. The court is now
considering sentencing, which could be as long as 10 years in
jail and as much as 10 million yen in fines.  Olympus President Hiroyuki Sasa also submitted a guilty
plea for the company’s role in the fraud on the first day of the
trial of the company and its three former executives in
September. The camera and endoscope maker faces as much as 700
million yen in fines.  Tsuyoshi Oshima, an Olympus spokesman, declined to comment
on Kikukawa’s remarks regarding the failure to disclose losses. 
Kishimoto and Shimoyama couldn’t be reached for comment.  Shallow Scratch  Kikukawa said he would have turned down the offer to be
president had he known about the losses. While he had attended
meetings with Mori, Kishimoto and Yamada before becoming the
president, though, he didn’t understand what they told him about
the losses, he said.  “I don’t know why former presidents didn’t deal with it
when the scratch was still shallow,” said Kikukawa. “But I
didn’t think they were malicious, so I didn’t feel resentment.”  The losses at Olympus were exposed by Michael Woodford a
few months after he was appointed as the company’s first non-
Japanese president in 2011. The accounting fraud “destroyed the
image of Japanese companies internationally,” Kikukawa told the
court in September.  Investment losses at Olympus swelled after the Japanese
stock market crashed in 1989 and reached about 118 billion yen
by 2003, according to an independent panel commissioned by the
company.  Olympus has sued 19 former executives including Kishimoto
and Shimoyama over the cover up.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer maker,
Olympus produced its first camera in 1936 and a predecessor to
the modern-day endoscope in 1950, according to its website. The
company controls over 70 percent of the global market for
endoscopes, instruments doctors use to peer inside the body to
help diagnose disease.  Olympus gained 0.8 percent to 1,383 yen as of the close of
trading in  Tokyo  yesterday. The shares have more than doubled 
in the past 12 months after dropping more than 80 percent in the
two months after Woodford was fired in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  