-- Texas Oils Drop to Record Lows as Supply Fills Up Infrastructure
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-11-19T21:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/texas-oils-drop-to-record-lows-as-supply-fills-up-infrastructure.html
Two  Texas  oil grades dropped to
their lowest levels on record against the benchmark West Texas
Intermediate as rising production couldn’t reach markets because
pipelines are full.  Texas oil  production  increased 35 percent to an average of
2 million barrels a day in August from a year earlier, Energy
Department data show. New drilling techniques have unlocked oil
in shale rock formations, boosting the state’s output to the
highest level since 1988.  West Texas Intermediate oil delivered in Midland, Texas,
fell $5.25 to a $13-a-barrel discount below the same grade of
oil delivered in Cushing, Oklahoma, as of 2:06 p.m. New York
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The discount for
West Texas Sour widened by $7 to $15 a barrel. Those are the
widest discounts for the two grades on record.  “Increasing oil production has filled Midland storage and
the pipelines out of the region are completely full,” said  Andy Lipow , president of  Lipow Oil Associates LLC  in Houston.  Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA)  operates the Basin pipeline
that can move up to 450,000 barrels a day of oil from the
Permian Basin region in West Texas and southern  New Mexico  to
Cushing.  WTI in Midland averaged a 79-cent discount during the past
five years, and West Texas Sour averaged $2.76 below the
benchmark.  In the Gulf of Mexico, light crude oils jumped to their
highest level in more than a year after the December futures
contract on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  expired last week.  Light Louisiana Sweet rose $3.25 a barrel to a $28 premium
to WTI, while Heavy Louisiana Sweet rose $3.75 a barrel to a
$26.75 premium. It was the highest premium for both grades since
Oct. 21, 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Clark in  New York  at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  