-- Fiscal Cliff Pact ‘Vitally Important,’ Ford Chairman Says
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-11-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/fiscal-cliff-pact-vitally-important-ford-chairman-says.html
A deal between President  Barack Obama  and Congress to avoid the fiscal cliff is critical to the
U.S. economy’s health and to  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the company’s
executive chairman said yesterday.  “It’s vitally important for the economy that we work this
out,” Bill Ford, who is also great-grandson of the automaker’s
founder, told reporters after donating a Ford truck to Gleaners
Community Food Bank in Detroit. “I clearly hope we get some
bipartisan effort to avoid the fiscal cliff.”  Ford Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally was among CEOs
who met with Obama last week to discuss the assortment of tax
increases and other legislative changes that would take effect
at the end of the year. The fiscal cliff could threaten the
nascent recovery of the U.S. economy, Ford said.  “It’s going to help the country,” Ford said yesterday of
Mulally’s talks with Obama. “Ford is not isolated from what
happens to the rest of the economy.”  The automaker’s chairman said he sees signs of progress
toward reaching an accord.  “There seems to be good will on both sides to get it
done,” he said.  Ford rose 3.1 percent to $10.83 yesterday at the close in
New York. The shares have gained 0.7 percent this year.  COO Transition  Bill Ford also said he is looking for “more of the same”
from Mark Fields as he steps up to the newly created chief
operating officer job at Ford Dec. 1. As president of the
Americas, Fields has led Ford’s North American operations to
record profits this year.  “He’s done a great job on North America,” Ford said
yesterday of the 51-year-old Fields. “And he has operated this
way for several years.”  Commanding higher prices for models such as the redesigned
Escape sport-utility vehicle enabled the Dearborn, Michigan-
based company to earn $6.47 billion before taxes in North
America in 2012’s first nine months. The region had an operating
profit margin of 11.2 percent in an industry where a 5 percent
margin is respectable.  The appointment as COO puts Fields in line to succeed
Mulally, 67, as the automaker’s top executive. Fields, a 23-year
veteran of the automaker, led a transformation of its North
American operations from record losses four years ago to this
year’s record profits. Mulally will remain president and CEO
through at least 2014.  Fields will “have the benefit of Alan being there to
continue to mentor him,” Ford said.  Ford said the transition should be seamless and invisible.  “I don’t think anybody will notice a big difference,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in  Detroit  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  