-- Formula One Valued at $10 Billion in Ecclestone Suit
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-11-19T17:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/formula-one-valued-at-10-billion-in-ecclestone-suit.html
Formula One racing was valued at $10
billion by Bluewaters Communications Holdings LLC in a lawsuit
that seeks $650 million from  Bernie Ecclestone  for diverting the
sale of a stake in the company to a lower bidder.  The New York-based financial firm alleged that Ecclestone
paid a $44 million bribe to steer the 47 percent stake
previously owned by BayernLB to CVC Capital Partners Ltd., which
kept him on as head of F1. Bluewaters was the “high bidder,”
willing to pay $1 billion at the time, the firm said in a Nov.
16 filing in  New York  State  Supreme Court .  Bluewaters’s current valuation of the racing circuit may
aid investors trying to sell F1 stakes. CVC, a U.K.-based buyout
firm, has said it was seeking to take F1 public in  Singapore .
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which is liquidating assets to
pay creditors, holds a stake of about 15 percent.  The lawsuit is related to a bribery case in  Germany .
Gerhard Gribkowsky, who managed Munich-based BayernLB’s interest
in F1 as chief risk officer, admitted in court he was paid $44
million to direct the stake to CVC and said he agreed to a sham
contract under whichEcclestone received a kickback.  Ecclestone, who has denied the allegations, told a Munich
court last year he was caught up in a sophisticated shakedown
and bribed Gribkowsky because he feared the banker might tell
U.K. tax authorities about certain activities of a family trust
controlled by his wife at the time.  Bluewaters Financing  CVC, which isn’t part of the investigation, has said it
didn’t know about any bribery payments in the deal. CVC sold a
$500 million stake in the auto-racing series to  Waddell & Reed
Financial Inc. (WDR)  earlier this year. That sale valued F1 at $9.1
billion, according to CVC.  Bluewaters said it was “encouraged” by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Lehman to buy their shares in a vehicle that controlled
F1 around December 2004, when Ecclestone lost legal control to
them and BayernLB. Although a Bluewaters representative
assembled $1 billion in financing for the purchase, and made
offers to the three lenders, the stake went to CVC as a result
of Ecclestone’s efforts, according to the complaint.  Ecclestone is traveling and couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment on the lawsuit, an assistant at his office said.
Lehman officials declined to comment and JPMorgan spokesman
 Joseph Evangelisti  didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed
request for comment.  CVC paid 840 million euros, or $984 million at the time of
Bluewaters’s 2005 offer, for the F1 stake BayernLB acquired in
2002. Ecclestone wanted to push BayernLB out and saw a chance
when CVC showed interest, Munich prosecutors have said.  The case is Bluewaters v. Ecclestone, 653965/2012, Supreme
Court of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  