-- France Loses Top Rating at Moody’s in Blow to Hollande
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n ,   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-11-20T08:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/france-loses-top-rating-at-moody-s-in-blow-to-hollande.html
France  lost its top  credit rating  at
Moody’s Investors Service, which also maintained a negative
outlook for  Europe ’s second-largest economy, citing what it
called a worsening growth outlook.  France was cut to Aa1 from Aaa, the rating company said
yesterday. The Moody’s downgrade follows one by Standard &
Poor’s in January and increases pressure on President  Francois Hollande  to find ways to bolster growth.  “France’s fiscal outlook is uncertain as a result of its
deteriorating economic prospects, both in the short term due to
subdued domestic and external demand” and “structural
rigidities” in the longer term, Moody’s said in a statement in
 Frankfurt .  Since taking office in May, Hollande has pressed  Germany 
to do more to end the  European debt crisis , while focusing on
tax increases at home to pare France’s budget shortfall. His
government has set out 20 billion euros ($25.5 billion) in new
levies on the rich and big companies that are intended to reduce
the deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product next year.  “Moody’s sanctioned the delays in France’s dealing with
its debt and loss of competiveness,” Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  told reporters in Paris today. “That’s exactly the
diagnosis this government has made. We see it as an invitation
to pursue reforms we’ve undertaken. ”  Awkward Timing  The euro slid versus most of its 16 major counterparts
after the Moody’s move renewed concern the debt crisis is
deepening. The currency was 0.1 percent lower at $1.2803 as of
9:30 a.m. in Paris.  Germany, the Netherlands and  Austria  may face rating
actions after Moody’s reiterated its negative outlooks on all
sovereigns bearing the burden of bailing out troubled euro-area
countries, Steven Englander, managing director of Citigroup
Global Markets, wrote in a client note.  The French downgrade on growth concerns reflects an
“already existing reality,” not new information for the
market, he wrote.  “The timing of this sort of announcement is awkward,”
said Nicolas Veron, a visiting fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in Washington. “This downgrade
comes a few days after announcements of structural reforms that
are probably the strongest for a long time in France but it also
signals that while they are ambitious the recent announcement of
reforms is not enough to reassure investors that France is on
the right track.”  Borrowing Costs  France was also cut one level to AA+ from AAA on Jan. 13 by
Standard & Poor’s. Since then, French  government bonds  gained
9.4 percent as of Nov. 16, compared with 3.5 percent for Germany
debt, and 2.6 percent for that of the U.S., according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Buffeted by the  European Central Bank ’s offer to help
finance struggling governments under certain conditions,
Hollande has so far received support from his investors even
after the S&P downgrade.  French borrowing costs have tumbled since he took office,
with the yield on the nation’s benchmark 10-year debt dropping
to a record-low of 2 percent on Aug. 3 and shorter-term notes
selling at negative yields for the first time in July. French
10-year bonds yielded 2.08 percent at 9:30 a.m. in Paris.  Following the French downgrade in January, ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said investors largely priced in the euro-area
sovereign downgrades from S&P and questioned the importance of
ratings companies.  Without Ratings  “I will never comment on ratings as such, but certainly
one needs to ask how important are these ratings for the
marketplace overall, for investors?” Draghi said Jan. 16. “We
should learn to do without ratings, or at least we should learn
to assess creditworthiness” with less reliance on the ratings
companies, he said.  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as 38 years. The rates moved in the opposite
direction 47 percent of the time for Moody’s and for  Standard &
Poor’s . The data measured yields after a month relative to U.S.
Treasury debt, the global benchmark.  Yet with an economy that has barely grown in the past year
and unemployment at a 13-year high, Hollande must act quickly to
address France’s lack of competitiveness by improving labor-
market flexibility and lowering wage costs, economists say.  Labor Flexibility  Hollande said Sept. 9 that he wants unions and business
leaders to agree on an overhaul of France’s job regulations by
the end of the year or he’ll impose one himself.  “If this historic compromise is reached by year end, this
reform will be given the force of law,” Hollande said on TF1
television. “But if the partners can’t agree, then I’m sorry,
but then the state will assume its responsibilities.”  To aid businesses, he said this month he will raise the
main sales tax rates to finance a cut in payroll charges.  Hollande has given himself a two-year window to fix the
French economy, repeating pledges to reduce the deficit and hold
down spending. The nation’s debt burden will peak at 91 percent
of gross domestic product next year, the 2013 budget estimates.  “We expect the government to come forward with proposals
on the labor market, competitiveness and the financing of the
economy towards year end,” said Fabrice Montagne, an economist
at Barclays in Paris. “Structural reforms are a necessity as
they deliver high long-term growth per capita, ensuring that
short-term fiscal slippage does not threaten debt
sustainability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  