-- Fugro Plunges as Chairman Resigns, Forecast Cut: Amsterdam Mover
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2012-11-19T17:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/fugro-plunges-as-chairman-resigns-forecast-cut-amsterdam-mover.html
Fugro NV (FUR)  slumped the most in more
than four years in Amsterdam trading after its management board
chairman resigned and the world’s biggest surveyor of deepwater
oilfields cut its full-year profit forecast.  Fugro plunged 14 percent, the steepest one-day decline
since October 2008. Chairman Arnold Steenbakker will step down
because of a “difference of opinion” regarding the future of
the company, according to a statement on Nov. 16.  Fugro, which agreed in September to sell its seismic unit
for 1.2 billion euros ($1.5 billion) in cash, said profit after
tax will fall to about 280 million euros this year from 288
million euros in 2011. It expects a weak fleet utilization in
the fourth quarter. The company earlier estimated that profit
would rise to at least 310 million euros.  Steenbakker’s departure “is the really concerning news,
possibly indicating a board-level conflict on how to go further
with Fugro,” Quirijn Mulder, an Amsterdam-based analyst at  ING
Groep NV (INGA) , wrote in a note to investors. “We believe Steenbakker
had clear ideas on how to cope with some weaknesses in the Fugro
organization,” said Mulder, who rates Fugro a buy.  Fugro fell 6.995 euros to 42.135 euros, valuing the company
at 3.49 billion euros.  Paul van Riel, named Steenbakker’s successor, said on a
conference call that there’s no connection between the seismic
division’s sale and the resignation. He declined to comment
further on why Steenbakker, who became chairman in January,
stepped down and said current management share the same view on
Fugro’s future.  Fugro, which operates in more than 50 countries, said Sept.
24 it plans to sell the seismic division, which maps the likely
location of oilfields, because it lacks a market-leading
position and earnings have been volatile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  