-- Heating Oil, Gasoil Gain on Middle East, Colder Weather Outlook
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-11-19T21:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/gasoline-gains-on-israeli-attacks-u-s-budget-talks-optimism.html
Heating oil rose, along with gasoil,
amid concern that  Israel ’s attacks on the  Gaza Strip  may spread
unrest in the  Middle East , disrupting oil supplies, and as
colder weather was forecast for the U.S. and  Europe .  Futures reached a one-month high as Israeli Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  said air attacks on Gaza may expand to
ground operations amid an escalating conflict with the Islamist
Hamas movement. The approaching cold finds U.S. distillate
stocks at the lowest seasonal level since 2000 and gasoil
supplies at an 11-month low, increasing demand for U.S. cargoes.  “Now, winter demand is kicking in and heating oil and
gasoil stocks are low,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market
strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd., a research consultant in
 London . “There is no oil loss because of the Israel conflict,
but the general rhetoric can spook the market and other
countries could get dragged into it.”  December-delivery heating oil rose 8.83 cents, or 3
percent, to $3.0751 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, the biggest gain since Oct. 4 and highest settlement
since Oct. 30. December gasoil rose $31.5 to $952 a metric ton
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Gasoil inventories  in independent storage in Amsterdam-
Rotterdam-Antwerp, Europe’s oil-trading hub, fell 5.4 percent in
the week ended Nov. 15 to 1.84 million metric tons, the lowest
level since January, according to PJK International BV, a
consultant in the Netherlands.  U.S.  inventories of distillates , including heating oil and
diesel, dropped 2.2 percent in the seven days ended Nov. 16 to
115.5 million barrels, the lowest for this time of the year
since 2000, Energy Department data show.  Europe, U.S.  Sections of Western Europe, including the U.K. and  Spain ,
will probably face lower-than-normal temperatures in the next
three months, forecaster WSI Corp. said.  In the U.S., December’s weather will start off cooler than
normal along the U.S. East Coast, said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC. Winter, measured by meteorologists
from Dec. 1 to Feb. 28, may be 21 percent cooler than last year
in terms of natural gas-weighted heating degree days, Rogers
said. Last winter was the fourth-warmest on record in the
contiguous 48 states.  Heating oil’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate crude on
Nymex, based on January contracts, jumped $1.37 to $40.22 a
barrel. The January gasoil  crack spread  over Brent oil on ICE
jumped $1.38 to $16.29 a barrel.  Israel Conflict  Israeli ground forces are poised to invade the Gaza Strip
for the first time in almost four years amid efforts by  Egypt 
and Turkey to help end exchanges of fire that have killed 96
Palestinians and three Israelis.  The decision whether to expand the Gaza operation or reach
a cease-fire agreement “is rapidly approaching, and is a matter
of hours, not even days,” Israeli Finance Minister Yuval
Steinitz said in an interview today on  Army Radio .  Futures also rose on optimism U.S. lawmakers can reach a
budget compromise and avoid the so-called fiscal cliff,
automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to take
effect next year.  “Everybody thinks we’re going to get through the fiscal
cliff,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures
Group in  Chicago . “And with the risk over Israel, no one wants
to be short.”  Budget Talks  President  Barack Obama  is negotiating with a divided
Congress to try and avert $607 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts. Obama told reporters during a news
conference in Bangkok yesterday that “I am confident we can get
our fiscal situation dealt with.”  “The number one reason for the increase is the unrest in
the Middle East and fear of that spreading and ultimately
leading to supply disruption,” said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “There’s also optimism
that Congress will come to a compromise on the budget talks.”  Sales of  existing houses  U.S. homes climbed in October,
increasing optimism that the economy will be stronger in 2013.
Purchases of previously owned homes rose 2.1 percent to a 4.79
million annual rate, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed. The median price increased from a year ago as
inventories dropped to the lowest in almost a decade.  “This is another sign the housing market is recovering,”
Flynn said.  Gasoline for December delivery rose 4.44 cents, or 1.6
percent, to $2.7545 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement this month.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  slipped
0.2 cent to $3.416 a gallon, AAA said today on its website.
That’s the lowest price since July 16. The pump price reached a
2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  