-- Germany to Sell TLG’s Apartments to TAG for $275 Million
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-11-19T11:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/germany-to-sell-tlg-s-homes-to-tag-immobilien-for-275-million.html
The German government agreed to sell
the residential arm of TLG Group, a real-estate management
company, for about 215 million euros ($275 million) to reduce
its deficit.  TLG Wohnen GmbH, owner of 11,350 homes in eastern German
cities including Berlin, will be bought by  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG) , a
Hamburg-based landlord that will assume 256 million euros of
debt as a result of the deal, TAG said in a statement today. The
government plans to choose a buyer for TLG Immobilien GmbH, the
company’s commercial-property unit, in the weeks ahead,
according to a separate statement.  “TAG was only interested in buying TLG Wohnen, and
presented a long-term strategy for the properties’ maintenance
and further development,” the Finance Ministry said.  The government is seeking to take advantage of demand for
German real estate as investors look for a safe place to put
their money amid the  European debt crisis . Investors bought 8.67
billion euros of apartments in the first nine months, more than
twice as much as a year earlier, according to data compiled by
 BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   TLG replaced Treuhand Gesellschaft, the company that
oversaw the sale and restructuring of thousands of companies
after the collapse of communist East Germany. Many of TLG
Wohnen’s assets are Cold War-era concrete apartment blocks known
as Plattenbauten for their prefabricated panel construction.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advised the German government on the sale.  Share Sale  TAG will sell  new shares  to help pay for the purchase,
which will increase the number of homes it owns to 69,000, TAG
said. The deal is expected to close in the coming weeks,
according to TAG’s statement. In a sales prospectus obtained by
Bloomberg, TLG Wohnen was valued at 482 million euros. TLG
Immobilien was valued at 1.38 billion euros.  The German government shelved a plan to sell TLG in 2008
because of the global financial crisis. Some German politicians,
including leaders of the Linke party, the successor to former
East  Germany ’s ruling communists, said they didn’t want the
properties sold to financial investors who might violate
Germany’s tenancy laws.  TAG agreed to terms protecting tenants and employees, the
government said in its statement.  The Finance Ministry targets a federal deficit of 17.1
billion euros in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 