-- Goldman Sachs Buys $40 Million of Warrants in Drake & Scull
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2012-11-19T11:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/goldman-sachs-buys-40-million-of-warrants-in-drake-scull.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bought
warrants representing about 8.5 percent of the market value of
 Drake & Scull International PJSC, (DSI)  a Dubai-based supplier of
engineering services to the construction industry.  The warrants have a notional value equal to 147 million
dirhams ($40 million) with a five-year maturity and can be
exercised after two years, Drake & Scull said today in a
 statement  to the Dubai stock market.  The company, whose  shareholders  include  HSBC Private Bank ,
reported a 93 percent drop in third-quarter profit, missing
analysts’ estimates. Drake & Scull said on Nov. 14 that it
obtained a $120 million loan, coordinated by  Goldman Sachs, (GS)  to
help it pursue “growth plans in North  Africa ,  Asia  and other
growth markets and provide the liquidity to capitalize on
various private public partnership projects.”  Third-quarter profit retreated to 3.92 million dirhams,
from 57.5 million dirhams a year earlier as contracting revenue
dropped 26 percent, the company said in a statement yesterday. 
The median estimate of four analysts was for a profit of 37.8
million dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 
decline reflected a slowdown in the  construction industry , 
according to the company.  Productivity rates dropped across projects in the Gulf
Cooperation Council countries and Africa, while the procurement
cycle dipped because of the summer holiday season, Chief
Financial Officer Osama Hamdan said in the statement. Drake &
Scull has an order backlog of 7.5 billion dirhams, it said.  Drake & Scull fell 4.3 percent to 71.8 fils at 1:59 p.m. in
Dubai today. The stock declined 4.3 percent this year compared
with a 17 percent advance for the  benchmark DFM General Index.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  