-- GoldenTree Plans to Take ‘Significant Stake’ in Cerberus’s Bawag
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-11-19T12:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/goldentree-plans-to-take-significant-stake-in-cerberus-s-bawag.html
GoldenTree Asset Management LP, the
$16.6 billion credit hedge fund founded by Steven Tananbaum,
plans to buy a “significant stake” in Bawag PSK Bank AG,
 Austria ’s fourth-biggest bank, according to regulatory filings.  GoldenTree, based in  New York , notified Austria’s antitrust
authority Bundeswettbewerbsbehoerde about its plans on Nov. 16,
the BWB said on its  website  today. The purchase may result in
GoldenTree and Bawag’s owner, Cerberus Capital Management,
having joint control of the Austrian lender, the filing showed.  Bawag said on Oct. 19 it’s in talks to bring in new
investors to raise “a significant amount” of capital. Cerberus
would keep a majority stake in the transaction under discussion,
Bawag said at the time. Cerberus, the private-equity firm led by
 Stephen Feinberg , has said it “stands behind” the bank and
will support “potential capital actions.”  GoldenTree plans to acquire about 40 percent of Bawag and
will contribute 200 million euros ($255 million) of fresh
capital to the bank, the Austria Press Agency newswire reported,
without saying where it got the information. GoldenTree may also
swap Bawag debt into equity in the transaction, it said. While
Sabine Hacker, a Bawag spokeswoman, confirmed “ongoing talks”
with investors, she declined to elaborate.  Bawag hasn’t produced returns for its shareholders since a
Cerberus-led group bought the lender for 3.2 billion euros in
2006. It has to replace 170 million euros of hybrid capital it
bought back in March and may need more capital to repay state
aid and meet new rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision .  Bawag was founded as the “Workers’ Bank” in 1922 by Karl
Renner, a socialist and Austria’s first chancellor after World
War I. The bank, which Cerberus bought from the Austrian trade
union federation, lost money each year from 2007 to 2009,
causing the New York-based private-equity company to inject 205
million euros into Bawag in 2009, with the Austrian state
providing 550 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  