-- Government Equals Growth as Massachusetts Tops Ranking
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/government-equals-growth-as-massachusetts-tops-ranking.html
Massachusetts  ranked first in
economic opportunity in a  new index  that bolsters President
 Barack Obama ’s argument that government and education are
essential for creating the conditions for growth.  Massachusetts, Maryland and  Minnesota  placed among the top
five states measured by unemployment, household income and the
chance for residents to boost earnings. The new gauge was
developed at Harvard University and the University of
Pennsylvania.  “The states that invest in their citizens end up having
better economies, which would go counter to the idea that we
should strip down the size of government,” said Meredith Bagby,
an author and founder of the group that published the index.
“The flip side is that governments have to be well-managed.”  The ranking counters assertions by Republican leaders in
 Texas ,  Florida  and South Carolina that they are lands of
opportunity. South Carolina is 50th on the list from Bagby’s
States Project, while Florida is 44th and Texas comes in at
29th. Still, that was one up on  California , at 30th. The two
most-populous states have traded claims to producing the most
new jobs in the nation in the past year.  “States provide a really interesting way to look, to test
out those philosophies” that were a focal point of this year’s
political debate, Bagby said. “What’s better, big government or
small government? What’s better for the economy?”  Massachusetts Mix  Top-ranked Massachusetts, where Democrats hold all
statewide elective offices and run the Legislature, produced the
most-potent mix of measures. It had the 16th lowest September
 jobless rate , at 6.5 percent, and a fourth-highest  median
household income  of $63,313 in 2011, according to Labor
Department data. The Pew Center on the States economic mobility
gauge of residents earnings potential put it among the top 10.  Yet Massachusetts ranked 22nd on the Washington-based Tax
Foundation’s state business tax climate index.  Wyoming , with no
corporate or individual income taxes, placed first and New York,
last, according to Richard Morrison, a foundation spokesman.  North Dakota, where a booming shale-oil industry helped
drive unemployment to 3 percent in September, the lowest rate in
the U.S., and  Utah  rounded out the top five in the economic
opportunity index. On the bottom, the Palmetto State was joined
by 49th  Kentucky  and North Carolina, at 48th.  Less-Mobile Texas  Texas, which became the second-largest U.S. state  economy 
last year, surpassing New York and trailing only California,
added about 1 million jobs under Governor  Rick Perry , a
Republican, from December 2000 to May 2011, Labor Department
figures show. The oil-rich state, which has no personal income
tax, placed in the bottom 20 percent of the Pew mobility index,
while its median income level put it in the middle of the pack.  States that voted to re-elect Obama earlier this month
dominated the top half of the economic opportunity ranking,
while those won by Republican  Mitt Romney , who advocated for
shrinking government by cutting spending, were found mostly
toward the bottom.  Massachusetts often ranks high in such reports because,
while government spending might be higher, it has a
concentration of top universities such as Harvard and the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, according to Alan Clayton-Matthews, professor in Northeastern University’s public
policy and urban affairs school.  The state’s dozens of colleges once fed graduates into
burgeoning financial, defense and computer industries. More
recently, pharmaceutical, medical and biotechnology businesses
have provided new jobs, according to Clayton-Matthews.  “College graduates tend to gravitate toward other college
graduates,” said Clayton-Matthews. “That seems to be
compatible with this idea of migrating people and businesses,
who are seeking a knowledgeable environment to live, will seek
out these places.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 