-- Miami Quarterback, Famous Ballerina Tangle in Mystery
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/miami-quarterback-famous-ballerina-tangle-in-seductive-mystery.html
David “Lizard” Hochmeyer is a
former Miami Dolphins quarterback who’s now a successful chef.
At almost 7 feet tall, he towers above most mortals, yet he is
far from the only colossus in  Bill Roorbach ’s eventful, elegiac
novel of sports and murder, food and finance.  “ Life Among Giants ” also introduces Lizard’s wild big
sister, Kate, a tennis pro showered with endorsement deals for
Victoria’s Secret and spermicidal jellies. Kate is married to
her former Yale professor, author of a hippie pop-psych classic.
Even Lizard’s first love, Emily, a half-black, half-Korean
dancer, becomes a celebrity.  Dwarfing everyone is the couple who owned High Side, the
mansion across the pond from Lizard’s childhood home in
 Connecticut : British rocker Dabney Stryker-Stewart, who becomes
a still-greater legend after dying in a car wreck, and his
ethereal widow, a famous ballerina named Sylphide.  It’s a seductive world whose beautiful, damaged women, easy
grace and lights across the water evoke F. Scott Fitzgerald. No
surprise, then, that these charmed lives are riven with violence
and madness from the novel’s start.  In opens in 1970 when Lizard’s parents are gunned down
outside a restaurant. Lizard is still in high school, and in the
decades that follow he and Kate obsess over catching their
parents’ killer.  Failed Bailout  The murder seems to have been connected to their father’s
employer, the villainous Thierry Perdhomme, head of Dolus
Financial. In 2009 the firm turned out not to be too big to
fail, despite a federal infusion of $15 billion.  Back in 1970, however, Pa Hochmeyer struck a deal with the
FBI to testify against Perdhomme in a vast embezzlement and
extortion racket. A twinkly-eyed conman whose childhood nickname
was “Sneaky,” he was in way over his head.  As the narrative flits between the months leading to the
murder and the years that follow, its ever thickening plot is
fueled by secrets. As a teen babysitter, Kate had been close --
perhaps too close -- to Dabney. Then, after Dabney’s death, it
was Lizard’s turn to hang out at High Side, comforting grief-
stricken Sylphide.  “Our secrets gave us power. And then they took our power
away,” he notes.  Great Meals  Was Dabney’s death somehow connected to the Hochmeyers’?
Could Sylphide have choreographed everything, as Kate insists?
The novel opts for a slow reveal, allowing Roorbach to riff on
football and love and, most lingeringly of all, meals -- the
perfect BLT Lizard’s parents savored, some mushroom sausages
that will determine the novel’s climax.  It’s not only the ghost of Gatsby that hovers over this
personable tale. You’ll glimpse John Updike’s  Rabbit Angstrom ,
among others. There are echoes of enchanted fairy stories -- in
the title and in motifs like the talismanic stone, speckled and
vaguely heart-shaped, that passes back and forth between Lizard
and Sylphide for years.  Roorbach has written a novel with an acute sense of its own
mythology. Lizard’s father, for instance, isn’t merely handsome;
he is “handsome forever.” The prose seems to recall another
America, brighter and more innocent, a country where celebrity
still carried some mystique and the good life was epitomized by
tennis club martinis and “steaks the size of tires.”  Lizard never quite loses his own shambling innocence. Even
as an adult, landing a spot with the Dolphins then retiring to
take up cooking and open a hip, super-successful restaurant back
in Connecticut, he’s prone to the “whoas” that peppered his
teenage observations of the world.  Ultimately, the biggest mystery our narrator faces is the
man in the mirror. As he says of his ex-girlfriend Emily, “her
life had gotten too big for her very quickly, and mine had
always been too big for me.”  “Life Among Giants” is published by Algonquin ($24.95,
331 pages). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and  Mike Di
Paola  on the environment.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 