-- Miami Withholds Football Team From Bowl for Second Straight Year
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-19T15:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/miami-withholds-football-team-from-bowl-for-second-straight-year.html
The  University of Miami  won’t allow
its football team to play in a postseason game for the second
consecutive season as it remains under investigation for
improper benefits provided by a booster.  The decision was made by university leadership, including
President Donna Shalala, school lawyers and Department of
Athletics leaders, according to an e-mailed statement. Interim
Athletic Director Blake James told the team this morning. The
university made a similar decision last season.  “While acknowledging the impact that the decision will
have on current student-athletes, coaches, alumni and fans, a
determination was made that voluntarily withholding the football
team from a second postseason was not only a prudent step for
the university to take but will also allow for the football
program and university to move forward in the most expedited
manner possible,” the school said in the statement.  The National Collegiate Athletic Association inquiry stems
from a 2011 story on Yahoo! Sports in which former Miami booster
 Nevin Shapiro  said he gave cash and benefits, such as cars and
yacht rides, to at least 72 Hurricanes between 2002 and 2010.
Such incentives are a violation of NCAA rules.  The Hurricanes, who have won at least a share of five
national championships since 1983, have a 6-5 record this season
and became bowl-eligible with a 40-9 victory two days ago over
the  University of South Florida . Miami is in contention to win
the Atlantic Coast Conference Coastal division, but won’t
participate in the ACC title game should it qualify, according
to the statement.  The NCAA last August ordered eight Miami players to miss
games and repay benefits from Shapiro, endorsing a decision
initiated by the school. It hasn’t imposed any penalties on the
university.  “The university and President Shalala have been clear from
the start of the inquiry that Miami will cooperate fully and
will seek the truth, no matter where the path might lead and
that the institution will be stronger because of it,” according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  