-- Iceland Capital Controls Seen in Place Through 2015, IMF Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-11-19T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/iceland-capital-controls-seen-in-place-through-2015-imf-says.html
Iceland will need to keep  capital
controls  through 2015 amid difficulties in reducing an overhang
of kronur held by offshore investors, the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  “It’s now assumed that capital controls will remain in
place through 2015 because of the limited progress made so far
in reducing the stock of offshore krona,” Washington-based IMF
said today in a report.  Iceland’s  central bank  is seeking to phase out the controls
by 2015 through dual currency auctions of kronur and euros. The
program is designed to take pressure off the krona even as
investors sell their holdings by offering financial benefits and
the option of reinvesting in the island.  The auctions have released a “modest” amount of locked in
kronur, equal to 4.5 percent of gross domestic product, the IMF
said. The progress has been “partly offset” by coupon payments
on offshore kronur and currency released by the estates from
banks, leaving offshore kronur equal to about 23 percent of the
economy, according to the IMF.  Incentives Needed  “One precondition for liberalization is reducing the
overhang of liquid offshore krona,” the IMF said. “This
process needs to be accelerated by improving incentives for
offshore krona holders to exit via the channels in the
authorities’ capital account liberalization strategy.”  Iceland imposed currency restrictions in 2008 following the
failure of Kaupthing Bank hf, Glitnir Bank hf and Landsbanki
Islands hf, which triggered an 80 percent plunge in the krona
against the euro offshore. The country then sought a $4.6
billion bailout led by the IMF. Iceland emerged from the IMF’s
33-month economic program in August last year.  The island’s recovery is “taking root” and its fiscal
consolidation is “broadly on track,” the IMF said in today’s
report. The economy is estimated to expand 2.6 percent this year
and 2.3 percent next year, according to the IMF.  The IMF also urged more tightening from the country’s
central bank to bring down inflation. The report was made before
the bank last week raised its benchmark rate to 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 