-- Michelin Awards Stars to 124 Belgium, Luxembourg Eateries
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-11-19T12:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/michelin-awards-stars-to-124-belgium-luxembourg-eateries.html
Michelin today named a new two-star
restaurant in  Belgium  and another 11 with a single star,
praising the creativity of the region’s restaurateurs.  La Duree , in Izegem, becomes the 17th establishment in
Belgium and Luxembourg to hold two stars. The new one-star
winners include  Va Doux Vent , in Brussels.  L’Air du Temps 
retains its second star after moving to the village of Liernu.  “The 57th edition of the Michelin guide Belgium and
Luxembourg once again demonstrates the culinary vitality and
consistency on display in the two countries, as well as the
unbridled energy and creativity of their restaurateurs,”
Michelin said today in an e-mailed release.  The guide features a total of 124 starred venues and 146
with a Bib Gourmand, meaning quality cooking on a budget. Three
stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special journey; two are
for excellent cooking, worth a detour; one denotes a very good
restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie (ML) , the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
produced its first guide in 1900. It was free of charge until
1920 and intended for chauffeurs. The volume contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand,  France .  The guide goes on sale on Nov. 22, priced at 19.95 euros in
Belgium and 19.38 euros in Luxembourg.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Elin McCoy 
on wine,  Mike Di Paola  on the environment,  Hephzibah Anderson  on
books and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 