-- IMF May Classify Aussie, Canada Dollar as Reserve Currencies
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-19T17:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/imf-may-classify-aussie-canadian-dollars-as-reserve-currencies.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
it’s considering classifying the Australian and the Canadian
dollars as reserve currencies.  The two “are to be considered for inclusion” separately
in the IMF’s “Currency Composition of Official Foreign-Exchange
Reserves” data, the Washington-based lender said in a  report 
published on Nov. 14. They’ve previously been included in an
“other currencies” category in the COFER reports.  The IMF plan comes as  Australia  and  Canada  have shown more
signs of stability in the fallout of the 2008 financial crisis
than the world’s biggest developed economies. While the U.S., to
the U.K. to  Japan  have been coping with increasing debt loads,
deficits in Canada and Australia are forecast to be below 5
percent of gross domestic product in 2012 and are expected to
shrink.  “It really helps to cement the stability of these
currencies,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in  Washington  at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) ,
said in a telephone interview. “The Australian and Canadian
economies have been much more stable than the top economies in
the post-financial-crisis era.”  The Australian budget is forecast to show a surplus that is
0.1 percent relative to GDP next year, after a 3 percent deficit
in 2012, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Canada’s may shrink to a 0.6 percent deficit from
1.2 percent. The U.S. shortfall relative to GDP is forecast to
contract to 5.7 percent from 7 percent.  Risk Appetite  “The Canadian and Australian dollars a have been
appreciating today, and that’s partly to do with the better-
than-expected appetite for risk that we’re seeing across all
sectors of financial markets,” Bharadwaj said. “The Aussie’s
gain seems particularly strong and also based on the IMF
decision to raise it to reserve status.”  The Aussie climbed 0.6 percent to $1.0404 as 12:39 p.m. in
New York after gaining as much as 0.8 percent, the most since
Nov. 6. The Canadian currency advanced 0.5 percent to 99.65
cents per U.S. dollar.  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, has gained 2.5 percent against the
greenback this year, while the Aussie has rallied 2 percent.
Australian  government bonds  have returned 5.9 percent in 2012,
compared with 2.6 percent for Canada’s debt and 2.8 percent for
Treasuries, according Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  ‘Others’ Rise  “Elevating the Aussie and loonie to reserve status
certainly helps to ascertain how global central banks are
diversifying their currency holdings,” Bharadwaj said.  The share of global foreign-exchange reserves denominated
in so-called  other currencies  rose to 5.3 percent in the second
quarter, from 2 percent in 2007, according to IMF data published
in September. The percentage of reserves denominated in U.S.
dollars was 61.9 percent in the second quarter.  The IMF also counts the euro, the yen, the British pound
and the Swiss franc as reserve currencies with separate data
points in the COFER reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  