-- Inaba Says BOJ Could Ease More If Government Reins in Debt
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-11-19T02:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/inaba-says-boj-could-buy-more-bonds-if-government-acts-on-debt.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  could buy bonds
more aggressively if the government commits to lowering the
world’s largest public debt, said Nobuo Inaba, a former central
bank official and a possible candidate to replace Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa in April.  “The bank is concerned that continued massive bond
purchases will lead to a worsening of the nation’s fiscal
position,” Inaba said in an interview with Bloomberg on Nov.
16. “The bank could strengthen its easing and increase the
impact of its policies” if the government commits to achieving
fiscal health.  The yen weakened to a near seven-month low today as markets
expect mounting political pressure on the BOJ to lead to further
monetary stimulus. The opposition Liberal Democratic Party,
leading in polls to win an election next month, has called for
“unlimited” easing to end deflation and revive an economy that
shrank last quarter at the fastest pace since 2011’s earthquake.  Inaba, who was the BOJ’s executive director, said that the
bank’s Oct. 30 joint statement with the government on ending
deflation, the first of its kind, was “meaningless” without a
firm government pledge to lower the nation’s debt, which stands
at 237 percent of gross domestic product, according to the
International Monetary Fund.  “The government should make a legal promise to maintain
fiscal consolidation in the midterm,” said Inaba, 62, who is
currently head of the Ricoh Institute of Sustainability and
Business, a think tank.  Abe’s Pledge  LDP leader Shinzo Abe last week called for the BOJ to
pursue an inflation target of up to 3 percent and said he would
revise the law governing the BOJ’s independence. Kyodo News
yesterday cited Abe as saying he may ask the BOJ to buy
construction bonds to support spending and would prefer the next
BOJ governor to be someone who is in favor of inflation targets.  “Abe has been making various comments, but what the
central bank can do depends on how seriously the government can
manage itself to restore fiscal health,” said Inaba, who helped
draft the BOJ law as a central bank official in 1998. While
improvements can be made, “the BOJ law shouldn’t be altered due
to the policy of one administration or some lawmakers,” he
said.  The yen was at 81.27 per dollar at 10:52 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
after earlier weakening to 81.59, the lowest since April 25, as
the market continues to price in more easing.  Japan ’s Topix
Index closed the morning session up 1.4 percent, heading for the
biggest three-day gain since March 2011 as the weakening yen
improves the outlook for exporters.  Public Support  Twenty-five percent of respondents in the Nikkei Newspaper
poll released today said they favor the LDP, while 16 percent
chose the ruling Democratic Party of Japan, before elections on
Dec. 16.  All 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the BOJ
policy board to take no new action at a two-day meeting through
tomorrow. Sixteen economists forecast easing at the next meeting
in December.  At its last meeting on Oct. 30, the BOJ added to monetary
stimulus for the fourth time this year. It increased asset
purchases by 11 trillion yen ($135 billion), announced a new
unlimited lending program and released the joint statement with
the government.  The BOJ has so far pledged to buy 39 trillion yen in
government debt before 2014, close to the 44 trillion yen of new
bonds to be issued this fiscal year. Japan’s debt rose to 983.3
trillion yen at the end of September, the Finance Ministry said
on Nov. 9.  Kazuhiko Ogata, chief economist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said
that Inaba is a potential candidate to become head of the BOJ
when Shirakawa’s five-year terms ends on April 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  