-- Indian Rupee Rebounds From Two-Month Low on U.S. Budget Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-11-19T04:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/indian-rupee-rebounds-from-two-month-low-on-u-s-budget-optimism.html
India ’s rupee rebounded from a two-
month low after U.S. President  Barack Obama  expressed confidence
that he and Congress would reach an agreement over the
government’s budget.  Obama began a new round of deficit-reduction talks with top
Republicans and Democrats in a bid to avoid automatic tax
increases and spending cuts, the so-called fiscal cliff, that
threaten to push the country into a recession next year. The
rupee’s gains may be limited as crude  oil prices  rose, according
to Alpari Financial Services India Ltd., after  Israel  said it
may expand an assault on the  Gaza Strip . India imports more than
80 percent of its oil requirements.  The rupee advanced 0.3 percent to 55.0100 per dollar as of
9:34 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency touched 55.1950 on Nov. 16, the weakest level since
Sept. 13, when the government embarked on a slew of policy
changes to improve public finances and attract investment. One-
month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 10.04 percent.  “The constructive talks on the fiscal cliff in the U.S.
have triggered risk-on sentiment,” Pramit Brahmbhatt, Mumbai-
based chief executive officer at Alpari Financial Services
India, wrote in an e-mail today. “The softer Dollar Index shall
aid modest gains in the rupee.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six
major trading partners, fell 0.2 percent.  Brent crude , the price
benchmark for India, rose 0.6 percent to $109.64 per barrel.  European finance ministers aim to craft a plan for  Greece ’s
next aid payment this week. Regional finance chiefs are due to
meet in Brussels tomorrow for the second time in a week after
they agreed seven days ago to keep Greece’s bailout aid flowing.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were at 55.90 per
dollar, compared with 56.00 on Nov. 16, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.95 versus 56.02. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  