-- Tinkler’s Mulsanne Resources Ordered Into Liquidation
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-11-20T06:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/tinkler-s-mulsanne-resources-ordered-into-liquidation.html
Nathan Tinkler , the biggest
shareholder in  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , lost control of one of his
companies after an Australian court ordered its liquidation over
an unpaid debt.  New South  Wales   Supreme Court  Registrar Nicholas Flaskas
today granted  Blackwood Corp. (BWD) ’s request to wind up Tinkler’s
Mulsanne Resources Pty. after it failed to pay A$28.4 million
($30 million) it owed for shares in the coal developer. Tinkler
didn’t contest the order in court.  The ruling means Tinkler, an electrician-turned-mining
investor who’s lost about A$480 million as Whitehaven shares
slumped this year, is now exposed personally to creditors,
Marina Nehme, a senior lecturer at University of Western
Sydney’s School of Law, said today in a phone interview. The
magnate, who also owns other mining projects, a horse-breeding
operation and a rugby league team, last month settled a dispute
with  Mirvac Group (MGR)  over a failed property deal out of court.  The liquidation “puts him in danger,” said Nehme, who has
a PhD on the use of enforceable undertakings by the  Australian
Securities and Investments Commission . If the directors fail to
pay the debt “then the directors will be bankrupt.”  Blackwood can pursue him, other Mulsanne directors and
possibly the Tinkler Group, to pay the debt if the liquidated
company doesn’t have the assets to cover what it owes.  “The Tinkler Group has no comment but stresses the
liquidation of Mulsanne Resources Pty does not affect our other
operations,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Shares Plunge  Blackwood shares plunged 22 percent to 14 Australian cents
at the 4 p.m. close in Sydney, the biggest decline in more than
four years.  Tinkler is listed as one of three directors of Mulsanne in
an ASIC company extract. Mulsanne was created in April, and
agreed in May to invest A$28.4 million for a 34 percent stake in
Blackwood, which is controlled by commodity trader Noble Group
Ltd. and is developing coal mines in Queensland state.  Today’s court order means the powers of Mulsanne’s
directors are suspended and the liquidators, Robyn Duggan and
John Melluish of Ferrier Hodgson, take control of the company,
according to a statement from Blackwood.  Business Journey  Tinkler’s business journey began when he sold his house in
2006 to help buy the A$30 million Middlemount coal lease in
Queensland before selling it a year later to Macarthur Coal Ltd.
for about A$465 million in cash and shares. More recently, his
wealth and personal indebtedness has been the subject of
speculation.  Whitehaven said in August Tinkler abandoned his plan to
take over the coal miner for A$5.3 billion without giving a
reason. The company’s stock has fallen 46 percent this year, as
coal prices declined.  Tinkler has avoided having other companies forced into
liquidation with last-minute settlements with creditors this
year.  Mirvac sued Tinkler companies Ocean Street Holdings Pty and
Buildev Group Pty for failing to complete a land purchase north
of Sydney. The companies settled on Oct. 23 as a court hearing
was due to begin, with Ocean Street and Buildev agreeing to pay
Mirvac A$16.6 million. Tinkler also settled a A$2 million
dispute with contractor  Sedgman Ltd. (SDM) , according to the
Australian Financial Review.  Patinack Farm, Tinkler’s racehorse operation, avoided
liquidation last week by settling a lawsuit filed by the New
South Wales Office of State Revenue and paying a A$259,866
claim, the Sydney Morning Herald  reported .  The Herald Sun  reported  Sept. 23 that Tinkler owes at least
A$170,000 to the Newcastle Knights rugby team.  Tinkler’s “financial difficulties are a matter of some
notoriety,” Jason Lazarus, a lawyer representing Mirvac’s
Domaine Steel Pty unit, said at a Sept. 10 hearing in Sydney.  The case is In the matter of Mulsanne Resources Pty.
2012/00296966. Supreme Court of New South Wales (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  