-- Iraq Seeks Up to 30 General Dynamics Stryker Vehicles
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-11-19T22:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/iraq-seeks-up-to-30-general-dynamics-stryker-vehicles.html
Iraq ’s military wants to buy as many
as 30  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  Strykers in the first international
sale of the eight-wheeled combat vehicle developed for the U.S.
Army, U.S. officials said.  The Army is assembling cost and schedule information for a
formal offer, service spokeswoman Ashley Givens said in an e-
mailed statement. The proposal would be submitted to Congress
for approval if it’s accepted by the Iraq government because the
Stryker is a major Army weapons system.  The deal, valued at as much as $25 million, is for Stryker
 models  equipped with sensors, test equipment and communications
gear capable of detecting nuclear fallout or chemical and
biological agents. The U.S. version connects with Army
communications networks to alert commanders and chart routes
free of contaminants.  Iraq “has seen a major upsurge of al-Qaeda in Iraq attacks
since the departure of American forces, and the Iraqi government
fears AQI may have been able to get its hands on chemical or
even biological weapons captured from regime stockpiles in
 Syria ,”  Kenneth Katzman , a Middle East analyst for the non-
partisan  Congressional Research Service  said in an e-mailed
statement.  The sale would help  Falls Church , Virginia-based General
Dynamics develop new markets for the Stryker, the Army’s top
troop carrier. It also would add to a buildup of conventional
weaponry by Iraq that includes U.S.-made tanks, fighters, radar
and patrol craft.  Raifet Ahmad, a spokesman for Iraq’s embassy in  Washington ,
didn’t respond to a request for comment on Iraq’s need for the
vehicles.  Troop Carriers  The U.S. Army has 116 Strykers specially equipped for
chemical and biological detection. An additional 158 are on
order or planned for order for delivery by 2014, Givens said.
Altogether, General Dynamics has delivered 4,293 Strykers to the
Army of 4,466 under contract, according to company spokesman
Peter Keating.  General Dynamics is aware the Army is handling a request
for a potential foreign sale, company spokeswoman Marie
Remboulis said in an e-mailed statement.  General Dynamics rose 2.9 percent to $63.91 at the close in
 New York  trading yesterday, trimming a decline for the year to
3.8 percent.  The pending Stryker deal is part of $7 billion in potential
military sales to Iraq for which officials have submitted formal
requests for pricing and availability information or deals have
reached final stages, according to an official at the U.S.
embassy in  Baghdad , who asked not to be identified discussing
the private negotiations.  Tanks, Boats  Those deals, if completed, would bring to $19.1 billion the
value of proposed, current and completed military arms and
equipment sales to Iraq, according to the U.S. embassy official
and figures disclosed last month by Stuart Bowen, the U.S.
special inspector for Iraq reconstruction.  Bowen’s most recent quarterly report, published Oct. 30,
disclosed that potential sales also include $200 million for
M1A1 tank training simulators, $60 million in upgrades for
Tikrit Air Base, $40 million for tank ammunition and $15 million
for upgrades to Russian helicopters.  The approved deals include a first installment of  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 fighters and C-130J transports, General
Dynamics M1A1 tanks,  35M Patrol Boats  made by Swiftships
Shipbuilders LLC, Bell Helicopter Textron IA 407 Helicopters and
maintenance, sustainment and training for those systems,
according to the U.S. Embassy official.  The Pentagon notified Congress in July of a potential $428
million sale of 12  trailer -mounted Firefinder artillery
detection radar made by Waltham, Massachusetts-based  Raytheon
Co. (RTN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  