-- Ireland Experian Probe, Copper ETF, JPMorgan: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-11-19T13:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/ireland-experian-probe-copper-etf-jpmorgan-compliance.html
Experian Plc (EXPN) , the credit-reporting
service with financial information on more than 740 million
consumers, is being investigated by Irish regulators in the wake
of a series of breaches of the company’s databases.  The Office of the Data Protection Commissioner in Ireland
has opened a preliminary inquiry into the security practices of
Dublin-based Experian, said  Gary Davis , the agency’s deputy
commissioner. The move was prompted by an Oct. 29  story  on
Bloomberg.com’s Tech Blog showing that Experian’s database was
invaded at least 80 times, leading to the theft of almost 15,500
credit reports since 2006, he said. Hackers infiltrated Experian
using passwords stolen from its customers, and invasions weren’t
immediately detected.  Regulators have asked Experian whether breaches have
affected Irish consumers or businesses, and requested
information on what steps the company is taking to prevent
unauthorized access to its databases and safeguard records from
hackers, Davis said.  Gerry Tschopp, a spokesman for Experian, declined to
comment directly on the Irish inquiry. The breaches were
“isolated security issues experienced by a small number of our
clients in North America involving U.S. consumers under U.S.
data-protection jurisdiction,” Tschopp said in an e-mailed
statement.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission as a policy won’t confirm
or deny investigations, said Laura Berger, a senior attorney in
the division of privacy and identity protection.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Spain Cash-Transaction Ban Begins as Rajoy Targets Tax Fraud  Spain began prohibiting consumers from paying cash to
settle bills of 2,500 euros ($3,190) or more in legislation
designed to curb tax evasion.  The ban, which became effective today, will be applied when
at least one party to a transaction acts in a professional or
commercial capacity, according to a law published Oct. 30 that
contains a series of measures it says are “designed to prevent
and fight against tax fraud.”  Outlawing certain cash transactions that are commonplace
across the country, such as paying a carpenter for home
remodeling, is the latest in a series of revenue and spending
changes that Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has pushed in a bid to
close the budget deficit and avert the need for a second
bailout.  Article 7 of  law 7/2012  targets the custom of paying cash
for goods and services to avoid value-added and income taxes.
Economists say the practice is particularly widespread in Spain,
a country tax inspectors estimate is one of the European Union’s
largest generators of undeclared earnings.  Italy imposed a law limiting cash transactions last year.  Spain’s underground economy is worth about 245 billion
euros, or 23 percent of gross domestic product, according to a
report this month from the Spanish tax inspectors union  Gestha .
That’s about 10 percentage points more than the EU average, it
said.  For more, click here.  Copper Users Say ETF Study for SEC Shows Inaccurate Price Impact  A group of industrial copper users called a study by a unit
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission “inaccurate and
incomplete” for concluding there was little link between asset
flows and commodity prices.  Vandenberg & Feliu , a New York based law firm representing
a group that includes  AmRod Corp ., Southwire Co. and  Encore Wire
Corp. (WIRE) , responded to the study in an SEC filing Nov. 16. An
earlier review by the regulator of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s plan
for a copper-backed fund concluded that asset flows from
exchange-traded products tied to metals don’t have a significant
impact on the price of the commodity.  The copper-users group and at least one U.S. lawmaker
oppose the plan, saying it would disrupt metal supplies and
drive up prices.  IOSCO Seeks More Transparency on Securitizations  The  International Organization of Securities Commissions 
published recommendations for greater transparency and more
robust regulation of securitized debt.  IOSCO said issuers of securitized debt instruments should
retain some of the risk of losses.  The group  published  the recommendations on its website Nov.
16.  Shadow Banking Grows to $67 Trillion Industry, Regulators Say  The shadow banking industry has grown to about $67
trillion, $6 trillion bigger than previously thought, leading
global regulators to seek more oversight of financial
transactions that fall outside traditional oversight.  The size of the shadow banking system, which includes the
activities of money market funds, monoline insurers and off-
balance sheet investment vehicles, “can create systemic risks”
and “amplify market reactions when market liquidity is
scarce,” the Financial Stability Board said in a report
published on its website, which utilized more data than last
year’s probe into the sector.  While watchdogs have reined in excessive risk-taking by
banks in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008, they are concerned that lenders might use shadow
banking to evade the clampdown.  Michel Barnier , the European
Union’s financial services chief, is planning to target money
market funds in a first wave of rules for shadow banks next
year.  The FSB also targeted repurchase agreements and securities
lending for tougher rules.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Joins Credit Suisse in Settling SEC Mortgage Inquiries  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  agreed to
pay more than $416 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims they
misled investors while selling billions of dollars of
investments linked to home loans.  JPMorgan, which will pay $296.9 million, resolved claims
that it made misstatements about delinquency data for loans
packaged into securities and that Bear Stearns Cos., which the
bank acquired in 2008, didn’t tell investors it kept
reimbursements on soured loans, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said Nov. 16 in a  statement . Credit Suisse, which is
paying $120 million, was also faulted for disclosures on
reimbursements.  The SEC is seeking to wrap up probes into how banks bundled
and pitched investments tied to risky home loans. JPMorgan
already has been sued by state and federal watchdogs over sales
of mortgage-backed securities to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and
loans sold to investors by Bear Stearns.  JPMorgan and Credit Suisse didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing
in settling the agency’s claims.  “The SEC’s complaint makes allegations under the
negligence-based provisions of the federal securities laws and
does not include charges of intentional misconduct,” New York-
based JPMorgan said in a statement.  “Credit Suisse is committed to the highest standards of
integrity and regulatory compliance in all its businesses,” the
Zurich-based company said in a separate statement.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. JPMorgan
Securities LLC, 12-cv-01862, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  CFPB Gives Industry More Time For Dodd-Frank Disclosures  The Consumer Finance Protection Bureau has extended the
time for complying with new mortgage disclosures rules,
according to a statement issued by the agency Nov. 16.  Additional mortgage disclosure requirements on cancellation
of escrow accounts, consumer liability for debt payments after
foreclosure, and revealing the creditor’s policy for accepting
partial payment, won’t be required by Jan. 21, the consumer
bureau said in the statement.  Instead, the requirements will come after previously
proposed mortgage disclosure rules are made final.  Nexans CEO Says EU Antitrust Fines Harm European Competitiveness  Nexans SA (NEX)  Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Vincent , whose
company is under investigation by the European Commission over
price-fixing allegations, said the antitrust regulator puts the
bloc’s companies at a disadvantage in a global market.  Vincent made the remarks by telephone Nov. 16.  U.S. penalties are “about a third” of those in the
European Union and there are minimal sanctions in Asian
countries like India, China, Japan and Korea, Vincent said.  Nexans, the world’s second-biggest cable-maker, won a
partial victory last week against the commission, the EU’s
executive arm. The EU General Court ruled on Nov. 14 the
commission erred by collecting too much data in 2009 raids of
Paris-based Nexans, Italian rival  Prysmian SpA (PRY)  and others.
Agents were looking into fixing-prices allegations for undersea
and underground high-voltage power cables.  Nexans, like Prysmian, has booked a 200 million-euro ($254
million) provision for a potential EU fine. The commission may
rule next year, he said.  Vincent is lobbying in French economic and political
circles to curb the commission’s powers, he said, saying its
work should come under legal supervision.  Portugal’s CMVM Says Decision on Brisa Delisting Not Imminent  Portuguese securities regulator CMVM has yet to decide on a
request by  Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal SA  shareholder Tagus
Holdings Sarl to withdraw the toll-road operator from the stock
market.  A decision by the regulator is not imminent, an official at
the CMVM said in an e-mailed statement Nov. 16.  Separately, Portugal’s Socialist Party, the biggest
opposition group in parliament, said it asked the country’s
lenders to change their strategy of “austerity at any cost”
for the southern European country.  Socialist leader Antonio Jose Seguro reaffirmed that his
party would oppose a government plan to cut spending by about 4
billion euros ($5.1 billion) in the two years through 2014 as it
would result in the reduction of basic services in areas such as
health and education.  JPMorgan Faces Order on Anti-Money Laundering, WSJ Says  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is expected to receive an order from
regulators to bolster anti-money laundering systems and examine
past transactions, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
people familiar with the matter.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will give the
cease-and-desist order amid a wider crackdown on the nation’s
largest banks, the people said, according to the newspaper.
JPMorgan spokeswoman  Kate Haywood  in London declined to comment,
as did a spokeswoman in Hong Kong.  Authorities and lawmakers in the U.S. have been increasing
scrutiny of banks’ money-laundering controls.  Lafarge Says EU Visited Cement Associations in Antitrust Probe  Lafarge SA (LG) , the maker and supplier of buildings materials,
said European Union antitrust officials visited French, German
and European cement associations during the third quarter as
part of a probe announced in 2010, according to the company’s
quarterly report.  The company said the EU antitrust probe into the industry
is ongoing.  Lafarge operations in France, U.K., Germany, Spain, Czech
Republic, Greece and Austria are being probed.  The EU  announced  the investigation into cement
manufacturers in December 2010.  Courts  German Citizens’ Group Sues to Block ECB’s Bond-Buying Plan  The European Central Bank was sued over its proposal to buy
unlimited bonds from debt-laden countries to regain control of
interest rates in nations that make up the monetary union.  A group, which currently includes 5,217 plaintiffs and is
led by activist group Zivile Koalition e.V., filed the lawsuit
on Nov. 12 with the European Union General Court, the 27-nation
EU’s second-highest tribunal. The Luxembourg-based court’s press
office confirmed the lawsuit, which seeks to block the ECB’s
Outright Monetary Transactions program announced on Sept. 6.  Beatrix von Storch, the group’s spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement Nov. 16 that the ECB policy violates its own
statues “and has an immediate influence on monetary stability
in the euro area.”  The case is the sixth to reach the EU’s two top courts
challenging the Frankfurt-based ECB on euro-area-related
decisions.  The case is: T-492/12, Von Storch and others v. ECB.  Interviews  Fed’s Dudley Says ‘Premature’ to Break Up Too-Big Banks  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley 
spoke about U.S. regulators’ strategy to curb the risk from too-
big-to-fail financial institutions.  More than four years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., U.S. regulators are still grappling with how to
reduce the risk taxpayers will need to bail out too-big-to-fail
financial firms in a crisis. Dudley spoke in New York.  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  NYSE Hires Chertoff After SEC Report Cites Online Security Lapse  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  hired  Michael Chertoff , the former U.S.
Secretary of Homeland Security, after a report by Securities and
Exchange Commission examiners found staffers may have violated
rules for safeguarding computers at a division that oversees
exchanges.  Chertoff, who served as homeland chief under President
 George W. Bush  and is now a lawyer at Covington & Burling LLP,
has been retained by the New York Stock Exchange owner,
according to spokesman Robert Rendine. The appointment followed
a report prepared Aug. 30 by SEC interim Inspector General Jon
T. Rymer that found some employees in the agency’s division of
trading and markets failed to properly secure computers that may
have contained classified exchange data. Rymer’s report found no
evidence the devices were breached by hackers.  Online attacks at exchanges could allow perpetrators to
provide false information that might move the price of
securities. The SEC lab under investigation was responsible for,
among other things, assessing the vulnerability of computer
systems at stock exchanges.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, said the people who
oversaw the equipment referenced in the report have left the
agency.  For more, click here.  U.S. Senate Confirms Martin Gruenberg as Chairman of FDIC  The U.S. Senate granted long-delayed confirmation of  Martin
Gruenberg  as chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
 Thomas Hoenig  as vice chairman in a unanimous consent motion
last week.  Gruenberg has been acting chairman of the five-member board
since last year’s departure of previous agency chief  Sheila
Bair . The full confirmations for the leadership positions of
Gruenberg and Hoenig were held up earlier this year during
partisan wrangling before the presidential elections.  In March, the Senate confirmed Hoenig to the board and
renewed Gruenberg’s position for another term without confirming
them in the leadership roles they’d been nominated to by
President Barack Obama.  Gruenberg joined the FDIC after serving in staff positions
on the Senate Banking Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 