-- Israeli Minister Says Economy Will Weather Conflict in Gaza
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-19T17:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/israeli-minister-says-economy-will-weather-conflict-in-gaza.html
Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said he expects the economy to compensate for any
losses caused by the current round of fighting with Hamas in the
 Gaza Strip .  “The Israeli economy has shown maturity and stability in
previous security crises,” Fischer said at a meeting today with
Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer , according to an e-
mailed statement from the ministry. “I am convinced the economy
will weather the present crisis as well.”  Before the conflict broke out on Nov. 14, the Israeli
economy was slowing due to the  European debt crisis . The country
is dependent on exports, and Europe is one of its largest
destinations. The Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics 
said yesterday that  growth  was an annualized 2.9 percent in the
third quarter, slower than forecast.  The  Manufacturers Association of Israel  estimates damage so
far of about $30 million from lost work days due to Gaza rocket
fire on the south. Some 70 factories shut down completely and
another 430 are “hit hard,” the association said in an e-
mailed statement.  In the meeting today, Fischer and Steinitz agreed that for
now the markets are functioning properly and that investors
understand the resilience of the Israeli economy, the Finance
Ministry statement said.  “Experience from similar events in the past shows that the
economy returns to full activity and even compensates, in the
near-to-medium range, for the damage caused in the short term,”
the statement added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  