-- Japan Stock Futures Gain on U.S. Home Data, Budget Deal Optimism
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-19T23:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/japan-stock-futures-gain-on-u-s-home-data-budget-deal-optimism.html
Japanese stock futures and
Australian equities rose as better-than-forecast U.S. home sales
boosted optimism in the world’s largest economy amid speculation
President  Barack Obama  can strike a deal to avoid automatic
spending cuts and tax increases.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of construction and mining equipment that
gets 80 percent of sales outside Japan, climbed 1.2 percent.
ADRs of Canon Inc. rose 0.7 percent as the Japanese camera maker
said it will increase its dividend.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, gained 1.5 percent in Sydney as
metals prices advanced.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring next
month closed at 9,220 in Chicago yesterday, up from 9,130 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,200 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained
0.5 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.9 percent in
Wellington.  “Confidence is growing that a U.S. budget deal can be
reached, as politicians from both parties continue to make some
positive comments on working together to come up with a
solution,” said Stan Shamu, a market strategist at IG Index, a
Melbourne-based provider of trading services for equities,
currencies and commodities. “Better-than-expected existing home
sales data has also helped to lift sentiment.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. The  S&P 500  rose the most in two months yesterday as
Obama expressed confidence on a budget agreement with Congress
and sales of previously owned U.S. homes climbed in October.  Budget Talks  Obama met with senior Democrats and Republicans on Nov. 16
for talks to avoid $607 billion of automatic tax increases and
spending cuts that, if allowed to come into force, might push
the country into a recession next year. House Speaker  John
Boehner , a Republican, last week described the budget
discussions as constructive and said he would accept increased
government revenue coupled with spending cuts. Congress is now
in recess for Thanksgiving until Nov. 26.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index gained 11 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 through yesterday as central banks added
stimulus to spur economic growth and data showed a slowdown in
China may be ending. The Asian benchmark index traded at 13.4
times estimated earnings, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P
500 Index and a multiple of 12.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average increased 1.4 percent
yesterday, capping its biggest advance in a four-day period
since March 2011, amid speculation the country’s opposition
party that advocates more aggressive monetary policy easing will
take power at elections in December.  France Rating  France today lost its top  credit rating  with Moody’s
Investors Service, dealing a blow to President  Francois
Hollande ’s efforts to show budget credibility as Europe’s
second-largest economy stalls.  Of the 565 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
reported quarterly results since Oct. 1, and for which estimates
are available, 55 percent  missed expectations , according to  data 
compiled by  Bloomberg News .  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. gained 2.2 percent yesterday, the
biggest gain in almost two months.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
climbed 1.6 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  