-- Japan’s Forsaken Homes Restored to Historic Styles Yield 80%
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-11-20T05:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/japan-s-forsaken-homes-restored-to-traditional-styles-yield-80-.html
The air reeked of abandonment when
architect Hiroyuki Kuroki first walked into a circa-1929 Kyoto
townhouse with sunlight shining through holes in the ceiling and
illuminating the dark, frost-covered floor.  After four years and millions of yen in renovations, that
same  house  rents for as much as 84,500 yen ($1,040) a night for
tourists and celebrities seeking a more-private alternative to
hotels. It boasts a wooden bathtub of hinoki, or Japanese
cypress, that is prized for its scent, under-floor heating, a
Zen garden and entertainment by apprentice geisha -- a glimpse
of tradition usually reserved for patrons of Kyoto’s private tea
houses.  “The concept was to create exactly the same experience as
owners from long ago,” said Kuroki, who redesigns homes for
 Iori Co. , which manages 10 machiya, or pre-war wooden townhouses
with lattice facades and baked-clay roofs that form Kyoto’s
historic cityscape.  Restorations of such once-worthless homes across Japan are
delivering investment returns as high as 80 percent and luring
developers and entrepreneurs eager to turn a profit on resale or
rental. The homes also are providing a source of tourism revenue
to  Japan ’s shrinking villages as they seek new ways to draw
visitors and create jobs.  “We kind of turned trash to gold,” said Jacob Reiner, a
41-year-old American architect, who said his Yamanashi
prefecture-based development firm Eden Y.K. doubled its money on
two properties before last year’s earthquake. “There is a huge
innate value in the homes that are just being overlooked by the
locals.”  Old Houses  About 200 old houses, including urban machiya, some from
the 1603-1868 Edo era, and peak-roofed rural farmhouses known as
minka, are being restored every year in Japan, according to Toru
Kanai, who runs  the Japan Minka Revival Association , a Tokyo-
based nonprofit organization.  “People used to have negative attitudes toward old
houses,” Kanai said. “That view has changed over the past
years.”  A timber minka, restored by Reiner’s company in the town of
Shojiko about two hours’ drive from Tokyo near Mount Fuji, sold
last year for 18 million yen, delivering an 80 percent profit
after costs, about what he expects to average on projects, he
said. The deal yielded a 16 percent annualized payout to his
local and foreign investors after the house was sold, with Eden
taking the remainder.  ‘Usually Happy’  Reiner has had as many as five investors, including
himself, on his restoration projects, he said. So far, they have
been private individuals. Eden has the capacity to take on as
many as three houses a year, though it’s targeting to use
capital it accumulates over time to do 10 houses annually.  Minka  in Shojiko, estimated to be 150 years to 200 years
old, can be purchased for around 5 million yen to 6 million yen,
mainly for the land value, Reiner said. They can be restored for
as little as 5 million yen, and then sold for 15 million yen to
18 million yen. Japan has no restrictions against foreigners
purchasing property.  “The home buyers are usually happy,” said Reiner, an
architecture graduate of Cornell University, in Ithaca, New
York, who said he first visited Shojiko a decade ago and was
struck by the potential of its empty old houses.  “Japan has a huge inventory of underused buildings,” said
Reiner. “At first we had to prove it. Once the house is sold,
investors were very eager to keep going.”  Renovating Machiya  In Kyoto, Japan’s ancient capital, renovation-investment
opportunities have also attracted local real estate companies.
 Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) , Japan’s biggest developer by sales,
announced Nov. 5 that it would restore a century-old building
and incorporate it into the design of a five-story hotel it
plans to construct. The building, which dates from 1903, was
used as a vault, commonly known as kura in Japanese, with thick
doors, used to store treasures and valuable commodities. The
project will be completed by spring of 2014, the company said.  Hachise Ltd. , one of at least four companies in Kyoto that
rents out machiya, manages 14 houses for their owners. The firm
also remakes properties for sale.  It costs around 14 million yen to buy a distressed property
in central Kyoto, according to data provided by Japan’s land
ministry. Renovations can cost 20 million yen and a restored
machiya can sell for as much as 45 million yen, Hachise’s
general manager Kazuya Matsumoto said in an interview. While
Matsumoto declined to discuss profitability, his numbers show
potential gains of as much as 32 percent.  Short Stay  Kyoto now has more than 100 machiya renovated for short-
stay rentals, up from about five a decade ago, according to
 Kyomachiya , a machiya revitalization and research group. Still,
about 115 old houses, some dating back to the early 17th
century, are being torn down and turned into parking lots and
apartments in Kyoto every year, data from the  city  show, though
the pace has slowed from 132 on average a year seven years
earlier.  Avi Lugasi, a 48-year-old Israeli who founded  Windows to
Japan Inc.  with his Chinese wife,  Wendy Li , spent about $180,000
four years ago to buy and renovate a machiya in Kyoto, their
first project. Renters have allowed them to earn back almost all
of their investment, with the property now generating as much as
8 million yen in rental revenue a year, a 20 percent return,
Lugasi said.  The deal gave the couple the means to acquire six more
homes for rentals.  “We calculated the numbers and they made sense to us,”
Lugasi said.  Mountain Scenery  In Iya Valley in western Japan, known for its dramatic
mountain valleys, a newly renovated 300-year-old house is
expected to bring in 5 million yen in rental income annually,
according to Alex Kerr, an American who has restored more than
20 houses throughout the nation. Kerr co-founded Iori in Kyoto
in 2004 before leaving in 2010 and setting up the nonprofit
Chiiori Trust.  The thatched-roof  house , estimated to have been built
during Japan’s Genroku period from 1688-1704, brought in 600,000
yen in rental revenue in August, the first month it was open,
Kerr said.  “People see that these are the base for a new industry
that actually can make money,” he said. “Old houses, old towns
and beautiful nature, all of that was viewed as uneconomical --
something that was to be disapproved of because it didn’t lead
to economic advances. Suddenly there was a wake-up call.”  Declining Population  Rural areas that have been suffering from declines in
Japan’s population, as people of working-age shift to cities,
are also waking up to old-home renovation.  Ojika , a group of islands off the coast of Nagasaki
prefecture in western Japan, hired Kerr in 2005 as a home-
restoration adviser in a bid to attract tourists and create jobs
after one in three people died or moved away in the past 15
years, said Hiroaki Hashimoto, who’s in charge of town planning.  Kerr provided the design for six restored houses and a
restaurant on the island. The houses, decorated with tatami mats
and wooden furniture, offer a view of jade-green ocean and
farmland. Some houses, dating from more than a century ago, cost
as much as 18,900 yen a  night  for two people. The average daily
rate for hotels in  Tokyo  in September was 14,527 yen, according
to data compiled by STR Global, a hotel industry researcher.  ‘Chatting, Reading’  Tourism spending in the main town in the group of islands,
with a population of 2,841 people, grew 14 percent in two years
to 332 million yen after four houses and the restaurant were
restored, Hashimoto said. He estimates an additional 30 percent
increase by the year ending March 2014.  “We hope that with the increase of tourists, we can
establish a tourism industry within the island so that people
wouldn’t have to leave to find a job,” said Hashimoto.  About 280 miles east of Ojika, Miyoshi City started a
project to restore historic houses to attract tourists in 2007,
said Katsunori Ohzakai, an official at the local tourism
department. The  city  provided the funding to restore nine houses
in Iya, including Kerr’s, and has hired Kerr’s Chiiori Trust to
manage the project.  “Chatting, reading and drinking -- ordinary things you
can’t always seem to find time to do” is the slogan for three
recently restored, thatched-roof farmhouses, which rent for
14,000 yen a night for two. Visitors are asked to “co-exist”
with the natural environment, where water is taken directly from
the mountain. Monkeys, deer, pit vipers and boar are among wild
animals in the valley, according to the  website .  Life or Death  Japan’s population of 127 million will shrink by one-fifth
by 2050, according to an estimate by Tokyo-based  National
Institute of Population and Social Security Research . A fifth of
1,805 municipalities in Japan will have fewer than 5,000 people
by 2035, the  report  showed. About 13 percent had less than 5,000
people as of 2005 and that figure will almost double to 20.4
percent by 2035.  For some municipalities in rural areas where the majority
of residents are elderly, towns may disappear altogether, Kerr
said.  “Beauty is now not some kind of romantic luxury, it’s life
or death,” said Kerr. “If you live in Tokyo, life feels good.
What population problem? If you go into the country side, it’s
desperate.”  Private Investment  Kerr, who is working on two other projects in Kagawa and
Nara prefectures, said there’s room for private investment in
restoration projects.  “You can get 200-to-300-year-old houses built with timber
from a wood that is almost extinct and they will give them to
you almost for free,” said Kerr. “Once we get this thing
going, we will soon have a lot of competition.”  In Kyoto, Iori’s machiya are decorated with antiques,
including folding screens from the Edo period. Duvets in some
bedrooms are wrapped with sash made originally for maiko, or
apprentice geisha.  “Some of the old houses will continue to be destroyed --
that’s an unstoppable trend,” Iori’s Kuroki said. “We want to
preserve those that we can save and so that our next generation
will be able to experience what we have experienced.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  