-- JPMorgan’s Marianne Lake to Succeed Braunstein as CFO
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-11-20T01:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/jpmorgan-appoints-marianne-lake-to-replace-braunstein-as-cfo.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  named Marianne Lake to succeed Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein,
extending an overhaul of senior leadership at the largest U.S.
bank by assets.  Lake, 43, will assume the new role in the first quarter as
Braunstein, 51, becomes a vice chairman, the company said
yesterday in a statement. Lake most recently was CFO of the New
York-based firm’s consumer and community banking business.  Braunstein is relinquishing oversight of the bank’s
finances after Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, shuffled
other top managers in the wake of more than $6.2 billion of
losses linked to a trader nicknamed the  London  Whale. Braunstein
had reported to Dimon until July when  Matt Zames , 42, the
executive assigned to clean up the bad trades, became his boss
as co-chief operating officer.  “There’s been a lot of change recently, somewhat driven by
the Whale, but that’s life, and we tried to do the right thing
there and we’re doing fine,” Dimon said in an interview.
JPMorgan is “basically done” with the management overhaul that
began in May after the bank disclosed initial losses on a
credit-derivatives portfolio. “I hope we’re back to what I call
a steady state,” he said.  Lake has been CFO of the consumer and community banking
business since 2009. The unit, with 160,000 employees and 50
million customers, offers services including banking, loans,
credit cards, mortgages and  wealth management .  Accounting Background  Lake, who has a bachelor’s degree in physics, said it was
“surreal” to see her name on television after yesterday’s
announcement. She started out as an accountant for
PricewaterhouseCoopers in London and Sydney when she was 21
years old and has worked in finance and accounting for more than
two decades. She’s the first JPMorgan CFO with a background
focused on those areas since Dina Dublon left in 2004.  “It’s not at the top of my mind to make sweeping changes
right now,” Lake said in an interview. “It’s a well-run
function that I have been a part of. I have huge amounts of
respect for Doug, and the people who worked with him.”  The appointment comes two months after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., the fifth-biggest U.S. bank and one of JPMorgan’s main
investment-banking rivals, named Harvey M. Schwartz to succeed
David A. Viniar as CFO at the end of January. Schwartz will
assume the role after a career spent primarily in sales and
trading, a contrast to Lake’s credentials and Viniar’s
experience overseeing treasury and the firm’s controllers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  