-- Knicks Seek to Trump Linsanity With Best Start in 19 NBA Seasons
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/knicks-seek-to-trump-linsanity-with-best-start-in-19-nba-seasons.html
The New York Knicks’ best eight-game
start in 19 seasons is building buzz at Madison Square Garden
that may surpass last year’s Linsanity, according to league
analysts and sports merchandisers.  Knicks tickets have the highest resale value in the
 National Basketball Association , and sporting goods stores are
expanding their selection of team gear because of the squad’s
success.  New York’s 7-1 record is its best since a similar start in
1993 and comes a season after fan excitement over the rise of
Jeremy Lin, who moved to the  Houston Rockets  as a free agent. It
also is less than a 10th of the way through the schedule, with
the NBA’s oldest roster and uncertainty about the role of
players such as All-Star forward Amar’e Stoudemire returning
from injuries.  “Lin was a national story, and a great story, but I’ll bet
if you ask Knicks fans what’s a better story, it’s 100 percent
this season’s start,” former Phoenix Suns General Manager  Steve Kerr  said in a telephone interview. “Winning trumps
everything.”  The Knicks, who chose not to match Houston’s three-year,
$25 million contract offer to Lin, have been without Stoudemire
so far this season after left knee surgery. Eight games into the
82-game regular season, New York has been winning by limiting
its turnovers and playing solid defense in its first full season
under coach  Mike Woodson .  Turnover Rate  The Knicks committed nine turnovers in an 88-76 home
victory yesterday against the  Indiana Pacers , lowering their
NBA-best average to 10.4. Last year, they committed 16 turnovers
per game, next-to-worst in the 30-team league. New York, which
next plays tomorrow night at New Orleans, is holding opponents
to 90 points per game.  “We’re shutting teams down, we’re doing what we have to
do, we’re trusting one another and helping one another,”
 Carmelo Anthony  said in a televised interview after scoring 26
points against Indiana. “When you get everybody to buy in, it’s
fun out there.”  Heading into this past weekend, Knicks’ ticket listings on
the secondary market had grown an NBA-high 9 percent since the
start of the season, according to ticket-aggregator  TiqIQ.com .
Five of the site’s 10 most expensive games involved New York.  The Knicks’ $306.56 average listing on TiqIQ.com, while
tops in the NBA, was still 8.5 percent behind its peak during
Linsanity, according to the website.  Linsanity Erupts  Lin, 24, a graduate of  Harvard University  and the first
Taiwanese- or Chinese-American to play in the NBA, became a
global sensation in February after taking over as the starting
point guard for the Knicks and leading them to seven straight
wins.  He earned praise from President Barack Obama; a new flavor
of Ben & Jerry’s ice cream; and became a marketing force in
Asia, where broadcasters added more Knicks games to their
schedules.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  posted advertisements in Chinese to its
courtside signs at Madison Square Garden. The attention was even
credited with helping to settle a price dispute between  Madison
Square Garden Co. (MSG)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)   Modell’s Sporting Goods Inc. was getting daily shipments of
gear to satisfy demand for Lin merchandise in February. This
season, the company is expanding its Knicks collection and
adding the jerseys of  Jason Kidd ,  Steve Novak  and  Tyson Chandler 
to New York-area stores.  Company president Mitchell Modell said that from a business
perspective, he is more excited about this year’s buzz than
Linsanity because it has potential to last the entire season.  “We used to just carry one or two marquee players,”
Modell, a Knicks season-ticket holder, said in a telephone
interview. “This year it’s the whole team. We’re seeing great
enthusiasm, and we’re opening up our selection as we speak.”  Offseason Additions  While losing Lin, New York added Kidd, a 39-year-old guard;
Marcus Camby; a 38-year-old center; Rasheed Wallace, a 38-year-
old forward; and Kurt Thomas, a 40-year-old forward.  The team opened the season with six straight wins that
included victories over the defending-champion  Miami Heat  and
the  San Antonio Spurs . NBA analysts stressed that the Knicks’
age -- their roster is the league’s oldest at an average of more
than 32 years -- may cause a late-season fade.  Charles Barkley  said on a conference call that he would
pick New York to win the NBA title -- if it were the year 2000.  There also are concerns about how the team will deal with
the return of Stoudemire, 30, who was the Knicks’ second-leading
scorer last season with 17.5 points per game.  Jeff Van Gundy, who coached the Knicks from 1996 to 2001
and now works as an analyst for ABC/ESPN, said in a telephone
interview that Stoudemire, a six-time Al-Star, must be prepared
to come off the bench if Woodson asks because that would keep
Anthony in his “proper role.” Both Stoudemire and Anthony are
forwards.  “I think that’s their best lineup,”  Van Gundy  said.  -- Editors: Rob Gloster, Larry Siddons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  