-- Korean Won Rebounds, Government Bonds Fall on U.S Budget Talks
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-11-19T00:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/korean-won-rebounds-government-bonds-fall-on-u-s-budget-talks.html
South Korea ’s won rebounded from a
one-week low and government bonds fell on speculation the U.S.
will succeed in avoiding the so-called fiscal cliff that
threatens to derail the recovery in the world’s biggest economy.  President  Barack Obama  expressed confidence yesterday that
he and Congress could reach a budget agreement to avoid the $607
billion of automatic spending cuts and tax increases  scheduled
to take effect next year. The yen fell to the lowest level in
almost seven months amid bets an opposition party that advocates
more-aggressive easing will take power next month. The  Kospi
index (KOSPI)  of shares advanced. Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo
said last week the central bank will work to curb excessive
volatility in the won.  “Concerns over U.S. fiscal cliff, which had limited gains
in the won, seem to have eased,” said Byeon Ji Yeoung, a Seoul-
based currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. “The rebound also
comes as a reaction of losses on Friday, and a weakening yen is
triggering cross trades of selling the yen and buying the won.”  The won strengthened 0.4 percent to 1,088.05 per dollar as
of 9:46 a.m. in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency fell 0.5 percent on Nov. 16, the biggest decline in
two months. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at 5.88
percent.  The yield on the government’s 2.75 percent bonds due
September 2017 rose one basis point to 2.85 percent, Korea
Exchange Inc. prices show. The one-year interest-rate swap
advanced one basis point to 2.78 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  