-- Netcare Earnings Held Back by Sluggish U.K. Hospital Growth
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-11-19T13:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/netcare-earnings-held-back-by-sluggish-u-k-hospital-growth-1-.html
Netcare Ltd. (NTC) , an owner of private
hospitals in South  Africa  and Britain, swung to a full-year loss
after it wrote down 11.4 billion rand ($1.3 billion) from its
U.K. properties amid sluggish economic growth.  The British unit, which operates 35 hospitals,
“experienced a difficult trading year, characterized by
continuing recessionary pressures and ongoing NHS reforms,”
Johannesburg-based Netcare said in a statement today, referring
to Britain’s state-funded health service. Revenue from the U.K.
gained 0.4 percent during the 12 months through September,
compared with 9.3 percent in South Africa, the company said.  The write down led to a loss of 9.3 billion rand for the
period, compared with a 1.9 billion rand profit in the same
period last year. The shares fell as much as 3.1 percent, the
biggest intraday drop in more than a month, and were down 2
percent at 3:25 p.m. in Johannesburg.  “Demand for health care in  South Africa  will continue to
grow,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Friedland said by phone
from Johannesburg. Netcare plans to expand its number of
hospital beds in Africa’s biggest economy, where an emerging
middle class are spending more money on private health care
despite slowing economic growth.  Netcare is due to repay debt of 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4
billion) related to its British unit by October 2013 and said it
is seeking a refinancing of the loan. Tough macro-economic
conditions in the U.K. and the  European debt crisis  are
providing challenges to reaching an agreement, the company said.  Friedland declined to comment on the refinancing of the
U.K. debt.  Net income before exceptional items rose 15 percent to 2.1
billion rand ($237 million) for the year through September,
Netcare said. Revenue advanced 12 percent to 25.2 billion rand.  The final dividend was raised 9.7 percent to 34 cents a
share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  