-- New LME Warehouse Rules May Help Limit Metal Premium Spikes
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-11-19T15:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/new-lme-warehouse-rules-may-help-limit-metal-premium-spikes.html
The proposed additional delivery
requirement at warehouses monitored by the London Metal Exchange
should help limit the potential for spikes in metal premiums
caused by long wait times at some locations, according to
Barclays Plc.  The LME said last week minimum delivery rates from
warehouses may increase by 500 metric tons for storage companies
in locations where at least 30,000 tons of one metal awaits
delivery. Long wait times in places such as  Detroit  and
Vlissingen have helped limit supply, taking aluminum surcharges
to record highs. Withdrawals can take as long as 59 weeks in
Detroit, the biggest LME repository of aluminum, where a total
of 817,550 tons of the lightweight metal, 40,625 tons of lead
and 10,100 tons of zinc await delivery.  The new rules will effectively separate the “non-
dominant” queue from a wait line for the “dominant metal”
such as aluminum or zinc, Barclays analyst  Gayle Berry  said in a
report e-mailed today. “This may help limit the potential for
queue-induced spikes in physical premiums in other metals such
as those witnessed in aluminum,” she said.  The extra delivery requirement, which is expected to come
into effect from April 1, will address the issue of long
aluminum wait times slowing down the delivery of other metals,
LME Chief Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  said. Current minimum
delivery rates require the daily release of at least 3,000 tons
of any metal from stocks exceeding 900,000 tons at a single
location. A separate requirement for delivery of nickel and tin
will be introduced in April.  “Any increase in the load-out rate for non-dominant metals
will go some way towards addressing the spill-over effect of
long, mainly aluminum, queues on other metals,” Berry said.
“However, it does not tackle the issue of long queues for
aluminum or zinc.”  The premium added to the immediate-delivery aluminum price
was at a record $280 to $295 a ton at warehouses in Rotterdam,
including a duty into the European Union, Platts, a unit of
McGraw-Hill Cos, said Nov. 9. The fee in the U.S. reached a
record 11.15 cents a pound in October, according to Platts. The
LME has a network of more than 600 warehouses in locations from
Singapore to the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  