-- Ravens’ Ed Reed Appeals One-Game NFL Suspension for Illegal Hits
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/nfl-suspends-ravens-reed-after-violations-of-hits-to-head-rule.html
Baltimore Ravens safety Ed Reed
appealed a one-game suspension from the  National Football League 
for repeated violations of a rule banning hits to the head and
neck of defenseless opponents.  The sanction would cost Reed, who was due to make $7.2
million this year, about $450,000 in salary and force him to
miss the Ravens’ Nov. 25 game at the  San Diego Chargers .  “Ed has told us that he’s going to appeal the suspension
right away,” Ravens coach  John Harbaugh  said at a news
conference yesterday. “So we should know something very soon.
If we don’t have Ed, that’s a blow.”  Reed’s blow to the head of Pittsburgh Steelers receiver
Emmanuel Sanders two days ago was his third such hit in three
seasons, the NFL said in a news release. Reed received a penalty
for unnecessary roughness on the play, which occurred during the
third quarter of the Ravens’ 13-10 victory.  Reed also received a $21,000 fine and an unnecessary
roughness penalty following a September hit on New England
Patriots receiver Deion Branch, and a $10,000 fine for roughing
the passer after an unnecessary blow to the head of New Orleans
Saints quarterback Drew Brees in 2010.  “None of those were with intent to injure or to harm in
any way,” Harbaugh said. “Ed respects the game. He respects
his fellow players. After the New England one, he and Branch,
they knew right away, and they were hugging each other. He’s got
tremendous respect for the game, and we stand behind him.”  Reed is the second player suspended this season for
violating safety rules. Denver Broncos linebacker Joe Mays
received a one-game ban for a hit on Houston Texans quarterback
 Matt Schaub  in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  