-- Nigeria’s Inflation Rate Rises to 11.7% After Floods Hit Farms
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-11-19T08:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/nigeria-s-inflation-rate-rises-to-11-7-after-floods-hit-farms.html
Nigeria’s annual  inflation  rate rose
for the first month in four to 11.7 percent in October after the
country’s worst floods in decades washed away farms and food
stores.  Inflation in africa’s largest-oil producer accelerated from
11.3 percent in September, the Abuja-based  National Bureau of
Statistics  said today in an e-mailed report. The median estimate
of 13 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was 11.4 percent. Prices
rose 0.9 percent in the month.  Food prices, the biggest component of the consumer price
index, rose 11.1 percent in October from a year earlier compared
with 10.2 percent in September, the Abuja-based statistics
agency said in the report today. “The higher food prices
continue to reflect the impact of recent floods,” on food
production and the “difficulty of moving food products to
markets across the country.”  Nigeria’s two biggest rivers, the Niger and the Benue,
overflowed their banks as dams let out water following heavy
rains, killing 363 people, displacing 2.2 million and affecting
almost 8 million people from July to Oct. 31, according to the
National Emergency Management Agency. Farming communities along
the river banks saw the worst damage.  Agricultural output, which accounts for about 40 percent of
gross domestic product, will fall this year due to the impact of
the floods, Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi said
Nov. 15.  The inflation rate remains above the central bank target of
below 10 percent. The Monetary Policy Committee left the
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a record high 12 percent
this year to help support the naira. The rate has stayed below
the bank’s forecast of a peak of as much as 15 percent after
President Goodluck Jonathan reduced gasoline subsidies in
January.  “What we’ve seen in recent months is the steady decline in
consumer prices, in year on year inflation, and we still expect
this trend to persist in the medium term,”  Samir Gadio , an
emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank  Group Ltd. in
 London , said by phone Nov. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  