-- Nigerian Economy Expands at Faster Pace in Third Quarter
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-11-19T15:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/nigerian-economy-expanded-at-faster-pace-in-third-quarter-on-oil.html
Nigeria’s economy, the second-
largest in sub-Saharan  Africa , expanded at a faster pace in the
third quarter as the country pumped more oil, the National
Bureau of Statistics said.  The growth rate was 6.5 percent in the three months through
September, compared with 6.4 percent in the previous quarter,
the Abuja-based agency said in an e-mailed statement today. The
West African nation’s economy grew 7.4 percent in 2011.  “The oil sector witnessed positive growth for the first
time in four quarters,” it said. “Slower non-oil sector growth
was driven by growth in activities recorded in the building and
construction, cement, hotel and restaurant, and electricity
sectors.”  Africa’s top oil producer produced 2.5 million barrels a
day of crude in the third quarter, compared with 2.4 million
barrels a year earlier, the agency said. The oil industry, which
accounts for 13 percent of total economic output, grew 0.1
percent compared with a contraction of 0.7 percent in the
previous three months and 0.3 percent a year earlier.  “During the period, activities of vandals and oil theft
decreased as a result of intensified surveillance instituted by
government in the oil-producing areas,” the agency said. There
was also “re-entry into previously abandoned fields by some oil
majors and renewed production,” it said.  Agriculture Slows  Excluding oil, the economy expanded 7.6 percent in the
third quarter, compared with 8.8 percent a year earlier, the
agency said. The slowdown was led by agriculture, the biggest
contributor to the country’s GDP, as well as trade, real estate
and telecommunications, it said.  Agricultural GDP growth in the third quarter slowed to 3.9
percent, compared with 4.2 percent in the previous three months
and 5.8 percent a year earlier. The decline was caused by
insecurity in northern agriculture-producing states and flooding
which peaked between late October and early November, the agency
said.  Nigeria’s two biggest rivers, the Niger and the Benue,
overflowed as dams let out water after heavy rains, killing 363
people, displacing 2.2 million and affecting almost 8 million
from July to Oct. 31, according to the National Emergency
Management Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  