-- Nintendo Wii U Debuts in U.S. With Apps, Games, No TV
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-19T19:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/nintendo-wii-u-debuts-in-u-s-with-apps-games-no-tv.html
Nintendo Co., working to prove it
can still succeed by marrying its hardware to exclusive
software, began selling the Wii U console amid tight supplies
and delays in implementing a new TV-viewing service.  The first new video-game console for U.S. homes since 2006,
the Wii U initially won’t offer the Nintendo TVii service that
the Kyoto, Japan-based company has touted as a centerpiece of
its capabilities. The feature will be available sometime in
December, the company said on Nov. 16, without being specific.  “The value of Wii U goes well beyond day one,”  Reggie Fils-Aime , Nintendo’s North America president, said in a
statement. “Nintendo will be enhancing the Wii U experience
with continuous updates and new services for Wii U owners.”  The device is already sold out in many U.S. stores and
probably will be in short supply through at least the end of the
week, analyst  Tony Wible  at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, said
today in an e-mail. Individuals reselling the console online are
seeking prices around three times the retail price set for the
two models, of about $300 and $350, he said.  “Some individual sellers are listing for more than $1,000
in hopes that demand will grow as supply dwindles and the
holidays approach,” said Wible.  ‘Bucket List’  Nintendo is likely to sell 3.5 million units in the U.S.
this year, according to researcher IHS Screen Digest. The
company may also sell all it can make in the first six months,
said  Michael Pachter , a Los Angeles-based analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. Demand after that may average about 10 million
units a year, he said.  Devante Cordero, 16, drove almost two hours with his
parents and two sisters to  New York City  from his home in
 Pennsylvania  to secure one of the first spots in line outside
the Nintendo World store at Rockefeller Center. He wanted the
latest console, and a chance to meet Fils-Aime.  “He’s awesome,” said Cordero, one of hundreds in line at
the store. “If I get to meet him, it’s like a bucket list.”  The Cordero family arrived at the Nintendo store on Nov. 17
at 1 p.m., bundled up in hats, gloves and winter coats as the
temperature dropped to 43 degrees Fahrenheit (6 degrees Celsius)
in the city. Like many there, they brought folding chairs and
portable game consoles to pass the time, said Selina Cordero,
40, Devante’s mother.  Five Players  One appealing feature in the Wii U is that the entire
family of five can play at one time, she said. That’s one more
than the current system allows.  “Now we can actually really compete as a family,” she
said. “No one needs to sit out.”  Isaiah TriForce Johnson, 35, a marketing promoter for
Grassroots Gaming, was the first person in line for the Wii U at
Rockefeller Center. He first arrived on Oct. 23, then was forced
to return home to  Brooklyn  as  Hurricane Sandy  made landfall on
Oct. 29.  The next day, he walked three hours back to Nintendo World
from his home to resume his place at the front of the line. It’s
Johnson’s eighth time being the first fan to buy a new system or
game, he said.  “I just like being the first,” Johnson said. “It’s no
different from being the first in winning in video games. Being
the first is the first.”  ‘Ground-Breaking’  Nintendo  rose  1.3 percent to 10,690 yen at the close of
Osaka trading.  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained
1.4 percent.  Analysts have suggested the company should get out of the
business of making hardware that sells for $300 or more and
focus on selling popular games based on its iconic Mario and
Zelda characters for play on others’ tablets and smartphones.
Company executives say they won’t change course.  “By creating software and marrying it to strong hardware,
we believe we create ground-breaking experiences,” Fils-Aime
said in a September interview.  Sales of the original Wii totaled 5.84 million units in the
four months after its November 2006 release, and 18.6 million in
the 12 months ended March 2008, according to the company.  Nintendo TVii, controlled by a touch-screen GamePad,
provides a gateway to streaming and pay-TV services through a
homepage and search engine. The results are integrated so that a
user looking for a specific TV show or movie using Nintendo TVii
would find options ranging from an online service to a rerun on
cable.  Holiday Season  The company also delayed the availability of some online
services including Amazon.com Inc.’s Instant Video, and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube on the Wii U.  The delays could make it more difficult during the crucial
 holiday shopping season  for Nintendo to position the Wii U as a
whole-home entertainment center for parents and kids alike.  Pressure is mounting on President Satoru Iwata to repeat
the success of the Wii console after the 3DS handheld player
failed to meet expectations, prompting the company to cut its
profit goal by 70 percent last month.  Nintendo and rival console makers  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Sony
Corp. (6758)  face increased competition in the game market as consumers
turn to smartphones and tablets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad to
play free games like “Ruby Blast” and “Hill Climb Racing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  