-- Norway-EU Power Cables Should Remain in Private Hands, BKK Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-19T08:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/norway-eu-power-cables-should-remain-in-private-hands-bkk-says.html
Planned power cables linking  Norway 
to  Germany  and the U.K. must be kept open to private investors,
according to BKK AS, Norway’s fifth-biggest power producer.  A government proposal for state ownership is “unnecessary
and unfortunate,”  Tonny Nundal , a spokesman at Bergenshalvoeens
Kommunale Kraftselskap BKK AS,  said  in a response on a
government consultation website dated Nov. 16.  The Norwegian government said all cross-border power cables
from Norway should be under state ownership through the grid
company, Statnett SF, in a public  consultation  on proposals to 
amend the energy act, posted on the website on Sept. 18.  “The most important thing is to secure construction, it is
less important who owns and operates the cables,” said BKK, 
which has an average annual output of 6.7 terawatt-hours.  A monopoly for Statnett may trigger “inadvisable cost
incentives”, while more merchant cables would be welcome “in
principle”, Stein Lier-Hansen, managing director of the
Federation of Norwegian Industries, said in a  statement 
dated Nov. 15.  NorthConnect, owned by  Sweden ’s Vattenfall AB and the
U.K.’s  SSE Plc (SSE) , as well as Norway’s E-CO Energi AS, Agder Energi
AS and Lyse Energi AS, aim to build a 1,400-megawatt cable
linking Norway to the U.K. by 2020.  Statnett is part of a group that plans to build a 1,400-
megawatt undersea cable from Germany to Norway by 2018, followed
by a 1,400-megawatt link to the  U.K.  in 2020. Both cables are
intended to allow Norway to export excess hydropower output and
allow Germany and the U.K. to offset intermittent production
from wind and solar power, according to the  company .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  