-- Notre Dame Jumps to No. 1 in College Football’s BCS for 1st Time
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-19T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/notre-dame-takes-no-1-bcs-spot-after-kansas-state-oregon-lose.html
The University of  Notre Dame  is
ranked No. 1 in the Bowl Championship Series standings for the
first time, putting the Irish in position to play for college
football’s national title if they win their season finale
against the University of  Southern California .  Notre Dame jumped two spots after the No. 1 and No. 2 teams
in the BCS rankings lost on the same day for the first time
since 2007. Kansas State was beaten two days ago by Baylor
University 52-24, while the University of  Oregon  fell 17-14 in
overtime to visiting Stanford.  Notre Dame routed Wake Forest 38-0 two days ago to improve
its record to 11-0 for the first time since winning the last of
its eight Associated Press national championships after the 1988
season. The Fighting Irish would earn a spot in the Jan. 7 BCS
title game in Miami if they win at USC on Nov. 24.  “They all to a man know that it doesn’t mean much if
you’re No. 1 for just three or four days,” Notre Dame coach
 Brian Kelly  said yesterday at a news conference. “So they
understand the importance of the USC game.”  The  University of Alabama  (10-1) is now second in the BCS
rankings, moving back into position to defend its national title
if the Crimson Tide are able to win out.  Alabama  topped the BCS
standings for its first four weeks this season before a 29-24
loss to  Texas A&M  on Nov. 10.  The University of  Georgia  (10-1) is third in the BCS
rankings, followed by the University of  Florida  (10-1), Oregon
(10-1), Kansas State (10-1), Louisiana State (9-2), Stanford
(9-2),  Texas  A&M (9-2) and Florida State (10-1).  Campaigning Plan  Notre Dame wasn’t in control of its destiny heading into
the past weekend, as the Irish were undefeated yet ranked third
in the BCS behind Kansas State and Oregon.  If all three schools were to remain unbeaten, Kelly said
last week he’d campaign for his team any way he could, even
joking he’d make an appearance on  Oprah Winfrey ’s talk show to
seek voter support for the Irish. The BCS standings are
determined using the USA Today coaches’ poll, Harris Interactive
poll and six computer rankings.  That all changed this past weekend when Kansas State and
Oregon went down to defeat less than 10 minutes apart. Kelly
said he watched both games at home with about a dozen friends
and family members, followed by extensive celebration.  “It’s like being selected for the playoffs,” Kelly said.
“Now you know you’re in if you take care of business. I think
it’s more about just the feeling that you’re included now in the
race for a championship.”  Notre Dame had never been No. 1 in the BCS rankings, which
began in 1998, and last sat atop a national poll in 1993.  Championship Hopes  “We’ve had three different No. 1 teams in the past three
weeks,” BCS Executive Director Bill Hancock said in a
statement. “While some dreams have been shattered, other new
hopes of a national championship have been ignited.”  The Irish, who have lost nine of their past 10 meetings
with USC (7-4), will face a Trojans team that’s without starting
quarterback Matt Barkley, who sprained his throwing shoulder in
a Nov. 17 loss to the University of California at  Los Angeles .  “We’ve been given this opportunity,” Kelly said. “We’ve
got to make the best of it by beating USC.”  Alabama hosts in-state rival  Auburn University  (3-8) on
Nov. 24 and then would probably play in the Southeastern
Conference championship game on Dec. 1 in Atlanta.  “Everything is ahead of us as a team,” Alabama coach Nick Saban said after yesterday’s 49-0 rout of Western Carolina.
“Obviously we’re going to have a difficult game next week. You
throw everything out the window in terms of records when you
play rivalry games.”  No. 3 Georgia finishes its regular season with a Nov. 24
home game against Georgia Tech (6-5), while No. 4 Florida visits
10th-ranked Florida State the same day. Oregon is at 15th-ranked
Oregon State (8-2) on Nov. 24, with Kansas State meeting No. 16
Texas (8-2) on Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  