-- Obama Affirms Japan Ties as China Sea Spats Threaten Trade
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-11-20T12:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/obama-to-meet-china-japan-leaders-as-sea-spats-threaten-trade.html
President  Barack Obama  met with
leaders from China and Japan to wrap up a three-day trip to Asia
as countries in the region struggled to resolve territorial
disputes that threaten to disrupt economic ties.  Obama called the U.S.-Japan alliance the “cornerstone” of
regional security in a meeting with Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda, who emphasized the importance of relations given the
“increasing severity” of the security environment in Asia.
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said he wanted his meeting with Obama
to send a “positive message to the world.”  “It’s important that our two countries cooperate to build
a more secure, prosperous future” for the Asia-Pacific region
and the world, Obama told reporters as he began the meeting with
Wen in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. “As the two largest economies in
the world we have a special responsibility to lead the way in
ensuring sustained and balanced growth.”  Tensions over China’s territorial claims risk disrupting
commercial ties between Asia’s biggest economies as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis and the U.S. fiscal cliff threaten global
growth.  Japan  this month said it would bolster military ties
with the U.S. after its purchase of islands claimed by China
rattled a $340 billion trade relationship.  ‘Anchor of Stability’  “There needs to be a reduction of the tensions in the East
China Sea and a process going forward, more broadly, to ensure
that these types of disputes don’t risk escalation,” Ben Rhodes, White House deputy national security adviser, told
reporters in Phnom Penh. “We believe that the alliance we have
and the military cooperation we have with Japan has been an
anchor of stability in Asia for decades, and has helped, by the
way, create the context that has allowed for broader prosperity
and the peaceful rise of China.”  Wen told Asian leaders that China does not want to
“overemphasize” territorial disputes at international
meetings, according to Fu Ying, deputy foreign minister. Wen
affirmed China’s sovereignty over the Scarborough Shoal in the
South China Sea and said acts to defend its sovereignty are
“necessary and legitimate,” Fu told reporters in Phnom Penh.  Chinese and Philippine vessels squared off earlier this
year over the Scarborough Shoal, a land feature in the South
China Sea claimed by both countries. The  Philippines  today
called for talks among claimant states.  ‘Urgent and Imperative’  “At no time in the contemporary history of the South China
Sea has clarification and delimitation of maritime areas become
more urgent and imperative than they are now,” President
Benigno Aquino said in a statement distributed in Phnom Penh.  Southeast Asian nations again sparred over handling
maritime conflicts with China, reflecting divisions that
surfaced in a July meeting when the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations failed to release a communique for the first time
ever.  “We are not going to allow the issue to cloud or to affect
other pursuits that we are doing here,” Surin Pitsuwan, Asean’s
secretary-general, told reporters today, referring to the island
disputes. “But of course any other member states who would like
to carry this issue in its own way, to pursue its own interests,
those states have the right to do so.”  Noda yesterday told Asean leaders he would seek to resolve
differences with China in a “calm and peaceful manner,”
according to a government statement, after the countries sparred
over disputed islands at a summit of European and Asian leaders
in  Laos  earlier this month.  ‘Not Good’  China has demanded that Japan withdraw from its September
purchase of the islands, known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in
China. Anti-Japan protests have reduced China sales at  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co.  “It’s not good to be honest,” Qin Gang, a spokesman for
China’s foreign ministry, told reporters today, referring to
China’s relationship with Japan. “But the reason is not on
China’s part.”  Southeast Asia is growing more reliant on trade with China,
which is a gateway for shipments to advanced economies,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The euro-area economy succumbed to a recession for
the second time in four years, as governments imposed tougher
budget cuts and leaders struggled to contain the debt turmoil.  Asean leaders today started talks on a regional trade
agreement with China, Japan,  India , South Korea,  Australia  and
New Zealand, an area with more than 3 billion people
representing about a quarter of the world economy, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  China  has been Asean’s largest
trading partner since 2009.  Trade Accord  China, Japan and South Korea also announced the start of
trade negotiations, according to the official Xinhua News
Agency. The first round of talks will take place next year, it
said.  Asean’s differences over handling territorial disputes
emerged yesterday after the Philippines, a U.S. ally, disputed
Cambodia’s assertion that the bloc agreed to limit discussion of
maritime claims in the South China Sea at international forums.
Cambodia hung banners hailing the country’s close ties with
China on a wall outside the summit venue.  “The Philippines looks to China to set the example of wise
and peace-seeking leadership,” Aquino told reporters last
night. “Our region is very diverse and its harmony can easily
be disrupted by sheer political, military, or economic might.”  Surveillance Ships  China has resisted talks with Asean on a legally binding
code of conduct in the South China Sea, where it has deployed
maritime surveillance ships to assert its territorial claims.
The Philippines and  Vietnam , which have awarded exploration
contracts to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and  Forum
Energy Plc (FEP) , reject China’s map of the sea as a basis for joint
development of oil and gas.  Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard, who also attended
the meetings, called for the South China Sea disputes to be
resolved according to international law.  “We are talking about an area of the world that our
shipping needs to go through to take our goods to the world,”
she told reporters today. “This is a very heavily used trade
route for Australia and consequently what happens there in terms
of maritime security is important to us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Phnom Penh at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Phnom Penh at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  