-- Hockney Joins Kusama’s Hippies to Make a Splash at Tate
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-11-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/hockney-join-kusama-s-hippies-to-make-a-splash-at-tate.html
Painting is a physical activity. You
could think of it as a sport such as tennis, requiring virtuoso
control of the brush to achieve a particularly fine stroke.  However, many of the exhibits in “A Bigger Splash:
Painting after Performance” at  London ’s Tate Modern suggest a
very different kind of pastime, such as nude mud wrestling.  “A Bigger Splash” begins interestingly, then rapidly gets
messier (visually) and more confused (conceptually). Its subject
is how painting turned into a kind of theatrical performance in
the 1950s and 1960s, and how this historic period is influencing
some contemporary artists. That’s the muddling bit.  We start with two renowned images of 20th-century art:
 Jackson Pollock  filmed in the act of creating one of his drip
paintings in 1950. The artist almost dances, deftly flicking
paint onto a canvas lying on the ground.  The Tate’s own drip painting, “Summertime Number 9A” laid
out like a carpet to illustrate this point, looks a bit, well,
flat (the lack of a prime Pollock is one of many deficiencies in
the Tate collection).  David Hockney ’s “A Bigger Splash” (1967), the best known
of his paintings of a Californian swimming pool, in contrast,
looks terrific.  There is a paradox involved in both the case of Hockney and
of Pollock. “A Bigger Splash” is a picture of something that
happens so quickly -- the spout of water when someone jumps in a
pool -- you can scarcely discern its shape. But the painting was
done in a slow, carefully pondered manner.  Pollock Performance  The link to performance came in the documentary film of the
same name, “A Bigger Splash” (1973-4) by Jack Hazan.
Similarly, Pollock’s dancing and dripping was -- the evidence
suggests -- a performance put on for the cameras. His actual
procedures were more carefully thought out.  Probably the same is true of Yves Klein’s “Anthropometry
of the Blue Era” (1960), which involved three nude models
solemnly covering themselves in azure pigment, and then making
body prints on canvas.  As painting-performances go, this was a stylish, even witty
affair, done in front of a seated audience, while a small
orchestra played and Klein himself directed the proceedings in
evening dress. A film of the event is on show. Unfortunately
however, the Tate hasn’t borrowed one of the actual pictures,
which are surprisingly good.  Around that time, another French artist, Niki de Saint Phalle, shot at canvases behind which she had secreted sachets
of paint. And as the 60s wore on, things got a lot messier.
Artists of many nationalities began daubing the naked bodies of
themselves and other people.  Raw Meat  The Viennese Actionists specialized in a blend of pigment,
blood, nakedness, self-mutilation and, in the case of Hermann Nitsch, raw meat.  In “Flower Orgy” (1968) Yayoi Kusama painted her
trademark dots on large numbers of undressed hippies who then
lay on top of each other in a heap.  Much of this performing painting was doubtless fun, the
Viennese Actionists being an exception there. The artistic
returns were definitely diminishing. The second half of the show
contains work by a number of artists today allegedly inspired by
all those pullulating nudes and spurting color.  These didn’t strike me as much entertainment at all, and
the connection to what went before is far from obvious.  The only exception -- somewhat interesting and a bit fun --
is the work of  Lucy McKenzie , who makes pictures like evocative
theatrical backdrops to some period drama. This exhibition
begins with a fine splash, namely Hockney’s -- not only bigger,
also better -- and goes down from there.  “A Bigger Splash: Painting after Performance” opens today
at Tate Modern, Bankside, London, SE1 9TG, and runs through 
April 1, 2013. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or 
+44-20-7887-8888.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Mike Di Paola 
on the environment,  Hephzibah Anderson  on books and  Amanda
Gordon ’s Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 