-- Oil Drops From One-Month High Amid Speculation U.S. Supply Rose
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-11-20T13:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/oil-trades-near-month-high-as-israel-conflict-counters-supplies.html
Oil slid from the highest level in a
month in  New York  on signs that yesterday’s gains were
excessive, given speculation stockpiles rose for a third week in
the U.S., the world’s largest consumer of crude.  West Texas Intermediate dropped as much as 0.8 percent
after climbing 2.7 percent. Crude inventories in the U.S.
probably increased by  1 million barrels  last week, a  Bloomberg
News  survey showed before an Energy Department report tomorrow.
Prices surged yesterday as Israeli ground forces prepared to
enter the  Gaza Strip  for the first time in almost four years.  “The market remains well-supplied,”  Carsten Fritsch , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt who forecasts WTI futures
will rise above $90 a barrel before the end of the year, said by
phone. “The bias is upwards due to supply risks and
geopolitical tensions. The risk of an Israeli invasion into the
Gaza strip is still there.”  Crude for January delivery fell as much as 75 cents to
$88.53 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $88.77 at 1:10 p.m. London time. The
contract surged to $89.28 yesterday, the highest close since
Oct. 19. Prices have declined 10 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange slipped as much as 95 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $110.75 a barrel. The European benchmark crude was
at a premium of $22.59 to WTI, from $22.42 yesterday.  Stockpiles Climb  U.S.  crude stockpiles  climbed to 375.9 million barrels in
the week ended Nov. 9, the Energy Department said in a report on
Nov. 15. That was the highest since July 20.  Crude output rose 32,000 barrels a day to 6.71 million in
the week to Nov. 9, the fastest rate since May 1994, the
department’s report showed. Production was up for 10 weeks, the
longest string of gains since 2008. Inventories also may have
increased as Phillips 66’s 238,000 barrel-a-day Bayway refinery
in New Jersey remained shut after  Hurricane Sandy , which hit the
East Coast on Oct. 29.  Gasoline supplies probably climbed  1 million barrels  last
week, according to the median estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before tomorrow’s report. Distillate-
fuel inventories, including heating oil and diesel, are expected
to have dropped 1 million barrels.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  in
 Washington  will publish its own stockpile data today.  The conflict in Gaza threatens further instability in the
 Middle East  and North Africa after a wave of uprisings since
last year, including one in  Libya  that almost entirely cut crude
exports from the north African producer. Israeli leaders have
said that all options, including a military strike, are
justified in countering what they describe as an existential
threat from Iran, the fifth-biggest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  WTI futures also retreated after reaching technical
resistance along the 50-day moving average, around $89.80 a
barrel today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent may rally to almost $117 in about a fortnight after
it posted a so-called bullish candle pattern yesterday,
according to technical analysis by Futurestechs.com Ltd.  Prices will probably target $114 a barrel in the next two
weeks and then rise to $116.88, according to Liam Roberts,
technical analyst at the Billericay, England-based researcher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  