-- Oil Rises to One-Month High on Middle East Conflict
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-11-19T20:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/oil-rises-on-middle-east-conflict.html
Oil rose to a one-month high amid
concern that  Middle East  unrest will disrupt supply and on
growing confidence that a deal can be reached to avoid automatic
U.S. spending cuts and tax increases.  Prices advanced for a second day as Israeli ground forces
were poised to invade the  Gaza Strip  for the first time in
almost four years if cease-fire efforts fail. President  Barack Obama  is “confident” of an agreement to avert the so-called
fiscal cliff, he said in Bangkok yesterday.  “The war drum is beating in the Middle East and that
almost always tends to push up  oil prices ,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “There are reasons for optimism that the leaders
will work something out to solve the fiscal cliff.”  Crude for January delivery rose $2.36, or 2.7 percent, to
$89.28 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Oct. 19. Futures are up 3.5 percent this month.  Brent for January settlement gained $2.75, or 2.5 percent,
to $111.70 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London.  Israel has massed tanks on its border east of Gaza and
began to call up 75,000 reservists for a possible ground
operation, the first invasion of Gaza since an assault that
began in December 2008 and left more than 1,100 Palestinians and
12 Israelis dead.  Gaza Conflict  “Any geopolitical event may well increase the upward
pressure on prices,”  Fatih Birol , chief economist at the
 International Energy Agency , said in an interview in Oslo.  As Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary-general,
arrived in  Egypt  today to help broker an end to the fighting,
 Khaled Mashaal , the political head of Hamas, told reporters in
Cairo that the Palestinian Islamist group hadn’t asked for a
truce. Israel must end its blockade of the Gaza Strip if a
cease-fire is to be agreed, he said.  World leaders including Obama have called for an end to the
conflict before it escalates. The assault threatens further
instability in the Middle East and North Africa, regions
accounting for more than 35 percent of global crude production,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  “There is still a lot of fear and uncertainty in the
Middle East,” said Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-based
analyst at Summit Energy Inc., which manages more than $20
billion in companies’ annual energy spending. “Anytime you hear
that ground troops could be sent to Gaza, that’s going to keep
the market jittery.”  Fiscal Cliff  Before Obama left for Asia, he began on a new round of
 deficit -reduction talks with top Republicans and Democrats in a
bid to avoid the combination of $607 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts that threatens to throw the country
into a recession next year.  “I am confident we can get our fiscal situation dealt
with,” Obama said at the news conference in Bangkok.  House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican, and White House
Press Secretary  Jay Carney  described a Nov. 16 meeting on the
fiscal cliff as “constructive.”  “The markets are taking a more optimistic view about the
fiscal cliff,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion. “If you don’t have a fiscal cliff you’ll probably
avoid a recession and if you avoid a recession, oil prices are
probably too low.”  Home Sales  In a sign of economic improvement, sales of previously
owned U.S. homes climbed in October. Purchases of  existing
houses , tabulated when a contract closes, increased 2.1 percent
to a 4.79 million annual rate, exceeding the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in Washington.  The U.S. is the world’s biggest oil consumer, using 18.8
million barrels a day in 2011, according to BP’s statistical
review.  Oil also followed gains in U.S. equities and the weakness
in the dollar. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied as much
as 1.8 percent and the euro rose 0.5 percent against the dollar
as of 3:17 p.m. in  New York . A stronger euro and weaker dollar
increase oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  Money managers cut bullish bets on crude futures on the
Nymex by 18 percent to 100,021 futures and options combined in
the week ended Nov. 13, according to data from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission in its Commitments of Traders report
on Nov. 16. That was the biggest reduction since May.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 440,735
contracts as of 3:17 p.m. Volume totaled 570,824 contracts on
Nov. 16, 7.7 percent higher than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.48 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  