-- Oil Rises Amid Israel Conflict, U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-19T13:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/oil-advances-a-second-day-on-israel-conflict-u-s-budget-talks.html
Oil advanced to the highest level in
more than a week in New York amid concern that Middle East
unrest will disrupt supply and speculation the U.S. will avert
automatic spending cuts and tax rises that threaten to throw the
nation into recession.  West Texas Intermediate futures climbed to more than $88 a
barrel, extending two weeks of gains. Israel will continue to
attack Gaza and may intensify operations, Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said. U.S. President  Barack Obama  is “confident” of a
deal on the so-called fiscal cliff, he said after Nov. 16 talks
with congressional leaders.  “Geopolitical tensions in the Middle East are not good
news for the energy markets,”  Fatih Birol , chief economist at
the  International Energy Agency , said in an interview in Oslo.
“Any geopolitical event may well increase the upward pressure
on prices.”  Crude for January delivery rose as much as $1.21, or 1.4
percent, to $88.13 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the highest since Nov. 7. Futures were
at $87.99 at 1:14 p.m. London time. Front-month prices are down
11 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement gained as much as $1.35, or
1.2 percent, to $110.30 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . The European benchmark contract was at a
 premium  of $22.28 to West Texas Intermediate. The spread
narrowed to $22.03 on Nov. 16, the smallest gap in two weeks.  Israel Attack  Oil’s advance in New York may stall as futures approach
technical resistance along the middle Bollinger Band at about
$87.85 a barrel today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Crude has settled between this indicator and the lower Band for
the past two months.  Money managers cut bullish bets on WTI crude by 18 percent
to 100,021 futures and options combined in the week ended Nov.
13, according to data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission in its Commitments of Traders report on Nov. 16. That
was the biggest reduction since May.  In London,  hedge funds  and other money managers reduced
bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 10,210 contracts in the week
ended Nov. 13, according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Israeli ground forces are poised to invade the Gaza Strip
for the first time in almost four years after rocket battles
that have killed 71 Palestinians and three Israelis.  Budget Talks  “We will continue to act, to attack and perhaps even to
intensify the operation,” Barak said yesterday, according to an
e-mailed statement. “If there is a need, we won’t hesitate to
undertake ground maneuvers.”  World leaders including Obama have called for an end to the
conflict before it escalates. The assault threatens further
instability in the  Middle East  and North Africa after a wave of
uprisings last year, including one in neighboring Syria that has
become a civil war. The region accounted for more than 35
percent of global crude production in 2011, according to  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  “Unexpected developments in the Middle East are likely to
cause upward spikes from time to time,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London who
correctly predicted crude’s slide in October and expects Brent
will trade from $105 to $115 a barrel this month.  Obama, speaking at a news conference yesterday in Bangkok,
expressed confidence that he and Congress would reach an
agreement to avoid the $607 billion deficit-cutting package.
House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican, called the talks
“constructive” and repeated his offer to discuss tax changes
that would increase government revenue in exchange for spending
cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  