-- Olympic Cauldron Designer Heatherwick Looks to Future
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-11-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/olympic-cauldron-designer-heatherwick-looks-to-future.html
A stylish new fleet of red double-
decker buses is fanning out onto  London ’s streets. You can hop
on and off them, as in the old days.  The hybrid vehicles (which use 40 percent less fossil fuel)
were commissioned by Mayor of London  Boris Johnson . They’re by
Thomas Heatherwick, designer of the 204-piece  Olympic  cauldron,
which a billion television viewers discovered in the  London 2012
opening ceremony .  The wunderkind of British design first came to world
attention with the  British Pavilion  at the 2010  Shanghai Expo . A
generation younger than his better-known peers  Zaha Hadid  and
Ron Arad, the designer-inventor-engineer-architect brings a
childlike, rule-bending enthusiasm to his trade. I ask him why
design is important.  “The word ’design’ has become associated with what color
curtain something is,” replies the curly-haired Heatherwick.  “Everywhere we are, everything we wear -- even the bits of
the world that we think aren’t designed, like plants and trees -
- are based on ideas which little people like us have had, and
that have accumulated into the environments we’re in,” he says.
“So it’s all design.”  We meet in the skylit foyer of his cosy London studio,
where teams sit at unpartitioned desks. Heatherwick sinks
cheerfully into a spindle-shaped armchair of his own design.  Heatherwick was born into a creative family. His German-
Jewish grandmother fled Dresden during the Nazi era, and went on
to run the textile design studio of  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) ,
now the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer. His mother is, he
says, an authority on beads and bead threading.  Enameling Workshop  Young Thomas grew up in a north London home watching things
get made. To get to his mom’s bedroom, he’d tiptoe past the
kilns, powders and pliers in her enameling workshop.  “There didn’t seem to be any lines between things,” he
says. “As I grew up, I discovered there are lines between
everything. So I resisted that somehow.”  As a boy, he loved taking cameras and typewriters apart,
and figuring out ways in which objects -- even a toboggan --
could be better put together.  He designed his first building when he was 21 years old.
That trapezoidal timber-and-polycarbonate pavilion remains his
most important project ever, he says.  After a masters degree from the Royal College of Art, he
set up his own practice in 1994. His first break came three
years later, designing the shop windows of the Harvey Nichols
department store in London. Heatherwick wove a massive piece of
carved, veneered wood in and out of the 12 tall vitrines.  Shanghai Pavilion  For the Shanghai Expo, the U.K. government demanded that
its pavilion rank in the top five. It won first prize -- with a
budget that was half that of other rich Western nations.  Heatherwick ruled out producing another “cheesy advert for
Britain” complete with “historic castles and  Sherlock Holmes 
and bowler hats.” He played up the U.K.’s contemporary profile
as a hub of creativity.  His pavilion was a horticultural homage to Britain: home of
the world’s very first public park (the Royal Botanic Gardens at
Kew), its capital city endowed with more green spaces than any
city of its size. Heatherwick designed a “Seed Cathedral” made
of 60,000 transparent acrylic rods. Each contained seeds you
could see from inside the pavilion.  The London 2012 Olympics cauldron commission came with one
proviso: “Whatever you do, no moving parts.” Heatherwick
boldly shunned the requirement.  Moving Parts  “When we proposed the most moving parts ever in an Olympic
cauldron, we were nervous and feeling a bit guilty about that,”
he says. “But the same man who’d said that to us was the first
person to say yes.”  In his spare time, Heatherwick enjoys cycling -- a fast and
fascinating way to experience London -- and being with his
twins, a boy and girl who turn six at Christmas.  Coming up  next are a university in  Singapore  and a
distillery in Hampshire, plus a slew of projects under
negotiation that he can’t talk about.  In the meantime, Heatherwick is getting plenty of post-
Olympic calls from around the world.  “There aren’t more cauldrons to design,” he sighs. “And
people tend to ask you to do what you’ve done before.”  Heatherwick Studio’s illustrated book of projects is titled
“Thomas Heatherwick: Making” (Thames & Hudson, 600 pages, 38
pounds; Monacelli Press, 600 pages, $75). To buy the book in
 North America , click  here .  Information:  http://www.heatherwick.com/   To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 