-- Homebuilder Confidence Rises to Six-Year High on U.S. Sales
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-11-19T15:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/homebuilder-confidence-rises-to-six-year-high-as-u-s-sales-jump.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
unexpectedly climbed in November to a six-year high, propelled
by the biggest jump in sales in a decade, adding to signs the
real-estate market is improving.  The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo index
of builder confidence increased to 46, the highest level since
May 2006, from 41 in October, figures from the Washington-based
group showed today. The  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
49 economists called for no change. Readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  Companies like  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  are benefiting as more
affordable properties and record-low  mortgage rates  bring buyers
into the market. Faster hiring, fewer foreclosures and easier
credit would ensure a sustained rebound in the industry that was
at the center of the 2008 financial crisis.  “Builders are reporting increasing demand for new homes as
inventories of foreclosed and distressed properties begin to
shrink in markets across the country,” Barry Rutenberg,
chairman of the National Association of Home Builders and a
builder from Gainesville,  Florida , said in a statement. “Many
potential buyers who were on the fence are now motivated to move
forward with a purchase in order to take advantage of today’s
favorable prices and interest rates.”  Existing Homes  Another report today from the Realtor group showed that
sales of previously owned U.S. homes climbed in October.
Purchases of existing houses, tabulated when a contract closes,
increased 2.1 percent to a 4.79 million annual rate. The median
price rose from a year earlier as inventories dropped to the
lowest level in almost a decade.  Stocks extended gains after the figures, with the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rising 1.5 percent to 1,380.72 at 10:20 a.m.
in  New York .  Estimates for the confidence index in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 37 to 44. The index, which was first published in
January 1985, averaged 54 in the five years leading to the
recession that began in December 2007. It reached a record low
of 8 in January 2009.  The builders group’s index of present  single-family  home
sales advanced to 49 this month, also the highest since May
2006, from 41 in the prior month. The eight-point jump was the
biggest since September 2002.  Buyer Traffic  The gauge of  buyer traffic  was unchanged at 35. A measure
of sales  expectations  for the next six months rose to 53, the
highest since February 2007, from 51.  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  Confidence improved among builders in three of the four
U.S. regions, led by the Midwest, where the gauge jumped to 51
from 40 in October. Builders in the South and West also reported
increases. Confidence in the Northeast fell to 31 from 32.  The survey was taken in the two weeks following superstorm
Sandy, which came ashore Oct. 29 in the Northeast, killing more
than 100 people, disrupting rail and subway service, and leaving
more than 8 million homes and businesses without power for days.  The report “therefore does reflect builder sentiment
during that period,” the group said in a statement.  Luxury Homes  Toll Brothers, the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based luxury
homebuilder, is among companies citing signs that the market has
turned and will probably keep improving.  “We’re in a strong phase of the recovery,”  Martin Connor ,
chief financial officer, said during a conference presentation
on Nov. 15. “It’s a function of five years of pent-up demand
being released,” and “ affordability and rising prices is also
spurring people to buy.”  Declining mortgage costs are making it cheaper to buy a
home. The average fixed rate on a 30-year loan dropped to a
record-low  3.34 percent  in the week ended Nov. 15, down from 4
percent a year ago, according to McLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac data going back to 1971.  A Commerce Department report tomorrow may show that housing
starts fell in October after reaching a four-year high the prior
month. Builder broke ground on 840,000 houses at an annual rate
last month, down from 872,000 in September, according to the
Bloomberg survey median.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 