-- London House Prices Rise as Property ‘Hot Spots’ Surge: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-19T11:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/london-house-prices-rise-as-property-hot-spots-surge-in-value.html
London  home sellers increased asking
prices for a third month in November as the city’s wealthiest
areas continued to lure overseas buyers,  Rightmove Plc (RMV)  said.  Prices in the U.K. capital increased 1.2 percent to an
average 483,709 pounds ($769,600), the operator of Britain’s
biggest  property website  said in a report today. Properties in
the city’s nine most expensive districts -- where average prices
exceed 600,000 pounds -- surged 3.4 percent. Nationally, values
fell 2.6 percent.  “The prime central London  property market  continues to
attract wealthy foreign buyers,” said  Miles Shipside ,
commercial director of Rightmove. “This is especially true in
the international property hot spots of the City of Westminster,
where a Mayfair or Belgravia address is a prerequisite for the
world’s wealthiest. The best of London is increasingly in
‘international only’ reach.”  London’s most expensive districts are attracting buyers
looking for safer investments, and luxury-home values are now 16
percent higher than their previous peak in March 2008, according
to property consultant firm Knight Frank LLP. International
buyers accounted for 41 percent of London houses bought for at
least 1 million pounds in September.  London continues to buck the trend nationally, according to
Rightmove’s data. The decline in  asking prices  in England and
 Wales  this month was the biggest in almost a year and left the
average at 236,761 pounds. From a year earlier, national prices
were up 2 percent versus an 8.8 percent gain in London.  ‘Two-Speed Market’  “There’s a two-speed market” and it “remains patchy,”
Shipside said. Still, he added that there are signs of
stability, noting a 20 percent year-on-year increase in search
activity on the Rightmove website and a 9.2 percent rise in
mortgage approvals over the last quarter.  This “may indicate a sounder springboard for 2013 as the
wait goes on for a sustainable recovery in transaction
numbers,” he said.  The property market may be supported next year by the Bank
of England’s Funding for Lending program, aimed at boosting
credit availability. Still, with jobless claims rising and signs
emerging that the economy may contract this quarter,  consumer
confidence  remains subdued. Governor  Mervyn King  offered a
downbeat assessment of the economy last week, saying the outlook
remains “challenging.”  “The housing market seems to be set to improve a touch in
2013 as the effects of the BOE’s Funding for Lending program
will start to filter into the economy,” Annalisa Piazza, an
analyst at Newedge Group in London, said in an e-mailed note.
“However, we rule out a sharp acceleration in activity and
prices as housing-market conditions are still very far from the
boom seen before the last deep recession.”  OECD Report  Elsewhere, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said  Southeast Asia  is emerging resilient from a
period of global turmoil, with rising investment and domestic
consumption that will propel growth in coming years.  Indonesia ’s growth will average 6.4 percent from 2013 to
2017, the OECD estimated in a report yesterday, equal to that
recorded in the two decades before the 1997 Asian financial
crisis. The  Philippines  will expand about 5.5 percent a year, up
from 5 percent in the decade through 2012. Malaysia and Thailand
will see gains of about 5.1 percent, the OECD said.  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown in advanced economies
have had a “limited” impact on Southeast Asian nations. with
most of the effect experienced through trade, the Paris-based
OECD said in the report.  Euro-area finance ministers will meet in Brussels tomorrow
aiming to stitch together  Greece ’s next aid payment as a
sputtering euro-area economy and a spat with the International
Monetary Fund cloud efforts to resolve the crisis.  In the U.S., the lowest  mortgage rates  on record probably
helped keep sales of previously owned homes close to a two-year
high in October.  Purchases of existing dwellings  probably held
at a 4.75 million annual rate, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey before today’s report from the National
Association of Realtors.  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Craig Stirling  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  