-- London Mayor Urges Oligarchs to Sue and Divorce in U.K.
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-19T16:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/london-mayor-urges-oligarchs-to-sue-and-divorce-in-u-k-.html
London  Mayor Boris Johnson urged
 Russia ’s oligarchs to sue each other in the city’s courts, in
contradiction of the government’s policy of discouraging “libel
tourism.”  “If one oligarch feels defamed by another oligarch, it is
London’s lawyers who apply the necessary balm to the ego,”
Johnson told the Confederation of British Industry’s annual
conference in London today. “I have no shame in saying to the
injured spouses of the world’s billionaires: if you want to take
him to the cleaners, take him to the cleaners in London, because
London cleaners will be grateful for your business.”  The  Defamation Bill , currently going through the upper
chamber of Parliament, requires the plaintiff to show that the
U.K. is clearly the most appropriate place to bring a case,
rather than simply the one where it will be easiest to win. The
then justice secretary, Ken Clarke, said in March of last year
the bill was designed, among other things, to stop U.S. citizens
from suing U.S. publications in London.  “We are trying to dissuade libel tourism on a point of
principle,” Prime Minister David Cameron’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told reporters today.  ‘Nannies, Aromatherapists’  Johnson argued that such cases, with the associated legal
fees, are welcome. The money, he said, would go “into the
pockets of chefs and waiters and doormen and janitors and
nannies and tutors and actors and aromatherapists -- and keep
the wheels of the economy turning, and put bread on the tables
of some of the poorest and hardest-working families in the
city.”  In his speech, Johnson also called for “more moral
leadership from the leading bankers of today” in return for
fewer attacks on them.  “It is not good enough for them to lick their wounds
behind the stuccoed walls of their Notting Hill schlosses,” the
mayor said. “We need the great financiers of today to make the
case for capitalism, not just by the wisdom of their
investments, but by their philanthropy. But they won’t give if
they feel persecuted and despised; and indeed there is a risk
that they will take their business away and we won’t succeed as
a society if we actively set out to sabotage a sector in which
we are strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  