-- Lonmin Wins Support for $817 Million Share Sale to Cut Debt
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-11-19T17:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/lonmin-wins-support-for-platinum-miner-s-817-million-share-sale.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-largest
platinum producer, won support from shareholders including
biggest investor  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  for a proposed $817 million stock
sale aimed at helping it avoid breaching pledges to creditors.  “We can now move forward, with confidence, continuing our
delivery of the Lonmin Renewal Plan,” Chairman Roger Phillimore
said in a statement today. Of the 78 percent of shares voted, 91
percent were in favor of the plan, the Johannesburg-based
company said.  Lonmin, which posted a $698 million loss for the year
through Sept. 30, has said the share sale is the best way to
help repair its finances and avoid breaching debt covenants
after a six-week strike in August and September cut production.
Xstrata said last week it will back the offer provided the
company makes board and management changes to stem “the
destruction of value.”  The shares gained 9.3 percent to 515 pence at the close in
London, the biggest advance since June 6 and paring Lonmin’s
decline this year to 47 percent.  Banks agreed to amend  loan  facilities on condition that the
share sale is completed, Lonmin said Nov. 13. Without the
amendments, Lonmin may breach banking covenants, it said. Net
debt climbed to about $550 million at the end of October and
will rise further in the next few months, the company said.  Reverse Takeover  Lonmin is offering nine shares for every five held at a
price of 140 pence. It rejected two proposals by Xstrata,
including a reverse takeover that would have seen Lonmin take on
Xstrata’s platinum and alloys assets.  Acting Chief Executive Officer Simon Scott on Nov. 9
announced a company renewal plan that includes cutting spending
and production targets to cap debt as costs rose. Workers ended
the unauthorized strike at Marikana on Sept. 20 after the
company committed to pay increases of between 11 percent and 22
percent. The plan includes a review of the management structure,
Lonmin said Nov. 9.  CEO Ian Farmer has been away from work since mid-August for
a treatment of a “serious” illness the company hasn’t
detailed.  Xstrata said on Nov. 9 Lonmin has “suffered longstanding
operational problems” and that it’s concerned the business
doesn’t have the management to ensure a sustainable future.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  