-- Moody’s Keeps Croatia’s Negative Outlook as EU Accession Nears
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-11-19T16:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/moody-s-keeps-croatia-s-negative-outlook-as-eu-accession-nears.html
The negative outlook on  Croatia ’s
Baa3 sovereign rating remains unchanged because benefits from
the country’s European Union entry in July will be limited,
Moody’s Investors Services said.  “In the absence of pro-growth reforms and improvements in
the country’s institutional capacity, the anticipated benefits
normally expected from EU accession are unlikely to fully
materialize,” Moody’s said in a Nov. 16 report. “As a result,
the negative outlook remains unchanged.”  The Adriatic Sea nation, which is set to become the bloc’s
28th member, stands to receive about 10 billion euros ($12.7
billion) in EU grants through 2020. The country is struggling to
revive its economy and boost investment after three years of
recession and stagnation.  Croatia’s   budget deficit  will widen next year to 3.1
percent of economic output as the government repays debt and
begins contributing to the EU’s coffers, Finance Minister Slavko Linic said today as he submitted the 2013 budget to Parliament.
The draft forecasts economic growth at 1.8 percent next year,
compared with an expected contraction of 1.1 percent in 2012.  Europe ’s financial crisis has “highlighted the
unsustainability of Croatia’s economic model” which has
“relied heavily on private consumption and construction fueled
by external credit,” Moody’s said in the report, adding that
“high expectations” that the 10-month-old  government  of
Premier Zoran Milanovic would implement changed have not
materialized yet.  Croatia is rated an equivalent BBB-, the lowest investment
grade, by  Standard & Poor’s .  Fitch Ratings  raised the country’s
outlook on Sept. 5 to stable from negative, citing the
government’s progress in meeting spending-cut demands and
reducing the budget deficit during a recession. It affirmed the
long-term foreign currency rating at BBB-, on par with EU
members Latvia and  Bulgaria .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  