-- Most E-Commerce Froth Since 2000 Stirs Up Investor Doubts: Tech
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/most-e-commerce-froth-since-2000-stirs-up-investor-doubts-tech.html
As e-commerce companies prepare for
the holiday season, their investors are in the market for some
discounts of their own.  Fab Inc., a marketplace for luxury wares that was founded
last year, raised money at a lower valuation than it had sought
after watching Facebook Inc.’s stock plummet. Flash-sale site
Gilt Groupe Inc. and subscription retailers  BeachMint Inc.  and
 ShoeDazzle.com Inc.  are bracing for an increasingly competitive
climate after funding rounds in the past 18 months.  After  pouring  more money into retail startups in the third
quarter than in any period since the dot-com bust in 2000,
venture capitalists concerned over the formation of an e-
commerce bubble are balking at deals they consider overpriced.
The valuations in recent funding rounds and executive exits
suggest investors are no longer willing to sink cash into online
stores that don’t have proven growth prospects.  “There were definitely some inflated valuations chasing e-
commerce,” said former  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  executive Dana Stalder, a
partner at Matrix Partners, which has backed fashion startups
Gilt Groupe and Just Fabulous Inc. “They’re complex businesses
to run. They generally are capital-intensive, have low margins,
and therefore the exit multiples are typically one to two times
revenue.”  E-Commerce Challenge  Inventory and shipping costs make new businesses hard to
build, and those that do attract shoppers can quickly fall prey
to clones. That makes it tough for new companies to vie with
stalwarts EBay and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in the $226 billion online-
retail market. The froth means that later-stage backers may be
poised for losses, like those who made costly bets on  Facebook
Inc. (FB) ,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  And it can hurt returns for
venture investors and jeopardize future fundraising.  Until last year, e-commerce businesses had spent a decade
struggling to attract capital, because venture backers were
having more success with Internet advertising, business software
and Web analytics. Those markets have more potential acquirers
and command higher multiples than e-commerce. Web companies
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ,  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  and Facebook all
trade for at least four times revenue.  Amazon paid no more than about two to three times sales
when it bought online shoe peddler Zappos.com Inc. in 2009, and
again when the retailer last year purchased Quidsi Inc. -- the
company behind Soap.com and Diapers.com.  More recent e-commerce startups are chasing shoppers with
flash sales, customized apparel and subscription services -- all
pushed to consumers on smartphones and via social-media sites.  Facebook, Twitter  They use  Facebook , Twitter Inc. and Pinterest Inc. to gain
fans, communicate with customers and promote products. Tablets
and smartphones make shopping more convenient, while advanced
analytics tools enable more targeted promotions.  E-commerce made up 4.9 percent of  U.S. retail sales  in the
third quarter, according to the Department of Commerce. Online
sales will surge 45 percent to $327 billion in the U.S. in 2016
from $226 billion last year, estimates Forrester Research Inc.  Expecting dollars to keep flowing to the Web, investors
turned bullish last year and stayed that way through September.
Venture investing in online retail doubled in the third quarter
from a year earlier to $242.1 million, according to the National
Venture Capital Association. That’s more than venture backers
committed in all of 2010.  ‘Disruptive Ideas’  “We’ve seen more disruptive ideas in e-commerce in the
last two to three years, and more innovation than in the 10
years before that,” said Josh Kopelman, a partner at First
Round Capital in Philadelphia, who previously founded Internet
retailer Half.com Inc. “Mobile and tablets are changing the
methodology of how people shop online.”  Kopelman’s firm was an early backer of Fab, jewelry
retailer Chloe & Isabel Inc., eyewear maker Warby Parker and
beauty-supply site Birchbox Inc., among other online businesses.  The recent Fab deal suggests investors may be pulling back.
Fab has surged in popularity by integrating with Facebook and
allowing users to see what their friends are buying. It now
boasts 9 million members in 26 countries.  In July, the New York-based retailer raised $105 million,
led by London-based  Atomico . Chief Executive Officer Jason Goldberg said he had planned to close the deal at a $700 million
valuation. In late June, a month after Facebook’s IPO, he sent
an e-mail to existing investors, including Andreessen Horowitz
and Menlo Ventures, informing them that he was lowering the
valuation to $600 million.  ‘Fair Valuation’  “I did not take the highest valuation offer and I also
made sure that our investors all thought they were investing at
a fair and appropriate valuation,” Goldberg said in an e-mail
to Bloomberg.  Fab is on track to post $150 million in sales this year,
Goldberg said. Some investors, who asked not to be named, said
they passed on the round because they thought it was too
expensive.  Andreessen Horowitz, which invested in Fab’s last two
rounds, is still betting on the industry. The Menlo Park,
California-based firm led an $85 million investment last week in
Zulily Inc., a daily-deal site for moms. Jeff Jordan, a partner
at the firm and former EBay executive, called it “one of the
fastest-growing businesses we’ve ever encountered.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor
in Andreessen Horowitz.  Warby Parker, also based in New York, raised $36.8 million
in September. That valued the company, which sells eyeglasses
online and at some retail locations, at about 10 times revenue,
according to a person familiar with the fundraising. Investors
were attracted by the company’s gross margin of 50 percent, the
person said, or twice Amazon’s  profitability .  Abigail O’Donnell, a spokeswoman for Warby Parker, declined
to comment on the valuation and margin.  Elusive Margins  High margins and valuations often aren’t sustainable, said
Alfred Lin, a partner at Sequoia Capital, who previously ran
operations and finance at Zappos. Since joining Sequoia in 2010,
he’s mostly steered clear of e-commerce, with one exception --
jewelry marketplace Stella & Dot LLC.  “We certainly have discussed e-commerce in partner
meetings,” Lin said. “We’ve gotten to the point where we were
doing due diligence and were interested in investing, but
valuations have taken over at levels that we think are not
sustainable.”  Lin led Sequoia’s $37 million investment in Stella & Dot
last year and joined the board. While Lin acknowledged risks to
the business, he said he’s a big fan of the founder and was
drawn to the company’s untraditional approach to e-commerce.
They sell some products at trunk shows or parties featuring
stylists.  High valuations deterred Menlo Park-based Sequoia from
other investments, Lin said.  ‘Not Bullish’  Half a mile down Menlo Park’s Sand Hill Road, Battery
Ventures faces the same conundrum. General Partner Brian O’Malley has led investments in men’s clothing maker J.Hilburn
Inc., subscription flower-delivery service  H.Bloom Inc.  and home
furnishings seller  Serena & Lily Inc.  He’s declining to invest
in most new deals, because prices have gotten too high.  “Some of these businesses are going after really large
markets,” he said. “I’m not bullish on all the companies and
I’m not bullish on all the prices people are paying to get into
these companies.”  E-commerce startups such as ShoeDazzle, BeachMint and Gilt
Groupe have had to reorganize after the emergence of copycats
forced them to spend more on marketing to reach customers and,
in some cases, to lower prices.  Executive Exits  ShoeDazzle, which sends purses and shoes to subscribers for
a monthly fee, replaced former CEO Bill Strauss with founder
Brian Lee in September. Strauss had stopped charging subscribers
fees in months they made no purchases, deflating sales.  The Santa Monica, California-based company has received
more than $60 million in  funding  from investors including
Andreessen Horowitz and Lightspeed Venture Partners. ShoeDazzle
representatives didn’t respond to requests for comment.  BeachMint, also based in Santa Monica, sends subscribers
shoes and jewelry. The company  named  a new chief operating
officer in July, one month after the departure of John Volturo,
the marketing chief. Greg Steiner, the new COO, said the company
is hiring “people with traditional merchandise and retail
backgrounds.”  Bad Bets  Last month, BeachMint hired a general merchandising manager
and is bringing on a few more employees in the same area,
Steiner said. The company raised $35 million in January from
investors including Accel Partners.  Gilt Groupe, the New York-based operator of a flash-sale
site, plans to sell its travel-deals service Jetsetter and
replace CEO Kevin Ryan by the end of the first quarter of 2013,
a person familiar with the plans said last week.  In May 2011, Gilt Groupe raised $138 million in a round led
by Softbank Corp. The valuation: $1 billion.  While the economy is ripe for some emerging companies to
succeed, bad bets at irrational valuations will hurt the whole
market, said Kirsten Green, a former retail equity analyst who
raised a $40 million fund at  Forerunner Ventures  in July to make
early bets in digital commerce.  Her investments include early rounds for Warby Parker,
Serena & Lily Inc. and Chloe & Isabel.  “I would much prefer that people keep their heads on
straight,” Green said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  