-- Hostess and Bakers Union Asked Accept Strike Mediation
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-11-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/hostess-judge-asks-for-mediation-sessions-over-strike.html
The judge overseeing Hostess Brands
Inc., while declining to approve the company’s liquidation,
asked management and the bakers’ union to enter mediation today
to resolve the strike that the maker of Twinkies and Wonder
bread said forced it to shut.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain said yesterday at a
hearing in  White Plains ,  New York , that there are “serious
questions as to the logic behind the decision to strike.”
Hostess and the bakers’ union agreed to Drain’s request to enter
confidential mediation under his supervision.  “To me, not to have gone through that step leaves a huge
question mark over this case which I think will only be answered
in litigation,” Drain said. “My desire to do this is prompted
primarily by the potential loss of over 18,000 jobs, as well as
my belief that there is a possibility to resolve this matter,
notwithstanding the losses the debtors have incurred over the
last week or so.”  Hostess hasn’t spoken with the Bakery, Confectionery,
Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union since
August, said Heather Lennox, a lawyer for the company. Hostess
is seeking permission from Drain to pay bonuses to key managers
while closing operations that will leave most of its 18,500
workers unemployed. Any agreement arising from the mediation
would probably come too late to save the company, Lennox said.  “Things have gone too far to repair themselves under the
current form,” Lennox, a partner at  Jones Day , told Drain. “It
would be very hard for us to recover from this damage even if
there were to be an agreement in the near term.”  ‘Best Shot’  “Our best shot is to see what we can sell as going
concerns and have the company continue that way,” she said. The
hearing to consider Hostess’s request to wind down was postponed
until Nov. 21.  Hostess said Nov. 16 that it would shut, claiming that a
weeklong strike by the bakers’ union forced liquidation. The
union blamed management’s concession demands, while some
employees blamed both sides. Strikers were still outside the
company’s facilities yesterday, Hostess’s lawyers said.  Corrina Christensen, a spokeswoman for the bakers’ union,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
mediation.  Teamsters  The International Brotherhood of Teamsters, whose members
distribute  Hostess products , had ratified a new contract with 8
percent in wage concessions and 17 percent in benefit
reductions.  “The Teamsters will closely monitor the mediation between
the BCTGM and Hostess management and assist in any way we can to
help the two sides reach an agreement that keeps the company’s
doors open,” Ken Hall, the Teamsters general secretary-
treasurer, said yesterday in a statement.  The judge may be creating risk for both sides that
encourages them to reach a deal, Ken Russak, a bankruptcy
attorney at Frandzel Robins Bloom & Csato in  Los Angeles , said
yesterday in an interview. “The bankruptcy judge would much
prefer to have the parties work something out than having to
make a decision in this highly charged environment,” Russak
said.  Drain said courts have established that the law doesn’t
prevent monetary claims against a union for a strike that’s
unlawful or improper. Discovery may bring out what was said to
Hostess’s competitors and prospective buyers, he said.  6,000 Jobs  “A decision in essence to accept the termination of 6,000
jobs and what appears to me the inevitable reduction of
recoveries at least raises issues as to why it was made,
particularly when there was no attempt made to contest the terms
that were imposed,” Drain said.  “I’m giving the union as well as the debtors and their
lenders a last chance to try and work those issues out in
private,” the judge said. “If they don’t take it, it’s not as
if they won’t be worked out. They will be worked out, but they
will be worked out in public and, I believe, ultimately in an
expensive way.”  Tom Becker, a spokesman for Hostess, didn’t immediately
respond to voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking comment on the
mediation.  The U.S. trustee, a Justice Department official responsible
for protecting creditors, yesterday asked Drain to take control
of the liquidation from the company. U.S. Trustee Tracy Hope Davis asked the judge to convert the case to a Chapter 7 from
Chapter 11 bankruptcy, based partly on the company’s intent to
pay bonuses, and appoint a trustee to supervise the wind-down.  ‘Cherry-Pick’ Claims  Hostess officials “have not demonstrated that the insider
bonuses are permissible,” Davis wrote in a court filing. They
also “improperly seek to exculpate and indemnify their
management from past and future liabilities” and want to
“cherry-pick which administrative claims get paid.”  In seeking court permission for its demise, Hostess said it
wants to pay as much as $1.75 million in incentive bonuses to 19
senior managers during the liquidation. Hostess is asking the
judge to approve its plan to shut 36 bakeries, 242 depots, 216
retail stores, and 311 hybrid depot-store facilities, according
to court filings. The company has 58 other leased or owned sites
used for storage, warehousing of products or parking.  ‘Intensive’ Planning  The process requires “intensive” planning, staffing and
funding, the company said. A fire-sale  liquidation  would damage
equipment and result in improper disposal of waste materials.  It’s “not a simple matter of turning off the lights and
shutting the doors,” Hostess said in court papers.  The baker estimated that shutting the plants will cost
$17.6 million in the next three months. The plants have about
$29 million worth of excess product ingredients, Hostess said.  About $6.9 million will be spent to close depots, while
$8.8 million will be used to idle retail stores and $8.1 million
will go to shutting corporate offices, according to a court
filing. Perishable baked goods at retail stores will be sold at
going-out-of-business sales, donated to charity or destroyed,
Hostess said.  Potential bidder C. Dean Metropoulos & Co., owner of Pabst
Brewing Co., said it may seek to buy Hostess’s “iconic
brands,” which include Dolly Madison, Drake’s, Merita and
Butternut.  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO) , maker of Nature’s Own bread and
Tastykake snacks, also may pursue some of its rival’s assets,
wrote William Chappell, an analyst with SunTrust Robinson
Humphrey, in a note to investors last week.  ‘Most Eligible’  Flowers is “one of the most eligible acquirers” of
Hostess assets and brands, Amit Sharma, an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets Corp. in New York, said in a separate note.
Keith Hancock, a spokesman for Thomasville, Georgia-based
Flowers, didn’t say whether it would bid.  While Hostess has seen interest in pieces of the business,
its labor contracts and pension obligations have deterred offers
for the whole company, Chief Executive Officer Gregory F.
Rayburn said last week.  “We will try to get what we can from the assets,” Rayburn
told Bloomberg Television. “It’s an over-capacity industry,
though, so that’s going to be a difficult prospect.”  Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas , said in court papers the
liquidation will take about a year and about 3,200 workers will
be retained to clean bakeries and mothball equipment. The
company has plants in 22 states, stretching from  Alaska  to  New
Jersey .  Ding Dongs, Ho Hos  The 82-year-old maker of Hostess CupCakes, Ding Dongs and
Ho Hos has endured years of declining sales as Americans turned
to rivals’ snacks and breads, while ingredient costs and labor
expenses climbed.  Hostess said it was pushed toward liquidation when the
bakers’ union went on strike Nov. 9 after Drain imposed contract
concessions opposed by 92 percent of the union’s members. The
union represents about 5,000 Hostess workers.  Hostess closed three plants permanently Nov. 12, blaming
the strike, and warned that the company would liquidate unless
enough employees returned to work to resume normal operations.  Bakers’ international union President Frank Hurt said Nov.
16 that the liquidation is a “deep disappointment for all of
our Hostess members.” If they hadn’t accepted concessions
earlier, “this company would have gone out of business long
ago. Our members decided they were not going to take any more
abuse.”  Hostess sought court protection in January, its second time
in bankruptcy, listing assets of $982 million and debt of $1.43
billion.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  