-- Mota-Engil Chairman Says Order Book Exceeds $3.8 Billion
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-11-19T16:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/mota-engil-chairman-mota-says-order-book-exceeds-3-8-billion.html
Mota-Engil SGPS SA (EGL)  Chairman Antonio Mota said he’s “optimistic” about 2012 earnings as Portugal’s
biggest construction company has orders exceeding 3 billion
euros ($3.8 billion), helped by expansion abroad.  Mota-Engil rose 4.6 percent to 1.355 euros at the close of
trading in Lisbon, the biggest jump since Sept. 3, giving the
company a market value of 277 million euros.  The level of orders is “in line” with the company’s
estimates, Mota said in an interview in Lisbon. The builder
forecast in March that its order book would remain above 3.5
billion euros this year compared with 3.8 billion euros in 2011.  Mota-Engil is among Portuguese builders shifting to
 emerging markets  in Africa and  Latin America  as Portugal cuts
spending to comply with the terms of a 78 billion-euro emergency
aid program. The Oporto-based company operates in about 20
countries. By 2015, more than 70 percent of revenue should come
from outside Portugal, according to Mota-Engil’s  strategic plan .  “Our growth in Latin America and Africa clearly makes up
for the decline in Portugal,” Mota said. “Latin America and
Africa are growing a lot, and central Europe is stable.”  Projects in Africa, which include construction of a railway
line in Malawi for mining company  Vale SA (VALE3) , are “all under
way,” Mota said. Revenue this year from Mota-Engil’s Peruvian
unit should almost double, he said.  Payment delays in  Angola  for work carried for the southern
African country’s government are being settled, he said, without
providing details as to how much is owed.  Mota-Engil is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings on
Nov. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  