-- Total Sells Nigeria Oil Field to Sinopec for $2.5 Billion
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-19T16:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/total-sells-nigeria-oil-field-to-sinopec-for-2-5-billion.html
China Petrochemical Corp. (1314) , seeking
to reverse a decline in oil reserves, will buy a 20 percent
stake in an offshore Nigerian field from French explorer  Total
SA (FP)  for about $2.5 billion.  The OML 138 block includes the Usan field, which started
output in February, Paris-based Total said yesterday. The deal,
which is expected to complete by the end of the year, will give
Sinopec Group, as the Beijing-based company is known, 36,000
barrels a day of oil production when the field reaches maximum
output, according to analysts at  RBC Capital Markets .  China’s state-backed energy companies are seeking new oil
and gas reserves abroad to feed the world’s second-largest
economy, especially from regions like Africa where government
scrutiny is lighter than in  North America  or  Europe . The deal is
the largest for Sinopec Group since its traded unit bought 30
percent of Petrogal Brasil for $4.8 billion last year.  Sinopec is paying up to secure the oil at Ulsan, analysts
said. The asset has a net present value of $2.1 billion,
suggesting an “attractive price” for Total, RBC said in a note
to clients yesterday. Beijing-based Sinopec is paying $21.93 a
barrel for each barrel of oil equivalent in the block, twice the
industry average over the last five years, analysts at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. said.  The asset accounts for about 10 percent of Total’s Nigerian
output, which averaged 287,000 barrels a day last year. The sale
to Sinopec, as the state-backed Chinese refiner is known, is
part of Total’s plans to complete $15 billion to $20 billion of
asset disposals from 2012 to 2014. Total didn’t say which
company will assume its role as operator.  Growth Opportunities  “The transaction is aligned with Total’s active portfolio
management,” Yves-Louis Darricarrere, head of exploration and
production, said in today’s statement. This “will allow us to
focus our resources on the material growth opportunities in
Total’s portfolio.”  China’s state-owned oil companies may end up with a 40
percent holding in the block because  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , which has 20
percent, is subject to a $17.4 takeover bid from  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  The
other partners are  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   The Usan field production, where the ramp-up was slower
than expected, may reach 140,000 barrels a day by the end of
2012, Chief Financial Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere said in
July. Total expects a peak rate of 180,000 barrels a day.  Sinopec Group has also approached the French  oil company 
 Etablissements Maurel et Prom , which operates in Gabon, about an
acquisition, people familiar with the matter said this month.
The company said in January that it will seek to produce 50
million metric tons of crude a year overseas by 2015. Last year,
foreign production was 23 million tons.  Nigerian Assets  Total’s sale of the Nigerian assets comes as the explorer
is under pressure to raise output after this year’s production
has been hurt by a natural-gas leak at the Elgin platform in the
 North Sea . The company has warned fourth quarter output could
also be affected by flooding and offshore maintenance in
Nigeria.  Total said in September it expects to increase output by an
average of 3 percent a year from 2011 to 2015. It has also set a
longer-term target of reaching about 3 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  