-- Palm Oil Gains as Crude Oil Advances, Increasing Biofuel Appeal
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-11-19T10:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/palm-oil-gains-as-crude-oil-advances-increasing-biofuel-appeal.html
Palm oil climbed to the highest
level in more than two weeks as crude oil rose on concern that
Middle East unrest will disrupt supplies, increasing the appeal
of vegetable oils as biofuel feedstock.  The contract for February delivery advanced 1.2 percent to
2,459 ringgit ($803) a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange, the highest price at close for the most-active
contract since Nov. 2. Futures climbed 3.5 percent last week,
the first such gain since the five days ended Oct. 26.  Oil advanced for a second day in New York after Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said yesterday that the army
is prepared to “significantly widen the operation,” raising
concern Middle East unrest will disrupt oil supplies.  Israel 
will continue to attack Gaza and may intensify operations,
Defense Minister Ehud Barak said.  “The rising tension in the Middle East is pushing up crude
oil prices and palm oil is having some spillover effects from
this,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte, said
by phone from  Singapore . “On the macro side, the sentiments
have recovered quite a bit as the discussion on the deadlock of
the fiscal cliff is going well.”  Asian stocks, commodities and the won advanced after U.S.
President  Barack Obama  expressed confidence that he and Congress
would reach a budget agreement needed to avert the so-called
fiscal cliff, a combination of spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled to take effect in January.  Indonesia , the biggest palm oil producer, may keep its
export tax on crude palm oil at 9 percent in December, while the
base-export price may be cut to $760 a ton, Susanto, head of
marketing at the Indonesian Palm Oil Association, said today.  Soybean oil for delivery in January gained 1.2 percent to
47.92 cents a pound on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybeans for
January delivery climbed 0.9 percent to $13.9525 a bushel.  Palm oil for May delivery rose 1.5 percent to end at 6,772
yuan ($1,086) a ton on the Dalian Commodity Exchange. Soybean
oil for the same month gained 1 percent to close at 8,450  yuan  a
ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  