-- Partner Drops on Concern Saban Deal in Question: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-19T12:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/partner-drops-on-concern-saban-deal-in-question-tel-aviv-mover.html
  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) ,
Israel’s second-largest mobile phone company, declined today on
concern a stake sale to Saban Capital Group Inc. may be in doubt
after  Scailex Corp. (SCIX)  said it may use shares as collateral.  Partner’s  shares  dropped as much as 3.5 percent and were
trading 2.3 percent lower to 22.28 shekels at the 1:37 p.m. in
Tel Aviv, headed for the lowest level since Nov. 6. Volume was
about one-third of the three-month daily average. Scailex, which
 holds 45 percent of Partner , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, was unchanged. The TA-25 benchmark index advanced 0.7
percent on speculation efforts to end a conflict between Israel
and the Islamist Hamas movement, which controls the Gaza Strip,
will succeed.  Scailex said today in a filing to the  Tel-Aviv  Stock
Exchange it is considering a private debt offering to
institutional investors of as much as 500 million shekels ($127
million) and would use shares of Partner and/or of  Tapuz People
Ltd. (TPUZ)  as a collateral. In October Scailex said it is in talks
with parties, including with Saban Capital Group Inc. to sell a
stake in Partner. Moshe Debby, a spokesman for Saban in Israel,
declined to comment by phone.  “The market is concerned that if the bond issuance takes
place with Partner’s shares as a collateral, it could torpedo a
potential sale of control in Partner to Saban,” Zach Herzog,
head of international sales at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in
Tel Aviv, said today by phone.  Worst Performers  Partner shares have been the second-worst performing on the
 TA-25 (TA-25)  index this year, after  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , the country’s
largest mobile-phone provider, as competition in the wireless
industry intensified.  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  and
Golan Telecom Ltd. entered the wireless market in May, leading
to greater price competition.  Partner is scheduled to report third-quarter results on
Nov. 21.  The mean estimate of three analysts is for sales of
1.43 billion shekels versus 1.8 billion shekels in the
comparable period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Scailex talks with Saban come after an agreement with a
group including  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  to buy the company failed
in August. Scailex said Hutchison cited a decline in  operations
of Partner  as a reason for pulling out of the acquisition deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  