-- Pay-Up-or-Shut-Up Fee Proposed for Federal Contracting Protests
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-11-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/pay-up-or-shut-up-fee-proposed-for-federal-contracting-protests.html
Companies that want to fight the
federal government over billions of dollars in contract awards
may have to pay up or shut up.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office, which arbitrates
contract disputes, is asking Congress to approve the agency’s
first-ever fee to file a bid protest, said Ralph White, GAO’s
managing associate general counsel for procurement law. The
proposed charge might come in the form of a $240 flat fee, which
would fund an online docket system designed to help the GAO cope
with a rising caseload, he said.  Protests over award decisions and other contracting issues
rose to 2,475 in the year that ended Sept. 30, the highest level
since 1995 and a 75 percent increase since fiscal 2007,
according to GAO statistics. The surge in recent years may
partly reflect more competition for a smaller pool of awards as
U.S. agencies begin cutting their budgets.  “We’ve got to find some way to improve and streamline how
we handle protests, and this idea is meant to be one possible
way,” White said in a phone interview.  The online docket would help ease the strain on GAO staff
who must now manually filter through about 16,000 protest-
related e-mail messages a year, White said. The current process
raises the risk of mistakes and delays, he said.  Online Docket  The agency is proposing either the flat fee of $240 for
each protest, or a lower initial charge with additional costs
for filing supplementary documents. Both arrangements would
raise about the same amount of money.  The proposed fee would cover the cost of hiring a
contractor to operate the system, estimated at $450,000 a year,
according to a GAO document obtained by Bloomberg. It’s
necessary to fund the online docket with a fee because Congress
may not be willing to approve taxpayer money for it, White said.  “If we don’t have people pay, then you’re just talking
about a new expenditure on the part of the federal government,”
White said. “And I’m not sure that’s an idea that will fly
right now.”  The GAO’s budget declined 4.6 percent to $542 million in
the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 from $568 million the prior
year. The number of employees at the agency, which also acts as
Congress’s investigative arm, was poised to drop below 3,000
this year to the lowest level in 75 years, the GAO said in a
 report .  Prolific Protesters  The proposed fee would apply to all contractors including
small businesses, White said.  “We are talking about companies that want to do business
with the government, and we presume that they are sufficiently
in business that they can afford a small filing fee,” White
said.  Small businesses were the most frequent protesters from
fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Among the top 10 government contractors,  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
protested the most during that period, the data show.  The fee would be in line with the amounts charged at other
legal venues, White said. For example, the U.S. Court of Federal
Claims, which also hears contract disputes, charges a $350
filing fee, according to the GAO.  Some members of Congress probably will support the fee as a
way to deter frivolous protests, while others may oppose it
because they’ll see it as a burden on small businesses, said Dan Gordon, associate dean of procurement law at George Washington
Law School and a former top contracting official in the Obama
administration.  Charging a protest fee probably wouldn’t greatly alter the
workload at GAO, he said.  “I would be astonished if there was a significant decline
in the number of protests because of that fee,” Gordon said in
a phone interview.  The proposed docketing system would increase transparency
in the bid protest process by allowing contractors and the
public to “instantaneously access all documents filed in a
particular protest through a readily accessible web-based
portal,” according to the GAO document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  