-- Peru Congress Unlikely to Name Central Bank Directors in 2012
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-11-19T21:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/peru-congress-unlikely-to-name-central-bank-directors-in-2012.html
Peruvian legislators will likely be
unable to reach agreement this year on filling vacant seats on
the central bank’s board, a congressman said.  The appointment of three directors may have to wait until
March, unless a standing committee of Congress votes on the
matter during the summer recess starting Dec. 17, said Fernando
Andrade, president of the congressional committee on economy,
banking and finance, in an interview in  Lima  today.  Talks to name the directors began more than a year ago. The
delay in reaching agreement is the “best example of the
dysfunctionality” of Congress where the ruling Gana Peru lacks
a working majority, said Francisco Rodriguez, an economist at
Bank of America, in an e-mailed report to clients today.  “The election of the central bank directors should be the
easiest but it’s tied together” with the appointments to the
Ombudsman’s office and Constitutional Court, Andrade said.
“This should have been resolved by now. It’s vital.”  A multi-party committee charged with coming up with a list
of candidates for the three institutions may request a 60-day
extension once a deadline expires tomorrow, said Andrade, who’s
a congressman for the Somos Peru party.  His party’s choice for central bank director is Francisco Gonzalez, a former agriculture minister and former chairman of
Norbank, which was merged into a bank taken over by Lima-based
 Banco Financiero (FINANCC1)  in 2001.  President Ollanta Humala replaced three bank directors on
the seven-member board in October 2011 and ratified Julio Velarde as bank president to serve a second term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  