-- Peru’s BanBif Seeks to Offer $400 Million of Bonds in 2013
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-11-19T16:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/peru-lender-banbif-seeks-to-sell-400-million-of-bonds-in-2013.html
Banco Interamericano de Finanzas SA ,
the Peruvian lender also known as BanBif, plans to sell as much
as $400 million in bonds next year to finance an expansion in
microfinance loans, Chief Executive Officer Juan Ignacio de la
Vega said.  “There’s enormous potential in  Peru  as 75 percent of the
2.5 million small and medium-size companies here don’t have
access to bank financing,” de la Vega said while attending the
Latin American Banking Federation’s general assembly in Lima
yesterday. “The bank’s bond program has always been
oversubscribed by three or four times the debt offering.”  Banks including Scotiabank, Banco Compartamos SA, Banco de
Credito and Mibanco have increased microfinance loans as
corporate lending slows. Banks are focusing on personal loans
amid a consumer boom in Peru that is fueling the fastest growth
in  South America ,  BBVA Banco Continental (CONTINC1)  SA’s Chief Executive
Officer Eduardo Torres-Llosa said in an Oct. 31 interview.  Peruvian bank loans in the first nine months of the year
rose 13 percent to 140 billion soles ($54 billion) from the same
period a year earlier, according to the Peruvian Banking
Association. Lending to microenterprise and small companies
accounted for 10 percent of total lending.  Microenterprise is expanding fastest in the retail and
agricultural-export industries, de la Vega said. The category
includes companies that employ 10 or fewer workers and accounts
for 42 percent of Peru’s $180 billion  gross domestic product  and
60 percent of the country’s workforce, he said.  IPO Possible  BanBif’s bad loans ratio is 1 percent of its portfolio,
compared with 1.75 percent for Peru’s banking industry,
according to de la Vega.  “Peru’s ratio has been rising gradually as the situation
is complicated in  Europe  and the U.S.,” he said. “But 1.75
percent is still pretty low compared with Europe.”  An initial public offering may be “an option in the
future,” de la Vega said. While BanBif was listed on the Lima
Stock Exchange in 2004, it doesn’t trade.  Carvajal Empaques SA, Petroperu SA, Pesquera Diamante SA
and Avicola San Fernando SA plan IPOs to tap growing demand for
assets from institutional investors such as Peru’s four private
pension funds, which manage a total $34 billion.  Peruvian corporate bond sales rose to a record $3.5 billion
this year, led by  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO)  and Volcan Cia. Minera
SAA, which sold $1.5 billion and $600 million in bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  