-- Pipeline Data Files for Bankruptcy Protection in Delaware
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-11-19T22:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/pipeline-data-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-in-delaware.html
Pipeline Data Inc. (PPDA) , a provider of
payment-processing services for merchants, filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in  Delaware  and plans to sell its assets.  The company listed  assets  of less than $10 million and debt
of more than $50 million in Chapter 11 documents filed today in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware. Ten affiliates
also sought court protection.  Pipeline Data, through its subsidiaries, provides payment-
processing services to small and midsize retailers that operate
in physical “brick-and-mortar” stores or over the Internet,
according to its  website . The Alpharetta, Georgia-based company
provides services to about 15,000 merchants, according to court
documents.  The company was hurt by merchant closures and a lack of new
clients to make up the difference and was unable to “acquire
merchant portfolios and sales channels on terms that would
improve its financial condition,” according to court filings.  “Pipeline has determined that a structured sale process
with defined milestones under the protections of Chapter 11
would be the quickest and most efficient way” to “maximize
proceeds to benefit creditors,” Brian Rosenthal, the company’s
financial adviser, said in court papers.  The company said it has found a potential buyer for its
assets. A phone call to Brent C. Strickland, a lawyer
representing Pipeline, seeking the identity of the proposed
purchaser and offer wasn’t immediately returned.  Pipeline owes lenders about $66.6 million including
principal of $42.1 million. Cynergy Data LLC is listed as the
company’s largest creditor without collateral backing its
claims, owed $1.6 million, according to court papers.  The case is In re Pipeline Data Inc., 12-13123,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  