-- U.K. Gilts Fall on Greek Debt, U.S. Fiscal-Cliff Deal Optimism
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-11-19T16:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/pound-rises-third-day-versus-dollar-as-london-house-prices-climb.html
U.K. 10-year government bonds fell,
snapping a two-day gain, amid optimism that European Union
finance ministers will come to an agreement on  Greece ’s debt,
damping demand for the relative safety of gilts.  Sterling weakened against all but two of its 16 major peers
before the  Bank of England  publishes minutes of its November
policy meeting in two days. The central bank voted to end its
program of asset purchases at 375 billion pounds ($597 billion)
at the Nov. 7-8 gathering. Gilts declined with Treasuries and
stocks gained as speculation U.S. lawmakers will forge a deal to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff boosted demand for higher-
yielding assets.  “Risk appetite generally improved and that’s why we see
some sell-off in safe assets today, including gilts,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a rates strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in
Edinburgh. “Our longer-term view is that inflation in the U.K.
will be sticky, and that poses risk for gilt investors.”  The yield on 10-year gilts climbed four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.77 percent at 4:48 p.m.  London  time.
The 1.75 percent bond due September 2022 dropped 0.39, or 3.90
pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 99.78. The two-year yield
rose two basis points to 0.27 percent.  European finance ministers meet in Brussels tomorrow for
the second time in a week after they agreed seven days ago to
keep Greece’s bailout aid flowing. The euro rose against the
dollar, the pound and the yen on speculation that the ministers
will agree to divest Greece’s next payment.  Obama Confident  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he was “confident” that
an agreement would be reached over the triggering of automatic
spending cuts and tax increases at year-end that may push the
economy into recession. House Speaker  John Boehner  said
opposition Republicans are willing to put revenue on the table
in exchange for spending cuts after Nov. 16 discussions with
Obama, which he called “constructive.”  Five-year gilt yields rose three basis points to 0.79
percent, after rising to 0.8 percent, the most since Nov. 5. The
Debt Management Office is scheduled to auction 4.5 billion
pounds of 1 percent securities due in 2017 tomorrow. The debt
office also plans to sell index-linked bonds maturing in 2044
through banks this week. Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank
AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and Nomura International Plc were hired to
lead the sale, the DMO said.  The sales are part of the 164.4 billion pounds the debt
office has planned to raise for the government in the 2012-2013
fiscal year, which started in April.  Safe-Haven Flows  Gilts returned 3.5 percent this year through Nov. 16,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
4 percent and  U.S. Treasuries  rose 2.8 percent.  The pound gained 0.2 percent to $1.5912 after dropping to
$1.5829 on Nov. 15, the lowest level since Sept. 5. Sterling
fell 0.4 percent to 80.51 pence per euro. It depreciated to
80.65 pence on Nov. 15, the weakest since Oct. 31.  The U.K. currency has gained 1.2 percent this year, the
fourth-best performer among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
declined 2.7 percent and the dollar dropped 1.4 percent.  “Sterling has picked up some safe-haven and property
inflows, which help to make it resilient,” said Jane Foley, a
senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in London.
“Our view is that the pound remains vulnerable because of weak
U.K. fundamentals, and we are a seller on a rally.”  London home prices increased 1.2 percent this month, while
they dropped 2.6 percent for the nation as a whole, according to
 Rightmove Plc (RMV) , the operator of Britain’s biggest  property
website .  Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said today there
is more the central bank can do to boost growth if the
recessionary conditions gripping the U.K. economy persist.
Governor  Mervyn King  gave a gloomy assessment of the economy
last week, saying gross domestic product may shrink in the
current quarter and the road to recovery will be “long and
winding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  