-- Qantas Ex-CFO Says He Held Investor Talks on New Strategy
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-11-19T08:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/qantas-former-cfo-gregg-says-he-disagrees-on-airline-s-strategy.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s former Chief
Financial Officer Peter Gregg said he disagrees with the
airline’s strategy and has been taking calls on its direction,
after a newspaper said he’s sought support for a rival plan.  “I’ve got a bunch of mates I invest money with. We’ve
looked, among other assets, at Qantas,” Gregg said in a phone
interview today, citing friendships with Geoff Dixon, former
chief executive officer at the carrier, and venture capitalist
Mark Carnegie. “We think it’s cheap and  undervalued .” The head
of Qantas’s international pilots’ union confirmed talks with a
member of the group, without saying whom.  The Australian Financial Review reported that Gregg, now
CFO for  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , and Carnegie spoke to investors
about a plan that includes the sale of Qantas’s frequent flier
program. The group would prefer a tie-up with an Asian airline
such as  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  to serve the regional
market, the newspaper said, citing people it didn’t identify.  Gregg, who served as Qantas’s finance chief for eight
years, announced his departure from Qantas in August 2008 less
than three weeks after Dixon said current Chief Executive
Officer Alan Joyce would replace him in the carrier’s top job.  Australia ’s largest airline has been dogged by takeover
speculation this year as the  stock  sank to a record low in June,
when Joyce said the Sydney-based company would post its first
loss since listing in 1995.  Balance Sheet  Qantas is seeking approval for a partnership with Emirates
and this month announced its first share buyback in more than
four years after receiving A$750 million ($778 million) from
cutting a  Boeing Co. (BA)  order for airplanes and selling its stake
in a road freight venture. Those developments diminished the
appeal of rival strategies to shareholders, said Sondal Bensan,
an analyst for  BT Investment Management Ltd. (BTT)  in Sydney.  “These three announcements are probably the most
significant three changes the company’s seen in a decade,
relative to the current  value  of the company,” he said. “The
 balance sheet ’s in a much better condition than it was six
months ago.”  BT is Qantas’s sixth-largest shareholder with a 5 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bensan said he
wasn’t aware of any approach to BT by the investor group.  Richard Woodward, vice president of the Australian and
International Pilots Association, said that he’d had a meeting
with one of the investors about the plan. He didn’t confirm the
person’s identity or the detail of the discussions, saying the
talks were private.  Different View  Qantas  rose  1.6 percent to A$1.275 at the close of trade in
Sydney, compared with a 0.6 percent rise in the S&P/ASX 200
index. The stock has fallen 13 percent this year while the index
has risen 7.5 percent.  Gregg said he wasn’t trying to destabilize the company.  “I spent 25 years of my career trying to build Qantas up
and when I left Qantas it was a very successful company,” said
Gregg. “I have a different view of strategic direction.”  Asked if he had held meetings with the airline’s unions
about its strategy he said: “I get calls all the time asking my
opinion about a variety of things, if you call that a meeting.”
A telephone message left at Carnegie’s venture capital firm  MH
Carnegie & Co.  wasn’t immediately returned.  “Management remains focused on building a stronger Qantas,
which it is doing through the proposed Emirates partnership”
and expanding its budget arm Jetstar in Asia, the airline said
in an e-mailed statement today responding to the report in the
Australian Financial Review.  Steve Purvinas, federal secretary of the Australian
Licenced Aircraft Engineers Association, Qantas’s union for
specialist mechanics, said he hadn’t been approached either and
would welcome the change.  “That management team says they’re going to be interested
in growing the business, rather than tearing it down piece by
piece,” he said by phone.  Carnegie and Gregg may have the support of shareholders
holding about 20 percent of Qantas shares, the Australian
Financial Review said. While they want the airline to list its
budget carrier, Jetstar, and return funds to shareholders, they
haven’t formed a firm proposal, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  