-- Treasury Yields Rise From Two-Month Low on Budget Views
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-19T22:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/treasuries-fall-as-obama-sees-fiscal-cliff-resolution.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
note yields up from a two-month low, as optimism increased that
the U.S. will avoid the automatic spending cuts and tax
increases scheduled to occur at year-end.  Treasuries  declined  as an industry report showed sales of
previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly increased last month.
President  Barack Obama  said yesterday he was confident the U.S.
will avoid the fiscal cliff. A measure of volatility in
 government bonds  dropped to the lowest level in more than five
years and trading volume dropped to below-average levels. Stocks
rallied the most in two months.  “The president is optimistic and the Republicans have not
given us any reason to believe he shouldn’t be,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in New York at Williams
Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional investors. “That’s
pushing yields up. It’s a short week and there’s relatively thin
trading, so it doesn’t take much for yields to go up or down.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  climbed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.61 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note maturing in November 2022 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 3/32. The yield dropped to 1.55 percent on
Nov. 16, the lowest since Sept. 5.  Range Set  “We’re trading in a very narrow range,” said  David Ader ,
head of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC
in Stamford,  Connecticut . “It’s Thanksgiving and people are
trying to get stuff done in a very illiquid market.”  The yield will trade in a range of 1.54 percent to 1.69
percent, Ader said.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommends a full market  close  Nov. 22 for the Thanksgiving Day
holiday and an early close at 2 p.m. New York time on Nov. 23.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures
price swings for Treasuries based on options, dropped to 54.7,
the lowest level since June 2007.  Treasuries have returned 0.9 percent in the month ended
Nov. 16, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
 MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks handed investors a 5.2
percent loss, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 10-year term premium, a model created by Federal
Reserve economists that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation rose to negative 0.92 percent today.
It reached minus 0.95 percent on Nov. 16, the lowest since Oct.
3. A negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  Trading Pace  Treasury trading volume dropped to $174 billion, compared
with the 2012 daily average of $241.9 billion, according to ICAP
Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt .  Treasuries completed a four-week gain on Nov. 16, driven by
demand for the relative safety of U.S. securities on speculation
the fiscal cliff will choke of economic growth. A Bloomberg
survey of banks and securities companies with the most recent
projections given the heaviest weightings projects the 10-year
note yield will be at 1.71 percent as of Dec. 31.  “I am confident we can get our fiscal situation dealt
with,” Obama said yesterday at a news conference in Bangkok,
where he started a three-nation Asian trip.  Before he departed the U.S., the President began on a round
of  deficit-reduction  talks with top Republicans and Democrats to
avoid the combination of $607 billion in automatic tax increases
and spending cuts that threatens to cause a recession.  Political Peace  “There’s a perception that politicians are playing nice
and will reach some type of agreement to avert the fiscal
cliff,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at
Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., one of 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed.  Purchases of existing houses, tabulated when a contract
closes, increased 2.1 percent last month to a 4.79 million
annual rate, exceeding the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median price rose from
a year ago as inventories dropped to the lowest level in almost
a decade.  Housing starts  slowed in October to an 840,000 pace from a
four-year high of 872,000 units in September, another survey
showed before tomorrow’s Commerce-Department figures.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.6 percent.  TIPS Sale  The U.S. will sell $13 billion in 10-year inflation-indexed
notes on Nov. 21. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or
TIPS, have returned 7.8 percent this year.  The Fed is swapping short-term Treasuries in its holdings
with those due in six to 30 years to spur the economy by putting
downward pressure on borrowing costs. The central bank sold
$7.22 billion of securities due from July 2015 to November 2015
today, according to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website .  Investors outside the U.S. are scooping up Treasuries.  Brazil,  Belgium ,  Luxembourg , Russia, Switzerland, Taiwan
and  Hong Kong  boosted their holdings of U.S. government
securities by a collective $264.8 billion since the last debt-
ceiling debate ended in August 2011, Treasury data released Nov.
16 show. The purchases more than made up for the  $123 billion
decline  in U.S. government debt owned by  China , America’s
biggest overseas creditor, to $1.156 trillion.  Treasury yields also rose as European finance officials met
in Paris today to forge a common position on Greece’s next aid
payment.  Finance officials from  France ,  Germany ,  Italy  and  Spain 
convened a day before a meeting of the 17 euro nations in
Brussels, according to a European Union aide. EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  also attended.
Lengthening maturities on Greek debt and lowering rates on the
country’s bailout loans are the main options being discussed to
plug a funding gap, said the official, who declined to be named
because the talks aren’t public.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  