-- Refco Lawyer, A&O, Mayer Brown, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-19T13:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/refco-lawyer-a-o-mayer-brown-skadden-business-of-law.html
Joseph Collins , Refco Inc.’s former
outside lawyer whose 2009 fraud conviction was reversed in
January, was found guilty Nov. 16 by a jury in federal court in
Manhattan.  Jurors convicted Collins, formerly with the Chicago law
firm Mayer Brown LLP, on seven counts after a retrial on charges
he helped Refco Chief Executive Officer Phillip Bennett and
other executives defraud investors of $2.4 billion. Collins was
granted a new trial by a U.S. appeals court, which ruled that
the trial judge improperly instructed a deliberating juror
outside the presence of Collins’s lawyers.  The U.S. accused Collins of helping Refco’s management hide
transactions that concealed losses incurred by the New York-
based firm. Collins was facing 10 criminal counts, including
conspiracy and bank, wire and  securities fraud .  In the first trial, Collins was convicted of five counts,
including two counts of  wire fraud , two counts of security fraud
and one count of conspiracy. Jurors were unable to reach a
verdict on nine other charges. Before his conviction was
reversed, Collins was sentenced to seven years in prison.  His sentencing is now set for March 20.  Jonathan Bach, vice chairman of Cooley LLP’s litigation
department and head of the firm’s New York litigation group, had
argued that Collins didn’t have any knowledge of the fraud and
had no motive to join in the scheme.  Once the biggest independent U.S. futures trader, Refco
collapsed in 2005 two months after raising $670 million in an
initial public offering. Refco Inc., as it was known after the
IPO, filed one of the biggest bankruptcies in U.S. history after
disclosing that it had transferred more than $1 billion in
losses to a firm owned by Bennett.  The case is U.S. v. Collins, 07-cr-1170, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Firm News  Allen & Overy Forms Association With Local Turkish Firm  Allen & Overy  LLP announced that it has formed an exclusive
association with Turkish law firm Gedik & Eraksoy, in order to
expand its local services in Turkey.  Turkish partners Hakki Gedik and Gokhan Eraksoy, previously
partners and joint heads of the banking and finance department
at Hakki Gedik and Gokhan Eraksoy, according to LegalWeek, have
formed Gedik & Eraksoy, along with eight associates, to form the
association with A&O.  The firm already has a Turkish office, headed by Charles
Lindsay, that provides English law advice to international and
local corporations, banks, financial institutions, bondholders
and government bodies on project finance,  capital markets ,
general lending and mergers and acquisitions work.  The new association allows A&O to provide domestic and
international clients with Turkish law advice.  “There is a real need for banking and capital markets
expertise in the Turkish market over the coming years and even
more so in light of the recent announcement by Fitch of an
investment grade rating for Turkey. In the energy and
infrastructure sector alone there is a demand for approximately
$50 billion of financing for projects,” Lindsay said in a
statement. “We are also seeing significant and increasing
interest from our clients globally in acquiring Turkish assets
both on the strategic and private equity side.”  Hakki and Gokhan will be based in Istanbul advising on
banking and finance, syndicated lending, bond financing,
leveraged finance, project finance, Islamic finance, financial
regulatory, securitizations, other structured finance, and
equity capital markets matters.  Allen & Overy has more than 500 partners in 42 offices in
29 countries worldwide.  K&L Gates Seoul Office to Open in January  K&L Gates LLP announced plans to open an office in Seoul in
January after the Korean Ministry of Justice granted final
approval of the firm’s application last week. The new office
will be the firm’s 42nd worldwide and seventh in Asia.  New York partner Eric Yoon will be the Seoul office’s chief
representative. He has practiced law for more than 20 years in
the areas of financial services regulation, mergers and
acquisitions, financing, and private equity investments, the
firm said.  “Korea’s economy is one of the largest both in Asia and
throughout the world. The country’s export-fueled growth of the
past decades has led to the more recent, and increasingly
robust, trend of foreign investments overseas by its companies
and financial institutions,” Peter J. Kalis, K&L Gates chairman
and global managing partner, said in a statement. “We believe
that our Seoul office will provide these outward-looking Korean
business enterprises, wherever their destinations may be, with
ready access to the resources of a single law firm that is both
global and local at the same time.”  The firm is also in talks with the Australian national law
firm Middletons, which would also bolster the firm’s presence in
the Asia-Pacific region.  K&L Gates has almost 2,000 lawyers in 40 offices in  North
America , Europe, Asia, South America and the Middle East.  Moves  Real Estate Lawyer Martin Wright Joins Mayer Brown  Mayer Brown LLP hired Martin Wright as a real estate
partner in London. He will become a leader of the firm’s global
real estate group when he joins in January. He was previously
with Ashurst, where he has been a partner for more than 15
years, the firm said.  Wright has advised domestic and international clients on
property investment and development. He acted on the purchase
this year of the Goldman Sachs London headquarters, as well as
advising Savills on taking a pre-let of GPE’s development at
Margaret Street. He also worked for Chelsfield, First Base and
Imagination Consortium in their winning bid to develop
Silvertown Quays, the firm said.  “Martin has a wealth of experience in property investment
and development, and we are delighted to have him join the
group,” Jeremy Clay, a co-leader of Mayer Brown’s global Real
Estate practice, said in a statement. “We already have a strong
presence in London and his appointment will significantly add to
that while enabling us to continue to develop our international
capabilities.”  Mayer Brown has 20 offices the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Thompson Hine Adds Corporate and Energy Partner Gregory Chafee  Thompson Hine LLP announced that Gregory D. Chafee has
joined the firm as a corporate and energy partner in the Atlanta
office. Chafee serves as vice chairman of the American Bar
Association energy and environmental markets and finance
committee and was the chairman of Morris, Manning & Martin LLP’s
sustainability practice before joining the firm.  “Greg’s addition strategically enhances our existing
energy practice. His two decades of experience as an energy
lawyer and corporate counsel enable him to understand our
clients’ needs and expectations,” said Frank D. Chaiken, leader
of the firm’s corporate transactions & securities practice.  Chafee was the first vice president, general counsel and
secretary of DS Waters of America and Danone Waters of North
America, representing market brands including Dannon, Evian and
Crystal Springs. He also spent more than a decade with Georgia-
Pacific Corp. as associate general counsel and energy counsel,
where he was responsible for legal matters for the commercial
and communications papers divisions of the global consumer
products manufacturer.  Thompson Hine has seven U.S. offices.  Litigation  Stanford Investors Claim Lawyers Enabled $7 Billion Fraud  Two of R.  Allen Stanford ’s former law firms were sued by
defrauded investors who claim the lawyers crafted corporate
structures that enabled the financier’s $7 billion  Ponzi scheme 
for more than 20 years.  The proposed class-action, or group, lawsuit filed in
federal court in Dallas by investors and Stanford’s court-
appointed receiver seeks the return of $10 million in legal fees
and more than $7 billion in damages from Greenberg Traurig LLP
and Hunton & Williams LLP.  These law firms employed Miami attorney Carlos Loumiet, who
served as Stanford’s outside general counsel, from 1988 through
2009. Yolanda Suarez, Stanford’s former chief of staff and
general counsel, also worked at Greenberg Traurig before joining
 Stanford Financial Group  Co. in 1992. Suarez, a former protegee
of Loumiet described in the complaint as Stanford’s “right-
hand,” is named as an individual defendant, while Loumiet
isn’t.  “Stanford could not have perpetrated this global mass
fraud on his own,”  Edward Snyder , a lawyer for the Official
Stanford Investors Committee, said in the complaint. “Loumiet’s
and Suarez’s fingerprints are all over the Stanford fraud scheme
from beginning to end.”  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of orchestrating a
scheme built on bogus certificates of deposit at Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. Evidence at his  jury trial 
showed the Texas financier bribed Antiguan bank regulators and
auditors and skirted U.S. securities laws and money-laundering
regulations to keep cash flowing to his offshore bank.  Prosecutors said Stanford took more than $2 billion in
depositor funds to finance a lavish personal lifestyle of jets,
yachts and cricket tournaments as well as an array of money-
losing private enterprises. He is serving a 110-year term in a
Florida federal prison while appealing his verdict and sentence.  “ Greenberg Traurig  sympathizes with the investors who lost
money as a result of Allen Stanford’s fraud, but the firm played
no part in causing those losses,” Jim Cowles, an attorney for
the firm, said in an e-mailed statement. “This is merely
plaintiff’s newest attempt to pry open a deep pocket.”  Cowles said the firm’s “principal legal work” for
Stanford occurred prior to 2001, “three years before the sale
of the CDs involved in this suit,” when Loumiet left to join
the other firm. “On limited matters in which Greenberg
Traurig’s attorneys were subsequently consulted, they properly
advised Stanford entities” and had no knowledge of Stanford’s
fraudulent conduct, Cowles said.  Hunton & Williams said it neither caused nor facilitated
Allen Stanford’s fraud.  “This lawsuit is factually and legally baseless and an
overreach by Stanford Financial Group’s understandably
frustrated investors attempting to recoup their unfortunate
losses,” the Richmond, Virginia-based firm said in an e-mailed
statement.  Matthew Rinaldi, Suarez’s attorney, didn’t respond to a
voice or e-mail message after regular business hours Nov. 15.  The case is Janvey v. Greenberg Traurig, 3:12-cv-4641,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Deals  Nike Agrees to Sell Cole Haan Brand to Apax for $570 Million  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is representing
 Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest athletic-shoe maker, in its
agreement to sell its Cole Haan fashion brand to private-equity
firm  Apax Partners  for $570 million as it focuses on faster-
growing businesses. Kirkland & Ellis is advising Apax Partners.  The Skadden’s Palo Alto partners included Kenton King,
corporate, and Joseph Yaffe, executive compensation and
benefits.  Kirkland New York corporate partners Eunu Chun and Ariel
Yehezkel and debt financing partners Jay Ptashek and Eric Wedel
advised on the deal.  The transaction is expected to be completed in early 2013,
Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike said Nov. 16 in a statement. Nike
said in May that it was seeking to sell Cole Haan and soccer
brand Umbro.  Nike Chief Executive Officer  Mark Parker  is focusing on the
business units with the most growth potential and profitability.
Iconix Brand Group Inc. agreed to buy Umbro in October for $225
million in cash.  “It frees Nike up to concentrate on the healthiest piece
of the business,”  Matt Powell , an analyst for SportsOneSource
in Scarborough, Maine. “Putting all of management’s attention
to driving athletic footwear worldwide is a good strategy.”  The company bought Cole Haan in 1988 for $95 million,
including debt. After a year of ownership, the division had
sales of $87 million.  For more, click here.  Penn National Jumps on Breakup Plan for First Casino REIT  Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN) , the operator of 29 casinos and
racetracks, surged the most since its market debut 18 years ago
after announcing plans to split into two public companies by
placing most properties into a new real estate investment trust.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is serving as legal counsel
to Penn National and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is
also advising for tax matters. Wells Fargo Securities and Bank
of America Merrill Lynch are serving as financial advisers to
Penn National.  The Skadden partners handling this matter from the REIT
practice are John Rayis, Fred Goldberg, Joseph Coco and Evan Levy.  The shares gained as much as 34 percent in New York Nov.
16, after the company said it will spin off at least 17
properties into the first casino-focused REIT.  MGM Resorts
International (MGM)  and  Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. (PNK)  rose Nov. 16 after
executives at Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-based Penn said it would
encourage other casino companies to sell properties to the REIT
and lease them back as operators.  Penn National will continue to run most of its casinos and
tracks, according to a  statement . Its investors will receive a
dividend of about $5.35 a share plus stock in the REIT. Other
casino companies will probably consider similar moves to free up
capital, said  Joseph Greff , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 