-- Republicans’ Leverage Against Tax Hikes for the Rich
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-11-19T23:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/republicans-leverage-against-tax-cuts-for-the-rich.html
Did you think the election was going
to end uncertainty over the future course of U.S. economic
policy? Dream on. There are at least three ways the standoff
over the “fiscal cliff” -- the automatic spending cuts and tax
increases set to start in January -- could play out.  The first scenario is a Republican surrender. The tax cuts
enacted under President George W. Bush expire at the end of the
year. Republicans want to extend all of them, while Democrats
say only the ones that directly benefit the middle class should
continue. Some liberals are hopeful that Republicans will
realize they have lost this fight and no longer have leverage:
After the start of the year, Democrats will propose re-enacting
the middle-class tax cuts and Republicans will agree. Maybe
they’ll even agree to it before the year’s end.  They will agree, on this theory, in order to avoid the
second scenario: Republicans insist on extending tax cuts for
everyone, the parties deadlock, and taxes stay high for
everyone. Many liberals think that Republicans would get the
blame for that result -- and that Republicans know it and will
therefore try to avoid it.  Republicans may, however, find this scenario more bearable
than Democrats think. They may decide that even if middle-class
taxes go up, they will be able to say that they tried to prevent
it, and it was only Democrats’ insistence on higher taxes for
the rich that got in the way. Republicans may figure that voters
will be inclined to blame the Democrats because the party that
controls the White House usually gets credit and blame for
everything, and because the Democrats are the party associated
with higher taxes.  Democrats’ Statements  Republicans will also be able to point to a long list of
news stories quoting Democrats to the effect that going over the
cliff, and raising taxes on the middle class, would be fine
because it would help them get their way.  Republicans may thus have some leverage after all. House
Speaker John Boehner certainly seems to think they do. He has
said he is willing to let the federal government raise more
revenue from rich people by scaling back tax breaks. He is
holding out for two conditions: He doesn’t want tax rates to go
up, and he wants to reduce the growth of spending on Social
Security and Medicare.  This package, he notes, would be “balanced” in the two
senses President  Barack Obama  has demanded. It would involve
both higher revenue and lower spending, and its burdens would
mainly fall on the rich. Most proposals for reining in Social
Security benefits, for example, concentrate on high earners.  If Republicans have leverage, and if Democrats want to
avoid middle-class tax increases and any possibility of getting
blamed for them, then there has to be a real deal. This is the
third scenario: the “grand bargain” of Beltway hopes. If it
happened, it would be Obama’s biggest bipartisan accomplishment.  The odds are still against it. The White House has already
rejected Boehner’s offer, saying that the top tax rates have to
go up and a new millionaire surtax be added. It wants twice the
revenue that just letting the top rates increase would yield.  Why is Obama demanding so much revenue? Perhaps he wants to
use the demand as a bargaining chip. Perhaps he is willing to
let negotiations fail and blame the Republicans for the
resulting middle-class tax increases. Or perhaps he thinks the
Republicans have been neutered by the election and will go along
with whatever he wants.  Entitlement Reforms  If that’s what he’s thinking, he will probably be
disappointed. Republicans seem unlikely to accept steep tax
increases on the rich -- increases they would have to vote for,
not just allow to take place -- unless they get entitlement
reforms to their liking. That wouldn’t mean just increased co-
pays in Medicare or higher eligibility ages, but something akin
to Paul Ryan’s premium-support plan. No way would Obama, who
just campaigned hard against that idea, agree to it. The left
wing of the Democratic Party has already been organizing to
prevent him from striking even a more limited deal that would
restrain growth in benefits.  Many liberals don’t want to make Medicare and Social
Security less generous even to affluent retirees. They fear that
making the programs more openly redistributive would undermine
public support for them. It’s a screwy idea -- why wouldn’t
higher taxes on wealthy people to pay for the programs have the
same effect? -- but it’s what they think.  The most likely path to a deal involves Obama’s dropping
the surtax idea and making some concessions on entitlements. The
best bet for what actually happens, though, is gridlock,
followed by competitive finger-pointing.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how California voting reforms
hint at wiser politics  and on  how to achieve a Hamas-Israel
cease-fire ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Hamas-Israel fighting ; William
Pesek on Christine Lagarde’s  giving short shrift to Asia ; Betsey
Stevenson and Justin Wolfers on the  forecasting prowess of
crowds ; Cass R. Sunstein on the  broken Senate confirmation
process ; Megan Greene on why  the euro is sunk  if German
intransigence continues.  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 