-- ResCap Wins Court Approval of Ocwen Servicing Unit Sale
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-11-19T22:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/rescap-wins-court-approval-of-ocwen-servicing-unit-sale.html
Residential Capital LLC won court
approval to sell its mortgage servicing unit to  Ocwen Financial
Corp. (OCN)  for $3 billion after putting off a fight with loan
investors and resolving other objections.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in Manhattan said he
will sign an order as early as tomorrow approving the sale after
the company works out the final wording with creditors.  “The sale of these very significant assets is important to
the successful outcome” of the bankruptcy, Glenn said today in
court.  The ruling comes after ResCap resolved the main objections
from the servicing unit’s biggest customers, including mortgage-
owners  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac. ResCap will continue
negotiating with Fannie Mae and other mortgage holders over
their demands for so-called cure payments, cash payments that
compensate creditors for actual and potential losses caused by a
bankruptcy filing.  Should ResCap and the mortgage owners fail to reach an
agreement on the size of the payments, they would return to
court in January, company attorney Gary Lee said today in court.  Ocwen financial won an Oct. 24 auction for the loan
servicing unit with a bid of $3 billion. The next day,  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  won an auction for a portfolio of ResCap’s loans
with a $1.5 billion offer. Glenn also approved the portfolio
sale.  New York-based ResCap filed bankruptcy in May to with plans
to sell its major assets and resolve legal claims related to
mortgage loans. The company is owned by  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , a
Detroit-based auto lender majority owned by U.S. taxpayers.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 