-- Romania Energy Regulator to Decide Next Year on Solar Cuts
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-11-19T09:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/romania-energy-regulator-to-decide-next-year-on-solar-cuts.html
     Nov. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Romania ’s energy regulator will
decide early next year whether to recommend a cut in solar
incentives as project costs fall.  The regulator,  known as ANRE , has so far proposed a
reduction in the number of green certificates granted for solar-
power production to five from six per megawatt, said Nicolae
Havrilet, who heads the organization.  “We need to analyze the 2012 report on investment costs
and we will see whether the number of green certificates needs
to be reduced or not,” Havrilet said at a conference in
Bucharest today. “Based on the current legislation, no change
in the incentives will be applied before January 2014.”  Romania may join Spain, France,  Italy  and the U.K. in
curbing incentives for the industry. The eastern European nation
currently offers green certificates for each megawatt-hour of
energy produced from wind, solar, hydro or biomass, as it seeks
to attract about 5 billion euros ($6.4 billion) in energy
investments through 2020 to reduce  carbon emissions .  Romania is counting mostly on its  wind energy  potential in
regions close to the  Black Sea , which has already attracted
investments from companies such as  CEZ AS. (CEZ)   At the moment, Romania hands out two green certificates for
each megawatt of wind energy produced and six certificates for a
megawatt of solar power. The value of a green certificate
varies from 27 euros to 55 euros, according to ANRE data.  Romania may have as much as 100 megawatts of power produced
from solar plants at the end of this year, said Zoltan Nagy-
Bege, a director at ANRE. The country’s solar capacity may
increase to 1,500 megawatts in 2016, he said.  Nagy-Bege said the investment cost of one megawatt of solar
power has dropped in half in the past two years to about 1.5
million euros.  EDP-Energias de Portugal SA  acquired a portfolio of solar
projects in Romania with total capacity of 60 megawatts, Ziarul
Financiar reported Sept. 26. EDP,  Portugal ’s biggest utility,
may spend about 120 million euros on the projects, the newspaper
said, citing its own calculation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  