-- Rongsheng Offshore-Equipment Unit May Generate 50% of Orders
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-11-20T12:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/rongsheng-sees-offshore-equipment-unit-generating-50-of-orders.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101)  said a new offshore-energy equipment unit
may generate 50 percent of its orders over the next five years
amid slumping demand for ships.  “There is a need to shift our focus to the offshore and
marine business,” Chief Financial Officer Sean Wang told
reporters in Hong Kong yesterday. “The shipping industry is
undergoing a tough time.”  The shipbuilder,  China ’s largest outside state control,
announced the formation of new offshore unit last month as it
seeks contracts for oil rigs and tender barges to offset slowing
ships orders. Guangzhou Shipyard International Co. also last
month set up a unit to target the offshore sector, while
Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. has formed an oil-rig
venture with Qatar Investment Corp.  “This is going to be difficult as everybody wants to jump
on the bandwagon,” Wang said. Making offshore products also
requires higher  capital investment  and the use of more advanced
technology than dry-bulk ships, he said.  Valemax Ships  Rongsheng is also working through a total of 16 orders for
Valemax vessels from Brazilian miner  Vale SA (VALE3)  and Oman Shipping
Co. The commodity ships, among the biggest afloat, are about
twice the size of the capesize vessels that have traditionally
hauled  iron ore  from  Brazil  to China.  The company has delivered five Valemax ships this year, in
addition to one handed over in 2011, said spokesman William Li
by phone. The remainder will be completed by the end of next
year, Wang said. Vale is yet to secure permission to regularly
use the ships at Chinese ports.  Rongsheng rose 1.4 percent to HK$1.48 in Hong Kong trading
today. The company has dropped 31 percent this year, compared
with a 15 percent gain for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The shipbuilder has hired Don Lee, a former executive at
rig-maker Sembcorp Marine Ltd. to run the Singapore-based
offshore equipment unit, it said last month. The company also
announced a contract to build a tender barge, which is used to
drill wells. The order was the company’s first in the offshore-
engineering sector, according to Barclays Plc.  The company’s first-half net income fell 82 percent to
215.8 million  yuan  ($35 million). It won orders for two ships in
the period, compared with 24 a year earlier. The shipbuilder has
also this year delivered a pipe-laying vessel to China National
Offshore Oil Corp.  Shipyards in China won 12.6 million deadweight tons of
orders in the first nine months of the year, compared with 23.9
million a year earlier, according to Clarkson Plc, the world’s
biggest shipbroker. Their backlogs have fallen to 116.4 million
tons at the end of September from 169.3 million tons at the end
of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  