-- Roubini Flummoxed as Lira Slide Clouds Rate Bets: Turkey Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-11-19T08:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/roubini-flummoxed-as-lira-slide-clouds-rate-bets-turkey-credit.html
Nouriel Roubini  is no clearer on
whether Turkey’s central bank will cut borrowing costs tomorrow
than economists or traders after a drop in the lira prompted
investors to pare bets for a reduction in  interest rates .  One-year  interest-rate swaps , which indicate investor
expectations on borrowing costs, have reversed their decline
since Nov. 14 after central bank Governor Erdem Basci signaled
he may lower rates to prevent a strengthening lira widening the
current-account deficit.  Two-year notes  snapped a seven-day
rally that cut yields to a record 6.27 percent Nov. 14, while
the lira fell versus the dollar for the first week in three.  Roubini, the  New York  University professor who predicted
the U.S. 2008 financial crisis, said Nov. 15 on BloombergHT
television in Turkey that it wasn’t “very clear” what the
central bank should do because growth and inflation objectives
were moving in different directions. Basci will keep the
benchmark rate -- the lowest end of his corridor for borrowing
costs -- at 5.75 percent even as he cuts the top end, according
to median forecasts in economist surveys by Bloomberg.  “With the verbal intervention, Basci wanted to illuminate
the expectation of further intervention if the lira became
overvalued,” Sengul Dagdeviren, an economist at ING Bank in
Istanbul, said in a telephone interview on Nov. 16. Now there’s
“no rush” for him to lower the rate. “Uncertainties are
high” as to what he will do, she said.  Lira Outlook  Currency forward rates indicate the lira will weaken to
1.81 to the dollar by Dec. 31 and 1.90 by the end of next year
from this year’s average of 1.80, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Toronto-Dominion forecasts the lira will depreciate
2.5 percent in the first quarter to 1.85 per dollar. Turkish
bonds may become less appealing to foreign investors should the
lira weaken, possibly pushing yields up.  Turkey ’s two-year yield
of 6.43 percent compares with 6.73 percent for Russia.  The central bank is monitoring its  index  of the lira’s real
exchange rate measured against the currencies of its main trade
partners, Basci told the state-run Anatolia news agency in a
televised interview on Nov. 12. “We may respond in the short
term,” if the action is warranted, he said.  “If the lira becomes overvalued, we will lose our
advantage with respect to the external balance,” Basci said. An
index level of 120 would suggest that is happening, and “we may
respond in the short term,” while if the measure passes 125
then “a stronger policy response” would be needed, he said.
The index stood at 119 at the time Basci spoke.  Rate Band  Basci created an interest-rate corridor last year that
allows him to adjust rates daily in a bid to deter capital
inflows that helped widen the current-account deficit to $77
billion in 2011, or 10 percent of the Turkish economy. He cut
rates to an all-time low of 5.75 percent in August 2011,
spurring a 12 percent drop by the lira to a record, and sending
yields on the benchmark bond 390 basis points higher for their
biggest increase in five years.  “There is no need for the central bank to cut the one-week
repo or the overnight borrowing rate,”  Piotr Matys , an analyst
at 4cast Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail Nov. 16, pointing to the
effect of Basci’s comment on the lira last week.  Fitch Ratings  upgraded Turkey to investment grade on Nov.
5, the country’s first such rating in almost two decades,
prompting predictions of an increased flow of international
investment to the country.  Matys said the lira will regain its momentum in the months
ahead, driven by the capital inflows fueled by the Fitch
upgrade.  Economic Growth  Turkey’s economy  grew at 2.9 percent in the second quarter,
the slowest pace since the 2009 recession. After a further
slowdown in the third quarter, it’s set to rebound in the
current period and in the first half of 2013, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Credit growth shouldn’t be allowed to exceed a 15 percent
annual pace, Basci said in the Anatolia interview Nov. 12. If
policy tightening is needed, it can be achieved through reserve-
requirement ratios, he said.  Increased inflows since January helped the lira and debt
recoup last year’s losses as foreign ownership of Turkish bonds
and stocks rose to a record $57.6 billion and $61.8 billion,
respectively, as of Nov. 2, according to data from the central
bank on Nov. 8.  Barclays Plc said Nov. 7 that Moody’s Investors Service may
also raise Turkey to investment grade in the first half of next
year, triggering as much as $2.5 billion in additional demand
for Turkey’s Eurobonds. Moody’s rates Turkey Ba1, its highest
junk ranking, while Fitch rates it BBB-, its lowest investment
grade.  Standard & Poor’s  ranks it BB, its second-highest junk
level.  Rate Outlook  Emerging-market stocks fell, driving the benchmark  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  to its biggest weekly drop since July, as
escalating Middle East tensions and concern over the  U.S.
economy  cut demand for riskier assets.  “I don’t think it’s verbal intervention,” that drove the
currency down, Ozan Gaziturk, an analyst at Sekerbank in
Istanbul, said by phone on Nov. 16. “If we compare similar
emerging-market currencies since the beginning of the week, they
were also depreciating against the dollar.”  He forecasts a policy-rate drop of 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to the lower end of the corridor, while saying
that will be balanced by required reserve increases.  Credit-default swaps rose one basis point on Nov. 16 to
155, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or cash should a borrower fail to pay its debt obligations.
Rising prices signal worsening investor perceptions of
creditworthiness.  Dollar Debt  The premium investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated debt over  U.S. Treasuries  widened three basis points
to 201, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.
That’s down from 385 at the end of last year and puts Turkey
below  Russia ’s 207.  The lira was little changed at 1.8003 per dollar at 9:35
a.m. in Istanbul today, holding this year’s gain at 5 percent.
The Russian ruble gained 0.3 percent. The yield on benchmark
two-year securities was unchanged at 6.43 percent.  Turkey’s current-account deficit narrowed for an 11th month
in September as a slowing economy curbed imports, while exports
driven by sales of gold accelerated.  The deficit shrank to $2.7 billion from $6.4 billion the
same month a year before, the central bank in Ankara said on its
website Nov. 15. It was forecast at $3 billion, according to the
 median estimate  of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The central bank will have to use all tools at its
disposal to prevent substantial lira appreciation next year,”
4Cast’s Matys said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  