-- Rupiah Drops as Concerns About Europe Crisis Deter Risk-Taking
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-11-19T08:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/rupiah-drops-as-concerns-about-europe-crisis-deter-risk-taking.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah fell for a third
day as concerns Europe will be unable to prevent its debt crisis
from worsening damped demand for riskier assets.  Finance ministers from Europe will meet in Brussels
tomorrow to discuss the next aid payout to  Greece  amid a
disagreement between the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  over softening the nation’s debt target, casting
doubt over whether the IMF would keep providing finance. Foreign
funds sold $315 million more Indonesian stocks than they bought
this month, according to exchange data.  “People are looking at what Europe will announce on
Greece’s bailout tranche and, more crucially, whether the IMF
and Europe will see eye-to-eye on the haircut issue,” said
 Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based economist at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. “These issues are clouding the picture.”  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,639 per dollar from Nov.
14 as of 3:04 p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg show. Indonesia’s financial markets were shut Nov.
15 and Nov. 16 for public holidays. One-month implied
volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to price
options, was unchanged at 4.70 percent.  Indonesia’s growth will outperform its neighbors, with a
6.4 percent annual rate of expansion from 2013 to 2017, equal to
that recorded in the two decades before the 1997 Asian financial
crisis, Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said in a report released in Phnom Penh yesterday.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds maturing in
May 2022 rose one basis point to 5.41 percent from Nov. 14,
according to prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  