-- Russian Investment Probably Fell for a Second Month in October
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-11-19T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/russian-investment-probably-fell-for-a-second-month-in-october.html
Russian  investment  probably fell for
a second month as concern that the economy will deteriorate and
rising borrowing costs prompted companies to cut spending.  Fixed-capital investment probably declined 1 percent in
October compared with a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg after
unexpectedly dropping 1.3 percent the previous month, the first
decrease since March 2011. Unemployment rose for the first time
since January, a separate survey showed. The Moscow-based
Federal Statistics Service will publish the data this week.  Russian companies such as steelmaker OAO Severstal are
revising spending programs as the sovereign debt crisis in
 Europe , which accounts for 48 percent of  Russia ’s foreign trade,
and a slowdown of  China’s economy  cloud the outlook for the
world’s largest energy exporter. A surprise September rate
increase by the Bank Rossii is choking investment, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said last month.  “Many mining companies don’t expect a big surge in demand
and that’s why major exporters are very cautious about the
expansion of their investment activity,” Vladimir Tikhomirov,
chief economist at Otkritie Financial Corp., said by phone
yesterday. “Slight growth may continue for three to six month,
and then it will depend on what happens with global economy.”  The ruble is the fifth-worst performer among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg over the last
month, losing 2 percent against the dollar. The cost of
protecting Russian debt against non-payment for five years using
credit-default swaps lost two points to 154, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Severstal, Novolipetsk  The end of government-funded projects such as preparations
for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit also
contributed to the decline, Tikhomirov said.  Severstal expects its 2012 capital expenditure to be about
$1.5 billion, compared with a planned $1.6 billion, Chief
Financial Officer Alexey Kulichenko said on Nov. 15. Rival OAO
Novolipetsk Steel predicted this year’s investments would drop
20 percent from the 2011 level as it completed planned projects.  President  Vladimir Putin , who returned to the Kremlin for a
third term in May, ordered the government to boost investment to
25 percent of economic output by 2015 and 27 percent by 2018,
from 21 percent last year.  Russia’s economy grew 2.9 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since it started recovering from a
recession in the first quarter of 2010. Economic risks don’t yet
require the central bank to take action, Bank Rossii First
Deputy Chairman Alexey Ulyukaev said Nov. 13.  Interest Rates  Bank Rossii refrained from raising interest rates for two
months after a surprise increase in September to hold back
inflation that exceeded the central bank target of 6 percent. In
October, inflation unexpectedly slowed to 6.5 percent from 6.6
percent previous month  “The business perception of the current situation, capital
outflow, increased borrowing costs and the  interest rate  play a
negative role and hamper investment,” Vladimir Pantyushin, an
economist at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investment-banking unit in Moscow,
said by phone yesterday.  Industrial-output growth unexpectedly eased for a third
month in October, with utilities production declined and
manufacturing grew the weakest since March.  “The situation in industry remains difficult,” Dmitry Polevoy, a Moscow-based economist at  ING Bank (BSK)  for Russia and
 Kazakhstan , said by telephone yesterday. “Decelerating
manufacturing indicates slowing consumer demand.”  Retail sales probably increased 4.5 percent last month from
a year earlier, according to the median forecast of 16
economists, surveyed by Bloomberg. Household spending accounts
for half of Russia’s gross domestic product and consumption has
been slowing since June.  October real wages rose 6.1 percent from the same month of
2011, according to the median estimate of 12 economists. The
 unemployment rate  increased to 5.3 percent from 5.2 percent in
September, a survey of 13 economists showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  