-- Russell Crowe Wants to Sell His Stake in South Sydney NRL Team
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-19T03:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/russell-crowe-wants-to-sell-his-stake-in-south-sydney-nrl-team.html
Oscar-winning actor  Russell Crowe 
wants to sell his 37.5 percent stake in the South Sydney
National Rugby League team he helped to become a competitive
force again.  Crowe, 48, will seek to sell his share in the 104-year-old
team at the end of the 2013 season because of family and work-
related reasons, South Sydney said today in a statement.  “There’s a personal equation here,” South Sydney Chief
Executive Officer Nicholas Pappas said at a televised news
conference. “He has a young family. His commitments with work
has been excessive over the last 18 months. It’s a personal
decision from him. I think that we’ve got to respect that.”  Crowe and business associate Peter Holmes a Court took a 75
percent stake in the team through their Blackcourt League
Investments Pty Ltd. company in 2006 and have invested about
A$11 million, according to the Sydney Morning Herald. The
remaining 25 percent is owned by South Sydney club members.  Any new major shareholder would need to be ratified by club
members before any sale could be agreed, Pappas said. Holmes a
Court is yet to indicate whether he will keep a stake, he added.  The  Rabbitohs , as South Sydney are known, said they expect
to post a seven-figure profit in 2013. The winner of a record 20
premiership titles, the team got to within one victory of their
first grand final appearance since 1971 in the 2012 season.  “There really is no better time from the club’s point of
view for Russell to make his decision to step away from an
official capacity,” Pappas said in the  statement . “Of course,
there is a process that our investors need to follow should they
decide to dispose of their interest, and we look forward to that
process unfolding at the end of the 2013 season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  