-- Samsung Seeks IPhone Ban as Apple Settlement Resisted
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-11-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/samsung-seeks-iphone-ban-as-apple-settlement-resisted.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , told by a
federal jury to pay  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  more than $1 billion for copying
the iPhone and iPad, wants another U.S. body to give it leverage
to fight back.  The Korean company has asked the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington to reverse a finding by one of its
judges that Apple’s devices don’t infringe four Samsung patents.
The agency, which can block imports of products found to
infringe patents, is scheduled to announce today whether it will
review that Sept. 14 decision.  Samsung needs a victory to counteract a series of Apple
wins in U.S. courts, as the world’s two largest smartphone
makers fight for increased shares of a $219 billion market.  “For Samsung, it’s most important to not lose,” said Alex
Spektor, an analyst with  Strategy Analytics  in  Boston ,
 Massachusetts . “I don’t think they need to cripple their
competitors as much as they need to make sure every product they
sell into the U.S. continues selling because those products have
proven very popular.”  The ITC’s power to block products from the U.S. market
gives the commission’s ruling more potential economic impact
than even the $1 billion jury award Apple won in  San Jose ,
 California , in August. Apple’s newest iPhone could contribute as
much as one-half a percentage point to U.S. economic growth this
quarter, according to an analysis by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
released just before the smartphone’s debut in September.  Whole Economy  “Getting a judgment at the ITC means a lot,” said Victor Siber, who was former chief intellectual property counsel for
International Business Machines Corp., and is now at Baker
Hostetler in  New York . “We’re not talking about small numbers.
It impacts the whole economy, so they should get it as right as
they can.”  Samsung is the world’s largest smartphone maker while Apple
dominates in the U.S. In the third quarter, Samsung had a record
28 percent of the U.S. market to Apple’s 34 percent, Spektor
said.  Apple has claimed phones running on Google Inc.’s Android
operating system, including Samsung’s, copy the look and unique
features that have contributed to the iPhone’s popularity since
it was first sold in 2007.  Apple settled with Android-handset maker  HTC Corp. (2498)  this
month, striking a 10-year licensing agreement. Apple said Nov.
15 it is negotiating an agreement with Google’s Motorola
Mobility unit for binding arbitration of their disputes over how
to license patents relating to technical standards all device
makers must follow.  No Negotiations  A HTC-like resolution of the Apple-Samsung fight doesn’t
appear to be coming anytime soon. Shin Jong Kyun, the head of
Samsung’s mobile unit, was quoted in Korean media last week as
saying the company wasn’t going to negotiate with Apple.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung contends Apple infringes
four patents, including two that relate to how phones transmit
data. ITC Judge James Gildea said Apple didn’t infringe any of
the patents, and that one, for a way to detect movement on a
touch-screen, was invalid. The fourth patent in the case is for
a way to detect phone numbers in e-mails so they can be dialed
or stored in the phone’s contact list.  The case targeted all models of the iPhone 4S, the iPhone
4, the iPhone 3GS, the iPad 2, the iPad, and the iPod Touch.
Gildea recommended that the ITC issue an import ban of the
products if it finds Samsung’s patent rights were violated.  In addition to winning the preliminary round in Samsung’s
complaint, Apple, based in Cupertino, California, has been
successful so far in its own ITC case against Samsung.  Apple Complaint  Trade Judge Thomas Pender said Oct. 24 that Samsung
infringed four Apple patents, including one for the design of
the iPhone and one for touch-screen technology co-invented by
 Steve Jobs , Apple’s late co-founder. The commission is scheduled
to announce the next steps in that case on Jan. 9.  Apple’s legal success against Samsung in the U.S. hasn’t
been replicated in other nations. In the U.K., Apple was ordered
to post a public apology on its website for accusing Samsung of
copying a tablet computer design. Samsung also has won non-
infringement rulings in The Hague and Tokyo courts.  Samsung has about 140,000 patents worldwide on things like
light-emitting diodes, computer-memory chips and televisions.
It’s been in the mobile-phone market since the 1980s, and is
counting on that history to get an upper hand in its global
fight with Apple. It filed its ITC complaint in June 2011.  The iPhone generated $80.5 billion in  sales  for the fiscal
year ended Sept. 29, or 51 percent of Apple’s revenue, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its iPad brought in $32 billion,
and the iPod generated $5.6 billion.  Samsung’s case against Apple is In the Matter of Electronic
Devices, Including Wireless Communication Devices, 337-794, and
Apple’s case against Samsung is In the Matter of Electronic
Digital Media Devices, 337-796, both U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  