-- Samsung Gets Review of Loss to Apple in U.S. Patent Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-11-20T17:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/samsung-gets-review-of-loss-to-apple-in-u-s-patent-case.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
biggest maker of smartphones, will get another chance to
convince a U.S. trade agency that  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad
infringe its patents.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said yesterday it
will review “in its entirety” a trade judge’s Sept. 14
findings that cleared Apple of claims the company violated four
Samsung patents. The commission, which has the power to block
imports of products that infringe U.S. patents, is scheduled to
make a final decision on Jan. 14.  The case is part of a global dispute between the two
biggest makers of mobile devices as they fight for increased
share of a $219 billion smartphone market. Samsung needs a
victory to help drag out litigation while it designs around the
Apple patents, said Erin-Michael Gill, managing director of MDB
Capital Group LLC, a  Santa Monica , California-based investment
bank that specializes in patent issues.  “An exclusion order would be lose-lose for them,” Gill
said. “Samsung suppliers are being pushed to ensure their
innovations are beyond what Apple has patented.”  Samsung is a major  supplier  of iPhone components, so it
wouldn’t benefit from an import ban, he said. At the same time,
Gill said, Samsung wants to avoid having to pay high royalties,
such as those  HTC Corp. (2498)  has reportedly agreed to pay under a 10-
year licensing agreement with Apple.  “We remain confident that the commission will reach a
final determination that affirms our position that Apple must be
held accountable for free-riding on our technological
innovations,” said  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Samsung.  Copycat Allegations  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, said the Cupertino,
California-based company had no comment.  Apple, which dominates the U.S. market, has its own case
against Samsung at the trade agency that’s being considered by
the commission. It also won a $1 billion jury verdict against
Samsung in August in  San Jose ,  California . While the companies
have each racked up victories and losses elsewhere, Apple has
been mostly successful in the U.S.  Samsung, with 140,000 patents worldwide on items including
light-emitting diodes and televisions, filed its trade complaint
in June 2011 as a counterstrike against Apple’s accusations that
its rivals are copying its technology.  Apple’s lawyers argue that their company revolutionized the
smartphone industry when it introduced the iPhone in 2007, only
to see Samsung and other companies offer handsets that imitate
the iPhone’s look and unique features. Apple is targeting
devices running on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Patent Claims  Samsung has been selling mobile phones since the 1980s.
During the third quarter, the Suwon, South Korea-based company
had 28 percent of the U.S. market to Apple’s 34 percent, said
Alex Spektor, an analyst with  Strategy Analytics  in  Boston .  In addition to the settlement with Android-handset maker
HTC reached this month, Apple said Nov. 15 it is negotiating an
agreement with Google’s Motorola Mobility unit for binding
arbitration of their disputes over how to license patents
relating to technical standards all device makers must follow.  A HTC-like resolution of the Apple-Samsung fight doesn’t
appear to be coming anytime soon. Shin Jong Kyun, the head of
Samsung’s mobile unit, was quoted in Korean media last week as
saying the company wasn’t going to negotiate with Apple.  U.S. Trade Judge James Gildea sided with Apple in the
September ruling now facing review by the commission.  Notice  of
the agency’s move was posted on its website yesterday.  Samsung Claims  Samsung contends Apple infringes four patents, including
two that relate to how phones transmit data. Gildea said Apple
didn’t infringe any of the patents, and that one, for a way to
detect movement on a touch-screen, was invalid. The fourth
patent in the case is for a way to detect phone numbers in e-
mails so they can be dialed or stored in the phone’s contact
list.  Apple can again argue that Samsung shouldn’t be allowed to
seek an import ban on the data-transmission patents because they
relate to industry standards, and Samsung has agreed to license
those patents on fair and reasonable terms.  The case targeted all models of the iPhone 4S, the iPhone
4, the iPhone 3GS, the iPad 2, the iPad, and the iPod Touch.
Gildea recommended that the ITC issue an import ban of the
products if it finds Samsung’s patent rights were violated.  In addition to winning the preliminary round in Samsung’s
complaint, Apple has been successful so far in its own ITC case
against Samsung.  Trade Judge Thomas Pender said Oct. 24 that Samsung
infringed four Apple patents, including one for the design of
the iPhone and one for touch-screen technology co-invented by
 Steve Jobs , Apple’s late co-founder.  Next Steps  Pender said that Samsung products that were designed around
Apple patents weren’t in violation. The commission is scheduled
to announce the next steps in that case on Jan. 9.  The iPhone generated $80.5 billion in  sales  for the fiscal
year ended Sept. 29, or 51 percent of Apple’s revenue, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its iPad brought in $32 billion,
and the iPod generated $5.6 billion.  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Director David Kappos said
today a patent dispute over breakthrough technologies is “not
only understandable, it is appropriate.”  “In the end, as history has shown time and time again, the
players ultimately end up agreeing to pro-consumer solutions,”
Kappos said at the Center for American Progress in  Washington .  Samsung’s case against Apple is In the Matter of Electronic
Devices, Including Wireless Communication Devices, 337-794, and
Apple’s case against Samsung is In the Matter of Electronic
Digital Media Devices, 337-796, both U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  