-- Saudi Shares Drop Most in 5 Weeks on King’s Health Speculation
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-11-19T13:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/saudi-shares-head-to-4-month-low-amid-king-s-health-speculation.html
Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index
dropped the most in more than a month amid speculation about the
king’s health after he underwent a back surgery, which the
government said was successful.  Al Rajhi Bank, the country’s biggest publicly traded
lender, retreated to the lowest level since Oct. 14.  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest petrochemicals maker by
market value, dropped the most in almost two months.  The
benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  slumped 1.5 percent, the most
since Oct. 13, to 6,666.46 at the close in  Riyadh . The measure
earlier lost as much as 2 percent.  “Currently the rumor mill is recycling old stories about
the king’s health,”  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based head of
institutional trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said by e-mail.
“All completely unsubstantiated, but it seems to have been
enough to cause sellers to engage.”  King Abdullah’s operation to “tighten a laxity at the
conjoining cord in the upper back” was successful, state-run
Saudi Press Agency reported Nov. 18, citing a statement from the
royal court. Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, has
been left mostly unscathed by the so-called Arab Spring
uprisings. The king allocated $130 billion in social spending in
February and March last year amid uprisings that toppled leaders
in Tunisia, Yemen,  Egypt  and Libya.  Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud was born in Riyadh in 1924,
the 13th son of Abdul Aziz,  according to the website  of the
Saudi Embassy in Washington. His exact date of birth, at a time
when Saudis often didn’t have birth certificates, hasn’t been
officially disclosed. Saudi authorities usually don’t comment on
speculation about the royal family.  Al Rajhi (RJHI)  dropped 1.4 percent to 68.25 riyals. Saudi Basic
Industries, also known as Sabic, retreated 1.4 percent, the most
since Sept. 24, to 88.75 riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  