-- Sawiris’s Weather Lodges $5 Billion Claim Against Algeria
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-11-19T15:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/sawiris-weather-registers-5-billion-claim-against-algeria.html
Weather Investments II, the
 investment company  headed by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , said it filed a $5 billion claim against Algeria for
allegedly damaging its investment in Djezzy, the country’s
largest mobile operator.  “The Algerian government committed to a number of
protections, including a promise to refrain from arbitrary
interference in our operations, but has since 2008 pursued a
campaign of interference and harassment which has cost Weather
Investments over $5 billion in damages,” Sawiris said in a
statement from Luxembourg, where the company is based.  Algeria’s government is in talks to buy the 51 percent
stake in Djezzy held by Russian telecommunications company
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , which became the world’s sixth-largest wireless
operator by subscribers after merging with Sawiris’s  Orascom
Telecom Holding SAE (OTLD)  last year. VimpelCom has been in dispute
with the Algerian government over the unit for more than year.  Among the alleged breaches is the imposition of $950
million in “unjustified tax reassessments and penalties” on
Djezzy from 2004 to 2009 and an injunction by the Bank of
Algeria blocking Algerian lenders from “engaging in any foreign
banking transactions on behalf of Djezzy,” Sawiris said.  Vigorous Defense  Algerian Finance Minister  Karim Djoudi  declined to comment
on the latest filing, telling reporters in parliament that
Sawiris went to international arbitration a year ago and “this
is not new.” He said discussions on Djezzy were ongoing.  Emmanuel Gaillard, head of Shearman & Sterling’s
international arbitration practice, which represents the
Algerian government in the dispute, said in an e-mail that his
firm would “defend the case vigorously, including by showing
that Weather Investments’ claim cannot proceed due to a lack of
jurisdiction.”  Orascom Telecom won the bid to build Algeria’s
telecommunications infrastructure in 2001 and invested $3
billion, Weather Investments said.  “This is a bad development not just for us, but for all
foreign investors in  Algeria ,” Sawiris said in the statement.
“The Algerian regime stands as a stark exception to the region
which, on the whole, is beginning to engage global investors”
and implement reforms.  Weather Investments said its claim has been registered by
the International Center for the Settlement of Investment
Disputes, a resolution branch of the World Bank based in the
U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  