-- Schulze Said to Enlist Cerberus to Help Cement Best Buy Bid
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-11-20T21:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/schulze-said-to-enlist-cerberus-to-help-cement-best-buy-takeover.html
Best Buy Co. founder Richard Schulze
is working with three private-equity firms, including Cerberus
Capital Management LP, on a takeover of the electronics chain as
his deadline to review the company’s finances nears, said people
familiar with the matter.  Schulze, 71, is asking the  retailer  for an extra 30 days to
conduct due diligence, said the people, who asked not to be
named because the process is private. TPG Capital and  Leonard
Green  & Partners LP also are working with Best Buy’s former
chairman on arranging financing, they said. The three private-
equity firms are working separately for now, said one of these
people, though could work together eventually on a final bid.  Schulze and these firms have been studying Best Buy’s
confidential  financial data  since mid-September. The retailer
granted him 60 days to put together a proposal after he revealed
Aug. 6 that he would offer as much as $26 a share for the
company. Other firms such as  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
KKR & Co., which had considered bids, are now unlikely to work
with Schulze on an offer, according to one of the people.  Schulze and his allies pressed for the 30-day extension,
which would take them into late December, so they could see how
Best Buy performs over the holidays before they agreed to fund
what would be one of the largest buyouts in years, said one of
these people. The retailer, which lost $1.2 billion in its
latest fiscal year, is working to improve same-store  sales  amid
escalating competition from Amazon.com Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.  Third-Quarter Results  Today the company said profit in the third quarter ended
Nov. 3 was 3 cents a share, excluding some items, falling short
of the average analyst estimate of 12 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Best Buy also reduced its  forecast  for
free  cash flow  for the year to at least $850 million, from a
previous minimum of $1.25 billion.  Best Buy’s finances have deteriorated so much in recent
months that some of the private-equity funds have gone back to
their investment committees to warn them of the changes, said
another person involved in the process. Amy von Walter, a
spokeswoman for Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy, declined to
comment. A spokesman for Schulze didn’t return a call or e-mail
seeking comment.  John Dillard , a spokesman for Cerberus at  Weber Shandwick ,
and Michael Gennaro, Leonard Green’s chief operating officer,
didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Owen Blicksilver , a
spokesman for TPG at Owen Blicksilver Public Relations, declined
to comment.  Solo Financing?  Best Buy has received Schulze’s request for the extension
and may grant it in the next few days, said one of these people.
Best Buy and its financial and legal advisers are holding off on
the approval to see if Schulze has made progress in lining up
financing, said this person.  While one of the three private-equity firms has told
Schulze it could provide financing solo, the founder’s camp
would prefer to have two or more entities working together so no
one has too much influence, said another person.  Schulze, who is working with Credit Suisse Group AG on the
financing for the deal, is also receiving advice from Jack Ryan,
a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker in  Chicago  who briefly
ran a campaign for  U.S. Senate  against  Barack Obama  in 2004,
said these people.  Schulze and former Best Buy Chief Executive Officer Brad Anderson are meeting this week with current Best Buy CEO Hubert Joly, said two of the people. Anderson is taking a growing role
in Schulze’s effort to line up investors in a buyout, said one
of these people.  Schulze, who still owns more than 20 percent of the
retailer, offered Aug. 6 to take Best Buy private at $24 to $26
a share. Its falling stock price and declining earnings have
made some directors more willing to pursue a deal with Schulze,
a person familiar with the matter said last week. Best Buy sank
13 percent to $11.96 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  