-- Selig OKs Marlins-Toronto MLB Trade, Sympathizes With Miami Fans
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-20T05:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/selig-clears-marlins-blue-jays-deal-sympathizes-with-miami-fans.html
Jose Reyes  no longer will be playing
for a division rival of the  New York Mets . Instead, he’ll be at
shortstop for a division rival of the  New York Yankees .  Major League Baseball  Commissioner Bud Selig yesterday
approved a 12-player trade in which the  Miami Marlins  sent Reyes
and three other All-Stars to the  Toronto Blue Jays  for prospects
and financial relief.  The deal drew anger from both fans and remaining players in
Miami, while allowing the Marlins to dump what MLB.com said was
$165 million in salary. The trade was held up until it got
approval from Selig, who said he understood the public reaction.  “Going forward, I will continue to monitor this situation
with the expectation that the Marlins will take into account the
sentiments of their fans, who deserve the best efforts and
considered judgment of their club,” he said.  Selig said in an e-mailed statement that he consulted with
his baseball operations and labor relations departments before
concluding that the deal “does not violate any express rule of
Major League Baseball.”  “After a thorough examination of this information, it is
my conclusion that this transaction, involving established major
leaguers and highly regarded young players and prospects,
represents the exercise of plausible baseball judgment on the
part of both clubs,” Selig said.  The Marlins agreed to move Reyes and pitcher  Mark Buehrle ,
both acquired during last year’s offseason, in addition to
pitcher Josh Johnson, catcher John Buck and outfielder Emilio Bonifacio. Reyes, Buehrle, Johnson and Buck all have been All-
Stars. In return, the team will receive shortstops Yunel Escobar
and Adeiny Hechavarria, pitcher Henderson Alvarez, catcher Jeff Mathis and three other prospects.  Reyes’s Moves  Reyes, 29, left the Mets before last season to sign as a
free agent with the Marlins. Both teams are in the  National
League East . Now he’ll be playing in the American League East,
home to the  Blue Jays  and Yankees.  The Marlins moved this past season into a $515 million,
retractable-roof ballpark that was 80 percent publicly financed,
and raised their payroll to $118 million -- seventh among
baseball’s 30 teams -- from a 24th-place $60 million in 2011,
according to  USA Today .  The team traded three-time All-Star Hanley Ramirez during
the season and finished 69-93, last in the five-team NL East.
This is the third time in the team’s 20-year history that it has
shed financial obligations and All-Star talent, after similar
moves following the 1997 and 2003 seasons that produced World
Series championships.  Long-Term Assurances  “We’ve finished in last place the past two years, and that
is unacceptable to our fans, to us as an organization, and to
me,” owner Jeffrey Loria said in a news release. “We want to
get back to our winning ways, and we want a winning baseball
team for our fans. It’s incumbent on us to make the changes
necessary to make us a winner again.”  Selig said he has received assurances from Marlins
ownership that it remains dedicated to building a long-term
winning team in Miami.  “Baseball is a social institution with important social
responsibilities and I fully understand that the Miami community
has done its part to put the Marlins into a position to succeed
with beautiful new Marlins Park,” the commissioner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  