-- Shekel Gains for 2nd Day on Gaza Cease-Fire Bets as Bonds Fall
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-11-19T13:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/shekel-gains-for-2nd-day-on-gaza-cease-fire-bets-as-bonds-fall.html
Israel ’s shekel rose for a second
day on speculation efforts to end exchanges of fire that have
killed 96 Palestinians and three Israelis will succeed. The
nation’s bonds declined.  The shekel gained as much as 0.8 percent to 3.9335 a dollar
before trading at 3.9393 a dollar at 2:14 p.m. in Tel Aviv,
trimming this month’s drop to 1.4 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency is the best performer today
among an expanded list of 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The  TA-25 benchmark index  of stocks added 0.8
percent, poised for the highest close since Nov. 11.  The decision whether to expand Israel’s Gaza operation or
reach a cease-fire agreement “is rapidly approaching, and is a
matter of hours, not even days,” Finance Minister Yuval
Steinitz said in an interview today on  Army Radio . The Islamist
Hamas movement, which controls the  Gaza Strip , is “mildly
optimistic” for a truce,  Nabil Shaath , a senior adviser to
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said.  “Investors are getting more confident that the escalation
won’t be prolonged also as they are talks about a possible
cease-fire,” said Rony Gitlin, head of spot trading at Bank
Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “We are not seeing foreign
banks selling the local currency as they are not concerned about
the conflict’s impact on the economy, which is expected to be
minor.”  Economic Impact  Investors are not “running out” of the Israeli market and
the economy “knows how to deal” with Gaza events, Tel Aviv
bourse Chief Executive Officer Ester Levanon said in a Bloomberg
TV interview today.  The number of rockets fired from Gaza fell to 20 so far
today, said  Avital Leibovich , an Israeli army spokeswoman.
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi met late yesterday with Hamas’
political chief and a delegation from the  Islamic Jihad , amid
efforts to end the exchange of rocket-fire, the state-run Middle
East News Agency reported.  Investors are not “running out” of the Israeli market and
the economy “knows how to deal” with Gaza events, Tel Aviv
bourse Chief Executive Officer Ester Levanon said in a Bloomberg
TV interview today.  Israeli prices are expected to rise 1.9 percent in the
coming 12 months, according to survey of economists by the  Bank
of Israel  today, down from last month’s 2.2 percent estimate.
Annual inflation slowed to 1.8 percent in October below the 2.2
percent median estimate of 14 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “The lower-than-forecast October inflation data increased
appetite for non-CPI linked  government bonds  which helped push
bids higher at the auction,” said Oren Ossad , a trader at
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd., in  Ramat Gan , Israel.  Debt Sale  The yield on the benchmark 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bond
due 2022 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.96
percent. The  Finance Ministry  sold a combined 1.45 billion
shekels ($368 million) of debt at an auction today, according to
ministry data posted on Bloomberg. Investors sought 7.5 times
the 200 million shekels of the 4 percent notes due January 2018
offered, up from 4.4 times at last week’s sale.  The two-year break-even rate, the yield difference between
the inflation-linked bonds and fixed-rate government bonds of
similar maturity, fell two basis points to 203 basis points,
implying an average annual inflation rate of 2.03 percent over
the period.  The Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index, which measures inflation-linked
and fixed-rate corporate bonds, fell for a fourth day, declining
0.1 percent to 278.48. One-year  interest-rate swaps , an
indicator of investor expectations for rates over the period,
lost five basis points to 1.82 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  