-- Shell, Unilever Lead 100 Companies Calling for CO2 Price
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-11-19T11:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/shell-edf-lead-100-companies-calling-for-carbon-price.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  joined
 Unilever NV (UNA)  and more than 100 companies calling for lawmakers
worldwide to put a “clear” price on carbon emissions in order
to contain global warming.  Companies invest trillions of dollars in energy and
infrastructure projects, and, in most cases, don’t consider
goals to cut greenhouse gases, the companies said today in a
statement that’s due to be presented to European Commissioner
for Climate Action Connie Hedegaard in Brussels.  “A clear, stable, ambitious and cost-effective policy
framework is essential to underpin the investment needed to
deliver substantial greenhouse gas emissions reductions by mid-
century,” the companies said in the e-mailed statement.
“Putting a clear, transparent and unambiguous price on carbon
emissions must be a core policy objective.”  The clarity is needed to channel spending into projects
that reduce emissions and help the world meet the United Nations
goal of containing global warming to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6
degrees Fahrenheit), according to the note. Climate envoys from
more than 190 nations are due to gather next week in Doha for
two weeks of UN negotiations on the issue.  Locked In  Almost 80 percent of the emissions allowable by 2035 under
a 2-degree scenario are already locked in because of future
gases from existing power plants, factories and buildings, the
International Energy Agency said last week. By 2017, all the
allowable emissions will be locked in if no action is taken, the
agency said.  “Effective carbon pricing offers the potential to mobilize
finance at a scale that can impact the climate challenge,” the
companies wrote.  The letter was coordinated by Prince Charles’s Corporate
Leaders Group on Climate Change, a club of companies brought
together by the heir to the British throne and managed by the
University of Cambridge. Other signatories included  Alstom SA (ALO) ,
 Acciona SA (ANA) ,  Electricite de France SA ’s EDF Energy unit,  Skanska
AB (SKAB)  and  Aviva Plc. (AV/)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  