-- Sherry Returns to Trendy Bars, Old Bodegas, Thanksgiving
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-11-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/sherry-returns-to-trendy-bars-old-bodegas-thanksgiving.html
In the Ace Hotel’s dimly-lit, black-
walled basement, a small wine revolution is going on. Four
hundred people are eagerly lining up to sample long out-of-
fashion sherries, which have been on a downward hipness spiral
for decades.  This fortified wine, once derided as the drink of blue-
rinsed aunts, is a new passion for New York’s trend-conscious
wine lovers.  Twenty of the best producers, from the Andalucia region of
southern Spain, are here for the city’s first  Sherryfest 
tasting. They’re pouring 150 top examples, from pale, dry,
refreshing finos to powerful, complex dry olorosos and rich,
sweet moscatels.  “It wasn’t easy to convince the bodegas to come,” says
Peter Liem, co-author of the just-released book “ Sherry,
Manzanilla, & Montilla ,” and one of the event organizers.
“They were pessimistic. But really, sherry is the hottest wine
in New York.”  A dozen restaurants and wine bars in the city, including
the Beagle and Pata Negra, sell scores of sherries by the glass.
London has even more.  One big reason for sherry’s comeback, Liem says, is that
the best ones offer such amazing value.  Proud Parent  I grab a copita, the traditional small, tulip-shaped sherry
glass, and head for a dark corner where importer Andre Tamers,
one of the heroes of this revival, is presiding over his five
producers like a beaming parent.  He gets emotional recalling his first pilgrimage six years
ago to sherry territory for the annual Festival of El Rocio in
the small town of Almonte.  “I danced in the streets and drank sherry for three days
and nights,” he says. “I think it seeped into my veins.” With
his oversize horn-rimmed glasses and neatly trimmed beard,
Tamers looks more hip professor than late night party-goer, and
grins when he reveals that his sherry sales are up 80 percent in
the past year.  He starts me off with a chilled, intense and savory fino,
the lightest and driest sherry category, from  El Maestro Sierra 
(375ml, $15). This small bodega is in Jerez de la Frontera, one
of the three towns in the so-called “sherry triangle” where
the wines must be aged.  Fortified Fino  Though finos and manzanillas (finos that come only from the
port of Sanlucar de Barrameda) are fortified to 15 percent
alcohol, their resemblance to crisp white wines makes them a
good entry point for would-be sherry lovers.  A fruity fino from the latest addition to Tamers’ De Maison
Selections portfolio, Bodegas Cesar Florido (375 ml, $14),
tastes of ripe pears, while a  La Cigarrera  manzanilla (375 ml,
$12) is fresh, delicate, salty and citrusy. The bodega’s
manzanilla pasada (375 ml, $39), a long-aged version, is even
more intense and complex.  All have the distinctive almond aromas and unique tangy
flavors that come from flor, the film of yeast that forms on top
of the wine as it ages in barrel and eventually transforms its
character.  Over several years, Tamers hunted down tiny, artisanal
almacenistas, entrepreneurs who supply stocks of aged wines to
bigger companies, as small growers do in Champagne. In recent
years they’ve also begun bottling their own.  Briny Olives  As I circle the room sampling finos from other bodegas, I’m
especially impressed by fresh, light, lemony, super elegant
Valdespino Fino Inocente (375ml, $14), which comes from a single
vineyard. It’s perfect with the briny olives and paper-thin
slices of salty jamon set out on a wooden cutting board.  Fino’s versatility with everything from fish to artichokes
to spicy Southeast Asian dishes and Japanese sushi is another
reason for its new surge in popularity.  All this interest comes just in time for bodegas trying
desperately to survive. Even top small producers are in danger
of going under. Cesar Florido is one of only two remaining in
his town. Once there were 83. “I’m left because I’m a
bohemian,” he tells me.  Most bodegas, like El Maestro Sierra, produce an entire
range of sherries, some of which are more of an acquired taste.
Amontillado is a special type of long-aged fino, while olorosos,
made without flor, are darker and stronger, and  Pedro Ximenez, 
from the grape variety of the same name, is rich and very, very
sweet.  Thomas Hardy  Rare palo cortado, with characteristics of both amontillado
and oloroso, is my big discovery of the tasting. It’s a far cry
from the sweet, almost gloopy sherry my  London  graduate school
adviser served up in his dusty, book-lined study as we discussed
folklore in Thomas Hardy’s novels.  At table 13, Bodegas Tradicion director Lorenzo Garcia-
Iglesias explains the ambitious winery, founded in 1998, is
dedicated to complex old wines and makes no fino at all. As I
sip his silky, subtle, 33-year-old Palo Cortado VORS (750 ml,
$90), he says the bodega aims to be the Domaine de la Romanee-
Conti of sherry. With its layered, bitter almond, salty lemon
peel taste, it’s my wow wine.  Will it really go with everything? The ultimate test comes
Thursday, with the turkey, sweet potatoes and cranberry sauce on
my Thanksgiving table.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Amanda Gordon  on Wall Street
Thanksgiving.  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 