-- Soco Seen as Next Target After Coast Energy Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-11-19T15:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/soco-seen-as-next-target-after-coast-energy-bid-real-m-a.html
Soco International Plc (SIA) , an oil
explorer operating off of  Vietnam , is turning into the next
takeover target for Asian energy companies as PT Pertamina’s bid
for  Coastal Energy Co. (CEN)  accelerates the race for energy assets.  Pertamina, Indonesia’s state-owned oil firm, confirmed this
month that it approached Coastal Energy in a bid to grab an
explorer that produces oil in  Southeast Asia  and generates  cash .
Soco, a London-based company with its largest production project
off the coast of Vietnam, shares these attributes, increasing
its allure for other state-owned Asian energy firms looking to
secure reserves, according to Jefferies Group Inc.  With proven oil deposits that produced record revenue in
the first half of the year, Soco generates more cash flow for
shareholders than 88 percent of oil and gas explorers valued at
more than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Potential buyers may include state-owned energy firms such as
Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, according to Guinness Atkinson Asset
Management Inc., while Royal Bank of  Canada  said independent
companies such as  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  also could be interested
in Soco. Numis Securities Ltd. estimated that the $1.8 billion
company may fetch a premium of more than 53 percent.  For acquirers, “there does seem to be a bias towards
companies that have low exploration risk, that have assets where
reserves are proven and ideally where there is also some
production in play,” Will Riley, a London-based  fund manager  at
Guinness Atkinson, which oversees $750 million, including Soco
shares. “Soco is in good shape from that perspective.”  Sovereign Supply  When asked whether Soco would consider selling itself or
has been approached by suitors, Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Roger Cagle said that while the company collaborates with other
producers and routinely talks to others in the industry as part
of its business, Soco “is not for sale.”  “Obviously as a public company, if someone makes an
approach, then you are obliged to act or react in a certain way
and of course, as a public company we would do that,” Cagle
said in a Nov. 17 phone interview. “But clearly the for-sale
shingle is not out on this company.”  Soco produces oil from two blocks off the southeast coast
of Vietnam in which Vietnam Oil & Gas, known as PetroVietnam,
and  Thailand ’s  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  also have
stakes. Soco also has exploration ventures in  Africa .  Shares of Soco climbed to 365 pence, the highest level in
more than a year, on Nov. 8, a day after Pertamina said it
submitted a bid for Coastal Energy, a Houston-based oil
exploration and production company with interests in Thailand
and  Malaysia  and a market value of C$2.3 billion ($2.3 billion).  Today, Soco shares rose 2.8 percent to 359.80 pence at 3:32
p.m. in  London .  ‘Significant Production’  Soco also could attract national  oil companies  because,
like Coastal Energy, it has “significant production and cash
flow,” Laura Loppacher, a London-based analyst at Jefferies,
said in a phone interview.  Soco had $224.4 million in cash and equivalents, and  no
debt  as of June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company’s free- cash-flow  yield, a measure of how much cash from
operations a business generates relative to its share price, is
7.3 percent, while the average oil and gas exploration and
production firm valued at more than $1 billion has negative free
cash flow, the data show.  While production at Soco’s Te Giac Trang fields off the
coast of Vietnam trailed targets during its ramp-up in 2011, the
company boosted output in July to 55,000 barrels a day from
42,000 previously. Production reached more than 60,500 barrels a
day earlier this year, and was tested at 58,867 barrels a day on
Oct. 30, the company said in a Nov. 1 interim statement.  Proven Reserves  The company may increase its estimate for oil and gas
resources by the end of the year following its expanded
operations in Vietnam based on accumulated data from the fields,
Cagle said Aug. 22.  Paul Mumford , a London-based  money manager  at Cavendish
Asset Management Ltd., said Soco’s cash flow and improving
results in Vietnam offer a potential buyer the chance to gain
access to oil reserves without the risk that comes with
searching for them.  Soco “has a good level of production, which is always
quite useful,” Mumford, whose firm manages about $1.2 billion,
including Soco shares, said in a phone interview. “It can often
be much cheaper to buy a company rather than to explore for oil
and not only have the hit-or-miss chances of success but also
the time limit to actually get that all on stream. In the case
of Soco, much of the hard work has already been done.”  Oil Assets  Oil companies in India and Japan, as well as PetroVietnam,
could be interested in acquiring Soco to boost their oil assets,
said Riley, co-manager of the  Guinness Atkinson Global Energy
Fund (GAGEX) , which oversees $110 million.  Representatives for PetroVietnam didn’t respond to phone
calls and e-mails sent after normal business hours seeking
comment on whether the company would be interested in purchasing
Soco.  State-run energy companies have been pushing to lock down
more oil reserves, according to Simon Lockett, chief executive
officer of Premier Oil Plc, a London-based oil and gas explorer.  PTTEP, Thailand’s biggest publicly traded oil and gas
explorer, won a bidding war in July for London-based Cove Energy
Plc, while Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the Malaysian state-run
producer known as Petronas, offered in June to acquire Calgary-
based Progress Energy Resources Corp. While the agreement was
rejected by Canada, Petronas signaled that it’s open to
negotiating with the government.  More Deals  Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer,
agreed in July to buy Calgary-based Nexen Inc. That deal is also
pending Canadian approval.  “Inevitably we will see more of that as major national oil
companies try and secure reserves and production for their home
countries,” Lockett said in a Nov. 15 phone interview.  Talisman, which is based in Calgary and has operations in
Vietnam, could also seek to acquire Soco to expand its presence
in the area, said Al Stanton, an Edinburgh-based analyst at RBC.  “People who are already big in  Asia , who would feel
comfortable operating in Vietnam” are the most likely suitors
for the company, Stanton said in a phone interview.  Phoebe Buckland, a spokeswoman for Talisman, didn’t respond
to a phone message and an e-mail seeking comment on whether the
company would be interested in purchasing Soco.  Soco  management ’s willingness to serve the interests of
shareholders may signal an easier path for any buyer seeking to
do a deal, Stanton said.  Building Value  Soco said in its Nov. 1 statement that the company’s
directors “continue to examine all avenues” for building
 shareholder  value.  “They have an eye for doing deals,” Stanton said.  Stanton estimates a buyer could pay 450 pence to 490 pence
a share to acquire Soco, at least a 29 percent premium to last
week’s closing level. Sanjeev Bahl, a London-based analyst at
Numis, said the company could fetch more than 534 pence a share
in a takeover.  Buyers could hold off on pursuing a deal with Soco until
they are more confident in the company’s ability to meet its
output projections at its TGT fields in Vietnam, Bahl wrote in a
Sept. 25 note to clients.  “Additional production history is required in order to get
comfortable that TGT plateau production rates are sustainable,”
Bahl wrote.  Still, while output at the TGT field has the potential to
come in on the low end of projections, it also could exceed
them, said Guinness Atkinson’s Riley. With the company valued
“reasonably cheaply” versus its  proven reserves , now may be
the time to do a deal, he said.  “It’s a stream of reasonably cheap oil that could be
bought today with a reasonably good reserve life of around 10
years,” Riley said. “You could see this as a kind of potential
upside for a buyer -- someone could buy these assets now and in
fact, the reserves could end up larger than the current
valuation” is pricing in.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 