-- Southeast Asia Seen Resilient as Indonesia Outperforms
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-11-19T04:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/southeast-asia-seen-resilient-as-indonesia-outperforms-economy.html
Southeast Asia is emerging resilient
from a period of global turmoil, with rising investment and
domestic consumption that will propel growth in coming years,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Indonesia’s growth will average 6.4 percent from 2013 to
2017, the OECD estimated in a report yesterday, equal to that
recorded in the two decades before the 1997 Asian financial
crisis. The  Philippines  will expand about 5.5 percent a year,
the OECD said, up from 5 percent in the decade through 2012,
according to International Monetary Fund data.  Malaysia  and
 Thailand  will see gains of about 5.1 percent, the OECD
predicted.  The outlook underscores President  Barack Obama ’s aim to
strengthen U.S. trade ties with the region as its middle class
swells. Obama today makes the first visit by a sitting American
leader to Myanmar, a nation of 55 million people whose economic
opening also shows the potential for companies from more
industrial Southeast Asian nations to build scale within the
region.  “Policy makers have been very active in providing support
to boost domestic demand to counter subpar growth in the
region’s bigger export markets,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a
Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “We’re also
seeing fiscal policy being used aggressively as stimulus.”  Obama’s Itinerary  After Myanmar, Obama is meeting leaders of the Association
of Southeast Asian Nations today in Cambodia for a summit to
discuss economic and security issues. Asean leaders are set to
start talks on a regional trade agreement with China,  Japan ,
India, South Korea,  Australia  and New Zealand, an area with more
than 3 billion people representing a quarter of the world
economy.  Thailand’s growth in the third quarter matched the median
of economists’ estimates. Gross domestic product increased 3
percent in the three months through September from a year
earlier, after a revised 4.4 percent expansion in the previous
quarter, the National Economic and Social Development Board said
in Bangkok today. Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has boosted
spending and raised salaries as the nation recovers from the
worst floods in almost 70 years.  Asian stocks  increased, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
1.1 percent higher at 12:48 p.m. in  Tokyo . Oil increased 0.8
percent in New York, and South Korea’s won strengthened 0.5
percent against the dollar.  European Fallout  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and a slowdown in advanced
economies have had a “limited” impact on Southeast Asian
nations with most of the effect experienced through trade, the
Paris-based OECD said in its report released in Phnom Penh
yesterday. The region, along with  China , may face risks stemming
from volatility of capital inflows in the medium term, it said.  The prospects for developing Asian nations contrast with
the fiscal and demographic challenges faced by more advanced
economies, as higher public spending and younger populations
support domestic demand and lure investment even as global
expansion weakens.  Increased government expenditures on social safety nets and
health will encourage household spending and reduce the need for
precautionary savings in emerging Asia, according to the report.  “A combination of cyclical factors, government policies,
and longer-term shifts in economic structure that have supported
consumption growth over the past several years are likely to
continue to underpin its growth over the medium term in
Southeast Asia, China and  India ,” the OECD said in its 2013
outlook for the region.  Fiscal Stimulus  Governments in Southeast Asia have loosened fiscal policies
to spur growth. Philippine President Benigno Aquino is
increasing spending to a record and seeking more than $16
billion of investments in roads and airports, while Malaysian
Prime Minister Najib Razak is also boosting outlays.  The region’s growth prospects are helping attract overseas
companies, with Japan’s foreign-direct investment in Southeast
Asia surpassing that in China, according to the Japan External
Trade Organization’s figures using finance ministry data.
Japan’s investment in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
more than doubled to $19.6 billion in 2011 from the previous
year, while that in China was $12.6 billion, according to the
organization.  Fiscal deficits in most Southeast Asian nations will narrow
through 2017, leading to an improvement in public debt levels as
a percentage of gross domestic product, the OECD said.  Infrastructure Spending  Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is increasing
spending on roads, seaports and airports as he woos investment
to spur Southeast Asia’s largest economy. Growth held above 6
percent for an eighth quarter in the three months through
September, a report showed this month.  More than a decade after the Asian financial crisis forced
 Indonesia  to seek an International Monetary Fund bailout, Fitch
Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service have raised their ratings
on the nation’s debt to investment grade and growth is among the
fastest in the Group of 20 nations.  Slower projected growth for Thailand, Malaysia and
Singapore compared with Indonesia “highlights the fact that
they are now in the stage where further rapid gains in
productivity become more difficult to achieve,” the OECD said.  Singapore’s economy is seen expanding an average 3.1
percent a year over the coming half decade, the OECD said.  Less Developed  For the region’s less-developed economies, Myanmar’s growth
outlook has improved “substantially” amid political reforms,
which are expected to lead to a large influx of foreign
investment, the OECD said. High inflation partly due to a weak
macroeconomic management framework is a “major downside risk”
for  Vietnam , it said.  Elsewhere today,  Italy , a nation mired in recession and
implementing fiscal austerity measures, may report industrial
orders contracted for the first time in three months, according
to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  In the U.S. day ahead, the lowest mortgage rates on record
probably helped keep sales of previously owned homes close to a
two-year high in October. Purchases of existing dwellings
probably held at a 4.75 million annual rate last month,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey before
today’s report from the National Association of Realtors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  