-- Spain Cash-Transaction Ban Begins as Rajoy Targets Tax Fraud
-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2012-11-19T10:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/spain-cash-transaction-ban-begins-as-rajoy-targets-tax-fraud.html
Spain  began prohibiting consumers
from paying cash to settle bills of 2,500 euros ($3,190) or more
in legislation designed to curb  tax evasion .  The ban, which became effective today, will be applied when
at least one party to a transaction acts in a professional or
commercial capacity, according to a law published Oct. 30 that
contains a series of measures it says are “designed to prevent
and fight against tax fraud.”  “The social and economic reality in a situation of crisis
and budgetary austerity makes tax fraud today even more
reproachable than ever,” the law’s preamble says.  Outlawing certain cash transactions that are commonplace
across the country, such as paying a carpenter for home
remodeling, is the latest in a series of revenue and spending
changes that Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has pushed in a bid to
close the  budget deficit  and avert the need for a second
bailout.  Article 7 of  law 7/2012  targets the custom of paying cash
for goods and services to avoid value-added and income taxes.
Economists say the practice is particularly widespread in Spain,
a country tax inspectors estimate is one of the European Union’s
largest generators of undeclared earnings.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  reduced Italy’s cash-transaction
limit to 1,000 euros from 2,500 euros last year as part of a
government crackdown on tax evasion.  Spain’s underground economy is worth about 245 billion
euros, or 23 percent of gross domestic product, according to a
report this month from the Spanish tax inspectors union  Gestha .
That’s about 10 percentage points more than the EU average, it
said.  Second-Hand Cars, Homes  While the new cash ban doesn’t affect purely personal
transactions, such as buying a second-hand car or home from
another private individual, it does extend to non-commercial
transactions when the payer is someone whose tax home is in
another country. In that case the cash limit is 15,000 euros.  Both buyers and sellers must keep receipts for five years.
Violations, including dividing a deal up into pieces smaller
than 2,500 euros, will be considered “serious” infractions of
administrative law, not criminal acts.  The ban won’t be applied to the repayment of principal and
interest to banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd White  in  Madrid  at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at   tcoulter@bloomberg.net . 