-- Stanford’s Accountants Guilty of Hiding $7 Billion Fraud
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-11-19T22:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/stanford-s-accountants-guilty-of-hiding-7-billion-fraud-1-.html
Two former accounting executives
were convicted of helping Texas financier R. Allen Stanford hide
a  Ponzi scheme  that bilked investors of $7 billion.  A jury of seven men and five women in federal court in
Houston deliberated for 16 hours over three days before
convicting Stanford’s ex-Chief Accounting Officer Gilbert Lopez,
70, and former Global Controller Mark Kuhrt, 40, of conspiring
to hide a fraud scheme built on bogus certificates of deposit at
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  The men were each found guilty today of 9 of 10  wire fraud 
counts and one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud.  “They knew the bank was doing one thing and promising
investors another, and they helped hide it,” prosecutor Jason
Varnado told jurors during closing arguments Nov. 14. “The only
explanation for that is a criminal explanation.”  The men face prison terms of more than 20 years when they
are sentenced Feb. 14 by U.S. District Judge David Hittner, who
presided over the trial. Hittner ordered both men to be taken
into custody over the government’s recommendation that they
remain free on bond.  “Based upon the facts in this case and this being an
international scheme, I believe there are enough potential
contacts out there that I decline to allow them to remain
free,” Hittner said.  Lawyers for both defendants said they will appeal the
verdicts.  Cricket Tournaments  Lopez and Kuhrt are the last former Stanford executives to
face criminal trial over the scheme. Prosecutors told jurors the
accountants were among a handful of employees carefully tracking
funds Stanford “sucked out” of the bank to finance risky
private ventures ranging from Caribbean airlines to resort
developments to international cricket tournaments.  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of masterminding the
fraud and stealing more than $2 billion of investor deposits to
finance a lavish lifestyle of private jets, yachts and
waterfront mansions along with his money-losing side
enterprises. He is serving a 110-year term in a Florida federal
prison while he appeals his verdict and sentence.  Lawyers for Lopez and Kuhrt urged jurors to acquit the men,
claiming they were duped by Stanford and finance chief James M.
Davis into creating the false financial statements investors
relied on in buying the bogus CDs.  Bank’s Assets  Stanford told CD buyers their money was invested in
conservative liquid assets and overseen by international money
managers. Evidence at his  jury trial  showed that Stanford and
Davis secretly controlled more than 80 percent of the bank’s
investments, much of which was loaned to Stanford or used to
underwrite his other businesses.  Jurors heard Lopez, Kuhrt and Davis testify during the
five-week trial. Davis pleaded guilty to his role in the scheme
in 2009, testified against Stanford at his trial and is awaiting
sentencing.  The defense attorneys told jurors the accountants relied on
investment returns provided by Stanford and Davis and never
intended to falsify company records or break any laws. The
accountants also lobbied Davis to publicly disclose Stanford’s
borrowings to investors and were overruled, they said.  “There’s no doubt whatsoever there was a massive fraud
going on, but it was a Stanford and Davis fraud, not a Lopez and
Kuhrt fraud,” Richard Kuniansky, Kuhrt’s lawyer, told jurors in
closing arguments Nov. 14.  The case is U.S. v Lopez, 4:09-cr-0342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 