-- Stark Says Draghi’s Bond Plan Compromises ECB’s Independence
-- B y   G u y   J o h n s o n   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-11-19T12:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/stark-says-draghi-s-bond-plan-compromises-ecb-s-independence.html
Former European Central Bank chief
economist  Juergen Stark  said President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-
purchase plan compromises the bank’s independence and risks
eroding its credibility to contain inflation.  “I share those views which argue this is not monetary
policy anymore,” Stark said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television from  Frankfurt  today. Making the ECB’s purchases
contingent on governments fulfilling certain conditions
“undermines monetary policy, it undermines the independence of
a central bank,” he said.  Draghi proposes to intervene in debt markets to lower
borrowing costs and restore transmission of ECB policy only in
countries that apply for financial aid and sign up to
conditions. The plan, which has yet to be activated, was opposed
by  Germany ’s Bundesbank, where Stark was once vice president.  Stark, who resigned from the ECB at the end of last year
over the bank’s previous bond-purchase program, was particularly
critical of the conditionality of the new plan, which he said
was introduced as a compromise.  “To make interventions conditional on policy reforms in
individual countries in my view changes the name of the game,”
Stark said. “This is not monetary policy any more. If the
monetary policy transmission mechanism is impaired, the central
bank should intervene” and “should never make its own
decisions dependent on the behavior of third parties.”  Stark said the Bundesbank’s influence at the ECB has not
diminished and perceptions of the situation will change if the
bond purchases “lead to an explosion of the ECB’s balance sheet
and increasing inflationary risks.”  No Gold Link  “We shouldn’t forget that with central banking in the
current situation, there’s no link anymore of money to raw
material, gold,” he said. “The only anchor for  price
stability , to keep the value of money, is the credibility and
independence of the central bank.”  Stark also said the ECB is not the right institution to
supervise all 6,000 banks in the euro area because of the risk
that it will conflict with monetary policy.  Asked about  Greece , he said the reform program is off track
and the best way to deal with the situation is to give the
country more time to meet its targets.  Stark also said the ECB’s Executive Board should eventually
be expanded to nine seats from six, which “will change in
relative terms the weight given to individual central bankers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Guy Johnson in London at 
 gjohnson87@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in London at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  