-- Starr Suit Against N.Y. Fed Over AIG Bailout Dismissed
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-19T18:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/starr-suit-against-n-y-fed-over-aig-bailout-dismissed.html
Starr International Co.’s lawsuit
against the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  over the
government’s bailout of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  was
dismissed by a federal judge in New York.  Starr, an AIG shareholder headed by the insurer’s former
chief executive officer,  Hank Greenberg , claimed the government
used its 2008 bailout of the New York-based company to channel
money improperly to its trading partners. U.S. District Judge
Paul Engelmayer in  Manhattan  rejected the claims in a decision
that was made public Nov. 16.  Starr sued the New York Fed last November, saying it
breached its fiduciary duty to AIG shareholders by loaning $85
billion at 14.5 percent interest while offering better terms to
banks in a “backdoor bailout.” AIG almost collapsed after bets
tied to the housing market soured, and the bailout was revised
at least four times before reaching $182 billion.  Starr said in its complaint that the bank coerced, induced
and required AIG directors and officers to “violate their
duties” to Starr International and AIG. Beginning in 2008 and
continuing until at least January 2011, the federal government
“imposed a series of transactions” that “resulted in
depriving” AIG and its shareholders of tens of billions of
dollars, Starr said.  In his decision, Engelmayer said that Starr can’t use the
law of  Delaware , the state in which AIG is incorporated, because
it is pre-empted by federal law.  ‘Government Treachery’  Engelmayer also said that despite a complaint that “paints
a portrait of government treachery worthy of an Oliver Stone
movie,” Starr failed to make a plausible argument that the Fed
exercised sufficient control over AIG to support a claim that it
had a fiduciary duty to the company.  Starr is considering an appeal, Robert Dwyer, a lawyer with
Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, which represents the company,
said in a statement today. Engelmayer’s ruling doesn’t affect a
parallel suit filed against the U.S. government in the Court of
Federal Claims in  Washington , Dwyer said.  The New York case is Starr International Co. v.  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York , 11-8422, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  