-- SUNY Closes Industry-Backed Fracking Institute
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-11-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/suny-closes-industry-backed-fracking-institute.html
State University of New York at
Buffalo  is shutting down a research institute opened seven
months ago to study natural-gas fracking after potential
conflicts of interest raised what the college’s president called
a “cloud of uncertainty” over its work.  The Shale Resources and Society Institute is closed
effective immediately, university President  Satish Tripathi  said
yesterday in a statement. The  Public Accountability Initiative ,
a Buffalo nonprofit that says it focuses on corruption in
business and government, said the insitute’s only report in
April contained errors and didn’t acknowledge “extensive ties”
by its authors to the gas industry.  “Conflicts -- both actual and perceived -- can arise
between sources of research funding and expectations of
independence when reporting research results,” Tripathi said in
an open  letter  to the university community. “This, in turn,
impacted the appearance of independence and integrity of the
institute’s research.”  “Research of such considerable societal importance and
impact cannot be effectively conducted with a cloud of
uncertainty over its work,” Tripathi said.  The move follows a decision last month by a gas industry
group to cancel a  Pennsylvania  State University study of
fracking after some faculty members balked at the project that
had drawn criticism for being slanted toward industry. Drilling
companies, amid criticism that producing gas by fracking damages
the environment, are funding university research that at times
reaches conclusions that counter the concerns of critics,
 Bloomberg News  reported in July.  Treated Water  In fracking, millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand are forced underground to break shale rock and
free trapped gas. The technology has lowered energy prices,
created jobs, and enhanced national security, according to a
 task force  formed by President  Barack Obama ’s Energy Secretary
Steven Chu.  Critics say fracking has been linked to groundwater
contamination in Pennsylvania, high ozone levels in  Wyoming  and
to headaches, sore throats and difficulty breathing for people
living close to wells in  Colorado . Burying wastewater from
drilling has been linked to earthquakes in  Ohio ,  Arkansas  and
other states.  In May, the Shale Resources and Society Institute found
that drillers in Pennsylvania had reduced by half the rate of
blowouts, spills and water contamination since 2008. Potential
environmental problems could be “entirely avoided or
mitigated” under  New York ’s proposed rules, according to the
institutes’s report.  Petroleum Institute  The lead author was Tim Considine a professor of economics
in the School of Energy Resources at the University of Wyoming
who in the past has worked for groups such as the  American
Petroleum Institute  and the Wyoming Mining Association. The
Buffalo report, which identifies Considine by his title at the
University of Wyoming, doesn’t disclose his prior work for
industry groups.  ``In my opinion, it was overblown,” Considine said of the
reaction to the SUNY report in an interview in June. “A lot of
it is used to deter from the central message of the report, and
that is shale gas drilling, hydraulic fracturing in particular,
can be regulated so that it doesn’t pose any significant risk
for the public and the environment.”  Considine did not respond yesterday to a request for 
comment on SUNY's decision to close the institute.      The institute was actively seeking corporate sponsors for a
“landmark effort to leverage the safe, sustainable, economic
development of shale gas,” according to a document Kevin
Connor, director of the Public Accountability Initiative,
downloaded from the group’s website.  `Strong Message'  Closing the institute ``Does send a strong message to
the oil and gas industry that our universities are not for 
sale,'' Connor said in an interview yesterday.  A group of 83 professors and staff at the university in
Buffalo in August requested documents on the founding and
funding of the shale institute. The SUNY Board of Trustees
is reviewing a report from the university on the research
group.  ``Given the questions that continue to surround the Shale
Resources and Society Institute, SUNY Administration and the
Board of Trustees support the University of Buffalo’s decision
to close it,'' according to a statement from the board. ``The
Board and SUNY reserve further comment at this time while the
Board completes its formal review.''  Considine also co-wrote an annual study on fracking for
 Penn State  funded by the Marcellus Shale Coalition, a
Pittsburgh-based industry group. The study, which began in 2009,
was canceled in October after some faculty members declined to
take part.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  