-- U.K. Millers Seen Using Less Domestic Wheat by AHDB on Quality
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-19T15:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/u-k-millers-seen-using-less-domestic-wheat-by-ahdb-on-quality.html
U.K. flour millers are expected to
use less domestically-grown wheat from this year’s crop after
quality deteriorated, with the poorest grain weight on record,
according to the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board.  Of the top category bread-making wheat, only 2 percent of
samples met a “high-quality bread milling specification,”
compared with 40 percent in 2011, the AHDB wrote in an online
 report  today.  “In a typical year, around 85 percent of the wheat that
millers use is grown in the U.K., but this proportion is
expected to be lower in 2012,”  Charlotte  Garbutt, a senior
analyst at Kenilworth, England-based AHDB, was cited as saying
in the statement.  The U.K. had its wettest summer in a century, the  Met
Office  said in September, and rain caused disease and reduced
the quality of the country’s wheat crop, the third-biggest in
the European Union.  Grain weight for U.K. wheat averaged 69.6 kilograms (153
pounds) a hectoliter this season, down from 78.7 kilograms a
hectoliter last year, the AHDB’s Home-Grown Cereals Authority
reported last week. The indicator, known as specific weight,
signals how much flour can be milled from a quantity of grain.  “Poor wheat quality creates challenges across all supply
chains from growers to traders and on to domestic and overseas
flour millers and feed compounders,” Garbutt said.  The highest category of U.K. wheat is known as  nabim  group
1 and consists of varieties that typically produce consistent
milling and baking qualities, according to the National
Association of British & Irish Millers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  