-- U.S. Banks Have Provided $26.1 Billion Under Foreclosure Accord
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-11-19T14:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/u-s-banks-have-provided-26-1-billion-under-foreclosure-accord.html
The five largest U.S. mortgage
servicers have provided about $26.1 billion for borrowers so far
under a $25 billion settlement over abusive foreclosure
practices, according to a court-appointed monitor.      The aid included $2.6 billion in principal relief for about
22,000 borrowers, the Office of Mortgage Settlement Oversight
said in a report released today. Lenders including  Bank of
America  Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  aided
a total of 309,385 borrowers, according to the report.     “I’m encouraged,” Joseph A. Smith Jr., the settlement
monitor, said today in a telephone interview. “It looks like
transaction relief of various kinds is being implemented by all
the servicers.”  The report is required under the settlement agreement,
filed in federal court in February, that was reached after
 attorneys general  from all 50 states announced a probe into
foreclosure practices following disclosures that banks were
using faulty documents to seize homes. It is a preliminary
estimate of banks’ efforts, not a formal assessment of progress
toward meeting their obligation to spend $20 billion on borrower
relief and an additional $5 billion in payments to states and
the federal government.  The banks, also including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY) , negotiated the agreement with federal agencies, including
the  Justice Department , and 49 states.      Even as he cited progress, Smith said he has received
thousands of reports from borrowers indicating that there are
still problems with communication between banks and borrowers.  “I think we can work on ensuring that someone who is
qualified is getting the proper responses and treated correctly
and doesn’t get foreclosed on while they’re in modification,”
Smith said in the interview.      About $17 billion of the agreement will pay for mortgage
debt forgiveness, forbearance, short sales and other assistance
to homeowners. Servicers will also provide $3 billion in
refinancing to lower homeowners’ interest rates.  The settlement also sets new standards for servicing loans
aimed at preventing foreclosure abuses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  