-- U.S. Winter-Wheat Crop Worsens as Dry Weather Curtails Growth
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-11-19T21:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/u-s-winter-wheat-crop-worsens-as-dry-weather-curtails-growth.html
The condition of the U.S. winter-
wheat crop declined for the third straight week, the government
said, as rains missed the driest regions of the Great Plains,
slowing plant germination and curtailing growth.  An estimated 34 percent of winter crop, the most-common
domestic variety, was  rated  good or excellent as of yesterday,
down from 36 percent a week earlier, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said  today  in a report. About 24 percent was in poor
or very poor condition. A year earlier, 50 percent got the top
ratings and 16 percent was in the bottom two categories.  The worst U.S. drought since 1956 has helped push wheat
futures up 31 percent this year. About 78 percent of  Kansas , the
top winter-wheat grower, was in extreme or exceptional drought
as of Nov. 13. Dry, warm weather the next two weeks will slow
root development before plants go dormant for the winter,
according to T-Storm Weather LLC in  Chicago . The conditions have
already cut output of the nation’s two biggest crops, corn and
soybeans, sending prices to record highs.  “We have some germination issues, and dry weather the next
two weeks won’t improve conditions,”  Shawn McCambridge , the
senior grain analyst for Jefferies Bache LLC in Chicago, said in
a telephone interview before the report. “The low crop ratings
are a concern, but we’ve seen the wheat crop bounce back in the
spring with improved rainfall.”  The winter-wheat crop goes dormant during the coldest
months of the year and resumes growing in March.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued last year at
$14.4 billion, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  