-- Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Rise Unexpectedly: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-11-19T22:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/u-s-existing-home-sales-rose-in-october-to-4-79-million-rate.html
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes
unexpectedly climbed in October, showing record-low  mortgage
rates  are helping spur the world’s largest economy.  Purchases of  existing houses  increased 2.1 percent to a
4.79 million annual rate, exceeding the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in Washington. Property
values rose over the past 12 months by the most in seven years
as inventories dropped to the lowest level in almost a decade.  Gains in home prices are boosting consumer finances and
 sentiment , which in turn are underpinning the household spending
that accounts for about 70 percent of the economy. Companies
such as  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  are among those saying the outlook is
improving as the market recovers from its worst slump since the
Great Depression and foreclosures are whittled down.  “Housing’s cheap, borrowing is cheap and, if you can get
credit, it’s a great time to buy,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief
financial economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York, who
projected a 4.8 million annual rate for October sales. “We’re
fighting our way through distressed-property sales.”  Another report today showed homebuilder  confidence  climbed
in November to a six-year high, propelled by the biggest jump in
sales in a decade. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment gauge increased to 46, the
highest level since May 2006, from 41 in October, according to
the Washington-based group.  Shares Rise  Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index notching
its biggest advance in two months, amid the better-than-
projected data ad growing optimism that President  Barack Obama 
will reach a compromise with Congress that will avert the fiscal
cliff of tax increases and budget cuts slated to take effect
next year. The 500 Index climbed 2 percent to 1,386.89 the close
in New York. The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilder Index increased
0.9 percent.  A housing turnaround is also taking place in other parts of
the globe. Home sellers in  London  increased asking prices in
November for a third month as the city’s wealthiest areas
continued to lure overseas buyers, Rightmove Plc said today.
Prices in the U.K. capital increased 1.2 percent to an average
483,709 pounds ($769,600), the operator of Britain’s biggest
property website said.  The median forecast of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 4.74 million rate of U.S. existing-home sales.
Estimates ranged from 4.5 million to 5.05 million. September’s
pace was revised to 4.69 million from a previously reported 4.75
million.  Median Price  The  median price  of an existing home climbed 11.1 percent
to $178,600 from October 2011, today’s report showed. The
increase was the biggest year-over-year gain since November 2005
and reflected a pickup in demand for more expensive properties,
the group said.  “Housing prices have bottomed now on a national basis, and
in some markets you are seeing some good appreciation,” Robert Niblock, chief executive officer of Lowe’s, the second-largest
U.S. home-improvement retailer, said in a telephone interview
today from the company’s headquarters in Mooresville, North
Carolina. “People are going to feel better about spending on
their homes believing that in the future they’re going to be
worth the same or more than what they are today.”  Lowe’s today reported fiscal third-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates, sending shares up by the most in
more than three years.  Inventory Shrinks  The number of previously owned homes on the market
decreased 1.4 percent to 2.14 million, the fewest since December
2002. At the current sales pace, it would take 5.4 months to
sell those houses, the least since February 2006, and down from
5.6 months at the end of September.  Sales of existing single-family homes increased 1.9 percent
to an annual rate of 4.22 million. Purchases of multifamily
properties -- including condominiums -- rose to a 570,000 pace,
the most since January 2011, from 550,000.  Purchases climbed in three of the four regions, reflecting
a 4.4 percent increase in the West, a 2.1 percent gain in the
South and a 1.8 percent rise in the Midwest. Demand fell 1.7
percent in the Northeast as superstorm Sandy disrupted the
market, the agents’ group said.  “We anticipate more impact to be showing up in November
and December,” Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist, said in a
news conference as the figures were released.  Existing-home sales have improved from a low of a 3.39
million annual rate in July 2010, climbing to a two-year high
4.83 million pace in August. In the buildup to the subprime
lending collapse and recession, purchases reached a peak of 7.25
million in September 2005.  Less Distressed  Home prices are recovering as distressed property makes up
a smaller share of the market and purchases shift toward short
sales rather than foreclosures, which are more deeply
discounted, according to economists at Morgan Stanley.
Distressed properties made up 24 percent of the market last
month, down from 28 percent a year earlier.  Short sales, in which a lender agrees to a transaction for
less than the balance of the mortgage, accounted for 12 percent
of the market last month, the same as foreclosures. The latter
made up about 17 percent of the market a year ago, Ted Wieseman,
a Morgan Stanley economist in New York, said in a research note.  Cheaper borrowing costs will probably continue to fuel
demand for those able to get financing. The average rate on a
30-year, fixed mortgage  declined  to 3.34 percent last week, the
lowest in data going back to 1972, according to McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac.  Fed Action  The drop in financing costs indicates efforts by Federal
Reserve policy makers are paying off. The central bank is
pressing ahead with record easing, including a plan to buy $40
billion a month of mortgage-backed securities, intending to spur
growth and reduce a 7.9 percent unemployment rate.  “Continued weakness in housing -- reflected in falling
prices, low rates of new construction, and historic levels of
foreclosure -- has proved a powerful headwind to recovery,” Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week. “It is encouraging,
therefore, that we are seeing signs of improvement in the
housing market in most parts of the country.”  He has resorted to unorthodox policies six years after home
prices started a plunge that knocked the economy into the
longest recession since the 1930s.  Strict lending rules remain an obstacle to an even stronger
rebound in residential real estate, Bernanke said.  While tighter credit standards after a collapse in the
subprime mortgage market were appropriate, “it seems likely at
this point that the pendulum has swung too far the other way,
and that overly tight lending standards may now be preventing
creditworthy borrowers from buying homes, thereby slowing the
revival in housing and impeding the economic recovery,”
Bernanke said.  To contact the report on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  