-- Mumbai Returns to Normal Following Divisive Politician’s Funeral
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-11-19T03:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/mumbai-returns-to-normal-following-divisive-politician-s-funeral.html
Mumbai, home to  India ’s biggest
companies including Tata Sons Ltd. and  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,
returned to normal a day after the city shut down for the
funeral of divisive politician Bal Thackeray.  Thackeray, a Hindu-nationalist politician and founder of
the Shiv Sena party that campaigned against migrant workers,
Muslims and western cultural imports in Mumbai and the Indian
state of Maharashtra, died on Nov. 17. He was 86.  Taxis were back on the roads, said A.L. Quadros, the leader
of the Mumbai Taximen’s Union. Mumbai’s trains, which didn’t
stop operations yesterday, were running on schedule. As many as
1 million people attended Thackeray’s cremation yesterday, the
Times of India reported. Shops and movie theaters were shut and
streets were deserted after police advised people to stay at
home.  A former newspaper cartoonist, Thackeray founded Shiv Sena
in 1966, according to the group’s  website . The party, which has
controlled Mumbai’s city government in an alliance with the
 Bharatiya Janata Party  for most of the last two decades, evolved
from Thackeray’s ideology that Maharashtra belonged to the local
Marathi Hindu community, and argued that their interests must
take precedence over others.  “Thackeray was both revered and feared,”  Anand Mahindra ,
chairman of  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  posted on his Twitter Inc. site.
“Never ignored.”  After his death, supporters carrying Shiv Sena’s banner
were seen asking outlets to close in Santacruz, Khar and, Bandra
areas. A concert by Swedish House Mafia at Mahalaxmi Race Course
in Mumbai was canceled at the request of officials, organizers
said in an announcement on their Facebook page.  Migrants Targeted  Thackeray was briefly held by police in 2000 on charges of
inciting hatred against Mumbai’s minority Muslim community
during religious riots in 1992 and 1993. A local court dismissed
the case, invoking the statute of limitations, saying that the
alleged crime, which took place over seven years earlier, was
too old to be proceeded with.  Thackeray, known for his aggressive writing in the party
mouthpiece Saamna, first targeted migrants from south India.
Similar tactics were adopted by his nephew, Raj Thackeray,
against workers from poorer north Indian states after he split
with his uncle to form his own political party, the Maharashtra
Navnirman Sena, in 2006.  Laborers from  Uttar Pradesh  and Bihar were attacked by Raj
Thackeray’s party in Mumbai and other districts of Maharashtra
from February 2008, leading to his arrest and then bail on
charges of inciting violence. Mumbai is the capital of
Maharashtra.  ‘My Name is Khan’  “Thackeray played the ‘son of the soil’ card successfully
to arouse the feelings of the Marathi community in
Maharashtra,” said Satish Misra, a political analyst at the
Observer Research Foundation in New Delhi who has been following
Indian politics for three decades. “He was the uniting factor
for the Shiv Sena, and in his absence, the party’s movement will
suffer a serious blow.”  In February 2010, police in Mumbai arrested 1,000 Shiv Sena
members after they smashed up cinemas to prevent the screening
of ‘My Name is Khan,’ a film that featured Shah Rukh Khan, one
of Bollywood’s biggest stars. Khan was targeted after he
publicly regretted the absence of players from Islamic  Pakistan 
in the world’s richest cricket competition.  The party also has in the past violently opposed the
celebration of Valentine’s Day, saying it isn’t part of
traditional Indian culture.  Shiv Sena is named after a 17th-century local hero called
Shivaji who formed a Hindu kingdom and fought off attacks by
Muslim rulers.  Bal Thackeray is survived by son Uddhav, who now heads the
Shiv Sena. The party is a member of the BJP-led National
Democratic Alliance, and the main opposition in Congress-ruled
Maharashtra state.  Cricket Tour  Hindu nationalists allied to the Shiv Sena dug up the pitch
at  New Delhi ’s Ferozeshah Kotla cricket stadium in 1999 and
threatened to sabotage the opening Test match between India and
Pakistan in an attempt to have the latter’s first India tour
since March 1987 canceled.  Thackeray’s death comes as Pakistan’s cricket team is
scheduled to begin a tour of India in December, its first visit
since 2007. India broke cricketing ties with Pakistan after
terrorist attacks on Mumbai in 2008 by Pakistani gunmen, which
left 166 people dead.  Ram Gopal Varma, a Bollywood film director, in 2005
released a movie titled ‘Sarkar,’ or The Overlord, whose lead
character Subhash Nagre, played by veteran actor Amitabh Bachchan, was considered to have been loosely based on Bal
Thackeray.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  