-- Universal Entertainment Declines on Graft Allegations
-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 2012-11-19T08:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/universal-entertainment-falls-on-reported-payment-tokyo-mover.html
Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  fell
to the lowest in more than two years in Tokyo trading after the
 Philippines  said it was probing graft allegations and may cancel
Chairman Kazuo Okada’s casino license if bribery was proven.  Universal dropped 11 percent to close at 1,499 yen, the
lowest level since July 23, 2010. A Universal subsidiary made a
$5 million payment to Rodolfo Soriano, an associate of Efraim Genuino, former chairman of the Philippine Amusement and Gaming
Corp., Reuters  reported  Nov. 16. The Philippines’ Department of
Justice is investigating bribery allegations and may cancel a
license granted to Okada in the country, President Benigno Aquino’s spokesman Edwin Lacierda said today.  Universal, controlled by 70-year-old Japanese billionaire
Okada, and former partner  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  Chairman Steve Wynn,
also 70, are feuding over accusations of bribery. Shares of
Universal, which is building a casino in the Philippines, have
 slumped  22 percent since Feb. 19, when Wynn accused Okada of
making improper payments to gaming regulators in the
Philippines, in possible violation of U.S. anti-bribery laws.  The Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corp., or Pagcor, will
cooperate with both local and international authorities for the
investigation, the gaming regulator said in a statement today.  Universal declined to comment on the Reuters report, said
Nobuyuki Horiuchi, a spokesman at  Japan ’s  biggest maker of
pachinko machines . Ramon Esguerra, an attorney who has
represented Genuino, wasn’t immediately available for comment.
The number for the only Rodolfo Soriano listed in the Manila
phone book generated an automatic message saying the number
wasn’t accessible.  Gaming Consultant  Soriano was formerly a consultant of Pagcor, according to
the gaming regulator’s statement.  The Reuters report cited bank records, corporate filings,
court documents and records prepared by Universal staff.  Wynn Resorts in February forcibly redeemed Okada’s 20
percent stake in the Las Vegas-based casino operator for a 10-
year promissory note worth $1.9 billion, which Okada said was 30
percent less than the market value.  The board of Wynn Resorts redeemed Okada’s shares because
his conduct created a threat to the casino operator’s “good
standing with gaming regulators,” a Sept. 26  filing  showed.  Okada said in court filings that Steve Wynn wanted to oust
him because he questioned and voted against a $135 million
donation to the University of Macau last year.  Okada helped Steve Wynn bankroll the casino company, which
has resorts in Las Vegas and Macau, 12 years ago. In his
counterclaims to Wynn Resorts’ lawsuit, Okada said Steve Wynn
runs the business as a “personal fiefdom” and packs the board
with “friends who do his personal bidding.” He seeks a court
ruling in  Nevada  that the redemption of his shares is invalid.  Clark County District Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez in Las Vegas
rejected a request by Wynn Resorts this month to dismiss the
claims on grounds that Okada failed to support his allegation
that directors breached their duty of care and loyalty. She
threw out a racketeering claim by Okada against Steve Wynn, and
Kim Sinatra, Wynn’s general counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave McCombs in Tokyo at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  