-- Turkey Forecasts 2012 Asset Sales of $3.5 Billion, Below Target
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-11-19T14:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/turkey-forecasts-2012-asset-sales-of-3-5-billion-below-target.html
Turkey will miss its 2012
privatization goal as some sales spill over into next year,
Turkish Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said.  The country has earned 6.3 billion liras ($3.5 billion)
from asset sales so far this year, of which 4.5 billion liras
came from the sale of a stake in  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  last
week, Simsek said at a press conference in Ankara today. Revenue
is likely to rise to 6.8 billion liras by year-end, below the
target of 10 billion liras, he said.  Postponement of some revenue into 2013 means that year’s
goal of 4 billion liras is “achievable” and may be exceeded,
Simsek said. This year’s income will be used to pay down
government debt and to reduce borrowing needs. Yields on  two-
year Turkish benchmark debt  fell 15 basis points to a record low
of 6.28 percent at 3:40 p.m. following his comments.  Turkey ’s budget deficit more than doubled in October from a
year before as a slowing economy curbed tax revenue and
government expenditures jumped.  Preparations are also being made for a possible sale of the
government’s remaining 32 percent stake in fixed-line phone and
internet company Turk Telekomunikasyon AS, and a decision will
be made based on market conditions, Simsek said. Turkey hired
advisers including Barclays Bank Plc to advise on the sale.  Turk Telekom shares fell for a fourth day, dropping 0.6
percent to 6.50 liras, headed for the lowest close since June.  There are no immediate plans for a block sale of the
government’s remaining 51 percent stake in Halkbank, though it
might be considered in the longer term, Simsek said. The asset
sales agency is preparing to collect final bids for roads and
bridges, and sending invitations to potential bidders for
remaining power grids, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 