-- Turkish Air Gains Most in 3 Years on Earnings, Lufthansa Talks
-- B y   A y d a n   E k s i n
-- 2012-11-19T12:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/turkish-air-gains-most-in-3-years-on-earnings-lufthansa-talks.html
Turkish Airlines  surged the most in
three years in Istanbul after  Europe ’s fifth-largest carrier
posted quarterly earnings that beat analyst estimates and
cooperation talks with  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  progressed.  The stock surged as much as 10 percent, the biggest jump
since Oct. 20, 2009, after the company said third-quarter net
income rose 39 percent to 704.6 million liras ($391 million).
Analysts had expected a 452 million-lira profit.  Turkish Airlines plans to expand its fleet to 350 planes by
2020 from 200 now as it builds Istanbul into a transfer hub for
flights from Europe and  North America  to  Asia . While the talks
with Cologne, Germany-based Star Alliance partner Lufthansa
remain at an early stage, the companies are examining potential
focuses for deeper ties short of equity investments, Turkish
Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said today in Ankara.  “Cooperation may be developed in certain areas such as
catering or maintenance,” Simsek said at a press conference,
citing as an example the pair’s existing 50:50 charter venture
 SunExpress , which transports 7 million people a year between
Germany and Turkey with a fleet of 28 Boeing Co. 737-800 planes.  Lufthansa, Europe’s second-largest airline, is pushing
ahead with the sale of a stake in LSG Sky Chefs, the No. 1
inflight caterer, and has mandated JPMorgan Chase & Co. to help
seek a buyer, people familiar with the matter said last week.  Share Surge  Claudia Lange, a spokeswoman for the airline in  Frankfurt ,
declined to comment today beyond reiterating that the allies are
constantly working together to improve their customer offerings.  Turkish Airlines, (THYAO)  as Turk Hava Yollari AS is known, traded
6.4 percent  higher  at 4.69 liras as of 12:29 p.m. local time
during the first trading session since the Istanbul-based
company reported financial results on Nov. 17.  The stock has more than doubled in price this year, valuing
the business at 5.63 billion liras. That’s equivalent to $3.12
billion, compared with a $2.54 billion valuation for  Air France-
KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline by passenger traffic, the
measure most commonly used to rank carriers.  “Margin improvement was impressive and much better than
expected,” EFG Istanbul Research said in an investor note,
citing lower-than-forecast fuel expenses.  Sales that increased 21 percent to 4.48 billion liras also
beat estimates, as did passenger yields, a measure of average
fares, according to EFG, which upgraded its rating to
“outperform” from “market perform” and set a 12-month price
target of 5 liras, up from 4 liras. Yapi Kredi Yatirim also
upgraded the stock to buy from hold, it said in a note.  Shares of Lufthansa advanced as much as 3.3 percent and
later traded 2 percent higher at 11.92 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aydan Eksin in Istanbul at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  