-- Turner Says Regulators Can Only Reduce Frequency of Bank Crises
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-11-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/turner-says-regulators-can-only-reduce-frequency-of-bank-crises.html
U.K. Financial Services Authority
Chairman  Adair Turner  said tougher regulations aimed at
strengthening the banking system can only reduce the frequency
of financial crises and taxpayer-funded bailouts.  “The honest truth is that if you believe you have forever
completely destroyed the possibility of a taxpayer input, we’re
probably fooling ourselves,” Turner said at a hearing of the
U.K. Parliament’s Commission on Banking Standards in London late
yesterday. “But if we are successful, we are reducing the
periodicity of a taxpayer input from once every 50 years to once
every 200 years.”  Turner, seen as a potential candidate to succeed  Mervyn King  as Governor of the  Bank of England , said it has been a
“learning process” over the last four years and his thinking
has changed as the true extent of the financial crisis emerged.
He said there is a need for a “belt and braces” approach to
regulation and the key issue is ensuring banks have an adequate
level of capital to protect themselves.  “The core of resolvability is primary loss-absorbing
capacity and bail-in-able debt,” Turner said. “And provided
you have enough of that, then if proprietary trading activities
produce losses, we can make sure those do not fall on the
taxpayer or on a systemic shock to the industry, but are
absorbed by the appropriate bail-in-able senior unsecured debt.
That’s very important.”  Turner’s Odds  The  banking commission  is currently scrutinizing the U.K.’s
Banking Reform Bill and plans to report on Dec. 18. King, Bank
of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  and  Andrew Haldane , the
central bank’s executive director for financial stability, will
attend the commission on Nov. 22.  Turner is at odds of 7-1 at  Paddy Power Plc (PWL)  to become the
next BOE governor, meaning a 1-pound winning bet would yield a
7-pound profit. Tucker is the favorite, at odds of 1-3, while
the second favorite is Terence Burns, former  Permanent Secretary 
at the Treasury, at 13-2.  John Vickers , chairman of the
Independent Commission on Banking, is also 7-1.  Turner said that there is a need for both “structural
proposals” to strengthen banks, such as those put forward by
the ICB on the ring-fencing of consumer units, and “robust
proposals” on capital and liquidity in the aftermath of the
crisis.  “We have to recognize that it was deeper and more
fundamental and with more adverse consequences than was apparent
in 2009,” he said. “As this crisis and post-crisis has gone
on, like many people I’ve been increasingly aware of what a deep
set of problems there are in our banking industry.”  Banking Culture  Turner also said it’s too simple to blame  investment
banking  alone for a decline in the “culture” of banking.  “The culture of classic commercial banking was probably
contaminated by three different things -- one of which was an
investment banking culture that everything is there to be traded
and make money from in the short term,” he said. Still, there
were other issues -- the selling of financial products to the
public without “appropriate constraints” and a too-heavy focus
on return on equity,’’ he said.  “In many sectors of the economy there is nothing wrong”
with a focus on ROE, “but I think applied to banking that is
potentially dangerous,” Turner said. “That’s because in
banking the easiest way to boost return on equity is simply to
boost leverage, either in direct open ways or in a set of hidden
ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  