-- Variable-Annuity Sales Fall Most in 12 Quarters
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-11-19T18:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/variable-annuity-sales-fall-most-in-12-quarters.html
Sales of  variable annuities  fell the
most in 12 quarters as insurers led by  MetLife Inc. (MET)  scaled back
offerings of the equity-linked retirement products under
pressure from low interest rates and stock market volatility.  Variable annuity sales declined 8 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier to $36.6 billion, according to  data 
from industry group Limra. Customers  purchased  $4.6 billion of
the products from New York-based MetLife, dropping it to the No.
3 provider behind  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and  Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s
Jackson National, from No. 1 a year earlier.  Insurers are seeking to cut their  risks  from variable
annuities, which can guarantee payouts to retirees even if the
value of customers’ investments falls. Low  interest rates  limit
the returns companies can earn on clients’ funds, while stock
market declines push liabilities higher.  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG)  has sought to instead focus on property-
casualty coverage while  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  has turned to
long-term care policies.  “Protracted low interest rates have impacted all lines of
the annuity business,” Joe Montminy, director of Limra annuity
research, said in a statement today. “The sustained uncertain
economic environment has many companies implementing
conservative risk management strategies.”  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, reduced variable
annuity risk by raising prices and limiting customers’ ability
to deposit funds in existing accounts. The insurer expects the
sales decline to continue in the current quarter, Chief
Financial Officer John Hele said on a Nov. 1 conference call
with analysts. The firm took a $1.6 billion impairment related
to the U.S. retail annuity business in the third quarter, citing
a reduced value for the unit amid lower interest rates.  Client Buyouts  Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same name,
said earlier this month it will offer to pay some clients to
give up variable annuities as it works to cut risk. Axa SA’s Axa
Equitable and Aegon NV’s Transamerica said this year they are
offering similar buyouts.  Variable-annuity sales at Prudential Financial, the No. 2
U.S. life insurer, rose 32 percent to $5.9 billion, Limra said.
The  Newark , New Jersey-based company is the largest seller of
the retirement products this year.  MetLife’s sales were more than $8 billion in the third
quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Pak in New York at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  