-- WADA Wants 4-Year Sanctions for Serious Doping Violations
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-19T16:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/wada-wants-4-year-sanctions-for-serious-doping-violations.html
Athletes caught committing serious
doping offenses such as using anabolic steroids or human growth
hormone may be banned for four years instead of two, the  World
Anti-Doping Agency  said.  WADA’s proposal is part of a review of its World Anti-
Doping Code, which is scheduled to come into force in 2015. The
agency is facing calls for tougher penalties after high-profile
cases including track and field athletes and former Tour de
France champion  Lance Armstrong .  “The code review is intended to increase the effectiveness
of anti-doping, and athletes must know that there is a heavy
price to pay for intentional doping, that the risks are high,”
WADA President John Fahey said in a statement on its website.
 “I am confident this draft will deliver that message loud and
clear, and that our own stakeholders will agree.”  Under the proposals, four-year bans would apply to
violations including the use of anabolic steroids, human growth
hormone and masking agents as well as trafficking.  Currently, athletes who are found guilty of a serious
violation are suspended for two years, followed by a life-ban
should another positive test follow.  The so-called Osaka rule -- which bans athletes who
received a doping sanction of more than six months from taking
part in the next  Olympic Games  -- was not included in the draft
proposals.  Unlawful  Introduced in 2008, the Osaka rule was deemed unlawful by
the Court of Arbitration for Sport in April. This paved the way
for athletes who had served drug suspensions in the past, such
as British sprinter Dwain Chambers and U.S. runner LaShawn
Merritt, to compete in the  London  Olympics.  Speaking on a conference call from  Montreal  today, Fahey
said he was “confident” the tougher penalties “won’t breach
any current law in any part of the world.”  WADA further said its annual budget of close to $28 million
had been frozen for a second straight year amid the global
economic downturn. As a result, the organization has had to dip
into its reserves to cover shortfalls for its operating costs.  Although Fahey today said that as a former finance minister
in  Australia  he understood the budgetary restraint -- WADA gets
its funding from governments and the  International Olympic
Committee  -- the funding freeze may have repercussions for the
fight against doping in the future.  “We’re nearly down to using that reserve, and the day is
coming when if we won’t get a reasonable increase in our budget,
then we will have to seriously look at cutting programs,” Fahey
said. “I think that would be a tragedy. We need more money to
be more effective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  