-- Weather Turnaround Seen Benefitting Marfrig, Brasil Foods
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-11-19T12:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/weather-turnaround-seen-benefitting-marfrig-brasil-foods.html
Improving weather is allaying
concern that a dry spell in Brazil and floods in  Argentina  may
pare output of corn and soybeans used to feed  Marfrig Alimentos
SA’s (MRFG3)  and  BRF-Brasil Foods SA’ (BRFS3)  poultry and hogs.  Showers in western Brazil are easing a drought that dimmed
planting prospects, while less rain on the Argentine Pampas and
southern Brazil is allowing soil to dry after downpours swamped
fields and delayed sowing, said forecasters including
AccuWeather Inc. and Somar Meteorologia.  A U.S. drought fueled soybean’s surge to a record on Sept.
4, increasing animal-feed costs for Brasil Foods, the world’s
largest poultry exporter, and Marfrig, the biggest supplier of
hamburger patties and chicken nuggets to  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  Better
weather in  South America , which grows half the world’s soybeans,
reduces the risk that costs will rise further.  “The outlook is bright for  Brasil Foods  and Marfrig as
Brazil will harvest a record crop,” Saulo Sabba, who helps
manage 500 million reais ($241 million) as a director at Banco
Maxima SA, said in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .
“I see blue skies ahead.”  Marfrig and Brasil Foods, Brazil’s largest food companies,
are outperforming the broader market this year as an expanding
middle-income class increases demand for TV dinners and frozen
pizzas, allowing the companies to pass rising costs through to
consumers.  Brasil Foods rose 1.9 percent in Sao Paulo this year before
today, compared with a 2.4 percent drop in the benchmark Bovespa
index. It fell 0.1 percent to 37.05 reais at 10:23 a.m. Marfrig,
which has been boosted by a plan to cut debt through a share
sale backed by Brazil’s development bank, was up 0.2 percent
from yesterday after rising 30 percent this year.  Price Increases  Marfrig trades at 32 times analysts’ earnings estimates for
the next four quarters, compared with a ratio of 22 for Brasil
Foods and 16 for the Bovespa index.  Both Sao Paulo-based companies increased prices for their
food products about 7 percent on average in the third quarter,
according to earnings reports.  “We have our eyes set on the situation,” Brasil Foods
Chief Executive Officer Jose Antonio Fay told reporters in  Sao
Paulo  Nov. 13. “If Brazil doesn’t reap the bumper crop that’s
expected, it will be a problem for food inflation.”  Brasil Foods’ press office declined to comment further. A
Marfrig official, who isn’t an authorized spokesperson, also
declined to comment.  The western Brazilian state of Mato Grosso, the country’s
largest soybean-growing area, is getting 170 millimeters (6.7
inches) of rain in the second half of this month, following a
dry spell in previous weeks, Somar analyst Celso Oliveira said
from Sao Paulo. The Argentine Pampas will receive 20 to 45
millimeters of mild showers that will alternate with sunshine,
following downpours that swamped farms earlier this month, he
said.  Turnaround  “The weather has started to turn around and is looking
pretty favorable,” AccuWeather’s Dale Mohler said in a
telephone interview from  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  Marfrig processes poultry, hogs, fish and beef in 87 plants
in Brazil and another 21 in Argentina, Uruguay and  Chile . Its
Keystone Foods unit in the U.S. is the biggest meat products
supplier to McDonald’s. Marfrig also produces the Jamie Oliver
chicken products through its U.K. Moy Park unit.  Brasil Foods owns 52 plants in Brazil and five in Argentina
that process meat into hotdogs, nuggets, hamburgers and other
food products. It gets about 41 percent of its revenue from
processed meat food, another 41 percent from raw meat and the
rest from dairy products. About 59 percent of sales come from
the domestic market and the rest is exported.  Planting  Farmers in  Brazil  and Argentina started planting soybeans
and corn crops for the 2012-2013 season in September and usually
begin harvesting in January.  Soybean futures have slumped 22 percent from September’s
record after the outlook for bumper crops in South America
helped offset shortage concerns.  “Both Brazil and Argentina hold the key to the supply-side
equation over the next few months,” Barclays Capital analyst
Sudakshina Unnikrishnan said in an interview from  London . “You
can’t overestimate the importance of a good South American crop
after the concerns and issues we’ve seen with the US crop.”  Brazil, set to surpass the U.S. as the largest soybean
grower, sees output jumping 26 percent to a record 83 million
metric tons as rainfall is expected to improve yields, the
government said on Nov. 8.  Record Crop  Farmers in Argentina, the largest exporter of  soybean oil 
made by  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and Cargill Inc., may reap a record 58
million tons as crops expand and benefit from showers, industry
group Acsoja’s president, Miguel Calvo, said in a Nov. 12
interview.  Recent rainfall may not be enough to help fields in western
Brazil recover from dryness and planting delays, Hamburg-based
researcher Oil World said Nov. 13. Flooding in Argentina may
reduce the country’s summer-crop planting by as much as 2
million hectares (4.9 million acres), Oil World said.  “It’s a cause of concern because the world is depending on
a record harvest from South America,” Giovana Araujo, an
analyst with  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , said in a Nov. 14
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “We are depending on
perfect weather conditions during development.”  Brasil Foods posted third-quarter net income excluding some
items of 90.9 million reais, missing the 107.8 million-real
average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Marfrig’s net income of 10.4 million reais beat estimates for a
loss of 54 million reais.  “We had a lot of disturbances in the beginning of the
planting, but with good rain from now on we could surpass the
estimates,” Glauber Silveira, head of Brazilian soybean
producers association Aprosoja, said on Nov. 9 from Caceres,
Brazil. “While it’s still early, there’s no doubt that we’ll
have a record crop.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  