-- West Penn Allegheny Looming Default No Bellwether: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/west-penn-allegheny-looming-default-no-bellwether-muni-credit.html
The $100 billion market for high-
yield municipal debt is rallying the most in three years in the
face of the potential bankruptcy of the biggest tax-exempt junk
issue since at least 1990.  West Penn Allegheny Health System, a hospital group in
Pittsburgh with $726 million of debt below investment grade, is
struggling with deepening losses and falling revenue. There is
“a high likelihood” the provider will seek  bankruptcy
protection  or restructure its bonds, even as it discusses
affiliating with one of the nation’s 10 biggest health-insurance
companies, Moody’s Investors Service said last week.  Securities of West Penn have lost 30 percent of their value
since their sale in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Meanwhile, speculative-grade munis are earning the most since
2009. With tax-free  interest rates  at 45-year lows, high-yield
munis will extend their rally even if West Penn fails to repay
investors in full, said Susan Courtney, a managing director at
Prudential Fixed Income in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  “Investors in the muni high-yield space are aware of
what’s going on with West Penn,” said Courtney, who helps
manage $1.8 billion in tax-exempts, including West Penn bonds.
“In this low-rate environment you have the search for yield, so
the lower-rated credits are performing better.”  2012 Reversal  Muni investors have poured $9.7 billion into high-yield
funds this year, compared with $2.6 billion of withdrawals in
the same period of 2011, Lipper US Fund Flows data show. The
hunt for yield in 2012 has lowered borrowing costs for
financially stressed issuers from  California  to  Puerto Rico .  Gains in the $3.7 trillion muni market accelerated in the
past two weeks amid speculation that income-tax rates will rise
as part of trimming the federal deficit. While munis have earned
8.2 percent this year, high-yield has banked 17 percent, the
most since 2009, according to  Standard & Poor’s . Debt backed by
hospital and health-care revenue has earned about 11 percent.  Yet West Penn, which admitted almost 56,000 patients in
fiscal 2012, has been left out of the rally. Bonds due in 2040
traded at 70 cents on the dollar Nov. 13, down from 101.8 cents
when they were issued in June 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The average yield on last week’s trade was 8.1 percent,
compared with 5.15 percent at issue.  West Penn has made no determination on a bankruptcy filing,
Kelly Sorice, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Always Speculative  The company’s tax-exempt revenue deal was initially rated
Ba2 by Moody’s, two levels below investment grade. The debt,
which doesn’t have bond insurance, is now eight steps lower at
Ca after Moody’s downgraded the system last week.  The offer was the largest tax-exempt junk deal since at
least 1990, Bloomberg data show. Larger issues backed by tobacco
revenue were sold with investment grades and are now junk, said
Daniel Solender, who helps manage about $17 billion of munis
bonds, including West Penn, at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City .  The market for tax-exempt munis ranked below investment
grade tallies about $100 billion, not including unrated issues,
according to Peter DeGroot, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The buying has shrunk the extra yield that investors demand
to hold 30-year munis rated BBB, two steps above junk, to  1.7
percentage points , close to the smallest since 2008, Bloomberg
data show. The 10-year average is about 1.4 points.  More Room  The longer-term trend shows “there still would be room”
for more gains, Courtney said.  Investors still shouldn’t expect a repeat of this year,
said Tim Pynchon, who helps manage $3 billion of high-yield
munis at Pioneer Investment Management Inc. in  Boston . Returns
in 2013 may be limited to 8 percent or less, he said.  “You can’t anticipate that we’re going to see a year like
this next year, because much of the  risk premium  that should be
in place is now being eliminated,” Pynchon said.  West Penn terminated an affiliation agreement with
Pittsburgh-based Highmark Inc. in September partly because the
latter demanded that West Penn restructure its debt through
bankruptcy, the system said on Sept. 28. Officials from both
sides met last week to discuss a potential affiliation after a
Nov. 9 court ruling prohibited West Penn from seeking other
partners, according to Sorice, the West Penn spokeswoman.  ‘Best Interests’  “Highmark and WPAHS continue to believe that an
affiliation between them is in the best interests of both
organizations and of the greater community,” the groups said in
a statement issued Nov. 12.  Any partnership would require approval from the
Pennsylvania Insurance Department. West Penn encompasses five
hospitals, including Allegheny General Hospital, with 1,695
physicians.  West Penn had operating losses of $113 million and $75
million in the past two years, according to Moody’s. The system
has an unfunded pension liability of $279 million. It competes
with the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, the region’s
largest health system.  West Penn was formed in 2000 to bring the five hospitals
under one company after Allegheny General Hospital’s parent
filed for bankruptcy in 1998.  “This is a situation that’s been difficult for a long
time,” Solender said.  Following are pending sales:  TEXAS MUNICIPAL GAS ACQUISITION & SUPPLY CORP. plans to
sell $1 billion of gas supply revenue bonds as soon as this
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will finance the
prepayment of a 20-year supply of natural gas, according to bond
documents. (Updated Nov. 19)  MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA, plans to sell about $808
million in bonds as soon as this week that will be backed in
part by revenue from Miami International Airport, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The proceeds will refinance debt.
(Updated Nov. 19)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  