-- Woodside Considers Southeast Asian Expansion After Myanmar Deal
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-11-19T05:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/woodside-considers-southeast-asian-expansion-after-myanmar-deal.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , operator of
the A$15 billion ($15.6 billion) Pluto liquefied natural gas
project in  Australia , is considering expanding in Southeast Asia
after reaching an exploration accord in Myanmar.  Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer expects a
drilling campaign with  Daewoo International Corp. (047050)  to begin in
about 2014, Chief Executive Officer Peter Coleman said today in
a Bloomberg Television interview. Woodside will acquire a 40
percent stake in the project in the Rakhine Basin off western
Myanmar, the Perth-based company said last month.  “Myanmar holds lots of promise,” Coleman said. “It’s
early days. This is what oil and gas companies call a frontier
play, so the rewards are high, but the risks are as well.”  Woodside has said it’s studying international expansion
opportunities as the Australian LNG industry faces increasing
construction costs and supply competition. The energy company
said last month it’s in the early stage of bidding for a stake
in  Israel ’s largest natural gas field and joined a group earlier
this year that bid for exploration rights off Cyprus.  “Southeast Asia offers us some opportunity in frontier
plays,” Coleman said. “Myanmar is our focus at the moment. We
are looking at other countries in the region.”  Woodside, whose Pluto LNG venture started production in
April, also plans to decide next year on whether to proceed with
the Browse LNG venture in Western Australia. The Browse LNG hub
has received approval from the state government, according to an
e-mailed statement today. The company, seeking to broaden its
Australia-focused portfolio of assets, is continuing talks on
the Leviathan field in Israel, he said.  International energy companies, including Woodside,
submitted bids to buy as much as 30 percent of the prospect in
Israel, partners in the Leviathan field said last month.  “We’ve got to look at other parts of the world,” Coleman
said. “The eastern Mediterranean offers potential. We’re still
in negotiations in the eastern Mediterranean. It does bring some
risk, but we think we can manage those risks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  