-- Xi Warns of Regime’s Demise Unless China Tackles Graft
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-19T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/xi-jinping-warns-of-regime-s-demise-unless-china-tackles-graft.html
Xi Jinping, the new head of  China ’s
ruling Communist Party, told his fellow leaders that unless they
address corruption social unrest may rise and it could lead to
the demise of the party.  “The preponderance of facts tell us that the more severe
the corruption problem becomes, it will ultimately lead the
party and the nation to perish!” Xi told members of the ruling
Politburo on Nov. 17 in  remarks  published yesterday in the
People’s Daily, the party newspaper. “We must be vigilant!”  Xi’s comments came two days after he took over leadership
of the 82-million member party from  Hu Jintao , who is also
expected to turn over the state presidency to Xi in March. The
Communist Party was rocked by the biggest political scandal in a
generation this year with the ouster of Bo Xilai from the
Politburo in April and the conviction in August of his wife for
the murder of a British businessman.  Xi told a study group of the ruling Politburo that the
collapse of some regimes around the world in recent years was
linked to rising corruption, saying that “first the body rots,
then the worms grow,” according to the remarks published in the
People’s Daily. Xi also said that all cadres must restrain their
relatives, show self restraint, never abuse their power and
never enjoy special privileges.  “Everyone in violation of party discipline must be
punished,” Xi said. “We can’t be soft.”  Corruption Endangers Party  The phrase Xi used to warn about corruption endangering the
party was similar to that used by Hu in a Nov. 8 speech, during
which he told delegates to the 18th Communist Party Congress
that “if we fail to handle this issue well, it could prove
fatal to the Party, and even cause the collapse of the Party and
the fall of the state.”  The Communist Party’s Central Commission for Discipline
Inspection handled 643,759 cases in the period between Nov. 2007
and June this year, with 668,429 people punished, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported, citing the commission.  In the same period, the committee investigated 81,391 cases
of business graft, involving monetary amounts exceeding 22.2
billion  yuan , according to a report from the Commission
distributed by Xinhua over the government website.  “Our efforts to sieve out senior offenders such as Bo
Xilai,  Liu Zhijun , Xu Zongheng show the Party’s determination to
crack down on corruption,” the Commission said.  Bo was former Party chief of Chongqing municipality and
politburo member. Liu was China’s rail minister before a
corruption investigation led to his downfall. Former Shenzhen
mayor Xu stood trial in April for taking bribes of 33.2 million
yuan, Xinhua reported on April 21.  Anti-Corruption Campaign  Even as China’s anti-corruption campaign made some progress
over the last five years, graft became more complicated and
harder to spot, Xinhua said yesterday, citing the Party’s
discipline committee.  Some Chinese officials leveraged their positions to reap
illegal gains for their spouses, children, relatives, and people
who worked with them, Xinhua said, citing a report from the
discipline commission. Some officials broke the law and violated
Party rules, it said.  The Commission pledged to strengthened its current system
of preventing and tackling corruption, including cracking down
on extravagant spending on official receptions, travel, and
vehicles, and will closely monitor the selection and promotion
of officials, the report said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  