-- Yuan Reaches Upper Limit on Optimism for U.S. Budget Resolution
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-11-19T08:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/yuan-reaches-upper-limit-on-optimism-for-u-s-budget-resolution.html
China’s  yuan  reached the upper end
of its trading limit on speculation the U.S. will succeed in
avoiding the so-called fiscal cliff that threatens to push one
of the Asian nation’s biggest export markets into recession.  Regional currencies and stocks advanced after President
 Barack Obama  expressed confidence that he would reach agreement
with Congress to avoid the $607 billion of spending cuts and tax
increases. The yuan has gained 2.6 percent from this year’s low
touched on July 25, which may help appease U.S. politicians who
say China keeps the currency undervalued to boost trade. Obama
is attending meetings of the  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations  this week amid a spat between  China  and Japan over
ownership of islands.  “Investor appetite has improved as they expect U.S.
politicians will solve the problem in the end as no one could
afford to see a halt to the economic recovery,” said Bruce Yam,
a currency strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “Obama may touch on China’s exchange rates but the
region’s territorial disputes are more pressing.”  The yuan rose 0.02 percent to close at 6.2345 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency traded at a 1 percent premium to the central bank’s
daily fixing, the maximum it’s allowed to fluctuate. The
People’s Bank of China lowered the  reference rate  by 0.05
percent to 6.2975 per dollar.  One-month implied volatility for the yuan, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.7 percent.  Next Step  China’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said on Nov.
17 that full convertibility of the yuan will be the next step in
the overhaul of the exchange-rate system as calls grow for the
nation’s new leadership to deepen changes in the economy to
sustain growth. Zhou, 64, wasn’t named to the new Communist
Party central committee announced during the November leadership
transition, heightening speculation that he will retire.  “Zhou is likely to retire and his remarks aren’t
surprising as China has already been moving toward greater yuan
flexibility in recent years,” said Yam. “While the export
outlook remains grim, China doesn’t have the conditions to allow
further yuan appreciation.”  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the currency climbed 0.11
percent to 6.2346 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.12
percent to 6.3398, a 1.7 percent discount to the onshore spot
rate.  The one-month  interbank rate  on yuan deposits in  Hong Kong 
was 2.15 percent today, down from a record 3.5 percent on Oct. 1,
Bloomberg data showed.  Obama arrived in Myanmar today for a historic visit and is
due to meet with Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  at the East Asia
Summit in  Cambodia  this week. Asean leaders will discuss setting
rules for operating in the  South China Sea  to try and solve the
islands’ dispute between China and Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  