-- Zidane’s Agent Used U.K. ‘Letterbox’ Company to Evade Taxes
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-11-19T11:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/zidane-s-agent-used-u-k-letterbox-company-to-evade-taxes.html
The former agent of three-time world
soccer player of the year  Zinedine Zidane  used a so-called U.K.
letterbox company as part of a plan to avoid paying more than
2.5 million euros ($3.2 million) in taxes, according to the
ruling of an appeal court in  Valencia , Spain.  Alain Migliaccio  was sentenced to five years in prison and
fined 9.2 million euros after he set up London-based
International Sport Consultant Ltd., or ISCL, to “create the
appearance” he was taxed in the U.K., according to a ruling
sent by e-mail by a court official today. About 95 percent of
the earnings were sent to a bank account in the tax haven of
 Panama , the ruling said.  Migliaccio, who moved to Valencia from France in 1997, used
the services of financial planner Matthew Edwards and Co. the
following year to form ISCL, a letterbox company that had
nominee administrators and “no economic activity at all,” the
ruling said. A phone call to the Isle of Man-based company
seeking comment on the judgment wasn’t immediately returned.  Migliaccio represented several members of France’s 1998
World Cup-winning team including Zidane and  Laurent Blanc ,
according to the ruling which didn’t mention player trades he
brokered at the time. Migliaccio broke his link with ISCL at the
end of 2001, the ruling said.  Nigel Jordan, an official for the U.K.’s Inland Revenue tax
authority, provided evidence in an initial criminal court case
in Valencia that on April 30 ruled Migliaccio as guilty of  tax
evasion . The appeal court ruling dated Nov. 2 agreed to reduce
Migliaccio’s sentence to five years from seven years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  