-- ‘Fiorello!’ Charms at ‘Encores’; Spooky ‘Vandal’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/-fiorello-charms-at-encores-spooky-vandal-review.html
Five feet tall and jowlier than
Winston Churchill,  Fiorello LaGuardia  ruled New York City from
1934 to 1945.  He broke the Tammany Hall political machine. When a strike
interrupted newspaper delivery, the populist mayor took to the
airwaves, reading the day’s comic strips over the radio.  But when we first meet him in Jerry Bock and Sheldon
Harnick’s 1959 Pulitzer-winning charmer “ Fiorello! ” the Little
Flower is small beer: a workaholic lawyer and friend to the
disenfranchised scrabbling to make a name for himself.  He falls for curvy Thea, a ladies-garments model who -- as
played by the enchanting Kate Baldwin in this opening
presentation of City Center’s “Encores!” season -- towers over
him.  She doesn’t immediately fall back. After 10 years of
marriage, though, she wonders, in the show’s tenderest ballad,
“When Did I Fall in Love?”  As Bock and Harnick would write five years later in
“Fiddler on the Roof,” when love does finally happen, “it’s
nice to know.”  “Fiorello!” affectionately mixes hagiography and
agitprop. The best-known song, “Little Tin Box,” is a jaunty
paean to political patronage. The show doesn’t so much end as
stop dead in its tracks just as LaGuardia wins both the
mayoralty and the girl (a second one, in fact, after Thea’s
death).  Heavy Torch  “Fiorello!” launched the cherishable “Encores!” series
20 years ago. The reprise, directed by Gary Griffin, is
cheerful, if somewhat zingless.  Danny Rutigliano is pugnacious in the title role but lacks
charisma. As his adoring Girl Friday, Erin Dilly carries the
torch a bit too weightily.  But Jenn Gambatese is charming as Dora, the perky
seamstress who falls for a cop. And as LaGuardia’s political
rabbi Ben Marino, the fine Shuler Hensley gave off sparks
otherwise absent, his graveled voice sounding even more Tom
Waits-like than usual as he led “Tin Box.”  In a cameo as a chantoosie sashaying her way through an ode
to Walker, Emily Skinner provided another highlight.  The shrill amplification of Rob Berman’s superb orchestra
eventually settled down, but why the electronics at all? The
players are on stage, after all.  Through Feb. 3 at City Center, 131 W. 55th St. Information:
+1-212-581-1212;  http://www.nycitycenter.org . Rating: ***  ‘The Vandal’  “The Vandal,” at the  Flea  in Tribeca, features three
extraordinary actors in a new play by Hamish Linklater, better
known as an actor and for good reason.  Deirdre O’Connell is sitting at a bus stop minding her own
business when a young man in a hoodie begins chatting her up. He
hopes to convince her to buy him a six-pack of Bud at a nearby
liquor store.  O’Connell and Noah Robbins, as the talkative conversant,
play off one another wonderfully -- she the standoffish cynic,
he the relentless puppy.  This acutely expressive actress plays equally well off the
suspicious liquor-store owner played by Zach Grenier (the
wickedly entertaining divorce lawyer David Lee from CBS’s “ The
Good Wife ”). Especially when he encounters her, somewhat
looped, in the local cemetery.  A ghost story with several unexpected twists, “The
Vandal” struggles to explore the narratives we construct to
cope with loss. I admire the Flea and sympathetic director Jim
Simpson for giving Linklater such a first-rate showcase for what
is, at this point, something of a muddle.  Through Feb. 17 at The Flea, 41 White St., Tribeca.
Information: +1-212-226-2407;  http://www.theflea.org . Rating:
**1/2  ( Jeremy Gerard  is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  Lewis Lapham  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 