-- A&E Can’t Stop Repeat of History in U.K. Dispute With Discovery
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-01T12:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/a-e-can-t-stop-repeat-of-history-in-u-k-dispute-with-discovery.html
A&E Television Networks LLC, which
airs the History channel, lost a U.K. court bid to prevent a
 Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  unit from using the word in the
name of its rival documentary television station.  Judge Peter Smith said evidence from viewers didn’t show
they were likely to mistake Discovery History for A&E’s History,
which used to be known as the History Channel.  “I do not see that any clear picture emerged from these
witnesses to show there was any possible confusion,” he said in
a written decision.  Discovery, which owns TLC and has a joint partnership with
 Oprah Winfrey ’s OWN cable network, is adding channels and
programming in new markets to counter slowing growth in the U.S.
Its international business, which accounts for a little more
than a third of annual sales, is growing faster than its U.S.
business, Chief Executive Officer  David Zaslav  said in December.  A&E argued at a July trial that it lost viewers and
advertising revenue because Discovery had tricked people into
watching its channel. Discovery filed a counterclaim to strike
out the trademark, saying that New York-based A&E wanted a
monopoly on the word history. The counterclaim was also rejected
by Judge Smith.  Michael Feeney, a spokesman for A&E in  New York , declined
to comment. Jeremy Dickerson, Discovery’s lawyer didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail requesting comment on the
ruling.  Judge Smith, who said during the trial he enjoyed watching
historical television stations featuring “documentaries about
tanks trundling across the Russian steppe,” criticized evidence
presented by A&E.  The company’s lawyers interviewed viewers without telling
them until afterwards the information would be used in a trial.  “It seems blatantly unfair to the witness,” Smith said in
his judgment. “It is clear that statements were ‘finessed’ to
present them in a more favorable light,” without witnesses
understanding what was happening, he said.  Discovery, which also broadcasts the Animal Planet and TLC
channels, has 1.8 billion subscribers in 209 countries,
according to its website. A&E also produces the Hoarders and
Storage Wars television shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  