-- AB InBev May Need to Sell Brewery to End U.S. Modelo Suit
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n ,   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d ,   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-01T15:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/ab-inbev-may-need-to-sell-brewery-to-end-u-s-modelo-suit.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  may have to
give up more control of U.S. beer distribution or even sell a
brewery to settle an antitrust lawsuit by the U.S. to block its
$20.1 billion takeover of the rest of  Grupo Modelo SAB. (GMODELOC)   AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer, and U.S. regulators
are proceeding with talks on the  Justice Department ’s objections
to the deal, according to people familiar with the matter. The
Leuven, Belgium-based maker of Budweiser must decide whether to
give more concessions to the government, fight the lawsuit in
court, or walk away from the transaction, said  Herbert Hovenkamp , who teaches antitrust law at the  University of Iowa .  “It’s a tiny percentage that go to trial,” Hovenkamp
said. “More often than not, the parties identify some assets
that can be spun off.”  Shares of AB InBev, which controls almost half the U.S.
beer market, and Modelo,  Mexico ’s biggest brewer, plunged after
the Justice Department filed its complaint yesterday in federal
court in  Washington . The government argued the transaction
violates antitrust law because it would eliminate the
“substantial head-to-head competition” between the companies
and “diminish ABI’s incentive to innovate.”  The department acted yesterday as a deadline was looming to
end its investigation and because the suit allows the government
to keep its options open, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the process
is private. The parties haven’t fallen into intractably hostile
camps, that person said.  Deal Clampdown  The complaint is the latest in a series of challenges to
deals laid out by regulators. AT&T Inc. abandoned a $39 billion
bid to buy Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA in December 2011
after opposition from the Justice Department, while more
recently European regulators blocked Deutsche Boerse AG’s
purchase of NYSE Euronext and United Parcel Service Inc.’ 5.16
billion-euro ($7.1 billion) bid for TNT Express NV.  Bill Baer, head of the department’s antitrust unit, said AB
InBev’s proposal to sell Modelo’s stake in Crown Imports LLC, a
U.S. distributor Modelo owns jointly with  Constellation Brands
Inc. (STZ) , fell “far short” of protecting consumers.  “Even with this fix, ABI would still control Modelo’s
brand and its brewing and bottling assets,” Baer said yesterday
on a conference call. The U.S. would seek an injunction to block
the deal formally, pending any trial, he said.  Shares Rebound  Potential remedies AB InBev is considering include removing
the 10-year  call option  on Crown Imports, said a person familiar
with the company’s thinking. The brewer also plans to argue that
the U.S. beer market is already sufficiently competitive and
that a deal can in theory be done, the person said.  AB InBev rose 4.1 percent to 66.54 euros at 4:17 p.m. in
Brussels trading, regaining some of yesterday’s 7.8 percent
drop.  Grupo Modelo  rose 0.6 percent to 108.85 pesos in Mexico
City today after falling 6.8 percent yesterday.  Constellation rose 2.4 percent to $33.15 in  New York  after
plunging 17 percent yesterday, the biggest daily decline since
September 1996. Before yesterday, the Victor, New York-based
company’s shares had risen 80 percent since June 28, the day
before the Modelo deal was announced.  Negotiations before the Justice Department filing centered
on how to structure a long-term supply and pricing agreement for
importing Modelo’s brands to the U.S., three people familiar
with the matter said Jan. 15. The talks subsequently broadened
to include production assets, one of the people said.  A Dealbreaker  AB InBev was unwilling to sell Modelo’s newest state-of-
the-art beer bottling plant, located near Piedras Negras,
Mexico, as a concession to win approval, two people familiar
with the matter said last month. Selling the plant would take
the supply of Corona in the U.S. out of AB InBev’s hands,
reducing the likelihood the brewer could control Corona prices.  Any requirement to sell the brewery would be a dealbreaker,
said the people at the time, asking not to be named because the
matter wasn’t public.  The proposed transaction between AB InBev and Modelo would
marry  Bud Light , the top-selling U.S. brand, with Corona, the
biggest import, and create a combined company with estimated
revenue of about $47 billion this year.  “We continue to believe some compromise between the
parties will ultimately be found as we believe some remedies do
exist and the strategic merits of the deal are too compelling
for ABI to walk away outright,” Dirk Van Vlaanderen, an analyst
at Jefferies International in  London , said in a note today. “A
solution will, however, take time.”  ‘Remain Confident’  AB InBev said in a statement it no longer expects the deal
to close in first quarter of 2013.  The Justice Department’s action is “inconsistent with the
law, the facts and the reality of the marketplace,” the company
said. “We remain confident in our position, and we intend to
vigorously contest the DOJ’s action in federal court.”  AB InBev agreed to buy the 50 percent of Modelo it didn’t
own in June, seeking to increase its penetration of  emerging
markets . Beer sales are rising at a faster pace in Mexico than
in developed economies such as the U.S., the world’s second-
biggest beer market by volume after  China .  AB InBev, which had 47 percent of the U.S. beer market in
2011, according to analysis of Nielsen data by Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., expects the combined company to deliver cost
and revenue benefits of at least $600 million annually. The
takeover is aimed at extending AB InBev’s lead as the world’s
biggest brewer over No. 2  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)  The companies, if
combined, would have produced 490 million hectoliters of beer in
2011, compared with SABMiller’s 234 million, AB InBev said.  ‘Competitive Force’  Modelo controls about 60 percent of Mexico’s beer market
with brands including Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, Pacifico
and Victoria.  Heineken NV (HEIA)  accounts for almost all of the rest
with brands such as Dos Equis and Tecate. Mexico’s antitrust
regulator approved the transaction in November.  “If ABI fully owned and controlled Modelo, ABI would be
able to increase beer prices to American consumers,” Baer said.
“This lawsuit seeks to prevent ABI from eliminating Modelo as
an important competitive force in the beer industry.”  Americans spent at least $80 billion on beer last year, the
department said.  “ABI internal documents acknowledge that Modelo has put
‘increasing pressure’ on ABI by pursuing a competitive strategy
directly at odds with ABI’s well-established practice of leading
prices upward,” according to the complaint.  ‘Lower Prices’  AB InBev uses its market dominance to coordinate beer
prices with competitors such as SABMiller, the department said
in the lawsuit. It does this by “purposefully making its price
increases transparent to the market so its competitors will get
in line,” according to the complaint.  The Belgian brewer’s U.S. pricing strategy is governed by
what the company termed a “Conduct Plan” that “reads like a
how-to manual for successful price coordination,” the
department alleged.  AB InBev and SABMiller “have been forced to offer lower
prices and discounts for their brands to discourage consumers”
from buying Modelo brands, the department said.  Constellation agreed to pay $1.85 billion for Modelo’s
stake in Crown Imports, the joint venture for U.S. distribution
owned by the two companies. That deal, which would give
Constellation the exclusive right to import Modelo beer into the
U.S. for 10 years, is contingent upon AB InBev buying Modelo.  The lawsuit alleges the Constellation deal was aimed at
winning regulatory approval by “creating a facade of
competition” between AB InBev and its importer.  ‘Price Leadership’  Constellation “would acquire no Modelo brands or brewing
facilities under this arrangement -- it remains simply an
importer, required to depend on ABI for its supply of Modelo-
branded beer,” the department said in the complaint.  Constellation’s participation in the Crown joint venture
shows “that it does not share Modelo’s incentive to thwart
ABI’s price leadership,” according to the department.  Constellation said in a statement today that “the DOJ’s
action demonstrates its incomplete understanding of the proposed
transaction.” Crown Imports is AB InBev’s primary competitor in
the U.S., not Modelo, Constellation said. Also, the company’s
full ownership of Crown will improve competition and give Crown
“greater flexibility in responding to competitive factors in
each of its markets,” Constellation said.  “It’s possible they’ve done an aggressive complaint to
push the parties into settling, but the way they’ve written it
will make it harder to settle for both sides,” said Allen Grunes, an antitrust lawyer with Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck
LLP in Washington who isn’t involved in the case. “This looks
more like it’s going to court.”  The case is U.S. v. Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV, 13-
cv-00127, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  