-- Abe Shortens List for BOJ Chief as Japan Faces Monetary Overhaul
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y ,   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-02-01T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/abe-shortens-list-for-boj-chief-as-japan-faces-monetary-overhaul.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe shortened
his list of candidates for  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor as he seeks to
end decades of reluctance at the central bank to accept
responsibility for the nation’s inflation rate.  Abe is probably narrowing down his picks, Economy Minister
Akira Amari told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. The government
should unveil the name, and replacements for deputies whose
terms are up in coming weeks, by the end of February, the ruling
party’s upper-house legislative affairs chief said last month.  Abe, who took office five weeks ago, yesterday said he
expects the BOJ to take responsibility for a 2 percent  inflation 
target -- a point he’s made repeatedly since the bank agreed to
set the objective Jan. 22. Outgoing Governor Masaaki Shirakawa,
by contrast, during his tenure emphasized that ending two
decades of deflation isn’t something the bank can do on its own.  “It’s very likely we will see a big change in monetary
policy toward easing,” said Hiromichi Shirakawa, chief Japan
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo and a former Bank
of Japan official. “This is the most crucial event for Japan’s
economy this year,” because any failure to appoint a more
aggressive BOJ chief “will reverse the trend of a weak yen,
damage corporate sentiment and hurt Japan’s economy,” he said.  The yen has tumbled 13 percent since mid-November in
anticipation of the stepped-up monetary stimulus that Abe’s
Liberal Democratic Party has called for. The LDP in December
swept to victory in an election for Parliament’s lower house. A
surge in the yen in recent years has eroded Japan’s export
competitiveness, with a report yesterday showing manufacturing
employment fell below 10 million for the first time since 1961.  Short List  The short-list to replace Shirakawa, whose term concludes
April 8, is probably composed of Asian Development Bank
President Haruhiko Kuroda, former BOJ Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata and Toshiro Muto, another ex-deputy, according to Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co., who
used to work at the central bank.  Kuroda, who once wrote that the BOJ should set a 3 percent
inflation target, was a career bureaucrat who rose to vice
finance minister in charge of currency policy. He has led the
Manila-based ADB since 2005.  Muto, chairman of the Daiwa Institute of Research, said in
an interview last month that he’s changed his view from 2007,
when as a deputy he repeatedly said that keeping interest rates
too low could be problematic. He now says that ending deflation
is the top priority, and that “I strongly think that a policy
of monetary easing is justified.”  Foreign Debt  Iwata, head of the Japan Center for Economic Research, has
championed the idea of the central bank buying foreign-currency
bonds to reverse exchange-rate appreciation. The LDP last year
said it would consider the proposal.  Takatoshi Ito, an academic economist who served a stint at
the Finance Ministry and is now dean of Tokyo University’s
Graduate School of Public Policy, is another potential BOJ chief,
the Nikkei newspaper reported last month without citing sources.
Ito said in an interview in December that the BOJ had been too
cautious, and also advocated foreign bond purchases.  Abe gets a chance to reshape the entire management team of
the central bank, with the terms of Deputy Governors Kiyohiko Nishimura and Hirohide Yamaguchi concluding March 19.  “As two deputy governors will be replaced in March and the
governor in April, we should expect further easing at the April
26 monetary policy meeting,” Kanno wrote in a note last week.  ‘Take Responsibility’  Abe reiterated yesterday in parliament that “I expect the
BOJ to take responsibility for achieving the 2 percent inflation
target as soon as possible.”  BOJ statements indicate it has yet to accept such
responsibility. In a joint release with the government Jan. 22,
the bank said it was “responsible for maintaining financial
system stability.” As for inflation, the statement explained
that the bank “conducts monetary policy based on the principle
that the policy shall be aimed at achieving price stability.”  In its Jan. 22 statement, the BOJ board said that to
overcome declines in consumer prices quickly, “efforts by a
wide range of entities to strengthen growth potential are
critical.” By comparison, the Federal Reserve said last year
when it set its own 2 percent target for the U.S. that “the
inflation rate over the longer run is primarily determined by
monetary policy.”  One potential BOJ candidate indicated he shares Abe’s view
that it’s the bank’s job to end deflation. Kikuo Iwata, an
economics professor at Gakushuin University in Tokyo, told
ruling LDP lawmakers two days ago that monetary policy alone can
do the job.  Months Possible  Iwata is among the contenders to succeed Shirakawa at the
BOJ, according to Koichi Hamada, a retired Yale University
economics professor who is advising Abe on monetary policy.
Hamada himself said in an interview in December that the next
BOJ governor can end deflation within months of taking the job.  While Abe’s coalition government has a majority in the
lower house, it will need opposition support in the upper house
to win confirmation for its nominees. Yoshimi Watanabe, who
heads one group, Your Party, said in an interview last month
that Heizo Takenaka, the bank-crisis tsar in a former LDP
administration, would be a good pick for BOJ governor.  Japan last had 2 percent annual inflation in 1997, when a
sales tax was increased, with no sustained price gains of that
magnitude in two decades. Falling prices reduce incentives to
borrow and invest in new business projects, erode tax receipts
and increase the attractiveness of saving in cash rather than
spending or putting money into stocks or bonds.  Falling Prices  Consumer prices excluding fresh food dropped 0.2 percent in
December from a year before. Unadjusted for changes in prices,
the nation’s gross domestic product in the third quarter of last
year was 17 percent  smaller than at its peak  in 1997.  While Shirakawa studied at the University of Chicago in the
era of Milton Friedman -- the Nobel laureate who said inflation
is “always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon” -- the
governor has said a lack of demand is deflation’s root cause,
rather than monetary conditions. On Jan. 29, 2010, he told an
audience there was no “magic wand” to stamp out falling prices.  Shirakawa’s predecessor Toshihiko Fukui also rejected any
Friedman-style definition of deflation, saying in March 2003
that price declines were “not just a monetary phenomenon.”  Fukui’s forerunner, Masaru Hayami, had opposed the idea of
an inflation target. He said in March 2001 that while over 10 or
20 years an excess or shortfall in money supply might correspond
with changes in prices, over shorter time periods “a variety of
other variables” determined the cost of living.  Yasuo Matsushita, who served as governor 1994-1998,
repeatedly said deflation was unlikely even as his nation was on
the verge of entering entrenched price declines.  “We may see a regime change for Japan’s monetary policy,”
said Mikihiro Matsuoka, chief economist at Deutsche Securities
Inc. in Tokyo. “I don’t expect Japan’s inflation can actually
reach a targeted 2 percent, but the bottom line is we may be
able to see a different picture of the economy in the process of
Japan’s heading to the 2 percent target -- it will prop up
economic growth, help lift companies’ profits, incomes for
households and the government’s tax revenues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Anstey in Washington at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  