-- AIG Examiner Records Can Be Kept From Public, Court Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-01T23:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/aig-examiner-records-can-be-kept-from-public-court-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
records created by a government-imposed examiner can’t be
considered court documents available to the public, a panel of
federal judges said.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  today said reports
on AIG transactions stemming from a 2004 settlement with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission weren’t open court
records, reversing a federal judge who ruled the materials
should be given to the journalist seeking them.  The reports “are not judicial records subject to the
right of access because the district court made no decisions
about them or that otherwise relied on them,” U.S. Circuit
Judge  Janice Rogers Brown  wrote in the opinion.  The documents were created by  James Cole , then a lawyer at
Bryan Cave LLP in Washington, who was hired by AIG as part of a
$126 million settlement over regulators’ accusations that the
insurer helped clients such as  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) 
inflate profit.  Cole, who is now the  Justice Department ’s deputy attorney
general, reviewed transactions to determine whether clients used
them to violate generally accepted accounting principles.  Magazine Reporter  Sue Reisinger, a reporter for Corporate Counsel and
American Lawyer magazines, asked the court to release the
reports based on her common law and First Amendment rights.  “We are in the process of reviewing the court’s opinion to
determine what options are available to us,” J. Joshua Wheeler,
Reisinger’s lawyer and director of the Thomas Jefferson Center
for the Protection of Free Expression, said in an e-mail.
“Today’s decision does not alter our belief that the public
interest would be served by the release of the reports.”  Jon Diat, a spokesman for AIG, declined to comment on the
ruling.  Today’s decision reversed an April 16 ruling by U.S.
District Judge Gladys Kessler who found that the reports “are
relevant to the judicial function” because “they may provide
information leading the SEC to return to this court to secure
further relief.”  Kessler said releasing the reports was in the public’s
interest given the role AIG played in the financial meltdown of
2008.  ‘Devastating Events’  “The public needs to know whether the obligations AIG
undertook in the consent order were complied with, whether the
SEC was carrying out its enforcement and monitoring
responsibilities under the consent order, and what, if any, role
the compliance -- or noncompliance -- with the consent order may
have played in the devastating events of 2008,” she said.  Brown, in the unanimous decision, said Cole had no
relationship with the court and the judge didn’t have authority
to supervise him or modify his mission.  The status of the records could change if the district
court is asked to enforce the consent decree between the
government and AIG, Brown said.  “That day has not yet arrived,” she said.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. American
International Group, 12-5141,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 