-- AIG’s United Guaranty Loses Appeal of $45 Million Award
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-01T21:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/aig-s-united-guaranty-loses-appeal-of-45-million-award.html
An  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
unit lost a bid to overturn a court award of more than
$45 million to  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  for refusing to cover losses
tied to borrower defaults on mortgages.  A federal appeals court in Richmond,  Virginia , today ruled
that AIG’s  United Guaranty  unit violated the terms of its
contract with SunTrust by failing to pay for the losses. The 2-1
decision also reinstated a counterclaim that United Guaranty
filed against SunTrust over payment of premiums.  “Under Virginia law, United Guaranty is stuck with the
provisions it drafted,” U.S. Circuit Judge James Wynn wrote in
the opinion.  SunTrust, based in Atanta, sued United Guaranty in 2009 for
breach of contract, claiming that beginning in January the
previous year, the insurer “systemically” denied claims on
loans that hadn’t been underwritten using an automated system
from mortgage investor  Fannie Mae .  United Guaranty also denied claims for losses stemming from
loans for which SunTrust didn’t verify all the information on
borrowers’ applications, according to the lawsuit.  The loans at issue in the litigation, known as combo loans,
involve a combination of first- and second-lien mortgages.  Insurer Counterclaim  United Guaranty filed a counterclaim against SunTrust
seeking to force the bank to keep paying premiums on the policy
which will now go back to the judge for further proceedings.  It argued in court papers that SunTrust loans can be
disqualified from coverage if the bank failed to meet guidelines
or misrepresented information about the mortgages.  “SunTrust expressly represented -- falsely and in breach
of the policies -- that these combo loans each complied with
specified underwriting guidelines mutually agreed to between the
parties,” United Guaranty alleged in the counterclaim.  Jon Diat, a spokesman for AIG, said he couldn’t comment
immediately on the ruling. Hugh Suhr, a spokesman for SunTrust,
declined to comment, citing ongoing litigation.  After a non-jury trial, U.S. District Judge Robert Payne in
Richmond found United Guaranty “knowingly billed for and
collected premiums” on loans that the company wasn’t going to
cover in a default.  He ordered United Guaranty to pay SunTrust about $34
million for covered losses, $6 million in interest and $5.4
million in legal fees and costs, according court records.  The case is SunTrust Mortgage Inc. v. United Guaranty
Residential Insurance Company of  North Carolina , 11-1956,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the  Fourth Circuit  (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  