-- Thailand January Inflation Slows on Stronger Baht, Subsidies
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-02-01T04:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/thailand-january-inflation-slows-on-stronger-baht-subsidies.html
Thailand ’s inflation slowed in
January as a stronger baht made imports cheaper and state
subsidies countered higher costs of food and fuel, giving the
central bank scope to cut  interest rates  further.  An index of  consumer prices  rose 3.39 percent from a year
earlier, the Ministry of Commerce said in Nonthaburi province
outside Bangkok today, compared with a previously reported 3.63
percent increase in December. The median estimate of 16
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  was 3.5 percent.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has extended a diesel-
tax cut to end-February and asked state agencies to help prevent
an acceleration in inflation. The Bank of Thailand held its
benchmark  interest rate  at 2.75 percent for a second meeting
last month after a cut and raised its growth forecast for this
year to 4.9 percent. The baht touched a 17-month high in January.  “Inflation is a non-issue and the risk on the policy
outlook remains on an easing bias,”  Usara Wilaipich , a Bangkok-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said before the
release. “The baht strength will also help limit price rises.
We expect a rate cut during the first half of this year.”  Starting with January inflation data, Thailand began using
2011 as the base year instead of 2007, and added more items such
as natural gas for vehicles to the index. The survey was based
on the previous base-year assumptions.  The baht fell 0.2 percent as of 11:19 a.m. in Bangkok. It
was the best gainer last month after the Indian rupee among 11
widely traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Core inflation , which excludes fresh food and fuel costs,
was 1.59 percent last month. The central bank uses the measure
to guide policy and expects price gains will stay below its
target of 3 percent this year, the ceiling also for last year.  Price gains in the first quarter may be 3.3 percent, the
Commerce Ministry said today. The Bank of Thailand’s inflation
forecast for this year is 2.8 percent. It predicts the  core
inflation  rate may be 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  