-- Taiwan Will Appoint Central Bank Governor Perng to Another Term
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2013-02-01T11:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/taiwan-will-appoint-central-bank-governor-perng-to-another-term.html
Taiwan will appoint central bank
governor Perng Fai-Nan for a fourth five-year term, suggesting a
continuation of currency-stabilizing policies at a time when
closer trade and investment ties with  China  are being built.  Perng, 74, will stay on as governor of the Central Bank of
the Republic of China (Taiwan) beyond the Feb. 25 deadline, when
his term is scheduled to end, Fan-Chiang Tai-chi, a spokesman of
the presidential office said today.  The re-appointment comes as President Ma Ying-jeou acts to
strengthen an economy that grew in 2012 at the slowest pace
since the 2009 global recession. Perng, who enjoys bipartisan
support, has led the island’s monetary authority since Feb. 1998
after his predecessor died in an airplane crash.  “He has an incredible record of pre-empting crisis and
reassuring the markets,” Wai Ho Leong, a Singapore-based
economist at Barclays Plc, said before the announcement. “He’s
had a very good record of managing inflation and using monetary
policy to that effect. He’s done an excellent job of managing
the growth-inflation trade-off and has maintained systemic
stability. He’s also very well-regarded internationally.”  The re-appointment may help allay concerns about the
island’s currency. Policy makers warned on Jan. 29 they would
step into the foreign-exchange market after the  Taiwan  dollar
reached a four-year high against the yen on Jan. 28, hurting
exporters. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. chairman
Morris Chang said at a forum Jan. 11 that the government should
let the Taiwan dollar depreciate further to aid competitiveness.  Growth Recovery  Perng has held interest rates steady for six straight
meetings since June 2011 as the export-dependent economy
struggled with weakening demand for its electronic goods.  Gross
domestic product  rose 3.42 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, compared with a 0.98 percent pace in the previous
three-month period, a report showed on Jan. 31.  Perng, who holds a Ph.D. in law from the University of
Minnesota, told lawmakers in December the governor’s position
“will be my last public job.” He is the longest-serving
central bank governor in Asia among economies tracked by
Bloomberg. Malaysia’s Zeti Akhtar Aziz, who took charge in May
2000, comes next.  Perng and Zeti, alongside Amando Tetangco of the
 Philippines , Glenn Stevens of  Australia  and  Israel ’s Stanley Fischer, received an ‘A’ grade in Global Finance magazine’s
annual ranking of the world’s central bankers last year. They
were rated higher than Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and
the European Central Bank’s Mario Draghi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  