-- Taiwan New Premier Must Boost Economic Growth, Overhaul Pension
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2013-02-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/taiwan-premier-chen-resigns-vice-premier-jiang-to-succeed-him.html
Taiwan  President Ma Ying-jeou’s
fourth premier in five years faces public pressure to boost
economic growth and fix a strained pension system.  Vice Premier Jiang Yi-Huah will succeed Sean Chen after the
Lunar New Year break in mid-February, presidential spokesman
Fan-Chiang Tai-chi said yesterday.  The resignation of Chen, 63, comes less than three weeks
after thousands rallied against the administration, calling on
the premier to take responsibility for the slowest economic
growth in three years. Ma is battling to boost poor ratings,
which have fallen as low as a record 13 percent.  “Jiang’s first and most important task is to communicate
Ma’s political will and be sensitive and hear what people are
saying,” said Liao Da-chi, director of Taiwan’s National Sun
Yat-sen University’s Institute of Political Science.  Taiwan’s benchmark stock index, the  Taiex (TWSE) , gained 0.1
percent at the market close in Taiwan on Friday. It has risen 2
percent this year, and is up 8.1 percent in the past six months.  Chen will be appointed as a senior adviser to Ma, and Mao Chi-kuo, the minister of transportation and communications, will
become vice premier, Fan-Chiang said.  Taiwan’s premier, the head of the executive branch of
government, is appointed by the president and doesn’t have to be
confirmed by parliament.  Welfare Strained  Ma said Jan. 30 that his administration would submit
proposals for overhauling the island’s pension system to
lawmakers in April. Taiwan’s social welfare system, a grievance
of tens of thousands of demonstrators who attended a rally on
Jan. 13 organized by the opposition  Democratic Progressive
Party , is under strain, Ma has said.  “The public pension reform is probably the thing the
Cabinet needs to work on most for the rest of the term,” said
Wu Hui-lin, a research fellow at the Chung-hua Institution for
 Economic Research . “Taiwan’s approaching its debt limit and the
pension system is broken. It needs to regain people’s faith in
the government.”  Jiang, 52, is overseeing the pension overhaul. The
political scientist and former interior minister received a Ph.D
from  Yale University  and has held advisory positions in the
education ministry and the Cabinet’s research division.  Central Bank  Central bank governor Perng Fai-nan, whose term ends next
month, will remain in his position, Fan-Chiang said. Chen said
at a press briefing yesterday he doesn’t have the ability to
take on the role. The Taipei-based weekly magazine The
Journalist reported Jan. 30 that Chen was a potential candidate,
without saying where it got the information.  Ma, re-elected in January 2012 with 52 percent of the vote,
had an approval rating 14 percent in January, according to a
poll by Taipei-based television network TVBS. His approval
rating between September and December 2012 was at a record low
of 13 percent.  Taiwan’s economy grew by 1.25 percent in 2012, the slowest
pace since the 2009 global recession, the government said on
Jan. 31. Fourth-quarter gross domestic product increased 3.42
percent.  “The most important issue for the new premier is to
accelerate the delivery of government plans, particularly for
economic stimulus,” said Wai Ho Leong, a Singapore-based
economist at Barclays Plc. Taiwan increased its estimate for
growth in 2013 to 3.53 percent from 3.15 percent this week.  Chen was appointed premier on Feb. 6 last year after having
served as vice premier from May 2010. Previous premiers under Ma 
include Liu Chao-Shiuan, who stepped down in 2009, and current 
Vice President Wu Den-Yih.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  