-- Half EU Carbon Glut Caused by High Prices, Climate Mundial Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-02-01T09:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/half-eu-carbon-glut-caused-by-high-prices-climate-mundial-says.html
Energy efficiency projects encouraged
by high carbon prices caused almost half of Europe’s glut of
permits and a plan to temporarily withhold allowances will
exacerbate the oversupply by 2020, said Climate Mundial Ltd.  The oversupply, which will reach about 1.8 billion metric
tons by April, was formed when factories and power stations
reacted to the start of the world’s biggest carbon market in
2005, Daniel Rossetto, managing director of Climate Mundial in
 London , which advises in emission markets, said in a report
dated Jan. 23. They retrofitted boilers, installed heat-recovery
systems, improved lighting and insulation to cut energy use and
the need for emission allowances, he said.  EU carbon permits plunged to a record on Jan. 24, as
nations consider the European Commission’s plan, which is known
as backloading because allowances taken from supply in the next
three years would be returned near the end of the decade.
Instead, the commission should install by 2015 a system that
would adjust its cap five years in advance starting in the next
phase from 2021, Climate Mundial recommended.  “Response is part of a continuum: short market, triggering
high carbon prices, followed by response and ending with low
carbon prices,” Rossetto said. “The European Commission is
therefore urged not to implement backloading, as such a measure
would turn the continuum into a cycle.”  Carbon permits for December rose 2 cents to 3.44 euros
($4.69) a metric ton, according to data from the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London at 8:15 a.m. They rose as high as
29.69 euros in 2008 and a record 31 euros two years earlier.  Independent Panel  “The new annual cap should be set be set based on the
advice of a newly formed independent panel, which would make its
recommendations based on a review of the actual, observed cost
of abatement and referenced to the emission trajectories needed
to meet long term greenhouse-gas targets,” said Rossetto, who
previously managed offset credits for JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The rolling adjusted cap could also help account for
changes in the global response to  climate change  and technology
developments, he said.  Under  Australia ’s carbon-pricing mechanism, regulators will
set caps every year five years ahead, taking account of
international greenhouse-gas agreements, economic and social
implications of limits and even the extent to which factories
and power stations are complying with the system’s rules,
according  to the program’s law .  Deeper Changes  The EU is preparing to start a discussion on long-term
scenarios for its emissions program after the commission
outlined six potential options to strengthen it in a November
policy paper. Any deeper changes to the design of the market
would require a change of existing EU legislation or a new law
approved by national governments and the European Parliament.  As regulators seek to make permanent changes to
reinvigorate the EU market, they need to restate their
commitment to only making adjustments for Phase 4 beginning in
2021, rather than the current phase that started this year,
Rossetto said.  “We cannot correct the Phase 2 allocations by making
adjustments to Phase 3,” he said. “It will destroy certainty
in the EU emissions trading system.” The second phase ran from
2008 until last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  