-- Allen Stanford Lawyer Sued by Receiver for Aiding Fraud
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-02-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/allen-stanford-lawyer-sued-by-receiver-for-aiding-fraud-1-.html
A lawyer who worked for convicted
financier R. Allen Stanford and two law firms that employed the
attorney were sued by the receiver for Stanford’s business over
claims they aided his Ponzi scheme.  The court-appointed receiver, Ralph Janvey, filed a
complaint yesterday in federal court in  Dallas . He accuses
Thomas Sjoblom, the lawyer, and Proskauer Rose LLP, where
Sjoblom was a partner from 2006 to 2009, and Chadbourne & Parke
LLP, where Sjoblom was a partner from 2002 to 2006, of aiding
and abetting Stanford’s fraudulent scheme.  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of stealing more than
$2 billion from depositors at his Antigua bank to finance a
lavish personal lifestyle that included private jets, yachts and
mansions. He is serving a 110-year term in a federal prison in
 Florida  as he appeals his conviction and sentence.  Sjoblom, in the summer of 2005, joined a conspiracy at
Houston-based Stanford Financial to obstruct a U.S. Securities
Exchange Commission investigation into the  Ponzi scheme ,
according to Janvey’s complaint.  “Sjoblom, who had 20 years of experience as a senior
lawyer in the SEC’s Enforcement Division, spent the next four
years delaying and obstructing the investigation by lying to the
SEC,” Janvey said.  Receiver’s Allegations  The receiver accuses the lawyer of falsely stating that he
had personally confirmed Stanford Financial wasn’t a Ponzi
scheme, instructing Stanford Financial to hide documents from
the SEC, misrepresenting the existence and nature of the SEC’s
investigation to Stanford Group Co.’s auditors, and offering
false testimony to the SEC.  Sjoblom didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail after
regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Nick Clark, a spokesman for Proskauer, had no immediate
comment, and Andrew Blum, a Chadbourne spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit after
regular business hours.  The case is Janvey v. Proskauer, 13-00477, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  