-- Apple, Time Warner, Super Bowl: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-02-01T21:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/apple-time-warner-super-bowl-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. failed to persuade a U.S.
appeals court to review its decision that lets  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  continue selling the Galaxy Nexus smartphone
while a patent-infringement case is pending.  An October decision, which said Apple needed to show that
the patented search feature was a key reason consumers bought
the Samsung smartphone, will stand, the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit said in an order posted on its
electronic docket yesterday.  Apple sought to have the earlier decision by a three-judge
panel considered by all active judges of the appeals court,
which specializes in patent law.  In a separate dispute before the Federal Circuit involving
Samsung, Apple is trying to halt sales of Samsung products that
were the subject of a trial Apple won in August. The federal
judge in California declined that request, citing legal
reasoning in the Federal Circuit’s October ruling.  The standard would make it “essentially impossible for a
patentee to halt a direct competitor’s deliberate and successful
copying of the patentee’s innovative designs and features for
use in competing products,” Apple told the Washington-based
court in a filing Jan. 16.  Spokesmen Kristin Huguet of Apple and  Adam Yates  of Samsung
said their companies had no comment.  In a Jan. 11 filing in the Galaxy Nexus case, Samsung said
the October ruling, requiring a link between the patented
feature and consumer demand, is “an inherent, well-
established” part of legal analysis used to determine whether a
patent owner would be harmed if an infringing product stays on
the market.  A trial in the Galaxy Nexus cases is scheduled for next
year, and the issue before the appeals court was whether to halt
sales before any violation is found.  The second case, still before the Federal Circuit, involves
what standard to use after a jury has found infringement. Apple
won a $1 billion verdict against Samsung in August. U.S.
District Judge Lucy Koh, who had declined to block the sales of
more than two dozen models of Samsung products that were the
subject of the trial, on Jan. 29 denied Samsung’s request to
throw out the verdict.  The Galaxy Nexus case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics
Co., 12-1507, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 12-630, U.S. District Court for the District of
California (San Jose).  J&J Gets EU Complaint With Novartis on Pay-for-Delay Deal  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  were sent antitrust
objections by European Union regulators over a pay-for-delay
deal that may have hampered the sale of generic versions of the
painkiller fentanyl in the Netherlands.  The European Commission said the Dutch units of both
companies struck a so-called co-promotion agreement in July 2005
to avoid competing with each other. This deprived Dutch fentanyl
customers of access to a cheaper painkiller for 17 months, it
said in an e-mailed statement.  “The commission is determined to fight undue delays in the
market entry of generic medicines so that European citizens have
access to affordable health care,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement.  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generics producers might harm consumers. Les
Laboratoires Servier,  H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN)  and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest generic drugmaker, were
last year sent statements of objections in probes over possible
delays for generic drugs.  Johnson & Johnson and its unit Janssen-Cilag “will
carefully examine the statement of objections and want to stress
that it does not represent the commission’s final decision,”
said Stefan Gijssels, a spokesman for Janssen in Beerse,
Belgium, in an e-mailed statement. Johnson & Johnson is based in
New Brunswick, New Jersey.  “Janssen continues to believe that these arrangements were
legitimate,” Gijssels said. “We are cooperating fully” with
the commission.  Novartis, based in Basel, Switzerland, said it and its
Sandoz unit would examine the EU complaint and “avail
themselves of their rights of defense,” spokesman  Eric Althoff 
said by e-mail. The EU statement allows the company “the
opportunity to comment on the factual and legal issues that led
the commission to believe that an infringement of the EU
competition rules may have occurred.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  TWX’s DC Comics Opposes ‘Superman’ Mark for Fitness Services  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s DC Comics unit asked an Australian court
to overturn a trademark decision related to its “Superman’
franchise, Australia’s 9News National website  reported .  The registrar of trademarks permitted registration of
‘‘Superman Workout” by a fitness company despite DC Comics’
argument that its cartoon character is the first thing that
comes to mind when people hear the word “Superman,” according
to 9News National.  Turning instead to the dictionary definition of superman
and a definition authored by 19th-century German philosopher
Friedrich Nietzsche, the registrar of trademarks said the
fitness company’s use of the term wasn’t likely to confuse
people, 9News National reported.  Counsel for DC comics told the court that the use of the
term in connection with health and fitness services would call
up the “Superman” image because “my client enjoys a
reputation in Superman,” according to 9News National  Saul Zaentz Seeks ‘Middle-Earth’ Trademark For Amusement Park  Saul Zaentz Co., the Berkeley, California-based film-
production company, filed two new trademark applications related
to its IP rights to J.R.R. Tolkien’s “Hobbit” and “Lord of
the Rings” books.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Zaentz is seeking to register “Middle-Earth” as a
trademark for vegetable salads, and for management of campground
facilities, organization of sightseeing tours, booking of
campground accommodations, and amusement services, including pay
areas, rides, booking for special events at an amusement park,
and the provision of theme-park services.  Previously, the company registered the mark for a wide
range of other uses, including jewelry boxes, online retail
store services, computer games, online chat rooms, pewter and
glass goblets, and jigsaw puzzles.  Government Seizes Counterfeit NFL Merchandise Worth Millions  More than $13.6 million worth of fake National Football
League merchandise has been seized since Sept. 1 as part of a
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement operation.  According to a  statement  from ICE, “Operation Red Zone,”
begun on that date, was set up to interdict international
shipments of fake merchandise. Warehouses, stores, flea markets,
online vendors and street vendors selling counterfeit game-
related merchandise were targeted.  Confiscated items included fake jerseys, ball caps, t-
shirts, jackets and souvenirs, according to the statement. More
than 160,000 fake Super Bowl-related items were seized.  The operation will continue through Feb. 6, three days
after the  Super Bowl  game is played in New Orleans.  Homeland Security Investigations worked with  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s
PayPal payment processor to identify bank accounts used to
facilitate the transfer of money to the illegal counterfeiting
operations, the government said in the statement.  Additionally, the government seized 313 websites trading in
counterfeit goods. Visitors to those sites will now find a
banner informing them that the domain name has been seized by
the federal government.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  CEA, EFF Each Files Brief Supporting Dish in AutoHop Dispute  Three electronics-industry associations filed a joint
friend-of-the court brief supporting  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  in a
lawsuit brought in  Los Angeles  federal court in May by  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting unit.  Their brief, filed Jan. 29, urges the appeals court to
affirm a lower court’s refusal to block Dish’s so-called AutoHop
features, which permits viewers to skip commercials. Fox sued
Dish, claiming the service would destroy the “advertising
supported ecosystem” that provides free, over-the-air primetime
television.  In her Nov. 7 ruling, U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee said
Fox failed to demonstrate that the service offered by Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish caused the network irreparable harm.  Fox then filed an appeal with the San Francisco-based
federal appeals court. The  Consumer Electronics Association , the
Computer and Communications Industry Association and the
Internet Association filed their brief in support of Dish,
saying, “recording for personal private viewing does not
infringe; nor does declining to watch commercials,” according
to their joint  statement .  A second joint amicus  brief  in support of Dish was filed
Jan. 29 by San Francisco-based  Electronic Frontier Foundation ,
Washington-based Public Knowledge and New York’s Organization
for Transformative Works.  They argued that autohopping promotes the progress of
science, that it doesn’t allow consumers to create “libraries’
of content, and that there is no effect on any likely markets.  The lower court case is Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network,
12-cv-04529, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles). The appeal is Fox Broadcasting Co. v. Dish
Network LLC, 12-57048, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit.  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  WWE Appoints Monty Sarhan General Counsel, Senior Vice President  World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. (WWE)  named Monty Sarhan as
general counsel and senior vice president, the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based entertainment company said in a statement.  Sarhan previously was senior vice president of business and
legal affairs for Viacom Media Networks. Before that, he was the
founder and chief executive officer of Cracked Entertainment. He
has practiced law at New York’s White & Case LLP.  According to yesterday’s WWE statement, while Sarhan was
with Viacom, he negotiated agreements that allowed the company’s
EPIX premium movie network to be made available to subscribers
on Android devices, Roku and the Xbox 360.  He has also negotiated agreements with  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Nintendo
Co. (7974)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  that established  MTV Games  as a game
publisher.  Sarhan has an undergraduate degree in history and political
science from Tufts University, a master’s degree in
international relations from Boston University and a law degree
from Duke University.  For the second year in a row, WWE teamed up with Post
Holdings Inc.’s Post Foods unit to place one of the wrestling
stars’ pictures on boxes of Pebbles cereal.  This year, according to a statement from the
wrestling-entertainment company, WWE star John Cena began
appearing on 8 million boxes of Cocoa Pebbles and Fruity
Pebbles in January.  Cena was also featured on Pebbles boxes last year, the
company said. Andrew Judelson, WWE’s executive vice president,
sales and partnership marketing, said in the statement that the
promotional arrangement is a ‘‘multi-year deal,” and that
there is a natural affinity between the St. Louis-based
breakfast-cereal company and his company’s family-oriented
entertainment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  