-- Apple Overtakes Samsung With 34% of U.S. Mobile Market
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-02-01T10:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/apple-overtakes-samsung-by-taking-34-u-s-mobile-phone-market.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  passed  Samsung (005930)  Electronics
Co. to become the top mobile-phone maker in the U.S. for the
first time, scoring a victory in the companies’ battle for
global dominance of the mobile-device market.  Apple sold 17.7 million mobile phones in the U.S. during
the fourth quarter, a 38 percent jump from a year earlier,
research firm  Strategy Analytics  said today in a statement. That
gave it 34 percent of the market, topping Samsung, which sold
16.8 million handsets for a 32 percent market share. Total
shipments grew 4 percent in the quarter to 52 million phones.  The U.S. market is a stronghold for Apple as it faces
intensifying competition from Samsung and other smartphone
makers using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system. Samsung,
which also makes cheaper handsets with less sophisticated
functions, is the global leader in mobile phones with more than
100 million units sold last quarter.  “Apple’s success has been driven by its popular ecosystem
of iPhones and  App Store , generous carrier subsidies, and
extensive marketing around the new iPhone 5 model,” said  Neil Mawston , an analyst at Strategy Analytics in London.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  remained the third-largest vendor in
the U.S., shipping 4.7 million mobile phones for a 9 percent
market share, Boston-based Strategy Analytics said.  Slowing Growth  Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007, and the product became
the Cupertino, California-based company’s biggest source of
revenue as consumers embraced its touch screen and ability to
download games and other applications. Apple has fueled demand
by introducing a new version approximately every year, and
cutting the price of older models at the same time.  Still, broader product portfolios from Samsung and other
rivals have begun to eat into Apple’s growth globally. Last
month, Apple posted the slowest profit growth since 2003 and the
weakest sales increase in 14 quarters, fueling concern about
Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook ’s ability to keep producing hit
products more than a year after the death of co-founder  Steve
Jobs .  Even in the U.S., Samsung may regain the top spot in 2013
by releasing new mobile-phone models such as the Galaxy S4,
Mawston said. While Apple relies on just the iPhone, Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung’s offering includes cheaper, more
basic phones, as well as larger-screen, more expensive devices.  Tablet Rivalry  Samsung fell 0.5 percent to 1,441,000 won in Seoul trading,
extending its decline this year to 5.3 percent. Apple fell 0.3
percent to $455.49 in New York yesterday, extending its drop
this year to 14 percent.  Apple and Samsung have also emerged as the dominant rivals
in tablet computers, after Apple pioneered the market with its
iPad. Samsung more than doubled its share of the tablet sales in
the fourth quarter, gaining on leader Apple.  Worldwide tablet sales surged 75 percent to 52.5 million
units in the period, research firm IDC said in a  statement 
yesterday. Samsung’s market share jumped to 15 percent from 7.3
percent a year earlier, while Apple’s dropped to 44 percent from
52 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  