-- Arbitration Center, Morgan Lewis, Latham: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-01T21:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/arbitration-center-morgan-lewis-latham-business-of-law.html
The New York International
Arbitration Center will open its doors in late spring, the
organization said in a statement. The center, founded with
support from 33 law firms, aims to promote international
arbitration in New York.  “I have watched the field of international dispute
resolution flourish as our world has globalized,” the former
chief judge of New York Court of Appeals, Judith S. Kaye, now of
counsel at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and
chairwoman of NYIAC, said in a statement. “Around the world
there is open recognition of the desirability and importance of
having arbitrations centered in your home city. With our new
center added to an already impressive array of international
arbitration resources, New York is truly the place to be.”  The center will be in the Socony-Mobil building on East
42nd Street, near Grand Central Terminal, Times Square, the
Empire State Building and the United Nations.  The Center held a launch party Jan. 23 at Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP for 250 people. NYIAC vice
chairs Jim Carter of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP
and Edna Sussman of Sussman ADR LLC were also in attendance, the
organization said.  Proskauer, Chadbourne, Stanford Lawyer Accused of Aiding Fraud  A lawyer who worked for convicted financier R. Allen Stanford and two law firms that employed the attorney were sued
by the receiver for Stanford’s business over claims they aided
his Ponzi scheme.  The court-appointed receiver, Ralph Janvey, filed a
complaint yesterday in federal court in  Dallas . He accuses
Thomas Sjoblom, the lawyer, and Proskauer Rose LLP, where
Sjoblom was a partner from 2006 to 2009, and Chadbourne & Parke
LLP, where Sjoblom was a partner from 2002 to 2006, of aiding
and abetting Stanford’s fraudulent scheme.  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of stealing more than
$2 billion from depositors at his Antigua bank to finance a
lavish personal lifestyle that included private jets, yachts and
mansions. He is serving a 110-year term in a federal prison in
 Florida  as he appeals his conviction and sentence.  Sjoblom, in the summer of 2005, joined a conspiracy at
Houston-based Stanford Financial to obstruct a U.S. Securities
Exchange Commission investigation into the Ponzi scheme,
according to Janvey’s complaint.  “Sjoblom, who had 20 years of experience as a senior
lawyer in the SEC’s Enforcement Division, spent the next four
years delaying and obstructing the investigation by lying to the
SEC,” Janvey said.  The receiver accuses the lawyer of falsely stating that he
had personally confirmed Stanford Financial wasn’t a Ponzi
scheme, instructing Stanford Financial to hide documents from
the SEC, misrepresenting the existence and nature of the SEC’s
investigation to Stanford Group Co.’s auditors, and offering
false testimony to the SEC.  “Yesterday, the receiver and the committee of Stanford
investors filed a copy-cat complaint against Proskauer to
attempt to replace the procedurally improper lawsuit they filed
last year,” Proskauer said in an e-mailed statement. “The
claims asserted in the new action are identical to the ones in
plaintiffs’ last complaint, and they continue to be meritless.”  Sjoblom didn’t respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  “These are the same allegations that we’ve seen
previously,” Chadbourne said in an e-mailed statement. “There
is nothing new here. The claims asserted in this suit are
without merit.”  The case is Janvey v. Proskauer, 13-00477, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  Bankruptcy  Morgan Lewis, Others Advise Apollo, Metropoulos on Hostess Bids  Hostess Brands Inc., the bankrupt maker of Wonder bread,
chose a joint offer from  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and C.
Dean Metropoulos & Co. as the lead bid for Twinkies and other
cake brands.  Apollo and Metropoulos offered as much as $410 million for
the Hostess snack-cake business, which also includes CupCakes,
Ding Dongs and Ho Hos, and other assets, including five bakeries
and equipment.  Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP was Apollo’s legal counsel on
the transaction. The Morgan Lewis deal team was led by business
and finance partner Robert Robison. Additional partners include
business and finance partner and bankruptcy and finance and
restructuring head James Garrity Jr.; labor and employment
partner Stanley Lechner; intellectual-property partner Ron Dreben; business and finance partner and leader of the
environmental transactions practice Judith Walkoff; employee
benefits and executive compensation partner Gary Rothstein; and
antitrust partner Harry Robins.  Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP partners
Gregory Ezring and Brad Finkelstein served as Apollo’s finance
counsel and partners Robert Hirsh and Carl Reisner counseled
Metropoulos & Co. O’Melveny & Myers LLP partner Eric Rothenberg
served as environmental counsel to Apollo on the transaction.
Jones Day partners Robert Profusek and John Kane served as
Hostess’s legal counsel, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  “Interest in these iconic brands has been intense and
competitive and we expect that to continue through a robust,
court-authorized auction process,” Hostess Brands Chief
Executive Officer Gregory F. Rayburn said Jan. 30 in a
statement. “The stalking-horse bids have set a floor of more
than $850 million for the bulk of the company’s assets.”  That total value for the company is almost double
officials’ 2011 estimate of $450 million mentioned at a Nov. 29
court hearing. It’s lower than an estimate of about $1 billion
given by financial adviser Joshua Scherer of Perella Weinberg
Partners LP at another hearing that month. He said interest from
110 potential buyers was “fast and furious.”  Hostess seeks U.S. Bankruptcy Court approval for a March 13
auction. Leon Black’s Apollo, based in New York, managed $109.7
billion in assets as of Sept. 30. Metropoulos, based in
Greenwich, Connecticut, is the private-equity firm that owns
Pabst Brewing Co.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
04-45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of  Missouri 
(Kansas City).  For more, click here.  Moves  DLA Piper International Arbitration Partner Joins Latham  Latham & Watkins LLP hired Claudia T. Salomon, former co-
chairwoman of DLA Piper LLP’s international arbitration
practice, as a litigation partner in the firm’s New York office.  Salomon has two decades of experience in complex
international disputes, particularly in investor treaty
arbitration and international commercial arbitration cases, the
firm said.  “Claudia is a well-respected lawyer in the international
arbitration community,” Jimmy Brandt, Latham & Watkins’s office
managing partner in New York, said in a statement. “Her
reputation and significant experience will be invaluable to our
accomplished New York litigation capability and our clients.”  Latham & Watkins has about 2,000 attorneys in 31 U.S. and
international offices.  Labaton Sucharow Antitrust Group Moves to Robins Kaplan  Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi LLP hired a team of
antitrust lawyers from Labaton Sucharow LLP. Hollis Salzman and
Kellie Lerner joined as partners and Bernard Persky as of
counsel in the New York office.  All previously were with Labaton, where Salzman was
managing chairman and Persky was the co-chairman and founder of
that firm’s antitrust and competition litigation practice.  Salzman will serve as co-chairwoman of Robins, Kaplan’s
antitrust and trade regulation practice group.  “The addition of this group of outstanding antitrust
lawyers is integral to our strategy for continuing to build one
of the most prominent antitrust practices in the country, and we
are excited about the growth we are experiencing in our
practice,” K. Craig Wildfang, co-chairman of the firm’s
antitrust and trade regulation practice group, said in a
statement.  Salzman has particular experience in prosecuting antitrust
violations against the health-care industry and international
cartelists. Her past work includes representation on In re Air
Cargo Shipping Services Antitrust Litigation, which ended with
almost $500 million in partial settlements from certain
defendants, the firm said. She also was involved in In re
Lorazepam & Clorazepate Antitrust Litigation, which resulted in
a $135.4 million settlement, according to the firm.  Lerner represents businesses and governmental entities in
high stakes antitrust actions. She was a member of the trial
team handling In re  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  Norvir Antitrust
Litigation, which challenged Abbott’s price increase for an HIV
medication, the firm said.  Among Persky’s notable cases is County of Suffolk v. Long
Island Lighting Company. He was co-lead trial counsel on the
case, which resulted in the Second Circuit upholding a $400
million class settlement, the firm said.  Robins Kaplan is a litigation firm that represents both
plaintiffs and defendants. The firm has more than 250 lawyers in
Atlanta, Boston, Los Angeles,  Minneapolis , New York and Naples,
Florida.  Nelson Mullins Hires Massachusetts Senator Jack Hart  Jack Hart, the assistant majority leader of the
 Massachusetts  Senate, will join Nelson Mullins Riley &
Scarborough LLP’s Boston office along with his chief of staff,
Jennifer Jackson.  Hart joins the government-relations practice at Nelson
Mullins and will assist the firm in expanding its state Capitol
practice in Massachusetts.  Hart spent 16 years as a member of the Legislature. He was
involved in master planning of the South  Boston  Waterfront and
co-authored legislation to build the Boston Convention and
Exhibition Center, the firm said.  Nelson Mullins has more than 470 attorneys and government
relations professionals at 13 U.S. offices.  Government Relations Partner Joins Baker Botts in Washington  Jeffrey W. Munk joined Baker Botts LLP as a partner in the
firm’s  Washington  office, after spending 16 years at Hogan
Lovells LLP in Washington.  “Jeff will be a central part of the growth and further
development of our government relations practice, where he will
have primary responsibility for congressional affairs,” Baker
Botts managing partner Andrew M. Baker said in a statement.  Munk designed and led major lobbying campaigns for
international businesses, trade associations and nonprofits, and
represented clients on legislative issues during his legal
career, the firm said. He has successfully developed and managed
complex legal and lobbying initiatives in tax, energy and
transportation policy.  Baker Botts has more than 725 lawyers at 14 offices world-
wide.  Firm News  Singapore ’s Rajah & Tann Plans Law Offices for Cambodia, Myanmar  Rajah & Tann LLP, Southeast Asia’s largest law firm, with
355 lawyers, will open offices in Cambodia and Myanmar as
Singapore further liberalizes its legal services market.  “We’re foreseeing a future in Singapore where the
competition will get worse,” Patrick Ang, deputy managing
partner at Rajah & Tann, said yesterday in an interview. “What
we’re doing now is not for immediate returns but for the
future.”  The Cambodian office will open today and Myanmar on March
1, boosting the Singapore firm’s lawyers to 370, Ang said.  Rajah & Tann’s regional expansion comes as Singapore’s
economic growth slows and competition intensifies with a rising
number of foreign lawyers in the city state. Myanmar’s moves to
reform its economy, which the International Monetary Authority
estimates will expand 6.3 percent this fiscal year, have lured
investors and private equity funds.  Singapore’s economy grew 1.2 percent in 2012, less than a
quarter of 2011’s pace, and may expand as little as 1 percent
this year. Cambodia’s economy may expand 6.7 percent this year,
the IMF said.  Rajah & Tann has offices in  China ,  Malaysia ,  Laos ,  Thailand 
and  Vietnam , and is the largest Southeast Asian firm, according
to a  ranking  by The American Lawyer.  The number of foreign lawyers registered in Singapore has
more than doubled from 630 in 2007, according to figures from
the Attorney-General’s Chambers, which also regulates foreign
lawyers.  Shadmand Named Partner-in-Charge of Jones Day Dubai Office  Jones Day named Sheila Shadmand partner-in-charge of the
Dubai office. Shadmand succeeds Arman Galledari, who has become
the head of Jones Day’s new projects and infrastructure
practice.  Shadmand, who has been the office’s administrative partner
since its opening in 2009, led the firm’s global disputes
practice in the Middle East. She represents multinational
companies in commercial disputes and regulatory compliance
issues, the firm said.  She also advises international companies on the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, UAE anti-money laundering regulations,
U.S. and EU sanctions programs, and other regulatory issues.  “Sheila has distinguished herself as a leader in both the
Dubai Office and in the firm’s Global Disputes Practice in the
Middle East,” Mary Ellen Powers,  Europe  and Middle East
partner-in-charge for Jones Day, said in a statement.  Jones Day has 2,400 lawyers at 37 offices throughout the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Litigation  Validity of U.S. Consumer Bureau at Stake in Law Firm Challenge  A law firm sued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
over its treatment of struggling homeowners may be the first to
contest the validity of Richard Cordray’s status as the agency’s
director after a federal court’s ruling on presidential
appointees.  Gary Kurtz, a lawyer representing the Gordon Law Firm of
Los Angeles, said he sent a Jan. 29 letter to the bureau asking
for a negotiated settlement of the six-month-old case in light
of a federal court ruling that invalidated so-called recess
appointments similar to Cordray’s.  “I want to give them an opportunity to resolve this
without court intervention,” Kurtz said in a telephone
interview. “Resolving this informally would preferable.”  Absent a settlement with Gordon, the bureau risks a court
challenge that could become a test case for its authority in the
wake of recess-appointment ruling. In its July 17 complaint
against the firm, the CFPB said Gordon took up-front fees to
help homeowners facing foreclosure, then did “little or
nothing” for them.  CFPB spokeswoman Moira Vahey said the agency “is moving
forward with the case as planned.”  The CFPB, created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that
overhauled U.S. oversight of financial services, is intended to
protect consumers from abusive practices. Covering banks like
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and non-bank firms such as payday lenders
and debt collectors, the agency has also created a system for
resolving consumer complaints.  Gordon’s demand for a settlement stems from a Jan. 25
decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington that
President  Barack Obama ’s use of a procedure known as a recess
appointment to install three officials at the National Labor
Relations Board on Jan. 4, 2012 was unconstitutional.  Since Cordray was made head of CFPB on that same day by the
same process, a company affected by the CFPB could use the legal
principle in that case to try to upend Cordray’s appointment and
roll back his actions. On Jan. 24, Obama renominated Cordray for
the full five-year term as head of CFPB.  Since the Jan. 25 court decision lawyers for companies in
the financial services industry have pondered how to handle
inquiries from CFPB supervisors, who examine books of banks and
non-bank firms on a daily basis. For now, many lawyers are
advising companies to treat CFPB examiners as though nothing has
changed, said Richard Gottlieb, an attorney with Dykema Gosset
PLLC in  Chicago .  The CFPB charged Gordon’s firm violated the Mortgage
Assistance Relief Services rule, which was issued by the Federal
Trade Commission in 2010 and subsequently taken over by the
CFPB. The rule bans businesses from collecting fees until
homeowners have acceptable written offers of a loan modification
from their lenders.  Gordon’s firm, according to the CFPB’s July 17 complaint,
sought to evade this prohibition since at least early 2010 by
selling documents that aim to detail a lender’s misdeeds, and
then offering free legal services to obtain a loan modification.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 