-- Argentina Is First Nation Censured by IMF for Economic Data
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-02-02T16:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/argentina-becomes-first-nation-censured-by-imf-on-inflation-data.html
Argentina  became the first country to
be censured by the  International Monetary Fund  for not providing
accurate data on  inflation  and economic growth under a procedure
that can end in expulsion.  The declaration of censure was adopted yesterday by the
IMF’s 24-member board, the Washington-based fund said in a
statement. While it doesn’t have immediate effects, the decision
takes the country a step closer to sanctions that include being
barred from access to IMF loans.  The IMF’s executive board found that Argentina’s progress
in implementing so-called remedial measures “has not been
sufficient,” according to the statement. The board called on
Argentina to “address the inaccuracy” of economic data no
later than Sept. 29. Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  is
required to report to the board on Argentina’s progress by
Nov. 13.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said in 2010 the
country would create a new  consumer price index  to reflect the
latest consumption habits. Since then, the government hasn’t
shown any progress in the new index. Lagarde said in September
that the lender may give the country a “yellow card” for
failing to improve its reports.  Debt Default  The fund’s censure is baseless and represents a “new
mistake,” the country’s economy ministry said yesterday in a
statement published on the government’s  website . Argentina will
start using a new CPI index by the fourth quarter of this year
after conducting a survey on consumption since March 2012,
according to the statement.  “Argentina doesn’t seem to have this as a priority in its
agenda,” said Miguel Kiguel, a former finance under-secretary
who now runs Econviews in  Buenos Aires .  The  U.S. Treasury  voiced support for the IMF’s decision and
urged “Argentina to work closely with the IMF in the months
ahead to rectify these matters,” according to an e-mailed
statement from Treasury spokeswoman Holly Shulman.  Argentina has been blocked from borrowing from
international markets since its 2001 default on $95 billion of
debt.  South America ’s second-biggest economy needs new
investments to finance increased oil production by YPF SA, the
country’s largest oil company that Fernandez nationalized last
year from  Spain ’s Repsol SA.  IMF Censure  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar debt instead of Treasuries narrowed 44 basis
points to 1,058 basis points at 5:17 p.m. in  New York , according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Argentina’s $37.6 billion of inflation-linked bonds, which
account for 21 percent of government debt, have lost 19.1
percent in the past 12 months, the most in  Latin America ,
according to Barclays Plc. Similar Brazilian bonds gained 11.5
percent in the same period, while Mexican inflation-linked bonds
rose 17.2 percent.  The IMF censure followed several attempts to obtain
information from Argentina that the fund deems is good enough to
monitor the country’s economic performance. Fernandez has denied
the official statistics are inaccurate, even though they have
been disputed by the IMF, economists and politicians since 2007.  Further Sanctions  In early 2007, Fernandez’s late husband and then-President
Nestor Kirchner replaced senior staff at the statistics
institute, known as Indec. While private forecasters estimate
that inflation accelerated in 2012 to 25.6 percent, the
government’s national statistics institute said consumer prices
rose 10.8 percent.  The private economists aren’t identified because they risk
being fined by the government for releasing calculations that
differ from official data.  The gap between the official and private inflation rates
has enabled the country to save about $6.8 billion since 2007,
according to Buenos Aires-based research firm ACM Consultores.  The IMF may take further sanctions, such as declaring the
country ineligible to use the fund’s general resources and
suspending its  voting rights . “Compulsory withdrawal” is the
last step of the procedure, which leaves time between each
decision for the country to address concerns.  According to the fund,  Czechoslovakia  is the only country
ever ousted from the IMF for breaching the same rule, while Cuba
withdrew in 1964. The procedure that has censure as a prior step
didn’t exist then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  