-- Marsh & McLennan Sees Weather, Finance Collision Course
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-02-01T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/marsh-mclennan-ceo-sees-weather-finance-on-collision-course.html
Marsh & McLennan Cos. Chief Executive
Officer Daniel Glaser, head of the largest insurance broker by
market value, said taxpayers may face a larger burden as natural
disasters do more damage in developed areas.  “There’s a collision course between, essentially, call it
an environmental system and a financial system,” Glaser, 52,
said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg headquarters in New
York. An increase in natural disasters “tests the resiliency of
governments because ultimately they are expected to respond to
catastrophe. They’re doing it with debt, not with actual
reserving.”  Glaser, who became CEO this year, is pushing for insurance
to play a larger role in setting aside funds for disasters and
to force businesses and individuals to pay the price for
developing in vulnerable areas. Marsh & McLennan works with
clients in more than  100 countries  and earns money by helping
businesses arrange coverage and manage risk.  Superstorm Sandy, which lashed the U.S. Northeast in
October, showed the costs of a natural disaster striking a
densely populated area. It destroyed $35.8 billion in private
property and $8.6 billion of government assets, according to
U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis estimates released Jan. 30.
Insurers will probably pay out $20.6 billion in claims, while
the U.S. flood insurance program will spend $7.5 billion.  “Guaranteed over the next five years you will see the
rebuilding of the homes that were destroyed in Sandy in the
locations in which they were destroyed,” Glaser said. “That
happens all over the world each time.”  Sandy Assistance  Congress completed a $60.2 billion aid package this week to
help communities rebuild. Lawmakers wrangled for three months
over the legislation, with House Republicans withholding support
because some sought to cut the national debt.  Record tornado claims in 2011 contributed to $33.1 billion
in insured losses in the U.S. that year, according to data
compiled by the Insurance Information Institute. Eight of the 10
costliest  hurricanes  in U.S. history occurred in the past
decade, the trade group said.  “It’s becoming quite clear that severe weather events are
the new normal,” Glaser said. Storms are “more costly because
there has been lack of control of development in coastal regions
and in flood plains.”  The largest cities and states could mitigate future costs
by hiring staff to plan for disasters, similar to how companies
employ chief risk officers, Glaser said. Governments should also
mandate that people living in the most vulnerable areas buy
insurance for flooding and earthquakes, he said.  New Chief  Glaser  took over  at Marsh & McLennan after serving as chief
operating officer and head of its flagship insurance brokerage.
He succeeded Brian Duperreault, who during a five-year tenure as
CEO sold assets; reorganized the largest unit, Marsh;  boosted
profit  and helped repair the company’s reputation after a 2004
bid-rigging scandal. The stock returned  53 percent , including
reinvested dividends, during the five years through Dec. 31.  Marsh & McLennan’s agency unit devoted to mid-size business
clients may continue to expand through  acquisitions , Glaser
said. The health and benefits business also offers opportunities
for growth, he said.  Insurers and brokers are setting up private marketplaces,
or exchanges, as employers shift responsibility to their workers
for choosing benefits. The exchanges allow workers to choose
among a variety of plans offered by competing health insurers.
Employers may still contribute toward benefits even as workers
often bear the cost for exceeding a basic level of coverage.  Health Markets  The private markets are rising in parallel to the
government-sponsored exchanges created under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law. Those exchanges, which start enrolling
people in October, will be limited to small businesses and
people buying insurance on their own.  Looking to offer the same service to large employers, Marsh
& McLennan’s Mercer benefits-consulting arm announced the
establishment of an exchange with software provider Benefitfocus
on Jan. 10 for companies with 100 workers or more.  Glaser said he’s not worried about competition from the
online marketplaces that the health-care law will establish.
Mercer may benefit as companies race to set up their own
exchanges, he said.  “The more the merrier, because somebody is going to need
advice,” Glaser said. “And as soon as they say that, then
it’s, ‘I got to hire somebody’ and Mercer will be there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  