-- Harvard’s Birk Shuns Wall Street for Spot in Super Bowl
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-02-01T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/harvard-s-birk-shuns-wall-street-for-spot-in-super-bowl.html
Matt Birk turned down a Wall Street
job out of  Harvard University  to play in the  National Football
League , a career move that paid off in a Super Bowl berth with
the  Baltimore Ravens  15 years later.  Birk, an economics major, had a summer internship with
Prudential Securities Inc. after his junior year at Harvard and
was offered a job upon graduation.  A sixth-round NFL draft pick, the center has gone on to six
Pro Bowl selections and has started every regular-season game
since the 2006 season. The Ravens play the  San Francisco 49ers 
for the NFL championship in  New Orleans  in two days.  “I don’t think deep down I was Wall Street material,”
Birk said last week in an interview. “I have six kids now and
I’m not looking to work 100-hour weeks and sit in front of a
computer.”  Birk, 36, was focused on  Wall Street  before scouts started
showing up on Harvard’s campus in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and
saying he had a chance to play at football’s highest level.  “It was just a unique opportunity; it’s not like you can
put it off,” Birk said. “Wall Street would always be there
when it didn’t work out. Maybe I’d delay the real world for six
months; I didn’t expect to play football for 15 years.”  The 6-foot-4, 310-pound native of  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , was
taken by the  Minnesota Vikings  with the 173rd pick in the 1998
draft. He played with the Vikings through 2008 and signed with
the Ravens as a free agent in March 2009.  Birk didn’t play football until his sophomore year at
Cretin-Derham Hall High School, a private Catholic institution
of 1,300 students in St. Paul.  Basketball Preference  “He fancied himself a basketball player,” Mel Scanlan,
70, Birk’s high school football coach, said in a telephone
interview. Scanlan said he began calling Birk “Doc” after he
injured his ankle during junior year.  “He tweaked his ankle,” Scanlan said. “He gave me a
medical analysis. I said, ‘I just asked you how your damn ankle
was, and not for an orthopedic description.’”  Birk said he chose Harvard over other Ivy League schools
and service academies that recruited him. Coach  Tim Murphy , who
started with the Crimson the same year as Birk, is still
Harvard’s coach.  “Before he got there, football was more recreational,
intramural, just something to do,” Birk said. “He came there
and was running it like a Division I-A scholarship program. He
expected guys to be serious about football.”  Harvard won the Ivy League title with a 9-1 record in
Birk’s senior year. Murphy encouraged him to take the next step,
saying Birk improved more in his four years “more than any
other player I have ever been around.”  ‘Relentless Pursuit’  “Once he became passionate about football, he was
relentless in his pursuit of making it in the NFL,” Murphy, 56,
said in an e-mail.  Isaiah Kacyvenski, who as a linebacker with the  Seattle
Seahawks  in 2006 was the last Harvard player before Birk to
reach the Super Bowl, had a locker next to the offensive lineman
during his freshman year with the Crimson. Birk was then a
junior.  “I come in as a freshman, red hair, reverse mullet, felt
like I shouldn’t even be there,” Kacyvenski said in a telephone
interview. “I’m asking a ton of questions like, ‘Where do I get
my playbook?’”  By the second day, Birk had heard enough.  “Isaiah is a pretty energetic guy with a great attitude,”
Birk said. “Always really happy, he would come in there
bouncing. Being older and a little more calloused, I needed to
put a stop to it.”  Tape Tale  Birk told Kacyvenski he was restricting the number of
questions he could ask and placed a piece of sports tape on his
locker. When Kacyvenski asked him “What do you mean?” Birk
made a tick on the tape and said, “That’s your first
question.”  Kacyvenski, 35, director of sports business at the 
biomedical technology company MC10 Inc. in Cambridge, said Birk 
would have succeeded at whatever he chose.  “He will go down as the best player in Harvard history,
bar none,” Kacyvenski said. “It’s going to be hard for anyone
to match what he has done. Matt is an unbelievably intelligent
individual.”  Kacyvenski said he and Birk have played down their Harvard
degrees in the NFL.  “It was like the scarlet letter,” Kacyvenski said. “It’s
like your street cred is lowered a little.”  Murphy joined Birk, Kacyvenski and another Crimson alumnus,
Buffalo Bills quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick, for dinner seven
years ago. The coach arrived with Harvard sweatshirts and pants.  Class Act  “You would have thought I was giving them keys to a
Mercedes,” Murphy said. “The point is Matt, and for that
matter Fitzy and Isaiah, were the exact same humble,
unpretentious, genuine kids that they were when I recruited them
out of high school. Matt Birk has never forgotten where he came
from. He is extremely loyal, he is class.”  Birk said he hasn’t decided if the  Super Bowl  will be his
last game. After retirement, he’ll continue the charity work
that earned him the 2011 Walter Payton Man of the Year Award.  Wall Street isn’t in his plans.  “This is as dressed up as I get,” he said, sporting a
Superman T-shirt and sweatpants. “I’m a pretty simple guy when
it comes down to it. I enjoy the peace and quiet of outside --
the simple life more than the hustle-bustle of the big city. I
might be a professional fisherman.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New Orleans at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  