-- Asian Corporate Dollar Bond Sales Surge to Record in January
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-01T05:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/asian-corporate-dollar-bond-sales-surge-to-record-in-january.html
Dollar-denominated bond sales from
 Asia  surged to a record in January as companies sought to plug a
gap in loan funding.  Issuance from the region, excluding Japan, rose to $23.4
billion, 39 percent more than the previous all-time monthly high
of $16.8 billion in September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The monthly average for such offerings has been $3.5
billion since the data began in 1999. Hainan Airlines Co.
received more than $2.1 billion in orders for its $500 million
seven-year note sold yesterday, according to a person familiar
with the deal. Borrowers refrained from marketing notes in the
U.S. currency today.  Investor demand for Asian corporate debt drove yield
premiums on the securities to a  20-month low  of 245 basis points
more than Treasuries on Jan. 7, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes. Global regulators led by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  are seeking to increase banks’ protection
against losses, curbing their appetite for lending. Syndicated
loans in the region totaled $8.1 billion last month, a 26
percent drop compared with January 2012, the data show.  “A lot of corporates, especially the investment grade
names, are taking the opportunity to expand their funding base
and not rely entirely on loans,” Ankur Prakash, director in
debt capital markets for Northeast Asia at Standard Chartered
Plc, said at a roundtable discussion in  Hong Kong  on Jan. 30.
With stricter regulations known as Basel III coming and European
banks deleveraging, Asian companies are experiencing a shortfall
in loan financing, Prakash said.  Bond Risk  Thai Oil Pcl,  Korea Development Bank  and a unit of Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd. led U.S. currency bond sales from Asia
last month, raising $1 billion each, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan dropped two basis points to 115 basis
points as of 9:40 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge climbed 2.8 basis points in
January, rising for a second consecutive month, according to
data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped three basis
points to 119 as of 11:08 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac
Banking Corp. prices. The benchmark is poised for its lowest
close in three days, after declining for a fifth straight month
in January, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index fell one basis point to 134
as of 10:09 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche Bank AG prices.
The measure is headed for its lowest level since August 2011,
CMA prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  