-- Asian Currencies Decline in Week as Yen Tumble Threatens Exports
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-02-01T08:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/asian-currencies-decline-in-week-as-yen-tumble-threatens-exports.html
Asian currencies fell for a second
week, led by South Korea’s won and the Taiwan dollar, on concern
the yen’s slide to a 2 1/2-year low will hurt exports from the
region’s emerging-market economies.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index touched a two-
month low today as a Bank of Korea board member warned of a
global currency war. The yen weakened versus the dollar in each
of the last four months amid speculation Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe will favor more aggressive stimulus measures. The
Federal Reserve said Jan. 30 it will maintain its $85 billion of
monthly debt purchases, a policy that spurs the flow of funds to
 emerging markets . India’s rupee was headed for a weekly advance
after the central bank cut interest rates for the first time in
nine months.  “Major Asian economies are looking for ways, such as
currency depreciation, to counter a sliding yen’s impact on
competitiveness,” said Bruce Yam, a currency strategist at Sun
Hung Kai Financial Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Yet, quantitative easing
in major economies means investors will look to Asia for higher-
yielding assets.”  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, lost 0.3 percent this week
as of 4:15 p.m. in Hong Kong, following a 0.6 percent decline in
the five days ended Jan. 25. The won fell 2.1 percent to
1,097.38 per dollar, the biggest loss since May, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taiwan ’s dollar dropped 1.4 percent
to 29.668.  Japan , South Korea and Taiwan compete in the world
market for electronic products and autos.  ‘Fear Factor’  The won sank as much as 0.9 percent to a three-month low of
1,098.25 per dollar today as global funds cut holdings of Korean
stocks for a seventh day, the longest run of reductions since
November. Net sales totaled $1.7 billion in January, the most
since May.  A global currency war seems to be breaking out as monetary
easing in Japan drags the yen lower, Ha Sung Keun, a Bank of
Korea board member, said on Jan. 28 in  Seoul . South Korea’s
government wants to cut the “vicious cycle” in which fast
money inflows increase the won’s volatility, Deputy Finance
Minister Choi Jong Ku said Jan. 30.  “The won’s drop this week was largely due to fear stoked
by the expectation that the yen would erode the competitiveness
of  Korea ,” said Wai Ho Leong, a Singapore-based economist at
Barclays Plc. “The mention of a transaction tax on currency
trading accentuated the fear factor in the market.”  Intervention Risk  Taiwan’s dollar completed the biggest weekly slide in 16
months on speculation the central bank will intervene to protect
exports. Policy makers warned on Jan. 29 they will enter the
currency market if “irregular factors,” such as large fund
flows, cause excessive volatility,  “The central bank’s been carefully watching other Asian
currencies,” said Samson Tu, a Taipei-based fund manager at
Uni-President Assets Management Corp., which oversees $700
million.  The rupee advanced 0.7 percent this week to 53.33 per
dollar as the Reserve Bank of  India  said cooling inflation
provides some room for further policy easing, after reducing the
repurchase rate to 7.75 percent from 8 percent on Jan. 29. It
reached 53.0650 yesterday, the strongest level since Oct. 18.  China ’s  yuan  halted a two-day gain as the lowering of the
central bank’s daily fixing forced the currency to weaken to
stay within its 1 percent permitted trading range. The spot rate
fell 0.13 percent today to 6.2270 per dollar in  Shanghai . It
lost 0.1 percent this week.  The world’s second-largest economy’s Purchasing Managers’
Index was 50.4 in January, the national statistics bureau said
today, lower than 50.6 in December and a median forecast of 51
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  Elsewhere in Asia,  Indonesia ’s rupiah weakened 1 percent to
9,750 per dollar, the Thai baht gained 0.3 percent to 29.82 and
the Philippine peso lost 0.1 percent to 40.71.  Vietnam ’s dong
was little changed at 20,845. Malaysia’s financial markets were
closed today for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  