-- AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers’s Forxiga Not Backed by NICE
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-02-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/astrazeneca-bristol-myers-s-forxiga-not-backed-by-nice.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co.’s (BMY)  drug Forxiga failed to win the backing of the
U.K.’s health-cost adviser when used with other diabetes
treatments after the companies didn’t offer a discount.  The  National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
is requesting further information from the companies before an
appraisal committee meets in April, the agency, known as NICE,
said today in an e-mailed statement. NICE advises the state-run
health system on which treatments represent value for money.  “There was significant uncertainty about the validity of
the results” of the companies’ analyses of the effectiveness of
Forxiga compared with other therapies, NICE said.  Forxiga won European Union approval in November after the
EU drug regulator said the medicine’s benefits  outweighed  the
risks of infection and some types of cancer. The product is the
first of a new class of diabetes medicines called SGLT2-
inhibitors. AstraZeneca, based in  London , needs new medicines to
boost revenue as older products lose market exclusivity.  The medicine costs 36.59 pounds ($57.80) for 28 tablets,
according to NICE. Final guidance on the drug will be published
in June, the agency said.  Diabetes occurs when the body doesn’t produce enough
insulin or use it effectively to regulate blood sugar. Over time
the elevated levels of blood sugar can damage nerves and blood
vessels and can increase the risk of  heart disease , stroke and
kidney damage. Diabetes affects almost 3 million people in the
U.K., with 90 percent having the Type 2 form of the disease that
develops later in life, according to NICE.  Forxiga helps the body flush out excess sugar through the
urine. The medicine has been shown in studies to help patients
lose weight and lower  blood pressure . Older diabetes drugs
either reduce blood-sugar levels or increase insulin production.  The companies  expect  to resubmit an application to market
the drug in the U.S. in the middle of this year, AstraZeneca
said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  