-- Tata Motors Indian Vehicle Sales Drop the Most in Four Years
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-02-01T14:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/tata-motors-indian-vehicle-sales-drop-the-most-in-four-years.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , India’s largest
automaker, reported its biggest drop in vehicle sales in four
years in January as high borrowing costs and a slowing economy
reduced demand for the company’s trucks and cars.  Deliveries plunged 30 percent to 61,660 units last month,
according to a statement on the company’s  website . Passenger
vehicle sales dropped 59 percent to 15,209 units in the month.
Tata Motors didn’t disclose year-ago data the statement.  The automaker, which last month said its Jaguar Land Rover
Plc unit’s margins may have declined in the quarter ended Dec.
31, failed to lure buyers at home amid the highest interest rate
among Asia’s largest  emerging markets . Rising prices of fuel to
run its trucks, Safari and Sumo SUVs may have also deterred
customers.  “Things are not going well for the industry as a whole,”
said Basudeb Banerjee, an analyst with Quant Broking Pvt. in
Mumbai. “Demand is in a very poor shape and will remain so in
the Indian market even in the next financial year.”  Tata Motors shares fell 5.5 percent to 281.65 rupees in
Mumbai before the company released its sales data.  India last month allowed state oil companies to raise
diesel prices, stepping up efforts to curb fuel subsidies and
tackle its budget gap. The Reserve Bank of India reduced the
repurchase rate on Jan. 29 to 7.75 percent from 8 percent for
the first time since April to revive growth as inflation cools
and the government curbs the budget deficit.  “The market is very tight,” said Tata Motors spokesman
Debasis Ray. “The commercial vehicle market is reflecting the
slowness in the economy while on the passenger vehicles, the
consumer sentiment is very low.”  Tata Motors derived 75 percent of its operating income from
Jaguar Land Rover in the last financial year. JLR’s margins in
the three months through December may have declined due to the
pound weakening against other currencies and higher sales of its
cheaper models, the Gaydon, England-based division said Jan. 23
in a U.S. filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  