-- Audi Opens Digital Showroom in Beijing to Draw Shopppers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-01T04:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/audi-opens-digital-showroom-in-beijing-mall-to-attract-shoppers.html
Audi AG (NSU)  opened its first interactive
digital showroom in  Asia  in a Beijing shopping mall, as the
world’s second-largest luxury automaker steps up efforts to
soften its image in  China  as a brand for bureaucrats.  The 2,100-square meter (22,600 square feet) showroom at the
Oriental Plaza in the Wangfujing shopping district can display
14 vehicles and features six floor-to-ceiling projection walls
that can call up as many as 100 million vehicle combinations
through touch-screen tables. Staff are dressed in sweaters and
khakis, rather than the usual business suits, to project a
younger and more leisurely image.  The showroom is part of measures by the Ingolstadt,
Germany-based automaker to broaden its appeal in China beyond
that of an official car used by bureaucrats and company
executives. Transforming the brand has taken on added urgency as
Communist Party chief  Xi Jinping  pushes to reduce government
expenditure and promote the use of cheaper auto brands.  “The team has done a tremendous job in evolving the image
of the brand,” Luca de Meo, member of the management board at
Audi, said yesterday in a tour of the showroom. “You can
probably understand the intention to keep going in the direction
of positioning Audi as the most progressive brand in the premium
automotive market.”  To attract more Chinese consumers, Audi has introduced
sport-utility vehicles and  sports cars  like the TT and R8, he
said. Private individuals account for nine out of every 10
customers in China today, he said.  Audi sales in China and  Hong Kong  rose 30 percent last year
to a record 405,838 units, the company said last month.  Research Center  The carmaker also opened its first research and development
center outside  Germany  today in Beijing, with about 300 staff.
About 60 percent to 70 percent of the employees are Chinese and
the automaker is targeting to increase that proportion in the
future, according to Lorenz Fuehrlinger, who heads the center.  “Our designers here they are Chinese and they are young
and I think is exactly addressing what you expect,’ said
Fuehrlinger. ‘‘The younger buyer in China is so important.’’  Audi, which is  controlled  by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , supplied an
estimated 70 percent of cars used by the government and state-
held enterprises during the 1980s, according to an estimate by
Guotai Junan Securities.  Official Car  At the 18th Communist Party Congress held in Beijing in
November, the official parking lots for ministerial delegates
were filled with black Audi A6 sedans with tinted windows.  Local leaders have responded to Xi’s calls to cut down on
wasteful expenditure by canceling banquets, police escorts and
issued directives for senior cadres to use Chinese auto brands
instead of those by Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG.  ‘‘If ministers and state-owned company bosses start to
switch to Chinese brand cars, it will be a tremendous push to
local automakers and a major blow to Audi,’’ said Chi Yifeng,
head of the Beijing Asian Games Village Automobile Exchange, a
vehicle dealer in the capital. ‘‘Unlike BMW and Mercedes, Audi
doesn’t have as strong the individual consumer base and they
have been working on changing that.’’  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  