-- Australian Lawmaker Thomson to Seek Court Hearing Delay
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-01T02:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/australian-lawmaker-thomson-to-seek-court-hearing-delay.html
Craig Thomson,  a former
parliamentary member of Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor party, will seek a two-week delay for his first
court appearance on 150 fraud charges, his lawyer said.  Parliamentary privilege makes it illegal for a sitting
lawmaker to be required to attend court while the legislature is
in session, lawyer Chris McArdle told reporters outside a court
in Sydney today. Thomson is due to appear at a hearing in
 Melbourne  on Feb. 6, he said.  Thomson, a former national secretary of the  Health Services
Union , faces 150 fraud charges in Victoria state related to
allegations he misused a union credit card to pay for
prostitutes,  air travel  and cash advances between 2002 and 2007.
The alleged misconduct occurred before he entered parliament  “Members of the houses possess some minor legal
immunities, principally exemptions from compulsory attendance
before a court or tribunal when the Parliament is sitting,”
according to a document on the government’s  website  outlining
parliamentary privilege.  Victoria police said in an e-mail a Feb. 6 court appearance
is scheduled and they would make no further comment.  In April last year, Gillard ordered Thomson to resign from
her  Labor party  while the allegations were investigated. He
remained in parliament as an independent, with Gillard relying
on his support to pass laws in the legislature, where her party
has a minority of the seats. Gillard announced on Jan. 30 that
an election will be held Sept. 14.  Strip Search  McArdle today reiterated that Thomson is innocent. He said
the lawmaker was distressed and humiliated by the arrest, which
included a strip search in a police station.  Fair Work  Australia , the nation’s workplace tribunal, sued
Thomson to recover money it claimed he misused. The suit has
been delayed by the criminal charges, with Federal Court Justice
Christopher Jessup today postponing a hearing in the case to
March 1 to let lawyers determine whether the criminal charges
and civil lawsuit result from substantially the same conduct.  Australian law requires civil lawsuits to be put on hold
while a criminal case, based on substantially the same
allegations, proceeds.  The civil case is General Manager of Fair Work Australia v.
 Craig Thomson . VID798/2012. Federal Court of Australia
(Melbourne)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  