-- Banks Told Too Much Capital Is Bad in Swedish About-Face
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-02-01T12:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/banks-told-too-much-capital-is-bad-in-swedish-about-face.html
Sweden  is telling its banks not to
amass too much capital less than 18 months after breaking with
the rest of Europe in demanding lenders meet some of the world’s
toughest regulatory standards.  Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said on Jan. 30
Sweden’s banks should “not have too much capital” while
Finance Minister  Anders Borg  the same day told lenders they’re
free to raise dividends after building up reserves that topped
Swedish requirements.  The European Union’s best-capitalized banks, and their
shareholders, are now reaping the benefits of swimming in
surplus capital. The country’s four biggest lenders, including
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , already exceed the 10 percent core Tier 1 ratio
of risk-weighted assets that will apply this year. They even top
Sweden’s 12 percent rule that takes effect in 2015.  The government’s instruction to banks to start showing
restraint in building capital follows a broader push in Europe
to delay implementation of some aspects of Basel III as the
region struggles to emerge from its debt crisis. The EU and the
U.S. have already missed a January deadline to start phasing in
parts of the rules set by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision .  ‘Same Noises’  “What we’re hearing now from Anders Borg and Peter Norman
are the same noises that we’re also hearing in other places
around the world,” Robert Bergqvist, chief economist at SEB AB
in Stockholm, said in a phone interview. “They have become a
bit more scared that the regulatory framework and demands may
produce unnecessary uncertainty that could endanger the
international recovery.”  Christian Clausen , who is both chief executive officer at
Nordea and the president of the European Banking Federation, has
argued that harmonized standards across borders should be the
ultimate goal.  “It’s a quite natural development after a crisis, you do
what you need to do and then afterwards you need to harmonize,”
Clausen said in a Jan. 30 interview. “Governments in the EU
agree it should be harmonized, but first we need to do this and
that.”  The more lenient tone in Sweden marks a departure from last
year’s message. Borg in November warned lenders they risked a
regulatory backlash if they “start to discuss dividends,”
adding that “we’re not in a situation where the banks ought to
start to distribute money to the shareholders or start share
buybacks.”  Risk Weights  Borg has also pushed for tougher risk weights on mortgage
assets. As recently as Jan. 21, he urged banks to be
“cautious” with dividends.  Since then, Nordea and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , the EU’s second-best
capitalized major bank after  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , have
continued to build regulatory buffers that far exceed this
year’s minimum requirement. Nordea’s core Tier 1 capital ratio
reached 13.1 percent of its risk-weighted assets at the end of
last year, while Swedbank’s was 17.4 percent. SEB’s was 15.1
percent. Handelsbanken is due to report its results on Feb. 6.  “We have told the banks that we think that they need more
and stronger capital,” Borg said on Jan. 30. “There’s now been
a change where they’re doing that -- Nordea for example is
increasing its capital -- and then the dividend issue becomes
something that the owners must decide. They have increased their
capital and that was the central and sharp opinion we had.”  ‘Destroy Value’  Nordea, Scandinavia’s biggest bank, said Jan. 30 it targets
a core Tier 1 ratio above 13 percent in coming years, including
regulatory changes, and that it plans to distribute excess
capital to shareholders. Its 44 percent payout ratio resulted in
a dividend of 0.34 euro per share for 2012, versus 0.26 euro for
2011. Swedbank said the same day it will raise its payout ratio
to 75 percent from 50 percent. SEB said yesterday it will hand
out 40 percent or more of its profit in dividends, compared with
a previous target of “about” 40 percent.  “Seen from a shareholder perspective, too high capital
levels can destroy value by putting too little pressure on
management in terms of efficiency,” Mads Thinggaard, an analyst
at Nykredit Markets in Copenhagen, said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “It also gets harder and harder to reap positive
effects on the funding costs as capital levels go beyond very
high.”  Outperformed Index  Sweden’s banks have outperformed an index of their biggest
European rivals amid speculation they’d return a higher share of
profits to their owners. Nordea is up 14 percent this year while
Swedbank has gained 21 percent. Handelsbanken has risen 14
percent and SEB has advanced 16 percent in the period. The 38-
member  Bloomberg index of European financial stocks  has risen
8.3 percent.  Credit derivative investors view Sweden’s banks as among
 Europe ’s safest. It costs about 63 basis points using five-year
credit default swaps to hedge against non-payment of senior
notes issued by Handelsbanken, according to data available on
Bloomberg. Equivalent contracts on Deutsche Bank AG, Europe’s
biggest bank by assets, traded at 100 basis points this week.
Swaps on French sovereign debt cost 87 basis points.  Sweden’s decision to go a little easier on its banks is
unlikely to leave the industry less robust, according to
Bergqvist at SEB.  “It’s a really quick turnaround but I think it’s the right
analysis,” he said. “They’re drawing the right conclusions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  