-- Banks Have Grown Too Large to Manage, Cowen's Cohen Says
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-02-01T16:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/banks-have-grown-too-large-to-manage-cowen-s-cohen-says.html
Banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  have grown too
large, according to Peter Cohen, chief executive officer of
 Cowen Group Inc. (COWN)   “Are the big banks too big?” Cohen, former chairman of
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s Stephanie Ruhle. “I think they are.
There are too many people, there’s too much going on and you
can’t possible know about it.”  Cohen, a protege of former Citigroup Inc. CEO Sandy Weill,
was head of Shearson Lehman in the 1980s. He left the company
after losing a bidding war for RJR Nabisco Inc., which was
bought out by KKR & Co. in 1989 for a then-record $30 billion,
according to  Bryan Burrough  and John Helyar’s book “Barbarians
at the Gate.”  The largest U.S. banks are big enough that regulators would
bail them out again in a crisis, Cohen said. Lehman filed for
bankruptcy in 2008 amid the collapse of the U.S. housing market.  “Sure, they are too big to fail,” Cohen said. “We could
never afford to let, in my opinion, Citi, JPMorgan, Bank of
America implode. It would be catastrophic. It would make Lehman
look like kindergarten.”  Cowen, an investment-banking, trading and asset-management
firm, has seen its stock drop 55 percent since 2009 to $2.66 at
10:02 a.m. in New York. The firm lost $14.5 million in the first
nine months of 2012 and posted losses in each of the previous
five years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have to evolve into something different, which we are
working very hard at doing,” Cohen said. “We have very strong
asset-management business. We are very active in investing our
own capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 