-- Barclays CEO Jenkins Says He Won’t Take Bonus for 2012
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-02-01T14:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/barclays-ceo-jenkins-says-he-won-t-take-bonus-for-2012.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Antony Jenkins  said he won’t take a bonus for 2012 after a
series of regulatory mis-steps including a fine for attempting
to rig global interest rates.  “The year just past was clearly a very difficult one for
Barclays and its stakeholders, with multiple issues of our own
making besetting the bank,” Jenkins, 51, said in a statement
today. “I think it only right that I bear an appropriate degree
of accountability.”  Jenkins was in line for a bonus of at least 1 million
pounds ($1.6 million), the Guardian newspaper reported on Jan.
29. Barclays Compensation Committee Chairman John Sunderland
told U.K. lawmakers on Jan. 30 that reports about his bonus were
“speculation.” His former counterpart Alison Carnwath the same
day said former CEO Robert Diamond was reluctant to tackle
“obscene” levels of pay at the bank.  Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds in June for
attempting to manipulate the London interbank offered rate and
other benchmark interest rates, with the lender’s three top
executives, including Diamond, departing after criticism by bank
supervisors and politicians.  Qatar Loan  U.K. regulators are examining allegations that Barclays
lent Qatar money to invest in the bank’s own shares during the
financial crisis in 2008, the Financial Times reported today,
citing two unidentified people familiar with the matter. The
Financial Services Authority and Serious Fraud Office are
probing the alleged loan, the newspaper said. A Barclays
spokesman declined to comment today.  The bank is being investigated by the SFO for fees it paid
in 2008 to Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund as the lender sought
money to avoid a government bailout, the bank said in August.  Jenkins follows  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  CEO
Stephen Hester, who said in June that he won’t seek a bonus
after a computer failure left some of the lender’s 17 million
customers unable to withdraw cash for weeks. Hester, who became
CEO of Britain’s biggest government-owned bank in 2008, didn’t
take his 963,000-pound bonus for 2011 amid pressure from
lawmakers after shares of the lender slumped.  It hasn’t been disclosed whether the heads of other U.K.
banks will be paid bonuses this year.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  executives including CEO  Stuart Gulliver 
didn’t receive the maximum discretionary bonus available to them
for 2011 for reasons including the bank’s improper sale of
payment protection insurance in the U.K. and the advice given to
elderly customers on products to fund nursing-home costs.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio waived
his 2011 bonus in January 2012 to reflect the London-based
bank’s performance and his nine-week absence in 2011 for
exhaustion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  