-- Banco Bilbao Posts Quarterly Profit as Cleanup Concludes
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-01T16:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/bbva-posts-eu20-million-quarterly-profit-as-cleanup-concludes.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, posted a 20 million-euro ($27.3
million) fourth-quarter profit as a revenue boost helped offset
costs of completing a cleanup of Spanish real estate assets.  BBVA’s  net income  compared with a loss of 139 million euros
a year earlier when the Bilbao, Spain-based bank took a 1
billion-euro charge for goodwill at its U.S. division. Analysts
in a Bloomberg survey had  forecast  the company to post a loss of
2.9 million euros, the average of 12 estimates shows.  BBVA has counted on  earnings  from Mexico and  Latin America 
to cushion the blow of provisioning charges for real estate in
Spain, a market that has accounted for about 60 percent of the
bank’s lending. Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez  said in Davos,
 Switzerland , last week that the Spanish economy would start to
see “some light at the end of the tunnel” this year as funding
conditions for banks “change dramatically.”  “Asset quality is still an issue but not an incremental
issue,” said Daragh Quinn, a Madrid-based analyst at Nomura
International with a buy rating on the shares. “Growth in net-
interest income shows the resilience of their model and how
their businesses in Latin America and Mexico can compensate for
weakness elsewhere.”  Shares Drop  The shares  slipped  0.2 percent to 7.31 euros at close of
trading in Madrid. They have risen 5.1 percent this year,
lagging behind an 8 percent gain for the 38-company Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. Banco Santander SA,
 Spain ’s biggest bank, which reported quarterly earnings
yesterday, has decreased 1.1 percent in that period.  Net interest income, the difference between what a bank
earns from lending and what it pays on deposits, climbed 12
percent from a year ago to 3.9 billion euros as gross lending
increased 1.7 percent, the bank said. Bad loans as a proportion
of lending rose to 5.1 percent from 4.8 percent in the third
quarter and up from 4 percent a year earlier.  Loans newly classified as in default climbed to 4 billion
euros in the quarter from 3.7 billion euros in the third quarter
and 3.6 billion euros a year ago. President and Chief Operating
Officer Angel Cano said the bank will return half of the about
30 billion euros it took in emergency three-year loans,
including those from Unnim, a lender it acquired last year, from
the  European Central Bank  in the current quarter. Chairman
Gonzalez said the Spanish economy would reach an “an inflection
point” toward the end of this year.  Bad Loans  The bad-loans ratio for Spain rose to 6.9 percent from 6.5
percent in the third quarter. Net lending in the country fell
4.3 percent from a year ago, BBVA said. The lender sold 12,000
properties in 2012 at an average discount of 40 percent and
still has a another 41,000 on its books, Cano said.  BBVA posted a 1.27 billion-euro full-year loss from Spain,
compared with a 1.35 billion-euro profit a year earlier as it
booked 5.7 billion euros in provisioning charges to complete a
cleanup of real estate ordered by the government.  Fourth-quarter profit from  Mexico , the biggest contributor
to earnings, rose to 518 million euros from 497 million euros a
year ago, the bank said. Lending in the country climbed 14
percent last year as full-year net interest income rose 10
percent to 4.2 billion.  Quarterly profit from  South America  jumped to 337 million
euros from 275 million euros a year ago. Full-year profit from
the U.S. increased to 475 million euros compared with a 691
million-euro loss a year ago because of the goodwill charge.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, today agreed
to buy Chilean pension manager AFP Provida SA from BBVA in a
deal valued about $2 billion. BBVA said the transaction will
generate a net gain of 500 million euros from the sale that will
conclude in the second half of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  