-- Benitez’s Tactics Baffle Chelsea Players, Express Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-01T11:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/benitez-s-tactics-baffle-chelsea-players-express-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Baffling Benitez  Chelsea players are becoming baffled by the detailed
tactics of manager  Rafael Benitez , the  Daily Express  reported.  Benitez is known for his attention to detail and his
obsession with getting things right in both training and in
matches has confounded players, the Express said. Some players
have also questioned his use of substitutes, feeling he makes
moves too late in games, the newspaper said.  With the F.A. Cup and Europa League the only trophies to
play for, unhappy Chelsea officials have told the Spaniard his
main job is to finish in the top four in the Premier League to
ensure  Champions League  qualification next season, the Express
said.  Eye Test  Nottingham Forest manager  Alex McLeish  is considering his
future with the club after the owners rejected a transfer move
for Peterborough winger  George Boyd  over a failed eye test, the
 Telegraph  reported.  Chairman Fawaz Al-Hasawi pulled out of the purchase two
hours before last night’s transfer deadline, the Telegraph said.
Boyd passed a medical after a 500,000-pound ($791,300) fee was
accepted, but was then made to take the eye exam, which he
failed, the newspaper said.  Forest offered to take Boyd on loan, which Peterborough
rejected, leaving McLeish furious and contemplating whether to
remain at the team, the Telegraph said.  Suarez’s Pledge  Luis Suarez  said he will stay at Liverpool even if the club
fails to qualify for the Champions League, the  Daily Mail  said.  The Uruguayan, who’s scored 43 goals in his two years at
Anfield, has a contract until 2016 which he says he will honor,
the Mail said.  “If you want to know what will happen to me if we don’t
qualify for the Champions League, then I will say this, I have a
contract with Liverpool and I am very happy here,” the
newspaper quoted him as saying. “I will stay.”  Graham’s Vow  Danny Graham  has vowed to win over Sunderland fans who
booed him after his 5-million pound move yesterday from Swansea,
the  Daily Mirror  said.  Graham, who is a fan of rival Newcastle, was jeered three
days ago when he came on for Swansea during a Premier League
match at the Stadium of Light three days ago.  “I totally understand that some fans might need convincing
about my commitment to Sunderland because of my roots, but I’ve
always given 100 percent no matter what team I play for and no
matter who I play against,” the Mirror quoted Graham as saying.
“It’s up to me to show people I deserve to wear the Sunderland
shirt.”  Cole’s Century  England manager  Roy Hodgson  wants the home fans to salute
 Ashley Cole  if he makes his 100th national team appearance
against  Brazil  next week, the  Guardian said .  Cole is set to become the seventh player to get 100 England
caps during the match at Wembley Stadium and Hodgson wants the
fans to recognize the Chelsea defender for his ability rather
than his reputation for controversy, the Guardian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 