-- Berkowitz Adds Junk Debt on Top of BofA ‘Priced to Die’
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-02-02T00:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/berkowitz-expects-watershed-2013-as-fund-wagers-on-mbia-sears.html
Bruce Berkowitz, the investment
manager who’s turning away new customers from his mutual funds,
expects a “watershed” 2013 for Fairholme Capital Management
LLC’s Focused Income Fund as he bets the majority of its assets
on junk-rated  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and  MBIA Inc. (MBI)   More than 55 percent of the fund’s assets are concentrated
on the debt of Sears and MBIA, Berkowitz said in a  letter  to
shareholders and directors posted on its website yesterday. MBIA
debt comprises more than 38 percent and Sears almost 17 percent,
with almost 40 percent in cash and Treasury bills.  Berkowitz is loading up on debt in some of the same
companies whose common stock propelled his flagship Fairholme
Fund to the best performance in a decade during 2012. The mutual
fund posted a 36 percent annual gain, beating 99 percent of its
peers, with American International Group Inc., Sears and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  currently ranked as the three biggest  holdings  and
MBIA among the top 10.  While a negative outcome is already priced into the market,
Fairholme expects MBIA to settle its  lawsuits  against Bank of
America, which “should lift MBIA bonds,” Berkowitz said in the
letter. “Sears will continue to pay all scheduled interest and
principal on its debt obligations,” while the debt trades below
par value.  During a question-and-answer session at the Columbia
Student Investment Management Association Conference in New York
yesterday, Berkowitz said he loaded up on financial firms such
as Bank of America when they were “priced to die” after the
credit crunch destroyed some of its biggest peers. The purchase
of Countrywide Financial Corp., derided by investors and
analysts for causing billions of dollars of losses on faulty
mortgages, is a “fixable problem,” he said.  Price Leader  As for AIG, which has repaid a $182.3 billion U.S. bailout,
the New York-based insurer is now “leading the entire property
and casualty industry to higher prices, better underwriting
profits,” Berkowitz said.  Berkowitz is closing the $7 billion  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  to new
investors Feb. 28, along with the Focused Income Fund and
Fairholme Allocation Fund. Current holders can continue putting
money into all three. Managers typically close a fund after a
good performance attracts more money than they can invest
effectively, putting a drag on future returns.  Track Record  Berkowitz is the managing member of Miami-based Fairholme
Capital and he was named by Morningstar Inc. as the domestic
stock-fund manager of the decade in January 2010. He has said he
likes to “embrace the hated” and bet on the recovery of
companies that fall out of favor, and prefers to put assets into
his  best ideas  rather than spread the money to weaker ones.  His stakes are sometimes so large that they rank Fairholme
among a company’s biggest shareholders. Fairholme owns about 16
percent of Sears and 23 percent of MBIA, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sears, whose debt is  rated  B3 at Moody’s Investors Service
and CCC+ at Standard & Poor’s, surged 45 percent last year in
New York stock trading as the Hoffman Estates, Illinois-based
retailer sought to cut costs, stores, assets and inventory.  The company’s $987 million of 6.625 percent bonds due in
2018 rallied to more than 97 cents on the dollar during the past
week, from as low as 76 cents last year, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. Fairholme owns 6.1 percent of those bonds, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  MBIA Debt  Shares of MBIA, which is rated Caa1 at Moody’s and B- at
S&P, fell 32 percent last year as the insurer continued its
legal wrangle with Bank of America. The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender, ranked second by assets in the U.S.,
bought products from MBIA Insurance protecting it from losses on
more than $6 billion of debt.  The bank then sued MBIA over a 2009 restructuring that it
claims was based on misleading information. Armonk,  New York- 
based MBIA separately is suing the bank, seeking to force it to
buy back faulty loans included in insured mortgage-backed
securities, and claims Bank of America is delaying that case to
starve the insurer of cash.  MBIA’s $159.1 million of 5.7 percent bonds due in 2034, of
which Fairholme owns 7.3 percent according to Bloomberg data,
surged to 100.05 cents on the dollar in November from 57 cents
in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  