-- Bharti Profit Misses Estimates as Finance Costs Increase
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 2013-02-01T11:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/bharti-net-misses-estimates-as-interest-costs-increase.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  said third-quarter
profit slumped, missing analyst estimates, after a weaker rupee
boosted interest and network equipment costs for  India ’s largest
mobile-phone operator.  Net income  declined 72 percent to 2.84 billion rupees ($53
million) in the three months ended Dec. 31, New Delhi-based
Bharti said today. That trailed the 8.39 billion-rupee median of
29 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Billionaire Chairman  Sunil Mittal  said market conditions
had been challenging in recent quarters due to pricing pressures
and rising input costs that damped  margins . Mittal last month
cut free talk time and revamped management as Bharti prepares
for license renewal payments and regulatory changes.  “No clear positive trend is emerging yet,” Sudip Bandyopadhyay, managing director at Mumbai-based Destimoney
Securities Pvt. said by phone. “We will have to see a couple of
more quarters before we can say that they have come out of the
woods.”  Shares of Bharti slumped 3 percent, the most since Dec. 21,
to 329.40 rupees at the close in Mumbai trading. The stock was
the  biggest decliner  today on the 27-company MSCI  Asia  ex-Japan
Telecommunication Services Index.  Finance Costs  Revenue rose 9.5 percent to 202.4 billion rupees, compared
with the median estimate of 203 billion rupees. Net finance
costs, including foreign exchange fluctuation, increased to 13.3
billion rupees in the three-month period, from 7.9 billion
rupees a year earlier, Bharti said.  Bharti plans to sell $1 billion of bonds by June, Group
Chief Financial Officer Sarvjit Singh Dhillon said today.  The  Indian rupee  was the worst performer after the Japanese
yen among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies against the dollar
last quarter. The rupee fell 3.9 percent, pushing up interest
costs on Bharti’s overseas debt.  “Issues like making it compulsory for incumbents to
participate in auctions to renew licenses” spur a negative view
for telecommunications stocks, Harit Shah, a Mumbai-based
analyst at Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt., wrote in a Jan. 7 report.
Shah, who recommends investors  sell  Bharti, said India’s plans
to redistribute wireless spectrum and abolish roaming charges
were also likely to significantly impact revenue of operators.  Customers spent more time on Bharti’s networks in India and
 Africa  last quarter, Bharti said. Total minutes on the network
rose 12 percent from a year earlier to 284 billion, the company
said.  “The worst seems to be getting over with corrections
taking place in customer acquisition practices and the
tariffs,” Mittal said in the statement today. “Moreover, on
the data front, it is heartening to see strong growth quarter-
on-quarter and across geographies.”  Bharti,  32.3 percent  owned by  Singapore Telecommunications
Ltd. (ST) , on Jan. 15 named Gopal Vittal as chief executive officer
for  South Asia  and India from March 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  