-- Bioenergy, CPFL Paulista, Rio Grande, AES: Brazil Bond Alert
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-02-01T11:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/bioenergy-cpfl-paulista-rio-grande-aes-brazil-bond-alert.html
Bioenergy Geradora de Energia Ltda.,
CPFL Paulista,  Rio Grande  Energia SA and AES Tiete SA are among
issuers that plan to sell bonds in  Brazil ’s debt markets.  BIOENERGY GERADORA DE ENERGIA LTDA.: The renewable-energy
developer may issue as much as 250 million reais ($126 million)
of inflation-linked bonds with a maturity of as much as 10 years
to finance power projects, according to Chief Executive Officer
Sergio Marques. (Added Feb. 1)  CPFL PAULISTA: The power distributor said in a regulatory
filing that it plans to sell as much as 505 million reais of
eight-year bonds to qualified investors only. (Added Feb. 1)  RIO GRANDE ENERGIA SA: The energy company said in a
regulatory filing that it plans to offer as much as 170 million
reais of eight-year bonds to qualified investors only. (Added
Feb. 1)  RENOVA ENERGIA SA: The renewable-energy developer may sell
local infrastructure bonds to help finance 1.5 billion reais  in
wind-power projects in 2013, Pedro Pileggi, the company’s
director of  investor relations , said. (Added Jan. 29)  CIA. ENERGETICA DE MINAS GERAIS (CMIG4) : The power generator also
known as Cemig said in a regulatory filing that it plans to
issue 1.6 billion reais of local bonds. The first tranche of
five-year bonds will pay as much as the DI plus 73 basis points;
the second tranche of eight-year inflation-linked bonds will pay
as much as 5.2 percent; the third tranche of 12-year inflation-
linked bonds will pay as much as 5.75 percent. (Updated Jan. 24)  EOLICA GERIBATU I, II, III, V SA: The wind plant operators
received approval from the Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue
tax-exempt infrastructure bonds, according to the official
gazette. The four are among the 10 Eolica Geribatu wind park
projects and are joint ventures between Fundo de Investimentos e
Participacoes Rio Bravo and state-controlled Eletrosul Centrais
Eletricas SA. (Updated Jan. 24)  USINAS SIDERURGICAS DE MINAS GERAIS SA: The steel producer
said in a regulatory filing that it plans to sell as much as 1
billion reais of six-year local bonds to qualified investors.
The bonds would pay 1 percentage point more than the overnight
rate. (Updated Jan. 23)  ENERGIA SUSTENTAVEL DO BRASIL SA: The company responsible
for building and operating the Jirau dam, controlled by GDF
Suez, obtained approval from the Ministry of Energy and Mines to
sell tax-exempt infrastructure bonds, according to a statement
in the official gazette. (Added Jan. 22)  BROOKFIELD INCORPORACOES SA: The real estate developer said
in a regulatory filing that its board approved plans to sell as
much as 300 million reais of three-year bonds in two series. The
first tranche of 225 million reais may pay the DI rate plus 165
basis points; the second tranche would be 75 million reais of
inflation-linked bonds that pay as much as 6.1 percent. The
bonds may price by the end of February, according to a person
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because
he isn’t authorized to speak publicly. (Updated Jan. 22)  REDE D’OR SAO LUIZ: The hospital and lab operator plans to
issue local bonds worth as much as 270 million reais,  Standard &
Poor’s  said in a report. The ratings company assigned a BB-
rating. (Added Jan. 17)  TRACTEBEL ENERGIA SA: The energy company may issue local
bonds worth 350 million reais, Valor Economico reported, without
saying how it obtained the information. (Added Jan. 14)  AES TIETE SA: The electricity company may issue local bonds
worth 470 million reais, Valor Economico reported, without
saying where it obtained the information. (Added Jan. 14)  CIA. DE GAS DE  SAO PAULO : The natural-gas supplier known as
Comgas may issue local bonds worth 400 million reais, Valor
Economico reported, without saying where it obtained the
information. (Added Jan. 14)  TRIANGULO DO SOL AUTO-ESTRADAS SA: The builder and operator
of roads said in a regulatory filing that it plans to sell 620
million reais of domestic bonds and is scheduled to price the
securities Feb. 15. BTG Pactual SA, Bradesco BBI SA, Banco Itau
BBA SA and Banco Santander SA will manage the sale. A first
tranche will pay the DI rate plus as much as 300 basis points,
and the second is to offer a maximum 8 percent, according to a
prospectus of the public offering. (Updated Jan. 11)  CIA. ESTADUAL DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS: The water and sewage
utility known as Cedae said in a regulatory filing it plans to
sell as much as 150 million reais of local bonds due in 2017 to
qualified investors. The bonds may pay 169 basis points more
than the overnight rate. (Added Jan. 10)  FLEURY SA: The provider of medical testing services plans
to sell 500 million reais of local bonds with a seven-year
maturity. The bonds may pay as much as 1 percentage point above
the overnight rate, according to a filing. (Added Jan. 8)  IGUATEMI EMPRESA DE SHOPPING CENTERS SA: The mall operator
plans to sell 400 million reais of debentures, according to a
regulatory filing. The sale will be split between seven-year
bonds that may pay 100 basis points more than the overnight rate
and eight-year debt adjusted for inflation that may pay 100
basis points. Bradesco BBI is arranging the sale. (Updated Jan.
8)  VIGOR ALIMENTOS SA (VIGR3) : The food producer is considering
selling local bonds to refinance short-term debt, Mauricio
Hasson, the company’s chief financial officer, told reporters in
Sao Paulo. (Updated Dec. 20)  SANTHER-FABRICA DE PAPEL SANTA THEREZINHA SA: The paper-
products manufacturer plans to sell 125 million reais of local
bonds due in 2016, reducing the size for a second time,
according to a regulatory filing. Itau BBA is arranging the
sale. (Updated Dec. 14)  CCR SA: The highway manager may issue as much as 1 billion
reais of tax-exempt infrastructure bonds this year through three
of its units, Arthur Piotto, the company’s finance director,
said in a telephone interview. (Added Dec. 10)  TEGMA GESTAO LOGISTICA SA: The automobile logistics company
approved a plan to sell as much as 200 million reais of five-
and six-year bonds to qualified investors, according to a
regulatory filing. Banco BTG Pactual SA will arrange the sale.
(Added Dec. 10)  CIA. CATARINENSE DE AGUAS E SANEAMENTO (CASN3) : The sewage and
water company also known as Casan said in a regulatory filing
that it plans to sell 100 million reais of IPCA-linked 10-year
local bonds with a maximum yield of 9.5 percent. (Added Nov. 30)  NORTE ENERGIA SA: The company that won a 35-year concession
to build the world’s third-biggest hydroelectric dam has been
approved by the Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue tax-exempt
infrastructure bonds for the project known as  Belo Monte ,
according to the official gazette. The company will sell as much
as 500 million reais worth of bonds by 2015, Joao Pimentel, the
director of institutional relations, said in a telephone
interview. (Updated Nov. 28)  CIA. DE SANEAMENTO BASICO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO: The water
treatment and distribution company for the state of Sao Paulo,
also known as Sabesp, said in a regulatory filing its board has
approved plans to sell 1 billion reais of local bonds in three
tranches: five-year bonds to pay the  interbank rate  plus 0.85
percentage point; seven-year IPCA-linked bonds to pay a maximum
rate of 5.7 percent; and 10-year IPCA-linked bonds to pay a
maximum 6.15 percent. BB Banco de Investimento is lead
coordinator. (Added Nov. 16)  CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS SA (ELET6) : Brazil’s largest utility
by market value, also known as Eletrobras, has postponed an
offering of 2 billion reais of local bonds until 2013, according
to people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the matter hasn’t been made public. Banco
Santander Brasil SA and Banco BTG Pactual SA are the managers,
according to a regulatory filing. (Updated Nov. 6)  INTERLIGACAO ELETRICA DO MADEIRA SA : The joint venture of
Cia. de Transmissao de Energia Eletrica Paulista, Cia. Hidro
Eletrica do  Sao Francisco  and Furnas Centrais Eletricas SA may
issue 350 million reais of tax-exempt infrastructure bonds,
Brazil’s state development bank said in an e-mailed statement.
The funds would help finance a transmission line and two
substations, according to the statement. (Added Oct. 22)  TRANSNORTE ENERGIA SA : The joint venture of Alupar
Investimento SA and Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil SA has
been approved by the Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue tax-
exempt infrastructure debentures to finance two transmission
lines and substations in the states of Amazonas and Roraima,
according to the official gazette. (Added Oct. 8)  CONCESSIONARIA ROTA DAS BANDEIRAS SA: The road company has
been approved by the Ministry of Transportation to issue tax-
exempt infrastructure bonds to finance road pavements and other
improvements. (Added Oct. 5)  EMPRESA DE TRANSMISSAO TIMOTEO-MESQUITA LTDA. : The
electricity company has been approved by the Ministry of Energy
and Mines to issue tax-exempt infrastructure bonds to finance a
transmission line and substation. (Added Oct. 5)  FERREIRA GOMES ENERGIA SA: The utility service provider
unit of Alupar Investimento SA has received approval from the
Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue infrastructure debentures,
according to a regulatory filing. (Added Sept. 21)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  