-- Boeing 787 Woes Stump Investigators Prolonging Grounding
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-02-01T19:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/boeing-787-woes-stump-investigators-prolonging-grounding.html
The U.S. probe into battery incidents
on  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner may drag on for months, leaving
murky at best the pathway for the company’s most advanced plane
to return to the skies.  Investigators for the National Transportation Safety Board
are poring over microscopic battery remains, production records
and circuitry while running tests to rule out other potential
causes of overheating that prompted the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration to ground the jetliner two weeks ago.  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said today
regulators are “not feeling any pressure” to get the plane
back in the air and are studying the entire jetliner, while
focusing on the batteries.  “The worst scenario is you don’t find anything,” John Hansman, an aeronautics and astronautics professor at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said in an interview.
“And if you don’t find anything, you actually have to correct
all the things it could possibly be, even though there’s no
direct evidence. That’s more complicated and expensive.”  All 50 Dreamliners in service around the world have been
grounded since Jan. 16 after an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  787 made
an emergency landing because one of its lithium-ion batteries
smoked and became charred. The NTSB and its Japanese
counterparts have few definitive clues into what caused that
incident and a Jan. 7 battery fire on a  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) 
plane.  “We’re going to get this right,” LaHood told reporters
today after a speech in Falls Church,  Virginia . “We have to get
this right.”  Complex Probe  The battery woes have left Boeing surrounded by uncertainty
even as Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney said in a Jan. 30
earnings call that progress toward finding a cause was being
made.  McNerney said on the call that Boeing hasn’t seen anything
that causes it to question its choice of lithium-ion batteries,
which were approved by the FAA for the Dreamliner in 2007 --
four years before the first plane went into service.  The company’s sales will fall 3 percent below forecasts if
the grounding halts deliveries of 787s for six months, and by 6
percent over nine months,  Peter Arment , an analyst with Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc. in New York, wrote in a note. He’s forecasting
2013 revenue of $84.8 billion, meaning a potential loss of $2.5
billion or $5 billion.  If the investigation ends this quarter and the Chicago-
based planemaker’s required fixes are minimal, as Arment
expects, the impacts will be “limited in scope,” he wrote.  ‘Multiple Shifts’  In a worst case, Boeing would have to to write off about $5
billion in anticipated revenue,  Howard Rubel , a Jefferies & Co.
analyst, wrote in a report. Rubel put the odds of that at about
4 percent.  “The biggest swing factor in Boeing’s 2013 guidance is
clearly the 787 assumptions,” Arment said.  Boeing has continued production of the Dreamliner even
though it can’t deliver them because of the grounding. The
company doubled 787 production last year to five a month and is
set to double it again this year. Dreamliners stranded by the
grounding won’t fly anywhere until the grounding ends, LaHood
said today.  The NTSB’s effort to understand what happened has no
deadline,  Kelly Nantel , an agency spokeswoman, said in an
interview.  “We all appreciate the magnitude of this situation and are
working tirelessly on this investigation,” Nantel said.
“People are working multiple shifts and many days straight
without breaks.”  An investigation this complex, with evidence that’s been
damaged by fire, could take years, Tom Haueter, the retired
aviation investigations chief at the NTSB, said in an interview.  Five-Year Probe  Haueter, now an aviation safety consultant in Great Falls,
Virginia, helped lead a probe in the 1990s into suspected rudder
flaws on Boeing’s 737 that lasted five years. The flaw in the
rudder, a tail surface used primarily to help land in
crosswinds, was blamed for crashes near Pittsburgh and in
 Colorado  Springs, Colorado, on 737s that killed 157 people.  Tests of the 737 rudder system kept showing it performed
perfectly. Not until three years after a Sept. 8, 1994, crash of
a plane flown by  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , then known as USAir, did
Haueter and others find evidence that, under an unusual
combination of conditions, the rudder could move in the opposite
direction that pilots intended and create catastrophic dives.  “Quite frankly, when we found it, it was totally
accidental,” he said. “We were looking for something else and
bumped into it.”  Interim Steps  Such eureka moments can turn an investigation on a dime,
going from years of frustration to clarity in a day, Haueter
said. He sees that possibility with the 787 probe.  “It could be very easy that by this afternoon they find
something and say, ‘This is what happened.’” he said. “And
next week a fix is in place.”  If investigators can narrow the possible causes of the
failures to a handful of possibilities, Boeing may be able to
install fixes or warning systems to address each of them that
would satisfy the FAA, Haueter and Hansman said.  “They don’t have to wait until the investigation is
completed,” Haueter said. “They could do some kind of interim
fix.”  The FAA allowed the last plane model it grounded, the
McDonnell Douglas DC-10, to resume flights before a fix was
fully implemented for cargo doors that didn’t latch properly,
Cai von Rumohr, an analyst with Cowen & Co. in  Boston , said in a
note yesterday.  Finding technical fixes is just part of what it will take
to resume flights, Hansman said. Boeing and the FAA must also
convince lawmakers in  Washington  and other capitals, and the
public, that the plane is safe, he said.  “You are going to have to do something to restore
confidence in the batteries,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  