-- Brazil December Industrial Output Was Higher Than Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-02-01T13:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/brazil-december-industrial-output-was-higher-than-forecast-1-.html
Brazil ’s industrial production was
unchanged in December from a month earlier, surprising analysts
who expected output to contract for a second straight month.  Industrial output was flat after contracting a revised 1.3
percent in November, the national statistics agency said today
in Rio de Janeiro. The median forecast of 29 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was for production to decline 0.4 percent.  President  Dilma Rousseff  cut payroll taxes, lowered levies
on industrial goods, and kept  borrowing  costs at record lows in
an effort to boost industrial output that contracted 2.7 percent
last year, according to the government. Last month, she reduced
electricity prices for manufacturers by as much as 32 percent to
lower production costs and revert a drop in investments that is
holding back economic growth even as domestic demand grows.  “There’s nothing here to celebrate at all, in spite of
coming in higher than expected”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist
at  Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento SA , said by telephone
from  Sao Paulo . “Except for non-durable  consumer goods , all
other categories presented a drop. This very widespread low
performance is really weighing on the economy.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 8 percent at 10:00 a.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.13 percent to 1.9889 per  U.S. dollar .  Limits to Growth  Brazil’s central bank, after reducing  interest rates  to a
record 7.25 percent, said last month additional monetary
stimulus will fail to boost economic growth that is recovering
more slowly than expected due to limited supply.  Rousseff said last year the government will sell licenses
to build and operate 17,500 kilometers of roads and railways
with as much as 133 billion reais in investment. Brazil also
plans to sell rights to operate five ports that will require as
much as 54.2 billion reais in investment.  “We don’t have the right ports, we don’t have the right
airports and we don’t have the right roads,” Paulo Sergio Dortas, managing partner for consultancy Grant Thornton Brasil,
said by phone from Sao Paulo. “I don’t see for this year that
industry will be able to overcome such difficulties.”  The central bank forecasts the economy grew 1 percent last
year, less than the U.S. and its peers in the BRIC group that
includes Russia, India and  China . Economists surveyed by the
central bank are forecasting growth of 3.10 percent this year,
and 3.65 percent in 2014.  Weaker Real  The government also introduced  capital controls  last year
to weaken the currency in a bid to help exporters. The real
declined 9 percent against the dollar in 2012, the weakest
performance after the yen among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The weaker currency has fueled inflation, which quickened
to 6.02 percent in the 12 months through mid-January, the
fastest in a year. Since the beginning of the year, the real has
gained 3.3 percent as trader bet the central bank will allow the
currency to strengthen in a bid to tame consumer prices.  Semi-durable and non-durable consumer goods rose 0.9
percent in the month, while the three other main categories
tracked by the statistics agency contracted. Capital goods
production, an indicator of investment, fell 0.8 percent. The
output of durable goods and intermediate goods dropped 0.5
percent and 0.1 percent.  “If the government makes any movement in the  exchange rate 
in order to control inflation, industry will be very
disappointed because all the exports will be more expensive,”
Dortas said. “It’s a tough time for the Brazilian government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 