-- Brazil Elects Senate Leader Facing Surpreme Court Probe
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-02-01T19:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/brazil-elects-senate-leader-facing-surpreme-court-probe.html
Brazil ’s Senate elected as its leader
a government ally who is being investigated by the  Supreme Court 
over fraud allegations, as President  Dilma Rousseff  seeks to
maintain support to pass legislation.  Renan Calheiros, from the rural state of Alagoas, was
elected head of the Senate in a secret ballot over protests from
the opposition and some pro-government lawmakers. A leader of
the PMDB party, the largest member of the governing coalition,
Calheiros resigned as head of the Senate in 2007 over media
reports that a construction company made regular alimony
payments to his daughter in exchange for favors.  Rousseff, since coming to power two years ago, has taken a
harder line against corruption than her predecessor and mentor,
 Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , firing several members of her Cabinet
accused of graft. The house-cleaning, while popular with
Brazilians, has angered members of her Workers’ Party and
coalition partners whose support she’ll need to help boost
economic growth before an expected election run in 2014.  “She would certainly like a different name but she needs
her coalition united and can’t continue fueling internal
disputes,” Rafael Cortez, a political analyst with Tendencias
Consultoria Integrada in  Sao Paulo , said in a phone interview.
“The risk is that an anti-corruption campaign surrounding
Calheiros could contaminate her legislative agenda.”  Court Probe  Calheiros, 57, is still being investigated by the Supreme
Court in three separate cases, according to documents on the
court’s website. He is accused of embezzling public funds and
committing perjury to cover-up the child-maintenance payments,
Epoca Magazine said, citing a sealed indictment filed by
prosecutors it obtained.  Public Prosecutor Roberto Gurgel yesterday said that
Calheiros turned in false receipts to justify the use of his
Senate expense account, according to Globo’s G1 news site.  Calheiro’s press office did not return phone calls seeking
comment. In his acceptance speech, Calheiros pledged to make the
Senate more transparent and open to society.  “No institution can think it is perfect,” he said in a
speech on the chamber floor after taking command of the Senate
from former Brazilian President Jose Sarney, who also belongs to
the PMDB party, whose full name is the Democratic Movement of
Brazil Party.  A landmark corruption case last year, known as the
mensalao, struck a chord with Brazilians fed up with graft-
ridden politics. The world’s second-biggest emerging economy
ranked 69th among 176 countries, behind Cuba and  Saudi Arabia ,
in Transparency International’s 2012 study of corruption
perceptions around the world.  Corruption Cost  Graft costs Brazil 85 billion reais ($43 billion) a year,
nearly double what the government spent on roads, ports and
airports in 2011, according to the Sao Paulo Industry
Federation.  An online petition calling Calheiros’s election a “slap in
the face” of Brazilian society collected more than 305,000
signatures.  Still, Rousseff needs his support passing bills that seek
to simplify the nation’s tax code, to redistribute the royalties
from offshore oil revenue and to attract investment to
infrastructure projects, Cortez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  