-- Brookfield Office Rallies on Lower Manhattan Lease Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-02-01T21:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/brookfield-office-rallies-on-lower-manhattan-lease-talks.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) 
rose the most in 17 months after the landlord said it is
negotiating letters of intent with two potential tenants for
space at lower  Manhattan ’s World Financial Center.  There is a “high probability” that leases for the
combined 1.5 million square feet (139,000 square meters) will be
completed, Chief Executive Officer Dennis Friedrich said today
on a conference call with analysts.  “We’re at the stage of massaging or finalizing the
financial and some of the other major terms,” Friedrich said.
“It’s a pretty advanced stage. There’s always a chance that
things could go on an off track, but we’re feeling pretty good
about where these are moving, and we’ve been working on them for
a little while.”  Brookfield,  lower Manhattan ’s largest office landlord, has
about 3 million square feet of pending vacancies at World
Financial Center, which is being renamed Brookfield Place. Most
of that is space  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  inherited with its 2009
takeover of Merrill Lynch & Co. Those leases will expire by the
end of the year.  Melissa Coley , a spokeswoman for New York-based Brookfield,
declined in an e-mail to identify the potential tenants or say
how much space each is seeking.  Shares of Brookfield jumped 6.3 percent to $17.49, the
biggest gain since August 2011.  Earnings Projection  The stock is rallying because of the optimistic statements
on lease negotiations as well as confirmations of earlier
earnings projections, said Karine MacIndoe, an analyst with
Toronto-based BMO Capital Markets.  “There were some downgrades earlier this week that were
suggesting that the consensus was too high for this year, but
they reaffirmed it,” said MacIndoe, who  rates  Brookfield a buy.
“Then the conference call added the juice.”  Investors had been assuming there was little to no progress
on filling the Bank of America space, so any positive news is
good for the shares, she said.  Brookfield said today that it signed four leases totaling
228,000 square feet at the World Financial Center since the
beginning of the fourth quarter. Two of the deals, for a
combined 66,000 square feet, were new agreements. The others
were a renewal and a renewal with an expansion.  The company today projected 2013 funds from operations of
$1.16 to $1.20 a share. That’s more than the average $1.11
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  FFO, a cash-flow measure used by real estate companies, was
of $141 million, or 28 cents a share, in the fourth-quarter,
beating the average analyst estimate of 24 cents.  Deloitte, Viacom  Brookfield has lost out on potential World Financial Center
leases before. In 2010, it had a tentative deal with Deloitte
LLP for as much as 630,000 square feet at 4 World Financial
Center when the accounting firm decided instead to move to
Rockefeller Center. Deloitte was one of several tenants who
sublet space from Merrill.  Last year, Brookfield “tried real hard” to get  Viacom
Inc. (VIAB)  to move to the complex from Times Square, then-Chief
Executive Officer Ric Clark said during a conference call in
May. The media company decided to stay in its Midtown tower when
 SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG)  made an “aggressive” bid, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  