-- Brown Won’t Seek Kerry’s Massachusetts Senate Seat
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-02-01T18:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/brown-won-t-seek-kerry-s-massachusetts-senate-seat.html
Republican  Scott Brown  of
Massachusetts said he won’t try to regain a seat in the  U.S.
Senate  in a June 25 special election to fill the post vacated by
 John Kerry , who was appointed secretary of state last month by
President  Barack Obama .  Brown made the announcement in a statement sent by e-mail
today. He was viewed as the party’s best chance at picking up
the seat, said Massachusetts Republican consultant Rob Gray.
It would have been his third Senate race since 2010.  “I was not at all certain that a third Senate campaign in
less than four years, and the prospect of returning to a
Congress even more partisan than the one I left, was really the
best way for me to continue in public service at this time,”
Brown said. “And I know it’s not the only way for me to advance
the ideals and causes that matter most to me.”  Brown, 53, became a darling of national Republicans and the
Tea Party when he won an open Senate seat in a 2010 special
election after the death of  Ted Kennedy . He was unable to hold
the job, losing by seven percentage points, or 238,000 votes, to
Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  in November.  Other potential Republican contenders for an April 30
primary include Richard Tisei, who is openly gay and narrowly
lost a bid to unseat Democratic U.S. Representative John Tierney
in November. Former Lieutenant Governor Kerry M. Healey, who was
Governor Mitt Romney’s No. 2 from 2003 to 2007, and former
Massachusetts Governor William Weld have also been mentioned as
possible candidates.  Whoever emerges from the Republican field may face
Representative Ed Markey, a Democrat and 36-year veteran of the
House, or Democratic Representative Stephen Lynch, a former
union president.  The seat is currently held on an interim basis by William “Mo” Cowan, who was appointed by Governor  Deval Patrick  on
Jan. 30 and said he doesn’t plan to run in June. The winner of
the special election will serve the remainder of Kerry’s term
until a general election for a six-year post is held in November
2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  