-- BT Tops Earnings Estimates on High-Speed Internet and TV
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-01T17:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/bt-tops-earnings-estimates-as-high-speed-internet-users-rise.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) ’s third-quarter profit
before some items exceeded analysts’ estimates as the U.K’s
largest Internet service provider won more users for its
television and high-speed broadband service.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 1.6 percent to 1.55 billion pounds ($2.5
billion) in the three months ended Dec. 31, London-based BT said
today in a statement. Analysts had predicted 1.53 billion
pounds, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Revenue, excluding the
impact of a regulatory decision, fell 6 percent to 4.51 billion
pounds, matching the average estimate by analysts.  BT is countering a decline in sales of traditional phone
services with a 2.5 billion-pound fiber-optic buildout for
faster Web speeds and expanding its TV offers. The former phone
monopoly added 60,000 subscribers for YouView since the video-
on-demand service went on sale in October, and this summer, BT
will release its new sports channel, which will feature Premier
League soccer and Premiership rugby matches.  “Our fiber plans are helping to make the U.K. a broadband
leader in  Europe ,” Chief Executive Officer Ian Livingston said
in the statement today. “This gives us an excellent platform
for our push into TV and sport later this year.”  Catch-Up  YouView also offers catch-up TV, allowing viewers to see
the latest episode of shows from the British Broadcasting Corp.,
 ITV Plc (ITV) , Channel 4 and Channel 5, before the next airs.  The shares rose 6.5 percent to 264.8 pence in  London . The
stock has risen 28 percent in the past 12 months, giving the
company a market value of 20.9 billion pounds.  BT reiterated its forecast that revenue will improve in the
second half through March, compared with the first half. The
company has said sales trends for the full year won’t improve.  The company also said a regulatory decision regarding a
dispute over historic Ethernet pricing will cut revenue by 100
million pounds to 200 million pounds in the years ending in
March 2013 and 2014. BT excludes charges related to this
decision in its adjusted revenue figure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  