-- Fed’s Bullard Urges Cutting QE Pace if Data Stay Strong
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/bullard-says-he-ll-urge-cutting-qe-pace-if-data-stay-strong.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President James Bullard said he expects U.S. growth to gain
enough momentum to let the central bank reduce the pace of asset
purchases as early as the middle of the year.  “We should think about tapering or adjusting the
program,” Bullard said yesterday in an interview in Washington.
“If you get some good data for a couple of months, maybe you’d
say, ‘Okay, we go back to $75 billion per month instead of $85
billion or something like that.’”  The St. Louis Fed president said he expects the U.S.
 unemployment rate , 7.9 percent in January, will drop to the
“low 7s” by year’s end, which he said would meet the Federal
Open Market Committee’s test of “substantial improvement” in
the labor market needed to end purchases. “Almost anybody would
have to say that would be substantial improvement compared to
where we were at the time of the launch of QE3,” he said.  Yet it would be problematic to stop expansion of the
balance sheet at year’s end without slowing purchases earlier,
Bullard said.  “You don’t want that cold turkey aspect to the program,”
he said. “If we got some good signs through the spring or the
summer, then I think we could throttle back just a little bit
without saying you are going to end the program on any
particular day.”  Bullard backed the FOMC’s decision this week to continue
purchasing securities at the rate of $85 billion a month, the
third round of a policy known as quantitative easing or QE,
after growth stalled last quarter. Policy makers have pushed the
benchmark interest  rate  close to zero and expanded Fed  assets  to
more than $3 trillion to spur growth and reduce unemployment.  Payrolls Surge  Bullard spoke in yesterday’s interview immediately after
the release of last month’s employment data. Payrolls rose
157,000 following a revised 196,000 advance in the prior month
and a 247,000 surge in November, Labor Department figures
showed. The jobless rate increased from 7.8 percent.  Stocks rallied, sending the Dow Jones Industrial Average
above 14,000 for the first time in five years, while Treasuries
fell. Ten-year note yields rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.02 percent at 5 p.m. New York time
yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. Earlier,
yields dropped as low as 1.92 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 1 percent to 1,513.17.  Bullard, who calls himself the “North Pole of inflation
hawks,” has been viewed as a bellwether for investors because
his views have sometimes foreshadowed policy changes. His
speeches and interviews moved the two-year Treasury yield more
than those of any other Federal Open Market Committee member in
2011, according to a Macroeconomic Advisers report.  Seven Faces  He was the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second
round of asset purchases. He published a paper in 2010 entitled
“Seven Faces of the Peril,” which called on the central bank
to avert deflation by purchasing Treasury notes.  The St. Louis Fed president’s support of the FOMC purchases
came after he last month offered a mixed assessment of bond
buying, calling it a “very aggressive policy” that is “making
me a little bit nervous.” Kansas City Fed President Esther George dissented from the decision in her first vote, citing
concern that record stimulus could increase the risk of
financial instability.  Bullard said the three-month average payroll growth of
200,000 jobs a month shown in yesterday’s jobs report is “an
encouraging sign for the U.S. economy.”  ‘Impressive’ Growth  “The 200,000 a month for three months is impressive,” he
said. “Unemployment did tick up but generally speaking
unemployment is down from where it was last September when the
Federal Reserve first went into QE3,” he said.  Bullard said he continues to expect growth of about 3
percent this year with unemployment falling to close to 7
percent by year’s end.  “I’m somewhat more optimistic than most about the U.S.
economy in 2013,” Bullard said. “Basically some of the
uncertainties the economy faced in 2012 have been mitigated to
some degree, and the leading one is Europe.”  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley echoed Bullard’s optimism about the international economy
yesterday, which he said is “gradually improving” in a trend
that benefits U.S. growth. “Things aren’t perfect but I think
that things are definitely improving and that will be helpful
for the U.S. outlook,” Dudley said yesterday in response to
audience questions after a speech in New York.  Easier Policy  Bullard said monetary policy is “quite a bit easier” now
than last year because outright purchases of assets have a
greater impact than Operation Twist, in which the central bank
swapped short-term Treasuries for longer-term bonds. “I don’t
think financial markets have quite internalized how easy
monetary policy is,” he said.  The U.S.  housing market  turned the corner toward expansion
last year as well, Bullard said.  “Prices are up, sales are up, people are happier,”
Bullard said. “I think this will be a plus now going forward.”  Bullard said he disagreed with the FOMC’s statement’s
emphasis on “downside” risks. “I think the risks are
balanced,” he said.  The St. Louis Fed president said he chose not to dissent
from the January statement because it was a continuation of
policy from December and because of respect for the policy
committee’s collegiality. Some Wall Street economists had said
he might dissent at the meeting.  Convincing Colleagues  “I prefer to try to convince my colleagues rather than try
to dissent a lot,” he said.  In addition, a fall in inflation gives the Fed some room
for stimulus, Bullard said.  “I’ve been a little surprised on this,” Bullard said.
Asked whether falling prices was a concern, he said, “I hope
not. I think our QE program is mitigating that risk.”  The Fed this week said inflation has been “somewhat
below” its long-run target of 2 percent. An index of inflation
tied to spending patterns rose 1.3 percent in the year ended
December.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke indicated last month he’ll closely
scrutinize the potential costs of asset purchases. “So far, we
think we are getting some effect, it is kind of early,”
Bernanke said on Jan. 14 at the University of Michigan’s Gerald
R. Ford School of Public Policy in Ann Arbor.  Minutes from the FOMC’s December meeting showed that policy
makers debated when to end the monthly purchases of $45 billion
in Treasuries and $40 billion in mortgage bonds. The central
bank has pledged to continue the buying until the labor market
improves “substantially.”  Policy makers who provided forecasts were “approximately
evenly divided” between those who said it would be appropriate
to end the purchases around mid-2013 and those who favored a
later date, the minutes said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  