-- California Debt Upgrade Fuels Rally Past Treasuries: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-02-01T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/california-debt-upgrade-fuels-rally-past-treasuries-muni-credit.html
The municipal-bond market is staging
its best performance in a year as rising demand for tax-free
income and an upgrade of  California ’s debt outweigh the busiest
borrowing wave since 2010.  Localities borrowed about $24 billion through Jan. 30, up
52 percent from a year earlier and the most January offerings
since 2010, data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Bloomberg show. Still, the $3.7 trillion market earned about 0.7
percent through Jan. 30, compared with a loss of 1.1 percent for
Treasuries, according to Bank of America data. The advantage to
munis was the biggest since January 2012.  As three-quarters of U.S. households faced higher taxes
this month, muni mutual funds added $4.4 billion, the most since
2009, Lipper US Fund Flows data show. Debt-holders also received
$32 billion of principal and interest to reinvest, said John Hallacy, Bank of America’s head of muni research. The appetite
for local debt got an extra boost after Standard & Poor’s
yesterday raised California for the first time since 2006, to A.  The higher rating “will have an immediate positive
impact” by improving the perception of the market’s strength,
said Neil Klein, who helps oversee $1.2 billion of fixed income
at Carret Asset Management in New York. “Investors were looking
for a process or a philosophy on how you can take states that
appear to be struggling and turn the table.”  Munis Outperform  The January performance built on two straight years in
which munis outpaced Treasuries as they proved a more stable
haven amid  Europe ’s lingering debt crisis. Tax-exempts earned
7.3 percent in 2012, compared with 2.2 percent on federal debt,
according to Bank of America data.  About 77 percent of households saw their tax bills rise
after Congress in the first week of January ended a cut in the
payroll levy, according to the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  in
 Washington . Lawmakers also boosted income-tax rates on
households earning $450,000 or more to 39.6 percent from 35
percent.  “There is still a tremendous value in owning municipal
bonds as tax rates go up at the state and federal level, said
Klein. “Municipal bonds become that much more attractive.”  California Rally  Debt of California rallied after the move by S&P. The
company cited an improved fiscal footing after voters approved
tax increases championed by Governor  Jerry Brown . The state has
$102 billion of gross tax-supported debt, the most in the
nation, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  California tax-exempt bonds due in September 2042 traded
with an average yield of 3.3 percent, or about 0.4 percentage
point above benchmark munis, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That spread is down by half from when the bonds priced in
September.  With the  Federal Reserve  saying this week that it plans to
keep buying $85 billion of bonds a month to bolster the economy,
yields of muni debt, including from California, remain appealing
for investors seeking extra income.  Benchmark local bonds due in 30 years yielded about 2.9
percent yesterday, close to the highest since October, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. For top earners, that is equivalent
to 4.8 percent after taxes. Treasuries of that maturity yielded
about 3.2 percent yesterday.  With local  interest rates  close to a 45-year low set in
December, investors have favored longer maturities and lower-
rated credits to start 2013.  Bonds rated seven to nine grades below AAA earned 1.3
percent through Jan. 30, the best-performing area by  credit
quality , according to Barclays Plc data. Securities maturing in
22 years years or later gained 0.8 percent, beating other
maturities.  “Everybody’s trying to boost their yields,” said Hallacy,
who’s based in New York. “It’s especially true in this
prolonged low-interest environment.”  Following is a pending sale:  ARIZONA  HEALTH FACILITIES AUTHORITY is set to issue $280
million of tax-exempt revenue debt on behalf of the Phoenix
Children’s Hospital as soon as next week, Bloomberg data show.
Proceeds will refund debt sold in 2007 and purchase hospital
equipment, according to bond documents. (Added Feb. 1)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  