-- Cameron Plans to Keep Osborne at Treasury, Official Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-02-02T00:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/cameron-plans-to-keep-osborne-at-treasury-official-says.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
plans to retain  George Osborne  as his chancellor for his full
term in office until 2015, a senior government official said,
rebuffing reported calls from Tory lawmakers to oust the finance
minister over a  lack of economic growth .  Cameron is also still planning to introduce a tax break for
married couples, though the measure won’t be in this year’s
budget, the official, who asked not to be identified, told
reporters yesterday in Monrovia, Liberia, where the premier was
on the third leg of an African trip. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said this week his Liberal Democrat party doesn’t support
the idea, setting up another policy clash within the coalition.  The prime minister’s spokeswoman said earlier yesterday
that Cameron had “full confidence” in Osborne, after the Daily
Mail newspaper  reported  that unidentified Conservative lawmakers
are planning to write to Cameron after local elections in May
demanding Osborne’s ouster if his budget in March fails to have
an impact on the Tories’ results.  “We know that one of the biggest impacts on our economy is
what’s happening in the euro zone, which is why we’re working
hard to see a conclusion to the crisis in the euro zone,” the
spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told reporters in  London . Official
figures last week showed the economy shrank 0.3 percent in the
final quarter of 2012, leaving it on the brink of an
unprecedented triple-dip recession.  Tory Letter  The commitment to a tax break for married couples was part
of the Conservative platform at the last election in 2010. This
week, 15 Tory lawmakers wrote a letter to the Telegraph
newspaper calling for it to be included in the budget measures
that Osborne will announce in the House of Commons on March 20.  While the coalition agreement between Cameron’s
Conservatives and Clegg’s  Liberal Democrats  includes a pledge to
introduce the tax break, it also allows the Liberal Democrats to
oppose it, something Clegg said this week they’ll do.  “It would be odd, wouldn’t it, to say people who chose not
to get married have to pay higher tax,” Clegg said on his LBC
phone-in radio show on Jan. 30. “That’s why my party doesn’t
support the idea of a transferable tax allowance for married
couples.”  Relations between the coalition partners soured further
this week when the Liberal Democrats voted down Conservative
plans to reduce the number of lawmakers in Parliament and redraw
electoral boundaries, in a way that would have reduced an in-
built disadvantage against the Tories. They were responding to a
Conservative rebellion last year that killed off a plan to
change the makeup of the unelected House of Lords.  Local elections are scheduled across  England  on May 2.
Opinion polls show the Conservatives trailing about 10
percentage points behind the opposition  Labour Party  nationwide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Monro, Liberia at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  