-- Cameron Rebuked by Statistics Chief Over Statement on U.K. Debt
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-02-01T15:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/cameron-rebuked-by-statistics-chief-over-statement-on-u-k-debt.html
Prime Minister David Cameron received
a rebuke from Britain’s statistics watchdog over his assertion
that the government is “paying down” the country’s debts.  Cameron made the statement in a political advertisement on
Jan. 23. Rachel Reeves, Treasury spokeswoman for the opposition
 Labour Party , subsequently wrote to U.K. Statistics Authority
Chairman Andrew Dilnot to complain that Cameron “may be
attempting to deliberately mislead the public” in his comments.  “It is clearly important for all parties to public debate
in this area to understand the relevant statistical definitions
and to distinguish changes in the level of debt outstanding from
changes in borrowing per period,” Dilnot wrote in his reply
published today. A copy of the letter was sent to Cameron’s
chief of staff, Ed Llewellyn.  Dilnot explained the difference between public-sector net
debt, which is what the U.K. owes at a given time, and net
borrowing, also known as the deficit, which is the difference
between government receipts and spending over a specified time.  Net debt excluding support for banks had risen from 811.3
billion pounds ($1.28 trillion), or 55.3 percent of gross
domestic product, in June 2010 to 1.11 trillion pounds, or 70.7
percent of GDP, at the end of last year, he wrote. Net
borrowing, meanwhile, had fallen from 159 billion pounds in the
2009-10 fiscal year to 121.6 billion pounds in 2011-12.  “It is hugely embarrassing for  David Cameron  that he has
had to have the difference between borrowing and debt explained
to him by the chair of the U.K. Statistics Authority,” Reeves
said in a statement. “Now that his false claims have been
exposed, it’s time the prime minister stopped deliberately
misleading people about his economic record.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Monro, Liberia at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  