-- Cameron Has ‘Full Confidence’ in Osborne Amid Plot Reports
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-02-01T13:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/cameron-has-full-confidence-in-osborne-amid-plot-reports-1-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has
“full confidence” in Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , the premier’s spokeswoman said after reports of a plot
by lawmakers to oust Osborne over his handling of the economy.  Conservative Party lawmakers are preparing to demand that
Osborne be fired after generating almost no growth since coming
to office in May 2010, according to newspaper reports today.  “The prime minister has full confidence in the
chancellor,” Cameron’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told
reporters in  London . “We know that one of the biggest impacts
on our economy is what’s happening in the euro zone, which is
why we’re working hard to see a conclusion to the crisis in the
euro zone.”  The unidentified lawmakers are planning to write to Cameron
after local elections in May and will demand Osborne’s ouster if
his budget in March fails to have an impact, the Conservative-
supporting  Daily Mail   reported . Government figures last week
showed the economy shrank 0.3 percent in the final quarter of
2012, leaving it on the edge of an unprecedented triple-dip
recession.  Cameron, who sought to pacify rank-and-file Tories last
month by promising a referendum on whether to leave the European
Union after the 2015 general election, also faces a challenge to
his leadership unless the party’s poll ratings improve by 2014,
 the Guardian  newspaper reported.  ‘Feel Better’  The speech has not delivered the surge in popularity for
the Conservatives that some lawmakers expected, polling by a
former party chairman, Michael Ashcroft, found. It strengthened
support among existing Tory voters, while failing to win over
new supporters, Ashcroft wrote on his  blog .  “In December less than three in five of 2010 Tory voters
said they would vote Conservative in an election tomorrow; after
the speech that number had risen to two in three,” Ashcroft
wrote. “In other words, the speech, and more importantly the
policy it articulated, has made Tories feel better about being
Tories. This is not to be sneezed at -- but let’s not confuse it
with having changed anybody’s mind.”  The poll, in which 1,008 adults were surveyed by telephone
and 2,036 online between Jan. 25 and Jan. 28, showed 29 percent
of voters see the Conservatives as “a united party” compared
with 48 percent for the opposition  Labour Party .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  