-- Canadian Dollar Weakens Versus Most Major Counterparts
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-02-01T22:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/canadian-dollar-weakens-before-u-s-january-jobs-report.html
The Canadian dollar weakened against
a majority of its most-traded counterparts as jobs data next
week may show a higher unemployment rate for the world’s 11th-
biggest economy.  The currency reversed gains posted yesterday after a
government report showed the economy grew faster than forecast
in November. It briefly erased losses earlier today after a
government report showed job gains for the past two months in
America, the nation’s largest trading partner.  Canada ’s dollar
fell last month for the first time since October.  “We’re basically retracing 50 percent of the Canadian
dollar move from yesterday,” said Greg Moore, a currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto, in a phone
interview. “It’s pretty well within the action that’s happened
this week.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at 99.65
cents per U.S. dollar at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto, after falling as
much as 0.3 percent. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0035.  Futures on crude oil, the nation’s largest export, rose 0.1
percent to $97.59 a barrel in New York, after falling as much as
1 percent. Western Canada Select, the benchmark for oil-sands
bitumen, traded at a  discount  of $31.50 to U.S. West Texas
Intermediate price yesterday, down from $32 Jan. 30. The
discount reached a $42.50 on Dec. 14.  Oil Swings  “The price of oil was going gangbusters earlier and then
it dropped off,” said David Watt,  chief economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Toronto. “The Canadian dollar seems to be
reacting to oil prices.”  The country’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell, pushing the
yield up five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.04
percent, the highest level since May. The 2.75 percent security
maturing in June 2022 fell 44 cents to C$106.02.  Canadian government and provincial bonds are
underperforming global peers by the widest margin in six months
as the nation’s 25-year commodity-fueled expansion shows signs
of faltering as global-growth optimism increases.  Indexes of debt issued by Canada’s federal and provincial
governments lost one percent in January, the biggest monthly
declines since November 2010 and the most relative to sovereign
peers since August, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Hedge funds and other large speculators decreased their
bets that the Canadian dollar will gain against the U.S. dollar,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers on an
advance in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a drop --
so-called net longs -- was 35,057 on Jan. 29, compared with
57,952 a week earlier.  Economic Data  The currency rose yesterday after the Canadian economy grew
0.3 percent in November, following a gain of 0.1 percent the
month before, Statistics Canada said yesterday in Ottawa. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg economist survey was for a 0.2
percent expansion.  Canada’s unemployment rate may have increased to 7.2
percent in January from 7.1 percent the month before, according
to the median in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists before
the Statistics Canada report Feb. 8. Jobs growth slowed to 5,000
from 31,200 the month before, a separate survey showed.  The Canadian dollar briefly erased losses today after a
government report showed job gains for the past two months in
America. U.S. employment grew by 157,000 in January, after a
revised increase of 196,000 the month before.  “The only upside was the revision higher for previous
months and that’s considered a positive for the Canadian
dollar,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS) , by phone from Toronto. “We’re still close to
that range we’ve seen for a long time, with the Canadian dollar
and U.S. dollar hovering around parity.”  The loonie has declined 3.2 percent during the past six
months among the 10 developed-nation currencies monitored by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The greenback fell 4.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  