-- CGI Has $1.1 Billion to Hunt for Acquisitions: Corporate Canada
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-02-01T21:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/cgi-has-1-1-billion-to-hunt-for-acquisitions-corporate-canada.html
CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A)  Chief Executive
Officer Michael Roach says  Canada ’s biggest technology company
is considering more acquisitions after completing the C$2.7
billion ($2.7 billion) purchase of Logica Plc.  “We never like to take any levers off the table,” Roach
said in a Jan. 30 interview in Montreal. “We have to maintain
an opportunistic posture in case an asset comes along that is a
good fit and wouldn’t be there in the future.”  CGI, whose shares rose to a 12-year intraday high of
C$27.03 yesterday, has about C$1.1 billion in cash to invest in
takeovers, pay down debt or buy shares, said Roach. The
Montreal-based supplier of technology and consulting to banks,
retailers and utilities has a market value of C$8.2 billion, 22
percent greater than BlackBerry, the Canadian smartphone maker
formerly known as  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)   CGI’s 16 percent  gain  in 2013 compares with a 2.7 percent
advance for the benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX composite index.
CGI dropped 0.5 percent to C$26.63 by 4 p.m. in Toronto today.  While insisting “profitable organic growth” remains the
best use of cash for the company, Roach said he’ll keep looking
at potential deals to improve CGI’s competitive position.  Optimize Logica  Roach and Chairman Serge Godin have spent at least $6
billion in the past decade buying more than 20 companies,
gaining scale to compete with the likes of  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in selling information technology
services. CGI has purchased more than 70 companies since its
foundation in 1976, Godin said in May.  Investors such as Christian Godin, a  fund manager  at
Montrusco Bolton Inc. in Montreal, would rather see the CEO
concentrate on making sure his most recent deal is a success.  “I’m not expecting any large acquisitions, and I would be
surprised if they did one in the next year,” said Godin, who
holds CGI stock among the C$2.5 billion in Canadian equities he
manages. “As a shareholder I hope that they focus on good
management. They have to optimize Logica’s operations.”  Severance and other integration-related costs at Logica led
to a 79 percent drop in fiscal first quarter  net income , CGI
said Jan. 30. CGI in August completed the purchase of London-
based Logica, whose addition triggered a 145 percent jump in
first-quarter revenue -- to C$2.5 billion.  ‘Right Direction’  CGI’s announcement that it booked C$2.85 billion in first-
quarter new orders, more than double the C$1.39 billion recorded
in the same period a year ago, eased concern about Logica’s
contribution, said  Maher Yaghi , an analyst at Desjardins Capital
Markets in Montreal.  “We have seen a significant step in the right direction
with the Q1 results,” Yaghi said in a telephone interview.
“Bookings do portend improving results going forward. There is
a sigh of relief that Logica is not declining anymore.”  CGI said this week it was renewing a plan to buy back as
much as 20.7 million shares by February 2014. Based on
yesterday’s closing stock price, the plan could cost as much as
C$554 million.  Asked whether CGI is studying potential deals, Roach said
“there’s always something out there. You need the right target,
the right price and the right time, and we don’t settle for two
out of three. It has to be all three.”  Job Cuts  CGI isn’t losing sight of Logica’s integration -- a three-
year process that is ahead of schedule, Roach said. The company
is targeting annual savings of C$300 million from moves such as
the closing of Logica’s London headquarters.  More than 1,000 jobs had been cut at Logica by the end of
2012, and “we still have more to do,” the CEO said. CGI won’t
release a job-cut target because “in a services business,
frankly it’s very damaging in terms of the people’s morale,”
Roach said.  CGI has incurred C$263 million in integration costs since
completing the purchase of Logica, which has about 41,000
employees. The company expects to spend C$400 million on the
restructuring over three years.  “Logica is a big piece to chew on, and I would feel that
the risk in the company would increase significantly if they do
undertake another major acquisition until they have run through
the restructuring and started to see accretion,” said Yaghi at
Desjardins. “Doubling the company’s size is already a big step,
so investors are not pushing them to undertake an acquisition in
the short term.”  ‘Patient Capital’  Excluding acquisition- and integration-related costs, CGI
expects per-share earnings to rise 25 percent to 30 percent this
year, Roach told shareholders in Montreal Jan. 30.  On that basis, per-share earnings will probably climb to
C$2.03 this year and C$2.43 next year from 2012’s C$1.50,
according to the average forecasts in a Bloomberg  survey  of
analysts.  Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec , CGI’s biggest
 shareholder , plans to remain a “long-term” investor in the
company, CEO  Michael Sabia  said Jan. 29.  The Caisse owns 25 percent of CGI’s outstanding shares,
having invested C$1 billion in the company last year to help
finance the Logica deal.  “Are we convinced that CGI is going to be able to
integrate Logica?,” Roland Lescure, the Caisse’s chief
investment officer, told reporters in Montreal. “Their track
record on acquisitions is strong enough that we can answer
yes.”  That long-term support is precisely why Roach said he plans
to start wooing other institutional investors, such as pension
funds, to convince them of building up stakes in CGI.  The Caisse “is exactly the type of investor we want to
attract into our stock,” Roach said in the interview. “Patient
capital is important. We are still building out our company. We
want to be able to manage our business over the long haul, make
decisions now that will pay off in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  