-- Chile Rejected Rate Change on Balanced Global, Domestic Risk
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-02-01T12:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/chile-rejected-rate-change-on-balanced-global-domestic-risk-1-.html
Chilean policy makers were unanimous
in their decision to keep the  benchmark interest rate  unchanged
last month on improved financial conditions abroad and higher
wages and falling unemployment at home.  The central bank last changed borrowing costs in January
2012, when it made a quarter-point reduction that surprised
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy makers didn’t discuss
changing rates in the latest meeting, according to the minutes
posted on the bank website today.  The central bank board last discussed raising borrowing
costs in their May meeting. They have ruled out rate changes for
12 straight months as inflation eases, domestic demand surges
and the peso gains against the  U.S. dollar .  “A board member indicated that, in the current context,
the most prudent decision in the short term was to keep the
monetary policy rate at its current level,” according to the
minutes. “Risks in the global economy remained present while
local risks, in his opinion, had increased.”  Analysts surveyed Jan. 9 by the bank forecast rates will
remain on hold in the next five months before rising by
December.  The peso, which has gained 1.6 percent against the U.S.
dollar in the past three months, fell by less than 0.1 percent
to 471.45 per dollar at 8:58 a.m. local time.  While  Chile  has the highest real borrowing costs among
major rate-setting central banks in  Latin America , its gross
domestic product probably expanded at the fastest pace in the
region behind  Peru  last year, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. GDP growth will ease this year, climbing 4.5 percent
after increasing 5.45 percent in 2012, according to the poll.  At 1.5 percent, Chile has the lowest inflation rate in the
region. Policy makers in the Andean nation target 3 percent
inflation, plus or minus 1 percentage point over two years.  “Despite the exuberance of demand against a backdrop of a
closed output gap, the central bank is unlikely to hike in the
near term given benign below-target inflation and growing
concerns with the Chilean peso’s strength,”  Alberto Ramos , an
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a report e-
mailed to investors yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 