-- Chinese Company’s Wind-Farm Transaction Lawsuit Dismissed
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-01T17:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/chinese-company-s-wind-farm-transaction-lawsuit-dismissed.html
A Chinese-owned company’s lawsuit
over an Oregon wind-farm transaction that was blocked by the
Obama administration was dismissed by a judge in Washington who
said he lacks the authority to hear the case.  “The parties to this transaction are not located in the
district, they did not negotiate their transaction in the
district, nor are any of the assets at issue located in the
district,” U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth wrote in
dismissing the complaint brought by Ralls Corp.  Tim Xia, an attorney for Ralls, said the company is
disappointed by the ruling and will file a new complaint in a
 New York  federal court.  Ralls was seeking a court order to void its agreement to
buy assets for the wind-farm project from Terna Energy Holding
USA Corp., a unit of  Terna Energy SA (TENERGY) , a Greek energy company.  “We are gratified by the decision and believe it is
correct,” Howard Hogan, an attorney for Terna, said in a phone
interview.  Ralls sought to void the transaction because it hasn’t made
a $4.2 million payment to Terna that was due in December and
wants to prevent the sale of collateral pledged in the deal.  Ralls is owned by executives of China-based Sany Group Co.,
which was seeking to place Sany-made wind turbines at the Oregon
installations.  Federal authorities claimed national security risks in
ruling after the acquisition that Ralls couldn’t own or operate
the wind project because it was close to a U.S. Navy base.  Ralls also is suing President  Barack Obama  and other
officials, challenging their power to block the project.  The dismissed case is Ralls Corp. v. Terna, 13-cv-00117,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington). The case
against the U.S. government is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on
Foreign Investment in the United States, 12-cv-01513, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington
at   azajac@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 