-- China’s Stocks Rally After Volatile Day on Manufacturing Reports
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-02-01T08:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/china-stock-futures-fall-as-manufacturing-index-trails-estimates.html
China ’s  stocks  rallied, driving the
benchmark index’s biggest weekly advance since October 2011,
after the nation’s manufacturing expanded last month. Financial
and industrial companies led the gains.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.4 percent to
2,419.02 at the close, with the gauge’s 100-day historical
volatility jumping to the highest level since June 2012. It fell
as much as 0.7 percent after the release of a government report
showing manufacturing grew slower than expected. The measure
rebounded after the purchasing managers’ index from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed a rise to a two-year
high, which Principal Global Investors said better reflected the
economy. Bank of America Corp. said the official PMI data was
distorted by this month’s Chinese new year holiday.  “Stocks went down at first on the worse-than-expected
official PMI, then investors started to ponder if it’s just a
seasonal effect,”  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China
Securities Co., said from  Shanghai . “When the HSBC PMI was
better than expected, worry was removed, so stocks went up.”  Sany Heavy Industry Co. surged 4.3 percent, leading a gauge
of industrial stocks to the biggest advance among groups in the
CSI 300 Index after financial companies. Haitong Securities Co.
jumped 5.4 percent, extending this week’s rally to 23 percent,
on the prospect of industry reforms and increased share trading
boosting earnings.  The CSI 300 rose 2.1 percent to 2,743.32, the highest since
Nov. 2011. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  added 0.3
percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  decreased 0.1 percent
in  New York  yesterday.  Best Gain  The Shanghai gauge rallied 5.1 percent in January, the best
performance among the biggest  emerging markets , on signs
economic growth is accelerating and amid speculation China’s new
leaders will promote urban development.  The Shanghai index climbed 23 percent from a three-year low
on Dec. 3, signaling a  bull market  to some investors. The gauge
is valued at 13.3 times reported profit, the highest level since
Sept. 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s still lower
than the measure’s seven-year average multiple of 21.4 times,
the data show. The index changed directions at least nine times
with trading volumes 11 percent higher than the 30-day average.  The expansion in manufacturing validates the nation’s
reluctance to add to policy stimulus amid increasing inflation
concern. The PMI Index was 50.4 in January compared with 50.6 in
December, the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing said. The HSBC gauge covering fewer
businesses rose to 52.3 from 51.5. Readings above 50 indicate
expansion.  ‘Inaccurate Barometer’  “I take more positive out of the HSBC PMI because it
represents a much better outlook in the medium and small
enterprise sector,” said  Binay Chandgothia , a Hong Kong-based
portfolio manager at Principal Global, which oversees more than
$280 billion.  Sany Heavy, the biggest maker of construction machinery,
rose 4.3 percent to 12 yuan. Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co., the second largest, jumped 5 percent to 9.71
yuan.  China’s stocks “won’t significantly turn bearish as the
PMI is a quite inaccurate barometer around the Chinese New Year
holiday,” Bank of America’s China economist Ting Lu wrote in a
report. The economy will be in a “sweet spot in the near term”
as recent data such as industrial profits point to “impressive
recovery,” Lu wrote. China’s markets will be closed for a week
from Feb. 11 for the Lunar New Year holidays.  Brokers Rally  Chinese new  home prices  rose 1 percent in January, the
biggest gain since January 2011,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the
country’s biggest real estate website owner, said in a
statement, based on its survey of 100 cities. Worries of more
policy tightening will increase if prices rise too fast, Alan
Jin, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.,
wrote in an e-mailed reply to  Bloomberg News .  Haitong Securities, the nation’s second-biggest listed
brokerage, advanced for a fifth day to the highest level since
November 2010. Citic Securities Co., the largest, gained 3.7
percent to 15.74 yuan. Founder Securities Co., based in Beijing,
soared 10 percent to 6.37 yuan.  Chinese brokerages may post 13.7 percent growth in net
profit this year, bolstered by a jump in share-trading volumes
and rising interest in margin financing as well as short
selling, according to Guosen Securities.  The outstanding amount of margin financing and short
selling reached 111 billion  yuan  as of Jan. 25, compared with
89.5 billion yuan at the start of year, Guosen said in a note.
It expects the figure to rise no less than 26 percent in
January, the fastest growth rate since 2011, on lower entry
barriers for investors, improving sentiment and a jump in number
of shares eligible for margin financing and short selling.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Shiyin Chen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  