-- China Imports to Bolster Biggest Battery Maker: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 2013-02-01T05:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/china-imports-to-bolster-biggest-battery-maker-corporate-india.html
Eveready Industries India Ltd. (EVRIN) , the
country’s biggest maker of batteries, plans to step up imports
of Chinese products to meet demand for portable power systems as
it seeks to reverse the worst loss in a decade.  The Kolkata-based company is counting on its new Chinese-
made, Eveready-branded offerings including compact smartphone
chargers and rechargeable lanterns to boost sales in the South
Asian nation known for blackouts that last as long as 16 hours a
day. Price increases to compensate for rising input costs and an
expanded portfolio will help revenue “enter double-digit
growth” in the year starting April 1, Director Amritanshu Khaitan said in an interview.  The company, which manages the 107 year-old brand is
augmenting its mobile energy solutions beyond dry cells and
flashlights as policy makers in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy
struggle to bridge an average 9 percent power deficit. Shares of
Eveready have dropped 18 percent in the past year,  compared  with
a 16 percent gain in the benchmark Sensitive Index, after the
company reported a  loss  of 799 million rupees ($15 million) in
the 12 months through March 2012, the most since 2002.  “We felt we need to take the next step in reinventing the
brand in terms of innovation,” Khaitan said in his Kolkata
office. “The way power projects are being delayed, I see in
five to 10 years, India being short of power. I see good demand
going forward.”  Khaitan Family  Eveready’s  shares  gained 5.4 percent to 22.5 rupees at
10:45 a.m. in Mumbai, the biggest jump since Oct. 18. The
company’s owners, the Khaitan family, also run the world’s
biggest tea producer.  Rising income is fueling demand for gadgets in the country
with the world’s largest population under 30 and more than 900
mobile phone connections. Spending on consumer electronics in
 India  is projected to grow an average 14 percent through 2017
from an estimated $37.5 billion in 2013, according to a report
published by Business Monitor International.  Eveready’s  sales  in the current year ending March 31 may
grow as much as 7 percent, accelerating from 3 percent in the
previous 12 months, while the increase in prices will help
operating profit, or earnings before interest, taxation and
depreciation, increase by about 50 percent, ending the 12 months
with neither a loss nor a profit, Khaitan said.  The rupee’s 12.4 percent depreciation against the dollar in
the year through March 2012, the worst among the most-traded
currencies in Asia, increased costs of imported raw materials
including zinc, he said.  Price Increases  The company will continue with more rounds of price
increases in the next fiscal year as well, starting with 4
percent in the next five months, he said.  Importing products from China may help Eveready keep
capital expenditure low as it seeks to reduce its debt and pare
interest costs. Sales of surplus land the company owns in the
southern city of Hyderabad and near the capital  New Delhi  in the
next 18-20 months will help Eveready become a debt-free company
except for working capital in about two years, Khaitan said,
declining to comment on profit margins from the imported
merchandise.  Total debt  at the end of March 2012 was at 3.2 billion
rupees, compared with a record 8.7 billion rupees in 2002,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company needs to keep a check on the quality of the
imported products from China to be successful as it leverages
its distribution network in urban and rural areas, said Mumbai-
based Jai Sharda, a managing partner at Equitorials, which
offers research services to investors.  Chinese Quality  “It is up to the purchaser to ensure the quality is
good,” he said. “That is the critical point here for
Eveready.”  Products of the company are available at 4,000 distributors
across the country, including at grocery, general provision
stores and photo studios, according to Eveready’s website. The
newly introduced goods from  China  will start contributing to its
 earnings  in the year ending March 2015, Khaitan said.  Eveready Industries India, which has the capacity to make
1.2 billion batteries per year, was formed in 1995 after Union
Carbide Corp. sold its stake in its Indian unit to local
investors about 10 years after the leak of a toxic gas in
Bhopal, central India, killed thousands of people. The Eveready
brand started selling in the country in 1905 with imported cells
from the U.S.  “We are focusing on the growth opportunities in India and
we are bringing in products which would be consumed by the large
Indian population,” Khaitan said. “The brand has been around
for a long time. We will make it more relevant to the youth of
this country today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  