-- China’s (Fake) Gay Marriage Debate
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-02-01T02:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/china-s-fake-gay-marriage-debate.html
In June 2008, Ms. Ge, a single, 27-
year-old native of Jiangsu province, began dating the handsome
Mr. Yang, a 32-year-old native of Anhui province. According to
an extensive account of the relationship published to Jiangsu
province’s official news portal,  it was  a traditionally minded
courtship: When Mr. Yang made overnight visits to Ms. Ge’s
family, he stayed in her younger brother’s bedroom.  Ms. Ge and Mr. Yang married in 2009, but, curiously, the
change in relationship status didn’t affect Mr. Yang’s
preference for the bedroom of Ms. Ge’s brother. In June 2012,
three years into a mostly sexless marriage (according to the
government account) a frustrated Ms. Ge went looking for answers
in her husband’s dresser drawer. There, to her great surprise,
she found love letters from her husband to her brother and gay
pornography. She filed for divorce in November 2012.  In China, divorces are easy to attain (and  growing  in
number); satisfactory financial settlements, however, are
 contentious . A local court was willing to grant a dissolution of
Mr. Yang and Ms. Ge’s marriage but denied Ms. Ge’s claim for
compensatory damages.  According to the presiding judge , China’s
divorce law allows for damages only in  four circumstances :
domestic violence, bigamy, cohabitation with another person of
the opposite sex and neglect. Nonetheless, Mr. Yang agreed to
settle with Ms. Ge for the equivalent of $8,000.  For Chinese women -- and the lawyers and judges who must
adjudicate their divorces -- such scenarios are a growing
problem (with few women having the good fortune of a husband
willing to settle regardless of a compelling legal reason to do
so). According to one widely cited estimate,  16 million  Chinese
women are married to gay men, most of them unwittingly so and
with few legal protections or guarantees if they decide to get
out.  Whether or not the statistics are accurate, there’s little
question that this is a real phenomenon -- and one not new to
 China . Straight women married to gay men have long been known as
“tongqi,” and the state-owned news media have covered their
problems for at least a decade.  In recent weeks, the topic has become  particularly popular 
on China’s blogs, microblogs and newspaper editorial pages
after the Beijing Intermediate People’s Court, one of China’s
most influential judicial bodies,  issued a Jan. 10 report  and
recommendations on how to handle the growing flood of so-called
fake marriage cases.  The most controversial of the report’s recommendations is
that legislation be passed to allow for the annulment of
marriages in which one partner discovers the other is gay, 
while allowing the straight partner to sue for compensatory 
damages. Such legislation, if adopted by China’s rubber stamp 
legislature (a rubber stamp wielded by senior Communist Party
officials) would also revert the individuals to a legally 
“single” rather than “divorced” status. In China, where
divorced women are highly stigmatized, this could be a
significant boon for women re-entering the dating market.  It’s a point made in a Jan. 17  article  published by 
Xinhua, the state news wire:  “The different circumstances of divorced men and women 
reflect the oppression imposed on females by society, said
Liu Bohong, a professor of gender studies.  “‘Men traditionally intend to choose a first-time bride, a
virgin. Such preferences have led to a preference for being
“single” among women themselves,’ Liu said.  “The suggestion may serve as a warning to gay men preparing
to marry straight women, according to Zhang.”  For China’s vocal online gay community, such warnings are
not only an affront, but also a display of the discriminatory
attitudes that motivate gay men to seek out fake marriages in
the first place.  A Qiang, a popular gay blogger who has written widely on
the subject of Chinese gay-straight marriages, summarized these
causes in a Jan. 13  blog post  at danlan.org, China’s most
popular portal for gay news and information: “Some homosexuals
cannot face social prejudice and discrimination, so they hide
their sexual orientation with a heterosexual marriage rather
than be discriminated against; Chinese traditional culture
emphasizes children and the continuation of the family line, and
heterosexual marriage is a convenient way to get children; there
is an inadequate, comprehensive social safety net, so some
homosexuals enter heterosexual marriage for the sense of
security. In addition to the above reasons, many people do not
understand their own sexuality at the time of marriage.”  It’s not hard to find blogs, microblogs and newspaper
articles that substantiate each of these categories with
specific examples. On Jan. 28, danlan.org posted  one of
the more dramatic : a letter from a 26-year-old gay police 
officer to his parents, who have insisted that he marry. 
In the letter, the son thanks his parents for their guidance
in life, reminds them that he has always been obedient and
reveals: “I do not want to get married. I never liked girls.”  He explains that he will get married anyway, despite his
avowed love for an unidentified man. “Last year, you asked me
why I didn’t seek out a partner, and we fought. A few days later
you asked if I would agree to let you find a match for me. I did
not agree and at that Mother shed tears and you advised me that
you’re old and hope to soon hold a grandson. I stared at your
full head of white hair and deepening wrinkles, my heart
trembled, and I caved in and agreed to this marriage. I am
really forcing myself into a dark place, and you’re smiling ear
to ear.”  Although the Beijing court made no mention of the issue in
its recommendations, for many gay voices in the media and
blogsphere, same-sex marriage is the first, very important
solution to this tangle of problems. This might not immediately
allow for grandchildren in the police officer’s family, but it’s
a step in the right direction; for starters, adoption is
restricted to married couples in China.  A Qiang, in his Jan. 13 blog post to danlan.org, summarized
the argument for same-sex marriage: “The solution to the tongqi
problem is...legislation to allow same sex marriage so that gay
men have the right to live with whom they fall in love. More
important than legislation is the need to enhance public
education to reduce prejudice and discrimination against gays.
With less prejudice and discrimination, homosexuals will be
reluctant to enter a heterosexual marriage.”  For Chinese feminists and women’s rights activists, the
calls for same-sex marriage legislation are welcome but hardly
sufficient to solve the fake marriage problem. Neither, for that
matter, is a reclassification of women who leave such marriages
enough to remedy the underlying social condition that motivates
some men to seek out these kinds of unions.  Of these online feminists few are more authoritative than
that of the  Tongi Association , a support group for women in fake
marriages, which maintains a microblogging account active on the
Twitter-like Sina Weibo service. On Jan. 12, after the Beijing 
court’s recommendations, it offered two pointed tweets 
suggesting that the fake marriage problem is not only -- or
even primarily --a matter of discrimination against gay men.  Part of the first  read: “A solution to the tongqi
problem must start with a discussion of discrimination. But 
the discrimination in question is not only against sexual
orientation, but also the equally important gender
discrimination.”  Two minutes later, the association added  the second
tweet , part of which stated: “Even if sexual orientation 
discrimination still exists, you can reduce the number of
tongqi if there is universal respect for women, respect for
their bodies and their reproductive rights, so that they
are not just taken as reproductive machines in order to 
continue the family.”  On a practical level, the legalization of same-sex 
marriage in China is more likely than a total overhaul of
 social attitudes toward women  -- but not by much. For now, 
both women and gay men will, in their own ways, remain 
marginalized in Chinese society. But that status is by no
means permanent: The fact that an influential Beijing court
is publicly focused on one of the most pernicious social
effects of that marginalization -- fake marriages -- is
progress for both groups.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara 
Kessler at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 