-- China Reports Record Capital-Financial Account Gap for 2012
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-02T09:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/china-reports-record-capital-financial-account-deficit-in-2012.html
China  last year had the biggest
deficit in its financial and capital account since records began
in 1982 as the domestic and global economies slowed, spurring
outflows of funds.  The $117.3 billion annual gap was the first since 1998 when
investors deserted China during the Asian financial crisis and
reversed a $221.1 billion surplus in 2011, according to data
released on the  State Administration of Foreign Exchange  website
yesterday. The excess in the current account, the broadest
measure of trade, rose to $213.8 billion in 2012 from $201.7
billion the previous year.  The deficit may reflect reduced intervention by the central
bank to control the exchange rate of the yuan, which
strengthened 1 percent against the dollar in 2012, the least in
three years. China’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s
largest, rose the least since 2003 last year, as the economy
expanded at the weakest pace since 1999.  “This shows that China’s balance of payments is returning
to a normal state,” said Liu Li-Gang, head of Greater China
economics at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Hong
Kong. “At the margin this will slow China’s rapid reserve
accumulation and reduce the pressures for the  yuan  to appreciate
further.”  China’s  foreign-exchange reserves  increased by $128 billion
to $3.31 trillion last year, data released by the central bank
on Jan. 10 showed. The U.S. is among countries that have accused
China of keeping its currency weak to promote exports.  Financial Turbulence  The capital and financial account includes flows of funds
for mergers and acquisitions, foreign direct  investment ,
purchases and sales of equities and fixed-income securities and
the central bank’s reserve account used to buy and sell foreign
currencies.  The foreign-exchange regulator, which is part of the
central bank, said the deficit reflected outflows from weaker
growth in China and worldwide as well as “more intensive
international financial turbulence.”  SAFE said in the  statement  that the gap reflected positive
developments in “allowing people to hold foreign exchange,” or
decentralizing holdings from the state to banks and the private
sector.  Yi Gang, People’s Bank of China deputy governor, said in
October the central bank had reduced its intervention in the
foreign-exchange markets, reflected by a leveling off in the
nation’s foreign-exchange reserves.  Quantitative Easing  “If the PBOC stops intervention but the current-account
surplus continues, then we should expect a capital-account
deficit,” said  Huang Yiping , chief Asia economist with Barclays
Plc in Hong Kong. While the nation still faces the risk of
capital flight, with quantitative easing policies in developed
economies and stabilizing growth in China “we might see more
capital inflows this year.”  Helen Qiao, chief Greater China economist at Morgan Stanley
in Hong Kong, said the deficit “reflects a combination of
growing enthusiasm for Chinese firms to invest overseas, weaker
expectation for yuan appreciation and weaker growth at the lower
part of a business cycle in China last year.”  China’s outbound investment surged 29 percent to a record
$77.2 billion last year while inbound spending dropped 3.7
percent to $111.7 billion, commerce ministry data show.  Capital Inflows  Qiao said SAFE’s data release was incomplete and that a
more detailed breakdown in March or April will provide a better
indication of the cause of the gap.  Mark Williams, a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. and a former China adviser to the U.K. Treasury,
said recent data show increasing capital inflows, which “will
be much stronger in the first half.”  SAFE released the data after the close of markets in China.
The benchmark  Shanghai  Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.4 percent to
finish up 5.6 percent for the week, the best weekly performance
since October 2011.  The report showed China’s current-account surplus as a
percentage of gross domestic product fell to 2.6 percent in 2012
from 2.8 percent in 2011 and 10.1 percent in 2007.  The IMF last year cut its estimate for the current-account-
to-GDP surplus over the medium term to 4 percent to 4.5 percent
from around 7.5 percent, according to a report released in
April.  The excess may decline to about 2 percent of GDP this year
while the capital-account deficit may narrow or swing to a
surplus as investors’ increasing willingness to take on more
risk drives liquidity to  emerging markets  including China, Ding Shuang, a senior China economist with Citigroup Inc., said
yesterday.  Citigroup estimates the yuan will appreciate to about 6.1
per dollar by the end of this year. The currency fell 0.13
percent yesterday to 6.2270 per dollar in Shanghai.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  