-- HSBC Sells $7.4 Billion Ping An Stake to Thai Billionaire
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-02-02T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/china-permits-hsbc-sale-of-ping-an-stake-to-thai-billionaire-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s $7.4 billion sale
of its stake in  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318)  to Thai
billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont was cleared by regulators,
helping  Europe ’s largest bank by market value revive earnings.  Dhanin’s Charoen Pokphand Group Co. and HSBC said payment
was made in cash after the  China  Insurance Regulatory Commission
approved the sale of 976.1 million Hong Kong-traded shares in
the nation’s second-largest insurer, ending six weeks of
speculation over the deal’s fate. HSBC said in a statement that
it expects to complete the transfer on Feb. 6.  The transaction will generate a $2.6 billion profit for
HSBC, bolstering Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver ’s
efforts to improve profitability hurt by U.S. probes of money
laundering and compensation claims from U.K. clients. CP Group
said on Jan. 11 it had the resources to complete the purchase,
damping concern the deal would collapse after Caixin Online
reported that China Development Bank Corp. withdrew financing.  “Given all the twists and turns, this outcome is quite a
surprise and the best for all,” said Li Wenbing, a Beijing-
based analyst at Bocom International Holdings. “With a
relatively passive investor like CP, Ping An’s management can
maintain their control on the firm’s operation and leverage some
of CP’s expertise in tapping the rural financial sector.”  Ping An shares have gained 23 percent in Hong Kong trading
since Dec. 4, the day before the sale was announced. That’s 20
percent more than the HK$59-a-share that CP Group agreed to pay.  Two Phases  HSBC shares closed at 719.60 pence in London yesterday, up
0.4 percent. They have gained 11 percent this year, valuing the
company at 133 billion pounds ($209 billion).  The lender, based in London, agreed on Dec. 5 to sell its
15.6 percent holding in Ping An to four subsidiaries of CP Group
in two phases for about $9.4 billion. The first stage,
comprising shares valued at about HK$15 billion ($1.93 billion),
was completed Dec. 7. The rest required approval from the
regulatory commission.  The acquisition of four-fifths of the shares would be
funded with cash as well as a financing agreement from the Hong
Kong unit of  China Development Bank , HSBC said in December.  CP Group didn’t use that credit facility from China
Development Bank, a policy lender based in Beijing, to finance
any part of the purchase, said a person with knowledge of the
transaction. The person, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private, didn’t say how CP Group raised funds for
the deal. The statements didn’t give any details on funding.  U.S. Probes  Gulliver, who became CEO in January 2011, is seeking to cut
costs by $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion and revive profit by
selling assets to focus on emerging economies in which the bank
has a greater market share. Savings will probably exceed that
range and be achieved by the end of 2013, HSBC has said.  The lender on Dec. 11 agreed to pay $1.92 billion to settle
U.S. probes of  money laundering  in the largest such accord,
topping the $619 million in penalties paid in June by the
 Netherlands ’ ING Groep NV. It made an $800 million provision in
the third quarter to cover a potential settlement, adding to
$700 million it had already earmarked.  HSBC is among British banks that may have to pay a total of
as much as 5 billion pounds to compensate small businesses
improperly sold interest-rate derivatives following a probe by
the U.K. financial regulator.  To bolster earnings, HSBC has relied on faster-growing
economies, with the Asia-Pacific region accounting for 64
percent of first-half pretax income, up from 47 percent five
years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thai Conglomerate  “They may start to increase their payout ratio or loan
growth,’ said Cormac Leech, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd.
in London, who recommends buying the stock. ‘‘But it’s possible
they could run with a high Tier 1 capital ratio,” he said,
referring to a measure of financial strength.  Dhanin, 73, planned to make a foray into financial services
after spending more than four decades building a family-seed
business into  Thailand ’s biggest agricultural company and
conglomerate. His net worth is an estimated $6.6 billion as of
yesterday, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Almost
60 percent of the fortune is from overseas private companies.  The group’s historical ties to China include becoming the
first foreign investor after  Deng Xiaoping  opened the economy in
1979, and continued management of local agricultural projects.
CP said it could help develop rural areas in China through its
investment in Ping An.  Following the sale, HSBC’s Chinese holdings include 19
percent of the Shanghai-based Bank of Communications, the
nation’s fifth-largest, and 8 percent of closely held Bank of
Shanghai Co. Its Hong Kong unit,  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) , holds a 13
percent stake in China’s Industrial Bank Co.  “This is good news as it removes the uncertainty,” said
Olive Xia, a Shanghai-based analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi
International Ltd. who recommends investors buy the shares. “We
still prefer Ping An among Chinese insurers and the stock has
some upside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  