-- China Home Prices Have Biggest Gain in 2 Years, SouFun Says (1）
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-01T09:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/china-home-prices-have-biggest-gain-in-two-years-soufun-says.html
China’s new home prices rose 1
percent in January, the biggest gain in two years, as developers
turned optimistic because the government did not impose
additional measures to curb the property market last month.  Prices climbed for an eighth month in January to 9,812  yuan 
($1,577) per square meter (10.76 square feet) from December,
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest real estate website
owner, said in an e-mailed statement today, based on its survey
of 100 cities. The increase was the biggest since January 2011.  Developers have supplied more high-end properties to the
market since the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development
said in December that it would support demand from residents
seeking bigger homes this year, SouFun said. China may delay
expansion of property tax trials because the timing is not
“mature,” China Securities Journal reported today, citing an
unidentified person.  “Most developers expect no new property tightening in the
short term,” said Zhao Zhenyi, a Shanghai-based property
analyst at Industrial Securities. “They are very optimistic.”  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , the country’s biggest
developer by sales volume, last month said it is targeting sales
of 100 billion yuan this year, 25 percent higher than the target
in 2012.  Home prices rose 1.2 percent last month from a year ago,
according to the SouFun statement.  Tightening Measures  The government has raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements in its almost three-year effort to curb the
property market. It also imposed a property tax for the first
time in Shanghai and Chongqing, increased construction of low-
cost social housing and enacted home-purchase restrictions in
about 40 cities.  Home prices will continue to soar as the positive momentum
spills over from coastal to inland areas, wrote Alan Jin, a Hong
Kong-based property analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., in
an e-mailed reply to questions. He added that worries of more
policy tightening will increase if prices rise too fast.  A  gauge  tracking property shares in  Shanghai (SHCOMP)  rose 0.8
percent at the local close, making it the second-best performer
among the five industry groups that make up the Shanghai Stock
Exchange Composite Index. The benchmark rose 1.4 percent.  The eastern coastal city of Quanzhou had the biggest gain
last month, with prices increasing 4 percent, SouFun said. Home
prices in Beijing and Shanghai both rose 2.3 percent from
December.  China’s property prices “bottomed out” at the end of last
year, while developers’ credit profiles have improved on sales
growth and better liquidity, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
Jan. 29 report. Fourteen out of 15 Chinese developers it tracked
met or exceeded the sales target last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  