-- Christie Pushes Private Lottery as Bidder Misses Targets
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-02-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/christie-pushes-private-lottery-as-bidder-misses-targets.html
Governor  Chris Christie  says turning
over New Jersey’s lottery to a private manager would boost
sales, even though there’s scant evidence to support his
position.  The Republican is reviewing the one bid his administration
received from a group that includes Gtech Corp., a company that
helps run the lottery in  Illinois , where revenue has missed
goals. Though New Jersey had a record $2.7 billion in lottery
sales in fiscal 2012, Christie says a private company can do
better.  Christie joins U.S. governors, including those in Ohio and
Pennsylvania, who are seeking private investors to maximize
returns from public assets. Illinois was the first to privatize
its lottery, in 2010. Indiana and Pennsylvania have followed,
even as critics complain about a small pool of bidders and worry
about the fate of lottery-funded state programs.  “There are simply not enough firms that have any expertise
running these things,” said Victor Matheson, an economics
professor who studies gaming at College of the  Holy Cross  in
 Boston . “It’s not like private companies have some magic wand
to wave and make things better.”  Illinois awarded lottery management to Northstar Lottery
Group, a partnership of Gtech, a Rhode Island subsidiary of
 Italy ’s  Lottomatica Group SpA (LTO) ;  Scientific Games Corp. (SGMS)  of  New
York ; and Energy BBDO, a Chicago ad agency. The group guaranteed
a profit level for each of the first five years of the
agreement.  Missed Goal  Though Northstar collected a record $726 million in its
first year, that was about $100 million short of the minimum
promised, according to an analysis by the  Chicago Tribune . An
arbitrator in November sided with Northstar in a complaint that
attributed the shortfall to state decisions on contracting and
marketing.  Mike Lang, a spokesman for the Illinois lottery, said the
revenue figures cited by the Tribune are preliminary and
declined to confirm them.  In  New Jersey , Northstar teamed with the Ontario Municipal
Employees Retirement System to submit a bid in December. State
treasury officials say a decision should be made next month.  “Privatization is the right way to go,” Christie, 50,
told reporters in East Newark yesterday. “We’re now going to
negotiation with that bidder and see if we can come to an
agreement that we think is in the best interest of the people of
this state. If we do, we’ll come to an agreement and if we
don’t, we won’t.”  At risk is New Jersey’s fourth-largest revenue source, an
almost 42-year cash stream that grew even as Christie missed
wider annual revenue targets. In the fiscal year ended June 30,
$950 million of the lottery’s sales funded state programs,
including veterans homes, psychiatric hospitals and school
scholarships.  One Each  New Jersey and  Pennsylvania  both requested proposals in the
past year for lottery management. Early interest in the
contracts fell off, and each state drew just one bidder.  In Pennsylvania, Republican Governor Tom Corbett last month
handed a 20-year contract for management of the state’s $3.48
billion lottery to Camelot Global Services PA, which is part of
U.K.-based Camelot Group Plc, the company that runs Britain’s
National Lottery.  Camelot guaranteed $34 billion in profits over 20 years,
which exceeded projections under state management by $3 billion
to $4 billion, Corbett said.  Killing Goose  Christie and Corbett are both moving ahead amid opposition
from Democratic lawmakers and unions representing lottery
workers. In New Jersey, the  Communications Workers of America 
says 60 public workers would lose their jobs.  “Giving the lottery to a private vendor is like killing
the goose that laid the golden egg,” said New Jersey
Assemblyman Patrick Diegnan Jr. “It’s difficult to rationalize
privatization under any circumstances, but it would be
irresponsible to go forward with an award when only one bid was
submitted.”  Diegnan, of South Plainfield, is part of a group of
Democrats sponsoring a bill that would require lawmakers’
approval of any private lottery-management proposal. His party
controls both houses of the legislature, which has no power to
stop Christie from signing a contract.  Gtech controls 80 percent of the Illinois lottery
partnership. Its stake in Northstar New Jersey and other
proposal details are confidential while the contract is under
review, said Robert Vincent, a Gtech spokesman.  New Jersey’s request for proposals stipulated that its
contract would be for 15 years, and would require an up-front
payment of $120 million from the manager. That condition limited
the bidding pool, Vincent said.  “Certain companies may not have the financial
wherewithal,” Vincent said.  Public Input  Illinois and  Indiana , which last year hired Gtech to manage
its lottery, didn’t ask for upfront money, said Alex Kovach,
president of Camelot PA. Pennsylvania demanded $200 million.  “That makes for responsible bidding,” Kovach said during
a Jan. 14 Senate public hearing in Pennsylvania on the bid.  No such hearings are being held in New Jersey, much to the
chagrin of Democratic lawmakers.  “The proposal to privatize without public explanation one
of our most profitable and well-run assets is troubling,” said
Assembly budget chairman Vincent Prieto. “The Christie
administration appears ready to forfeit substantial long-term
revenue for a one-shot payment that will also hurt small
business owners and risk vital programs.”  Internet Sales  Bakulesh Patel, who owns the Pantry Farms convenience store
in Ewing, New Jersey, said he is concerned that a contractor
would offer ticket sales on the Internet. Illinois was the first
state to legalize such vending, part of Northstar’s strategy to
draw new players.  “It’s almost 75 to 80 percent of customers coming in for
the lottery,” Patel, 51, from Piscataway, said in an interview.
He counted on such revenue, including 5 percent of sales and a
percentage of winning tickets he sells, as part of his business
strategy when he opened two-and-a-half years ago, he said.  A poster on the door hails Pantry Farms as a “Lucky
Lottery Store” after a Cash 5 player there hit the $142,189
jackpot. Patel’s share of that was $750.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  