-- Clearwire Spoke to AT&T, China Mobile About Deals
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-01T21:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/clearwire-says-it-will-keep-talking-to-both-sprint-dish.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the wireless carrier
that received takeover proposals from  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , said it also had talks with eight other
companies over the past two years about various deals.  Clearwire, in a proxy filing today, didn’t identify the
parties that it had discussions with over a period starting in
fall 2010. Deutsche Telecom AG’s T-Mobile USA,  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  and  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  were among
the companies, according to Spencer Kurn, an analyst with New
Street Research LLC, and Tim Farrar of TMF Associates Inc.  Clearwire said it hasn’t made any determination to change
its recommendation of a deal with Sprint. Sprint, which already
 owns  just over 50 percent of Bellevue, Washington-based
Clearwire, has agreed to buy the rest of the shares for $2.97
apiece. Dish has made a counteroffer of $3.30 a share.  Mike DiGioia, a spokesman for Clearwire, declined to
comment beyond the filing. Representatives from MetroPCS and T-
Mobile declined to comment. AT&T and China Mobile didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Throughout the summer of 2011, Clearwire discussed the sale
of its airwaves to “a U.S.-based provider of Internet-based
products and services,” according to the filing. Those
discussions ended without an offer from the Internet service
company, which Kurn, and  Chris King , an analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus, say could be Google Inc. or Amazon.com Inc.  Spectrum Race  Both Sprint and Dish are vying for Clearwire’s spectrum --
the airwaves that are used to transmit voice and data for mobile
phones and tablets. While Sprint has said that its bid is
superior because it’s simpler and carries fewer conditions, some
Clearwire shareholders, including Crest Financial Ltd. and Mount
Kellett Capital Management LP, have lobbied for a better offer.  Clearwire  rose  0.3 percent to $3.19 at the close in New
York, signaling that investors expect a bid to go higher than
Sprint’s $2.97 price. Sprint advanced 1.1 percent to $5.69.  Clearwire said today it hasn’t drawn on financing offered
by Sprint, keeping its options open. The two companies haven’t
reached an agreement on an accelerated network construction plan
and extended the deadline by one month to Feb. 28.  Dish, which ranks second to  DirecTV (DTV)  in the satellite-TV
market, is making its bid as part of an expansion into mobile-
phone service. The proposal would require Clearwire shareholders
to sell at least 25 percent of the stock and wouldn’t be
dependent on Sprint’s participation, though it’s subject to
conditions that may require Sprint’s approval.  Softbank Deal  Sprint, based in  Overland Park , Kansas, agreed to acquire
100 percent of Clearwire in December, two months after a
separate deal with Tokyo-based  Softbank Corp. (9984)  promised to
provide a cash infusion. Softbank is buying a $20 billion stake
in Sprint to help the Japanese company expand into the U.S.  Before the takeover offer, Sprint and Clearwire had run a
joint venture with the goal of building a nationwide wireless
network. The effort struggled to gain traction over the past
four years, leading to billions of dollars in losses for
Clearwire.  Sprint plans to take over Clearwire’s spectrum and use it
to enhance its own network. Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse 
said in December that the deal was “critical” to turnaround
efforts at the carrier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  