-- Commodities Post Longest Run of Weekly Gains Since 1996
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-02-01T21:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/commodities-set-for-longest-run-of-weekly-gains-since-96.html
Commodities rose, capping the longest
run of weekly gains in 17 years, on mounting speculation that
the economies in the U.S. and  China  will rebound, boosting
demand for metals, energy and crops.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw materials 
advanced 0.5 percent to settle at 679.05 at 3:45 p.m.  New York 
time, led by industrial metals and energy. The broad gauge
climbed for the eighth straight week, the longest rally since
January 1996.  Reports showed today that in January, U.S. hiring increased
after accelerating more than estimated at the end 2012, and
China’s manufacturing expanded, adding to evidence of economic
gains. In 2012, the GSCI extended a rally for the fourth
straight year, led by agriculture prices. In the week ended Jan.
29,  hedge funds  increased bullish commodity  bets  for the third
straight week, government data showed.  “We’re fairly positive on commodities going forward,”
 Peter Sorrentino , a senior  fund manager  at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati who helps oversee $14.7 billion, said in
a telephone interview. “Investors are pumping money into the
complex once again. Growth expectations for China are starting
to ratchet up.”  Eighteen GSCI components rose, and the gauge earlier
reached 681.5, the highest since Sept. 17. This week, the index
climbed 2.5 percent, the most since mid-September.  Investors snapped up commodities at the fastest pace in a
year. The number of contracts outstanding for the 24 GSCI
components jumped 6.2 percent last month, the biggest gain since
January 2012.  ‘Clearly Positive’  “Improving growth prospects are clearly positive for
commodities and will help returns, which should also reinforce
flows into the asset class,” Nic Johnson, a  money manager  who
helps oversee about $30 billion in commodities at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach, California, said
yesterday in an e-mail. He said the rally will continue this
year.  Nickel and aluminum prices in London rose today on
manufacturing gains in the U.S. and China. Copper traders are
the most bullish in 15 months, a Bloomberg survey of traders
showed. Gold and silver climbed amid speculation that the
 Federal Reserve  will increase stimulus measure after the jobless
rate increased.  “The U.S. will show at least moderate growth going forward
this year, and U.S. stimulus should lead to higher commodity
prices,” said  Daniel Briesemann , a commodity analyst at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “ China’s economy  is definitely
gaining momentum and picking up. It will be the main driver.”  ‘Improving Perceptions’  Crude oil rose for the eighth straight week, the longest
rally in more than eight years, on economic optimism following
the U.S. payroll and manufacturing data.  “Prices have primarily moved higher on improving
perceptions about the economy,” said Bill O’Grady, the chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion. “The numbers today show
that the economy was a little better than we thought, and that’s
mildly supportive for both oil and the products.”  Soybean futures in Chicago gained on concern that dry
weather will reduce output in Argentina. Wheat and corn
declined.  Today, the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed above
14,000 for the first time since 2007 on the jobs data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  