-- Construction Spending Rises More Than Forecast on U.S. Housing
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-02-01T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/construction-spending-rises-more-than-forecast-on-u-s-housing.html
Spending on U.S. construction
projects climbed more than forecast in December, showing the
housing industry is sustaining gains that may lift the economy.  Outlays rose 0.9 percent to a $885 billion annual rate, the
highest level since August 2009, after increasing a revised 0.1
percent in November, the Commerce Department reported today in
Washington. The median forecast of 47 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.7 percent increase.  Improving demand driven by population growth and affordable
borrowing costs, coupled with low inventories, is fueling
business for homebuilders such as  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI)  Limited
access to credit and little progress on reducing unemployment
may prevent bigger gains in the real estate recovery.  “When we see volumes pick up, that makes homebuilders feel
more comfortable about going out and creating new houses because
they feel like the market’s starting to pick up,” Andres Garcia Amaya, a U.S. market strategist at JPMorgan Investment
Management in New York, said before the report. “There’s just
not enough houses out there for people to buy.”  In another report today, payrolls rose by 157,000 workers
last month following a surge at the end of 2012 that was larger
than previously estimated, according to the Labor Department.
The unemployment rate climbed to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent in
December, according to a separate survey of households.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for construction spending
ranged from little changed to gains of 1.7 percent. November was
initially reported as a 0.3 percent drop.  Growth Boost  The larger-than-projected increase combined with the better
reading in November may help boost fourth-quarter growth.  The world’s largest economy unexpectedly shrank at a 0.1
percent annual rate from October through December, Commerce
Department data showed this week. The figures will be updated at
the end of this month and again in March as more information,
such as today’s construction report, becomes more available.  Construction spending climbed 9.2 percent for all of 2012,
the first annual increase since 2006 and the biggest since 2005,
today’s report showed.  Private construction spending advanced 2 percent in
December from the prior month.  Homebuilding outlays increased 2.2 percent to a $308.2
billion annual rate, the highest level since November 2008.
Private non-residential projects rose 1.8 percent, reflecting
gains in schools and power plants.  D.R. Horton, the largest U.S. homebuilder by volume, is
among companies seeing a boost in orders. The Fort Worth, Texas-
based company reported fiscal first-quarter profit more than
doubled from the previous period with net income at $66.3
million, or 20 cents a share, for the three months ended Dec.
31, up from $27.7 million, or 9 cents, a year earlier, according
to a Jan. 29 statement.  ‘Broad Improvement’  “This quarter we saw a broad improvement in demand in most
of our markets, which has given us the ability to raise prices
in more of our communities,” Donald Tomnitz, the company’s
president and chief executive officer, said on an earnings call
that day. “We’re anticipating a good spring selling season and
have added homes and communities to capture this increasing
demand.”  Purchases of  new homes  unexpectedly dropped in December,
Commerce Department data showed last week. The 7.3 percent
decline to a 369,000 annual pace followed the prior month’s
398,000 rate that was higher than previously estimated. Builders
sold 367,000 homes in 2012, the most in three years and the
first annual increase in seven.  Spending on public projects dropped 1.4 percent from the
prior month, today’s Commerce Department figures showed. Federal
construction climbed 1.3 percent after falling 5.2 percent in
November. State and local agency projects declined 1.7 percent
from the prior month to $245.1 billion at an annual rate, the
weakest since November 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  