-- Copper Trade Most Bullish in 15 Months on Recovery: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-02-01T18:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/copper-trade-most-bullish-in-15-months-on-recovery-commodities.html
Copper traders are the most bullish
in 15 months on mounting confidence that the  U.S. economy  will
rebound at a time when  China ’s recovery is gaining momentum.  Twenty-five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
rise next week and five were bearish, making the proportion of
bulls the highest since Oct. 14, 2011. Copper climbed to a
three-month high today after data released in January showed
faster economic growth and higher profits for industrial
companies in China, the biggest user of the metal.  Global equities rallied to an almost 21-month high this
week after China’s expansion accelerated for the first time in
two years and an index of U.S. leading indicators rose the most
in three months. While the U.S. economy shrank in the fourth
quarter, economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley
say the country will bounce back in the current quarter. The
 Federal Reserve  signaled Jan. 30 it will maintain its stimulus
program to sustain growth.  “The U.S. will show at least moderate growth going forward
this year and U.S. stimulus should lead to higher commodity
prices,” said  Daniel Briesemann , a commodities analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “ China’s economy  is definitely
gaining momentum and picking up. It will be the main driver.”  Copper rose 4.5 percent to $8,290 a metric ton on the
 London  Metal Exchange this year. The metal jumped as much as 11
percent from a two-month low set Nov. 9, reaching $8,318 today,
the highest price since Oct. 5. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge
of 24 commodities added 5 percent this year and the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities gained 5.2 percent. Treasuries
lost 1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Fed Stimulus  The Fed said it will continue to buy securities at the rate
of $85 billion a month “if the outlook for the labor market
does not improve substantially.” Copper more than doubled since
December 2008 as the central bank expanded asset purchases in
three rounds of so-called quantitative easing.  The U.S. shrank 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter as a drop
in defense spending swamped gains for consumers and businesses,
data showed Jan. 30. JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley and Bank of
America economists said they expect a rebound as businesses will
rebuild stockpiles and consumers and companies will keep on
spending. The Conference Board said Jan. 24 its gauge of the
outlook for the next three to six months rose 0.5 percent in
December, signaling stronger housing and job markets in the
world’s biggest economy.  China’s Growth  North America  consumes 11 percent of the world’s copper and
China 42 percent, Barclays Plc estimates. The Asian nation grew
7.9 percent in the fourth quarter after slowing in the previous
seven periods, the government said Jan. 18. Chinese industrial
companies’ profits rose for a fourth month in December, state
data showed Jan. 27. A reading today from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics showed manufacturing expanding at the fastest
rate in two years.  There are signs that consumption is slowing. China’s
refined-copper imports slid 41 percent last year, according to
customs data. While copper stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai
Futures Exchange fell for a second week through Jan. 24, the
drop was from the highest level since April, exchange data show.  Inventories in warehouses monitored by the LME, the largest
metals bourse, are at the highest in 13 months after jumping 78
percent from an almost four-year low set Oct. 16, exchange data
show. Orders to withdraw metal slumped 52 percent in the past
four weeks. The stock buildup points to “weak physical
demand,”  Robin Bhar , an analyst at Societe Generale SA in
London, said Jan. 29.  China’s Demand  “You’ve got a lot of anticipation built into markets at
the minute without there being any real, genuine improvement in
demand,” said Nic Brown, head of commodity research at Natixis
SA in London. China starts a weeklong Lunar New holiday Feb. 11.
“Ahead of the Chinese New Year, it’s difficult to know exactly
how strong that Chinese growth is going to be.”  Central banks from the U.S. to Japan have pledged more
stimulus amid concern the recovery will stall. The Washington-
based  International Monetary Fund  cut its global growth forecast
for this year to 3.5 percent on Jan. 23, compared with an
October projection of 3.6 percent. The 17-nation euro area will
contract 0.2 percent, the lender said.  Europe  accounts for 18
percent of copper demand, according to Barclays, which predicted
Jan. 16 that supply will beat demand by 128,000 tons this year.  Supply Balance  A 1 percent shift in the supply and demand balance may move
prices $1,000 either way, though the risk of supply disruption
is greater than output expanding more than forecast, UBS AG said
in a Jan. 30 report.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the second-biggest mining
company, is considering a temporary halt to construction work at
its $6.2 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold project in Mongolia
as the government demands a greater share of profit from the
mine, two people familiar with the plans said.  A spokesman in  Melbourne  declined to comment on whether the
London-based  Rio Tinto  is considering a temporary halt.  Hedge funds  held a net-long position, or bets on higher  New
York  copper prices, of 16,438 futures and options in the week to
Jan. 22, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
That’s more than twice the average over the past five years.  The metal gained in February more times than any other
month in the last nine years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Prices advanced in February eight times since 2004,
beating the next-best month of July, which registered advances
seven times over the nine-year period.  Copper in China has mostly traded at a discount to the
LME’s benchmark contract since November, reducing the appeal to
Chinese traders to import the metal. The  discount  was about 1000
 yuan  ($161) a ton today, and includes 17 percent value-added tax
and import fees, data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sugar Survey  In other commodities, eight of 17 people surveyed expect
raw sugar to climb next week and six predicted a drop. The
commodity slid 3.1 percent to 18.91 cents a pound on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York this year.  Seventeen of 25 people surveyed anticipate higher corn
prices next week and five said the grain will drop, while 16 of
26 said soybeans will climb and eight expect lower prices.
Sixteen of 24 traders predicted gains in wheat and five were
bearish. Corn rose 5.9 percent to $7.3925 a bushel in  Chicago 
this year as soybeans gained 4.6 percent to $14.7475 a bushel.
Wheat fell 0.8 percent to $7.7175 a bushel.  Fourteen of 29 traders and analysts surveyed said gold
would advance next week, eight were bearish and seven predicted
little change. Bullion fell 0.3 percent to $1,671.05 an ounce in
London this year after advancing the previous 12 years, the
longest run of gains in at least nine decades. The 2,612.3 tons
held in exchange-traded products is 0.8 percent below the Dec.
20 record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Speculators’ Bets  Speculators raised bullish wagers across 18 commodities by
the most in six months in the week ended Jan. 22, CFTC data
show. The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials reached a four-month
high today. The  index (MXWD)  gained about 7 percent since mid-November,
compared with a 13 percent surge in equities in the period.  “The driver is primarily the optimistic  market sentiment 
in general,” said Filip Petersson, a commodities strategist at
SEB AB in  Stockholm . “While global equities have performed
strongly since November, commodities have been lagging until
recently. All major regions look quite encouraging at the
moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  