-- Corbett Faces Special Prosecutor Examining Sandusky Case
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-02-01T20:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/corbett-faces-attorney-general-probe-of-sandusky-response.html
Pennsylvania Attorney General
Kathleen Kane will appoint a special prosecutor to investigate
how Governor Tom Corbett handled the Pennsylvania State
University child sex abuse case.  “The office will conduct a timely investigation that
leaves no stone unturned,” Kane, a 46-year-old Democrat, said
today in an e-mailed statement. The findings will be made
public, she said.  Corbett, a Republican, was attorney general in 2009 when he
started a probe of Jerry Sandusky, a former assistant football
coach. Corbett was elected governor in 2010, and last year
Sandusky was convicted of molesting eight boys.  Corbett, 63, hasn’t been contacted by anyone from Kane’s
office regarding the probe, a spokesman said.  “The governor is happy to speak with Kathleen Kane and
everyone else from her office,”  Kevin Harley said in a
telephone interview. “He did nothing wrong.”  The special prosecutor, reported earlier by the  New York 
Times, will arrive as Corbett embarks on an ambitious agenda
ahead of re-election.  Sudden Action  This week Corbett announced plans to sell the state’s
wholesale and retail liquor operations, a move opposed by unions
and Democrats. He told Bloomberg News yesterday he will discuss
changes to pensions during his budget speech Feb. 5.  Kane’s investigation is Corbett’s “sword of Damocles,”
said Ryan Shafik, founder of Rockwood Strategies, a Harrisburg
consulting firm that works with Republican candidates.  “A lot of the legislators are wary to embrace the
governor, because they view his political capital as almost
gone,” Shafik said by telephone.  In a Quinnipiac University  poll  released Jan. 29, 42
percent of Pennsylvania voters disapproved of Corbett’s
performance and half said he didn’t deserve re-election in 2014.
Corbett has “no strong base of support” in income, age or
regional group, according to the survey from the Hamden,
Connecticut school.  Corbett isn’t standing idly by. After two years of
“unpopular” budget cuts, he’s “being more aggressive putting
an agenda in place,” said Thomas Baldino, who teaches politics
at Wilkes University in Wilkes-Barre.  NCAA Suit  On Jan. 2, Corbett sued the National Collegiate Athletic
Association for its penalties on Penn State in the Sandusky
case. On Jan. 17, he awarded a contract to the operator of
Britain’s National Lottery to take over the state lottery. Less
than two weeks later, Corbett announced his plan to sell the
liquor system.  Kane’s investigation is the most recent fallout from a case
that transfixed the state and nation.  Sandusky, 69, was sentenced to at least 30 years in prison
for the molestation, which occurred over 15 years. The affair
led to the firings of Penn State President Graham Spanier and
Joe Paterno, who headed the football program for 46 years.  Kane made reviewing the handling of the case a key issue in
her campaign last year to become the state’s top law enforcement
officer. Her office said today that an attorney general “has
the authority as well as an obligation to ensure that we are
protecting our children the best we can.”  According to Kane’s statement, investigators will ask:
“Why did it take 33 months to get Sandusky off the streets? Was
the use of a grand jury the right decision? Why were there so
few resources dedicated to the investigation?”  The probe “will be a thorough investigation that looks at
the entire handling of the investigation,”  said Kane’s
spokeswoman, Ellen Mellody.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  