-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Hiring Rises, Manufacturing Expands
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-02-01T22:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/corporate-credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-decline-after-jobs-report.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
fell for a second day after hiring in the U.S. increased and
factory activity accelerated in January.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 2.6
basis points to a mid-price of 86.2 basis points at 4:44 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
has declined from 90.3 basis points on Jan. 30, the highest
level since Dec. 31.  Payrolls increased by 157,000 last month, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The increase followed a
revised 196,000 advance in the prior month. The  unemployment
rate  in January rose to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent. Signs that
the labor market is improving may ease investor concern that
companies’ will struggle to repay debt.  “The data is pretty meaningful in the sense it signifies
more of a risk-on attitude. The strong job numbers are
indicating that the economy is improving, however it’s still
somewhat sluggish,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded more than forecast in
January, reaching a nine-month high and showing the industry is
starting to improve.  Industry Expansion  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing  index 
climbed to 53.1 last month from December’s 50.2, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group’s report showed today. Readings above 50
signal expansion. The median forecast from a Bloomberg survey of
86 economists was 50.7.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index decreased 11 basis points to 435 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt fell 0.8
basis point to 471.6 basis points, according to Bloomberg data.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s . A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in  New York  at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  