-- Credit Suisse Put ‘Garbage’ Mortgages in Bonds, MBIA Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-02-01T22:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/credit-suisse-put-garbage-mortgages-in-bonds-mbia-says.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  bundled
hundreds of mortgages into a single set of securities sold to
investors in 2007 even after it had found flaws with the loans
and asked the lenders to repurchase the debt, bond insurer  MBIA
Inc. (MBI)  said in a court filing.  That practice was one way Zurich-based Credit Suisse
maximized profit as the U.S. mortgage market melted down, while
exposing investors and guarantors to losses, MBIA said in an
amended complaint filed Jan. 30 in New York State Supreme Court
as part of its 2009 suit against the bank. The filing cites
documents obtained through the pretrial exchange of evidence.  The amended complaint said bank executives used the word
“shady” and a vulgarity to describe mortgage companies it
bought loans from. Some of them would “try to get away with
anything” they could, including selling “utter complete
garbage,” the executives said, according to MBIA. A Credit
Suisse spokesman accused MBIA of mischaracterizing the evidence.  Six years after  U.S. home prices  began a slump of more than
30 percent, and a year into the recovery, mortgage-bond
investors and insurers are still battling in court with banks
over the hundreds of billions of dollars in resulting losses.
Plaintiffs are pointing to pretrial evidence to bolster cases or
bring new ones, saying the documents show the extent of Wall
Street’s wrongdoing.  ‘Discredited Testimony’  “MBIA’s amended complaint is built on discredited
testimony and fragments from a handful of e-mails that emerged
after a review of millions of messages -- they are intentionally
taken out of context,” Drew Benson, a spokesman for Credit
Suisse, said. “We are confident the court will see this as a
futile attempt to shore up a weak claim.”  Credit Suisse had sought to prevent the filing of Armonk,
New York-based MBIA’s amended complaint in the suit over the
$1 billion bond deal, saying in court documents that the
description of an originator in an e-mail as “shady” occurred
during a discussion of a loan product that the bank didn’t
accept.  The Swiss bank agreed in November to pay $120 million to
settle U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission allegations that
it failed to tell investors it kept reimbursements from lenders
for soured loans “previously” placed in bonds. The bank didn’t
admit or deny the findings in the SEC case.  MBIA said it found the bank also bundled more than 500
mortgages into a 2007 deal even after demanding that  lenders 
repurchase the debt because of early defaults or underwriting
errors.  ‘Red Flags’  Credit Suisse, one of two issuers to re-enter the market
since it froze in 2008, said in a 2011 filing in the MBIA case
that the transaction’s contracts failed to call for the bank to
repurchase loans simply because they went delinquent within a
few months or involved borrower fraud, differing from contracts
between the lenders and Credit Suisse. MBIA said the bank knew
early loan defaults were “red flags” for further reviews.  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman last year sued
Credit Suisse, saying its 2006 and 2007 mortgage bonds suffered
$11.2 billion of losses and there needed to be “real
accountability for the illegal and deceptive conduct.”  “You talk about people selling tens of billions of dollars
of securities over a period of years in which their due
diligence process was essentially a sham,” Schneiderman said in
an interview today. “That’s a big liability.”  ‘Baseless’ Claim  Credit Suisse has called the state’s claims “baseless.”
The bank is also contending with lawsuits from bond insurers
Ambac Assurance Corp. and Assured Guaranty Corp. and investors
including IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG and Stichting
Pensioenfonds ABP.  Lenders, bond issuers and underwriters have said that
plaintiffs are improperly blaming them for a collapse in housing
or their own lack of care during the real estate boom.  “Damaging e-mails and other documents uncovered by
lawsuits such as this will only intensify the public’s disdain
for a system that is viewed as being riddled with fraud and
self-dealing,” Manal Mehta, the founder of San Francisco-based
hedge fund Sunesis Capital LLC, said in an interview. Sunesis
owns MBIA  shares .  MBIA has paid more than $386 million in claims on the 2007
Credit Suisse transaction, according to its amended complaint. A
total of $597 million, or about 66 percent of the original
balances of the second-lien loans underlying the deal, have
defaulted and been charged-off, it said.  ‘Double-Dipping’  The inclusion of loans that Credit Suisse had already
sought to have repurchased fits with a broader scheme of
“double-dipping” by both using and ignoring contract clauses
requiring loan buybacks, MBIA said. Of the $205 million
recovered from originators through December 2007, Credit Suisse
kept $116 million as of that month, the insurer said it found.  Rather than formal repurchases, Credit Suisse sometimes
also negotiated discounts on future loan sales, according to
MBIA’s filing.  A senior trader described one executive as the “king of
quietly forgiving” upfront payment demands in exchange for
“incentive laden” agreements for future business, MBIA said in
the amended complaint, citing the bank’s internal
communications.  The trader said such practices “encourage these guys to
continue delivering us cr-p,” according to MBIA’s filing.  New Century  Of the loans with repurchase demands included in the MBIA-
insured deal, at least 182 had been submitted to failed subprime
lender New Century Financial Corp. for buybacks, MBIA said,
citing Credit Suisse records.  Credit Suisse’s records also show that it failed to conduct
the 100 percent due diligence on New Century loans that it
promised, even though the lender had filed for bankruptcy, which
the bank acknowledged in disclosures increased the danger the
debt would have flaws, according to the MBIA complaint.  Even while Credit Suisse maintained a “watch list” of
problem loan sellers, it never stopped including their loans in
securitizations, MBIA said. More than 2,600 of the loans
securitized in the transaction MBIA insured, or 15 percent, were
from originators on the watch list, according to the amended
complaint.  As one Credit Suisse executive in March 2007 was suggesting
the bank “cut them off or halt funding” for four lenders that
originated about 750 loans in the deal, a trading head described
the loans of one of them as “utter complete garbage,” MBIA
said in its amended complaint, citing internal bank
communications.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Credit Suisse
Securities (USA) LLC, 603751/2009, New York State Supreme Court
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  