-- Croatia Cut to Junk by Moody’s on Fiscal, External Risks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-02-01T10:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/croatia-cut-to-junk-by-moody-s-on-fiscal-weakness-external-risk.html
Croatia ’s credit rating was cut to
junk by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a stalled
recovery, lack of budget discipline and vulnerability to
external shocks by the European Union’s next member.  The Balkan country’s government bond rating was lowered to
Ba1 from Baa3, the same level as Hungary and Ireland, Moody’s
said in a statement released in  London  today. Standard & Poor’s
cut Croatia to junk in December. Moody’s also changed Croatia’s
outlook to stable from negative, saying the risk the
government’s fiscal position and debt will “materially
deteriorate any further” is limited.  “The government’s capacity to re-balance the economy
toward exports is intrinsically limited,” Moody’s said in the
statement. “The country’s expected forthcoming EU accession in
July 2013 is a positive development; however, the European
environment and the government’s reform inertia are likely to
limit the benefits normally expected to arise.”  Croatia, a former Yugoslav republic set to join the EU in
July, is in its second recession in two years amid austerity
measures and an investment drought sparked by  Europe ’s debt
crisis. The government said Dec. 19 that the  budget deficit  will
widen this year to 3.1 percent of economic output as the country
repays debt and begins contributing to EU coffers.  Dropping Croatia  “The downgrade will undo any good will that the EU
accession would have generated amongst investors,” Abbas Ameli- Renani, emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Croatia’s composite rating has now been lowered to sub-
investment,” which “will force a lot of investment funds that
have a mandate for investment-grade only bonds to drop Croatia
from their portfolios.”  The third major credit rating company,  Fitch Ratings , in
November changed its outlook for Croatia to negative from
stable, while maintaining the lowest investment grade, BBB-.  Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ’s Cabinet, which has vowed
to reduce public spending and remove obstacles to investment,
forecasts the economy will grow 1.8 percent this year as an
expected 10 billion euros ($13.6 billion) in EU grants through
2020 boost investment. The  International Monetary Fund  in
November said the economy will grow 0.75 percent this year,
after shrinking 1.5 percent in 2012.  Budget Review  Finance Minister Slavko Linic said the the downgrade was
not “malicious judgment,” but a wakeup call for the
government.  He pledged to review the budget in the spring and seek to
raise revenue levels with “improved tax policies” and
introduction of a property tax. he Cabinet also needs to
continue state-asset sales and strengthenngthen industrial
production, he said.  “This is a very clear message,” Linic said today in
Zagreb, adding that his economic forecasts for the country will
remain unchanged. “We hope that this second downgrade will
convince the public we need reforms.”  The yield on dollar-denominated notes due in March 2021
rose to 4.611 percent today from 4.512 percent yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Croatia’s weak economy, external vulnerability and
relatively high debt will make fiscal consolidation harder,
Moody’s said. “The government’s fiscal metrics are also weaker,
with general government debt exceeding those of Baa3-rated
countries,” the company said.  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
 government bonds  fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
suggests they should climb, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg last year on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook
changes going back as far as the 1970s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net 
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  