-- Ctrip Rallies as Rebound Boosts Earnings: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-01T22:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/ctrip-rallies-as-rebound-boosts-earnings-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks climbed in New York,
led by  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , after the online travel
agency’s better-than-estimated profit bolstered the outlook for
company earnings as the economy rebounds.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. gained 0.8 percent to 101 yesterday,
extending its 1.4 percent jump in the week. Solar company  Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  rose to a three-week high, while real
estate company  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  advanced the most in seven
days. China Eastern Airlines Corp. rallied, narrowing the
 discount  to its Hong Kong shares, after a budget carrier joint
venture with Qantas Airways Ltd. was approved.  Ctrip, which plunged 20 percent  last week  on concern a
discount plane ticket program will cut profit, surged the most
since December after posting fourth-quarter net income that beat
analysts’ estimates and saying margins will probably stay at a
similar level in the first three months of 2013. Chinese
manufacturing expanded for a fourth month in January and new
home prices surged, data yesterday showed, boosting the outlook
for an economy that is emerging from a seven-quarter slowdown.  “People reacted pretty positively to Ctrip’s quarterly
results and its guidance,” Andy Yeung, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. who rates the stock the equivalent of buy,
said by phone yesterday from New York. “Guidance on first-
quarter margin helped relieve people’s concern about the
negative impact of its air-ticket discount program.”  ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., advanced 0.8 percent to
$41.82, for a weekly gain of 1.8 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  rallied 1 percent to a five-year high of 1,513.17 as
the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose above 14,000 after data
showed the U.S. added jobs in January and manufacturing
expanded.  Ctrip’s American depositary receipts added 3.2 percent to
$20.45, the biggest rally since Dec. 18. The ADRs have slid 9.8
percent this year after retreating 3.2 percent in 2012.  Shanghai-based Ctrip announced Jan. 31 fourth-quarter
earnings of 22 cents per American depositary receipt, beating
the 14-cent average estimate of four analysts compiled by
Bloomberg, while its sales of $177 million also exceeded the
$173 million forecast. Brean Capital LLC raised the  stock rating 
to buy from hold yesterday, and at least three other analysts
retained their buy recommendations.  The company’s Chief Financial Officer Jenny Wenjie Wu said
Ctrip’s first-quarter operating margin will remain similar to
the previous quarter’s 21 percent on a conference call Jan. 31,
even though the period is normally a weaker season.  Price Target  Morgan Stanley analysts led by Richard Ji raised a price
target for Ctrip to $20.1 from $17.6 in a Feb. 1 note while
maintaining a rating equivalent to buy. The company, which may
face margin pressure in the near term, should still benefit from
market share gains at the expense of smaller rivals, according
to the report.  Yingli, the world’s biggest silicon-based panel maker by
capacity, surged 5.5 percent to a three-week high of $3.05,
extending its gains this year to 30 percent.  The Baoding, China-based company will see gross margin rise
to as much as 20 percent this year if module prices rebound and
production costs drop, Chief Financial Officer Bryan Li said in
an interview Jan. 29. Photovoltaic panel prices have begun to
recover slightly, rising 6 percent since the end of December,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Yingli in November reported gross margin was negative in
the third quarter for the first time since listing on the New
York stock exchange in 2007, coming in at minus 23 percent
because of falling prices and lower sales in Germany. Current
gross margin is in “single digits,” Li said in the interview.  China Eastern  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was 50.4 in January,
compared with 50.6 in December, and indicated an expansion for a
fourth month, according to data from the National Bureau of
Statistics and the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
yesterday. A separate gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics covering fewer businesses rose to a two-year high of
52.3 from 51.5.  China Eastern, the nation’s second-largest domestic
carrier, rebounded 2.9 percent from a two-week low to $23.09.
Its ADRs, each representing 50 underlying shares in the airline,
traded 0.8 percent below its Hong Kong stock, from a  discount  of
1.4 percent the previous day.  The company, based in Shanghai, received a notification
from China’s Ministry of Commerce on Jetstart Hong Kong, a
budget airline it owns jointly with Australia’s Qantas Airways,
it said in an e-mailed statement Jan. 31. China Eastern hopes to
receive a permission for Hong Kong to start operation, it said.  SouFun, the largest real estate information company in
China, increased 3 percent to $26.6 in the steepest gain in a
week.  Home Prices  Chinese new home prices rose 1 percent in January, the
biggest increase since January 2011, the Beijing-based company
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday, citing its survey of
100 cities.  Kandi Technologies Group Inc. (KNDI) , a maker of electric cars,
surged 12 percent, the most in seven months, to $4.01. The
Jinhua, China-based carmaker and  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) 
are setting up an electric-vehicle joint venture in China, the
companies said yesterday in a statement.  The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a
basket of companies that gained U.S. listings after buying firms
that already trade, jumped 2 percent this week to 80.12, rising
the most in three weeks.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 0.7 percent
to 12,215.03 yesterday, ending the week up 1.8 percent. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares surged 1.4
percent to 2,419.02, gaining 5.6 percent in the week for the
steepest rally since October 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  