-- Daimler Takes Stake in China Carmaking Partner to Expand
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-02-01T11:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/daimler-takes-stake-in-china-carmaking-partner-to-expand.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the third-biggest maker
of luxury cars, agreed to buy a stake in the car unit of Chinese
partner Beijing Automotive Group Co. to spur efforts to catch up
with competitors in the world’s largest auto market.  The parent of Mercedes-Benz will acquire 12 percent of the
car division of the Chinese company, known as BAIC Motor, the
Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer said today in a statement.
The Beijing-based partner will grant Daimler two seats on the
unit’s board of directors.  The investment is “significant, so that both companies can
actively participate in the opportunities of the Chinese
automotive market,” Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche , who is also head of the Mercedes car business, said in
the statement.  Zetsche has vowed to retake the top spot in worldwide
luxury-vehicle sales by the end of the decade after Mercedes
fell behind Bayerische Motoren Werke AG in 2005.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi unit, which has ranked second globally since 2011, also has
a target of taking the luxury lead by 2020. China plays a key
role in Zetsche’s strategy after Mercedes lagged behind BMW and
Audi in sales growth in the country last year.  “It’s a long-term investment which secures Daimler an
exclusive access to the partner,” said Christoph Stuermer, a
Frankfurt-based analyst with research company IHS. The board
seats will allow Daimler to have a say at the partner and start
negotiating projects at an early stage, he said.  European Market  As European industrywide auto sales head into a sixth
consecutive year of decline, German luxury-car makers are
looking abroad for growth opportunities. The Chinese market has
become increasingly important for earnings as buyers tend to opt
for fully loaded upscale vehicles, resulting in higher returns
for the manufacturers.  Mercedes deliveries in  China  rose 1.5 percent to 196,211
cars in 2012. Audi posted a 30 percent jump, selling 405,838
vehicles. Deliveries by the BMW brand in the market surged 40
percent to 303,169 cars.  Daimler’s investment in BAIC Motor is through the issuance
of new shares. The transaction is expected to close by the end
of this year or early next year, it said.  BAIC will increase its stake in its production joint
venture with Daimler in China to 51 percent from 50 percent, the
companies said. Owning the majority of Beijing Benz Automotive
Co., which produces the Mercedes C- and E-Class sedans and GLK
sport-utility vehicle, adds to the value of BAIC’s auto unit,
which is planning an initial public offering.  Stock Rises  Daimler rose as much as 0.9 percent and was unchanged at
42.88 euros as of 12:51 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has lost
2.2 percent over the past 12 months, valuing the carmaker at
45.8 billion euros ($62.5 billion).  BAIC, which also makes vehicles with  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  in
China, is looking at an IPO in  Hong Kong  for the unit, possibly
this year, with a target of raising about 10 billion  yuan  ($1.6
billion), Chairman Xu Heyi said in September.  Daimler’s push to expand in China includes the
establishment in December of a management-board position
dedicated to the country. The company assigned Hubertus Troska,
formerly head of the Mercedes-Benz trucks business, to the post.  The German manufacturer and BAIC have also set up a jointly
owned sales organization, which combines previously separate
marketing of imported and locally produced cars. Daimler will
raise its stake in the sales partnership to 51 percent from 50
percent.  Daimler’s passenger car unit plans to add 50 dealers in
China this year, expanding the sales network to 270 showrooms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  