-- Darty Announces Chief of French Furniture BUT Chain to Be CEO
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-02-01T09:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/darty-announces-chief-of-french-furniture-but-chain-to-be-ceo.html
Darty Plc (DRTY)  picked Regis Schultz to
replace Chief Executive Officer Thierry Falque-Pierrotin,
choosing a manager who revamped a furniture unit formerly owned
by France’s biggest consumer-electronics retailer.  Schultz, a 44-year-old Frenchman, will begin in the
position in May, according to a statement by the London-based
company today.  “A new CEO on board will help to bring clarity to the
future trading strategy of the group, and his experience in
France will undoubtedly be useful in stabilizing Darty France,”
Kate Calvert, an analyst at Seymour Pierce with a hold
recommendation on the stock, said by e-mail.  Schultz became CEO of BUT SA in 2008, a year after Darty
sold the retailer of furniture and electronics to a group of
investors including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and OpCapita LLP
for 550 million euros ($751 million). During his tenure, Schultz
added digital terminals in stores and started a new store
format, driving market share gains. He joins as Darty seeks to
revive falling sales and profit.  “The board and I look forward to working with him on our
plans to restore shareholder value by eliminating losses at our
non-core businesses, increasing profitability in our core
businesses and developing future growth initiatives,” Chairman
Alan Parker said in the statement.  Shares Gain  Darty shares rose 1.2 percent at 9:41 a.m. in London
trading, boosting this year’s gain to 7 percent.  Schultz will have a base salary of 500,000 pounds
($792,000). Falque-Pierrotin had a base salary of 1.03 million
euros in the year through April 2012. Schultz also will be
eligible for a bonus of as much as 125 percent of his base pay,
half in cash and half in shares vesting in three years.  Darty is scaling back its unprofitable European businesses
amid pressure from its largest shareholder, Knight Vinke Asset
Management LLC, and has already agreed to a sale of its Italian
business.  Schultz, who has also worked as chief operating officer of
 Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ’s U.K. home improvement chain B&Q, joins the
chain with more than 500 stores in nine countries as it focuses
more on online sales and increasing its service-led offering to
compensate for the weakening market in France, its largest.  Bruno Cremel, managing director of Darty France, will step
down by mutual agreement at the end of May, Darty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  