-- Dior Opens Sydney Store as Luxury Brands Seek Out Asian Demand
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-01T02:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/dior-opens-sydney-store-as-luxury-brands-seek-out-asian-demand.html
Christian Dior SA (CDI)  opened its first
dedicated store in Australia’s largest city today, seeking to
capitalize on demand for fashion goods that’s luring Inditex
SA’s Zara, Arcadia Group Plc’s Topshop, and Prada SpA.  The store, on a corner of Sydney’s central business
district close to outlets of Chanel SA and LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA’s Bulgari brand, is fitted out with Louis XVI
chairs and a private salon on its own floor. Strong consumer
demand in  Asia  makes up for weaker performance in European
markets, Dior’s chairman and controlling shareholder  Bernard Arnault  said in a Jan. 31 investor call.  The reduction of  interest rates  to a half-century low in
December leaves Australian consumers better off than peers in
other countries, even as unemployment and cost-of-living
pressures rise, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Shaun Cousins wrote
in a Jan. 23 note to clients. High- and low-end retailers are
best positioned to benefit from the spending, he said.  “Some of the luxury goods retailers have done
extraordinarily well over the last few years,”  David White ,
national retail leader at Deloitte, said by phone from Sydney.
“While in general consumers are cutting back, where they still
see real value, they’re willing to continue their purchases.”  Strong Currency  Overseas retailers have been attracted by the strength of
the Australian dollar and the relative health of the only major
developed economy that didn’t enter a recession after the 2008
financial crisis. With a population of 23 million people, it
outstrips Europe,  Japan  and  China  as the second-largest market
for FiftyOne Inc., which helps U.S. stores including Saks Inc.,
Macy’s Inc. and Bloomingdale’s sell products overseas through
their websites.  Williams-Sonoma Inc. in August said it had leased 22,000
square feet of space in Sydney’s Bondi Junction suburb to open
its first four owned stores outside  North America .  “The Australian consumer is well positioned relative to
the consumer in many other countries,” Cousins wrote.  While Australia’s spending on clothing and footwear has
stalled since 2009 amid  household savings rates  that have been
more than double those  in the U.S. , OrotonGroup Ltd., a bag-
maker that’s the country’s largest listed luxury goods company,
has lifted sales by 38 percent.  “Major markets, the United States, Asia, China in
particular are expected to bounce back,” Dior’s Arnault said in
the investor call Jan. 31 for LVMH, the world’s largest luxury
goods maker which he also controls. “The world is growing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  