-- Duncan Lauds Progress of Race to Top Program for Schools
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/duncan-lauds-progress-of-race-to-top-program-for-schools.html
President  Barack Obama ’s $5 billion
Race to the Top education-grant program has sparked “dramatic”
change over the past year, though some states’ progress lagged,
U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan said.  The program, designed to raise academic standards, provides
federal grants to states that tie teacher evaluations to student
performance and turn around failing schools. The Education
Department today released  state reports  for the program’s second
year, evaluating Delaware, the District of Columbia, Florida,
Georgia,  Hawaii ,  Maryland , Massachusetts, New York,  North
Carolina , Ohio, Rhode Island and  Tennessee .  The reports showed most states making “tremendous
strides,” even as they struggled with bureaucratic delays. The
Education Department criticized Georgia for a flawed execution
of a teacher-evaluation system and the  District of Columbia  for
leadership and staffing changes interfering with school
turnarounds.  “Race to the Top has sparked dramatic changes, and in only
the second year of the program we’re seeing those results reach
the classroom,” Duncan said in a statement. “Comprehensive
education reform isn’t easy, and a few states have faced major
challenges in implementing their plans. As we reach the halfway
point, we need to see every state show results.”  In the spring of 2010, the Obama administration made its
first Race to the Top awards, which run for four years. In all,
24 states and the District of Columbia have received money under
the program.  2020 Target  Today’s reports cover states receiving grants in the first
two rounds of funding. The reports cover performance in the
2011-2012 school year.  In an interview for  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Bloomberg EDU with
Jane Williams” program to be broadcast today, Duncan said the
department’s efforts to change the education system are intended
to help Obama meet his target of having the U.S. lead the world
in college graduation rates by 2020.  Demonstrating progress, government data released last month
showed that the U.S public high school graduation rate -- at
78.2 percent in 2009-2010 -- had climbed to the highest level
since the 1970s, Duncan said.  “We have to continue to drive” kindergarten to 12th-grade
reform, Duncan said. “We’ve seen some real progress there, but
a long way to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  