-- The Real Reason Republicans Should Fear Immigration
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2013-02-01T15:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/the-real-reason-republicans-should-fear-immigration.html
The fight over immigration reform has led to some strategic handwringing
among Republicans:  If we let more immigrants in, and most of them are
Hispanics, how will they tend to vote? Some conservatives are worried that
Hispanics will be disproportionately dependent on government and therefore
likely to vote for Democrats. But others argue that Hispanics are " natural
conservatives " who can be drawn to a conservative economic agenda. There are a few problems with this line of inquiry. One is that it's shallow:
Should decisions about who ought to be allowed to immigrate be driven by likely
voting behavior? Another is that it sort of inevitably ends up in racist places,
as with Rush Limbaugh arguing that the  real problem with immigration  is that
Mexicans, unlike Cubans, are lazy. But conservatives are also making a third error: Assuming that immigrants'
lack of interest in conservative policies is driven by low incomes and
dependency on government benefits. In this vein, National Review  frets about
Hispanics : "While many are in business for themselves, they
express hostile attitudes toward free enterprise in polls. They are
disproportionately low-income and disproportionately likely to receive some form
of government support. More than half of Hispanic births are out of wedlock.
Take away the Spanish surname and Latino voters look a great deal like many
other Democratic constituencies. Low-income households headed by single mothers
and dependent upon some form of welfare are not looking for an excuse to join
forces with Paul Ryan and Pat Toomey." In other words: Hispanic immigrants will tend to be "takers" with self-
interested reasons to support bigger government. But let's imagine that Hispanic
Americans' demographic positioning looked different. Let's say they were
disproportionately unlikely to have children out of wedlock, and had higher
incomes and educational achievement than whites. By National Review's logic, this should make them a natural conservative
constituency, ready to line up with Paul Ryan and Pat Toomey. But Asian
Americans -- who do have these characteristics in the aggregate -- vote
Democratic in roughly similar numbers to Hispanics. This should be a clue that
Republicans' failure with non-whites is not just about voters' economic
circumstances. Adam Serwer offers  this theory  for conservatives' failure to anticipate that
minority groups could turn out to be diligent, wealthy and Democratic: "Some conservatives have persuaded themselves that
being a conservative is a prerequisite for human virtues like diligence. Since
only conservatives know what hard work is, if you are not conservative you do
not work hard." I think Serwer actually has this backwards: Conservatives assume that
diligence makes you conservative, not that conservatism makes you diligent. If
you work hard and have a good income, obviously you will come to view the
government as a parasite sucking away your lifeblood and vote Republican. That's not working for conservatives with Asians, nor is it working with
wealthier blacks and Hispanics. Partly that's because conservatives often
 demonstrate hostility  toward non-whites (for example by trying to identify lazy
demographic groups and exclude them from the U.S.). But even if you fixed
conservatives' explicit problems with race, you'd still be left with an implicit
one: "I Built It" conservatism is built on a gut-level resentment of government
that occurs almost entirely among whites. Not every economically successful
person hates the government, and successful minorities are less likely to hate
the government than successful whites. Limbaugh got at this earlier this week when he  complained that  "75 percent of
voting Hispanics believe that prosperity is the job of government." I think he's
referring to  this National Journal survey  from 2011, in which only 25 percent of
Hispanics agreed with the statement "Government is not the solution to our
economic problems; government is the problem." (42 percent of whites liked this
answer.) What appallingly socialist answers did Hispanics prefer? Thirty-four percent
chose "Government should play an active role in the economy to ensure it
benefits people like me, but I am not sure that I can trust government to do
this effectively." A further 37 percent went with "Government must play an
active role in regulating the marketplace and ensuring that the economy benefits
people like me." This kind of neo-Bolshevism was even more popular with blacks
and Asians than with Hispanics. It's true that more immigration will make the U.S. less white, and that non-
whites seem more likely than whites to believe that the government should work
to ensure that the benefits of economic prosperity accrue to the population as a
whole. But instead of trying to slow the decline of America's white majority,
conservatives should respond by coming up with a policy agenda that actually
does promote broad economic prosperity. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  Email  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.)