-- LME’s Only Woman Trader Leaves to Join Hong Kong Exchanges
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-02-01T20:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/lme-s-only-woman-floor-trader-quits-to-join-hong-kong-exchanges.html
Bethan Wilde, the only woman trader
on the floor of the London Metal Exchange, was hired by  Hong
Kong Exchanges (388)  & Clearing Ltd. as senior manager of business
development and strategy.  Wilde, who is moving to  Hong Kong , starts in about a month,
Hong Kong Exchanges said by e-mail yesterday in response to
questions from Bloomberg.  Wilde, 29, trades on the LME floor for London-based Metdist
Trading Ltd. The LME, the world’s largest metals marketplace,
was bought by Hong Kong Exchanges for $2.2 billion last year.
Metdist confirmed she is leaving.  “I would recommend the trading floor as a wonderful place
that I had the privilege to be part of,” Wilde said. “I was
immediately accepted.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Societe Generale SA and Jefferies
Group Inc are among the 11 companies that work on the LME floor,
known as the ring.  London ’s last venue for open-outcry trading
is based on Leadenhall Street in the city’s financial district.
The bourse handled a record 159.7 million contracts in
industrial metals valued at $14.5 trillion last year.  Hong Kong Exchanges agreed to keep the LME’s open-outcry
trading and contract structure and the existing warehousing
system. The bourse is planning to establish LME licensed
warehouses in  China  and to explore adding LME’s products in Hong
Kong, it said in its strategic plan  published  last month.  The Asian bourse also wants to expand the number of LME
participants in mainland China and start commodities trading and
clearing of LME products during Asian hours over the next three
years. Hong Kong Exchanges may add  iron ore , freight, coking
coal and even agricultural products including rubber, Chief
Executive Officer Charles Li said Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  