-- EADS Defense Unit Adds Cyber-Protection Jobs as Weapon Sales Sag
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-02-01T13:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/eads-defense-unit-adds-cyber-protection-jobs-as-weapon-sales-sag.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co.’s defense unit plans to double the number of employees at
its cyber security subsidiary, in a buildup that contrasts with
its weapons business, where dwindling demand is costing jobs.  Cassidian, as the EADS division is called, plans to have
about 700 workers within three years offering data protection
from hacking in areas such as corporate  information technology ,
Chief Executive Officer Bernhard Gerwert told journalists.  “We’ll be able to play a very meaningful role in the cyber
security business in  Europe ,” Gerwert said in Munich yesterday.
“For a couple of years we have expanded into security services
beyond traditional defense areas.”  Gerwert, five months into the job as Cassidian CEO, is
pushing through a second cost-cutting program as European
governments cut military spending and the company failed to win
recent contracts for fighter jets. The company, based near
Munich, plans to lift operating profit to 10 percent of sales by
2015, from 5.7 percent in 2011 by reducing the number of
employees and doing more business abroad.  The Eurofighter consortium, made up of Cassidian,  BAE
Systems Plc. (BA/)  and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , sold 12 Eurofighter Typhoon
to Oman in December, after the company lost out on bigger
competitions in India, Japan and  Switzerland . The plane also
competes in contests in  South Korea , Malaysia, and Saudi Arabia.  Drones  Gerwert said he’ll focus on businesses such as secured
communications, where Cassidian holds a leading position with
Motorola Solutions, Inc., cryptographic solutions, and border
control systems. He plans to offer technology developed to
safeguard parent company EADS to outside clients. Cassidian
generates about 70 million euros ($96 million) with cyber space
technologies today.  Cassidian wants to support efforts by European governments
to purchase armed drones, Gerwert said. The company spent 80
million euros to develop the Talarion drone before it failed to
get government endorsement, and 600 million euros, together with
partners, on its entire range of unmanned air vehicles.  “I assume we’ll see a European-made armed drone in the
medium to long-term,” Gerwert sad. “We are in very intensive
talks with the defense ministries of  Germany ,  France  and other
nations.”  Germany’s military is leasing Heron 1 unarmed drones made
by Israel Aerospace Industries Ltd., and Defence Minister Thomas De Maiziere said today the military must fill a gap in its
arsenal and purchase an armed model jointly developed with
France, independently from suppliers in the U.S. or Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  