-- HEAG Plans More M&A After HSE Deal Tops 2012 Renewables Ranking
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-02-01T09:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/heag-plans-more-m-a-after-hse-deal-tops-2012-renewables-ranking.html
HEAG Holding AG, whose $356 million
buyout of  HEAG Suedhessische Energie AG  was the biggest private-
equity deal in clean energy last year, plans to sell a stake in
the utility as early as 2014 to help fund more purchases.  HEAG may reduce its ownership in HSE to about 60 percent
from 93 percent by selling to local municipalities, financial
investors or strategic investors in the energy or engineering
industries, said management board member Klaus-Michael Ahrend.  The company’s agreement to buy EON AG’s 40 percent stake in
their HSE joint venture topped private-equity deals last year,
beating acquisitions by Banco Votorantim SA, Grupo Oleoplan and
Credit Suisse Group AG, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It helped German investors defy a global slowdown in clean-
energy investment, which slumped to the lowest since 2006 as
companies failed or were sold at a loss.  “Investments in renewable assets are highly profitable in
 Germany  because of the country’s clean-energy feed-in tariff,”
Ahrend said in an interview, referring to the above-market rates
paid to producers of renewable power. “We’ve had inquiries in
the past from large international banks.”  Should it sell a stake in Darmstadt-based HSE, HEAG may use
the cash to cut debt and fund purchases of clean-energy projects
and smaller technology businesses, strengthening its portfolio
of about 160 companies, Ahrend said. HEAG sees growth in onshore
wind and energy-efficiency consulting, where HSE already has
worked with  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s lighting unit Osram, board member
Markus Hoschek said in the same interview.  Energy Shift  Germany is transforming its energy market to more than
triple the share of renewables in the power mix by 2050 while
phasing out nuclear generation. It plans to build offshore wind
farms that could cover an area about six times the size of  New
York City  and raise renewables output to about 40 percent of
electricity production by 2020, from about 25 percent now.  “Investors in Germany, including pension funds that look
for long-term returns, are confident about the market because
you have political security with the energy switch,” Hoschek
said.  HSE, a utility with 2,500 employees and sales of 2.3
billion euros ($3.1 billion) in 2011, has a 25 percent stake in
the 1 billion-euro Global Tech I offshore wind project in the
German North Sea, according to Hoschek.  Global investment in renewable-energy sources fell 11
percent to $268.7 billion last year from a record $302.3 billion
in 2011, according to data from Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  