-- Medicare Overpaid $15 Million for Roche Cancer Drug, OIG Says
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-02-01T14:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/medicare-overpaid-15-million-for-roche-cancer-drug-oig-says.html
Medicare, the U.S. health insurance
program for the elderly and disabled, overpaid for  Roche Holding
AG (ROG) ’s Herceptin breast-cancer treatment by about $15 million,
according to a government investigation.  Health-care providers across the country charged Medicare
for amounts of the drug they didn’t administer to patients,
running afoul of billing guidelines, according to a series of
 reports  issued by the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services’ Office of the Inspector General. The OIG examined
billing records from 2008 through 2010.  Roche sells Herceptin, which garnered 5.89 billion Swiss
francs ($6.5 billion) in sales last year, in 440-milligram
vials. Medicare pays by the 10-milligram dose, which means each
vial holds 44 billable injections. The vials can keep for as
long as 28 days, according to the OIG. Medicare pays only for
the amount of drug used, which is often less than the contents
of the vial, the OIG said.  In 13 reports published since July, the OIG has found a
total of more than $15 million in overpayments to hospitals that
billed Medicare for Herceptin doses that weren’t used. The
overpayments in Medicare jurisdictions comprising  Florida , Iowa,
 Kansas ,  Missouri  and Nebraska often exceeded one-third of the
total amount reviewed by the OIG.  The reports urge the companies hired by Medicare to process
payment claims by providers to take measures to reduce future
overpayment.  “I don’t think we expect a significant change in usage
patterns out there in Herceptin because of this, ” Daniel
O’Day, Roche’s pharmaceutical division chief, said on a Jan. 30
conference call.  A Roche spokesman had no immediate comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  