-- Medical Industry Must Disclose Doctor Payments, U.S. Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-02-01T22:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/medical-industry-must-disclose-doctor-payments-u-s-says.html
Payments from drugmakers and medical
device companies to doctors must be disclosed to the U.S.
government beginning next March under rules issued today.  The 2010 health-care law, the Affordable Care Act, requires
the companies to report their payments to physicians for help
with research, speaking engagements and other activities. The
government will begin disclosing the payments on a public
website by Sept. 30, 2014.  “You should know when your doctor has a financial
relationship with the companies that manufacture or supply the
medicines or medical devices you may need,” Peter Budetti,
deputy administrator for program integrity at the U.S. Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said in a statement.
“Disclosure of these relationships allows patients to have more
informed discussions with their doctors.”  The  rules  for the program have been delayed more than a
year, drawing criticism from congressional proponents of
disclosure. Once the government begins reporting the payments,
patients will for the first time be able to view doctors’
financial links to drugmakers.  The disclosures, to be administered by CMS, include ties
between companies and physicians who advise the  Food and Drug
Administration  when it considers whether to approve new
medicines.  Doctors’ Group  The  American Medical Association , the largest trade group
for doctors in the U.S., had lobbied for some kinds of indirect
payments to physicians to be excluded from disclosure. The
government said it wouldn’t require payments to be reported if
companies don’t know who the money is going to, citing as an
example a payment a  drug company  might make to a consulting firm
which then employs a physician.  Jeremy Lazarus, president of the AMA, said his group would
“carefully review” the rule.  “Our feedback during this rulemaking process was aimed at
ensuring the new registry will provide a meaningful picture of
physician-industry interactions and give physicians an easy way
to correct any inaccuracies,” Lazarus said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  