-- Legg Mason’s Worst Loss Since 2008 Shows CEO’s Challenges
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/legg-mason-s-worst-loss-since-2008-shows-ceo-s-challenges.html
As  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  gets ready to
conclude a four-month search for a new chief executive officer,
the challenges for the firm’s third leader in six years are only
growing bigger.  The money manager yesterday announced its  worst quarter 
since 2008, as five years of redemptions and shrinking assets
forced the Baltimore-based firm to write down the value of some
units. Client withdrawals accelerated in the last three months
of 2012 and aren’t showing signs of abating even as rivals such
as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   said  they’re seeing higher sales in January.
The shares have slumped 80 percent from a 2006 peak and
investment affiliates are pushing for greater control over fund
sales.  “The pool of potential CEOs who can turn around and guide
an institution like that is very, very limited,” said Michael Aronstein, co-founder of New York-based Marketfield Asset
Management, which manages about $6 billion. “It’s not like
running a consumer goods company where there’s a certain
template.”  Attracting talent amid these setbacks won’t be easy for the
firm, which hasn’t been led by an outsider since Raymond A. “Chip” Mason merged his company in 1970 with a regional
brokerage to form Legg Mason. Mason was succeeded by  Mark
Fetting , who previously headed Legg Mason’s mutual fund and
managed-accounts businesses, when he stepped down in 2008.
Fetting announced his departure in September amid pressure from
investor  Nelson Peltz , after failing to reverse redemptions and
revive the stock, which hit a record $136.40 in 2006.  Sullivan Considered  Joseph A. Sullivan, who was named interim CEO in October,
is the only internal candidate among four people being
considered for the role, according to a person familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because the information
isn’t public. A decision may be made in coming weeks, the person
said. Sullivan said yesterday in a  call discussing  Legg Mason’s
earnings that the firm is “nearing the completion” of its
search, and that an announcement is expected soon.  Maria Rosati, a spokeswoman for Legg Mason, declined to
comment.  “Anybody who comes on board can be putting their
reputation and career on the line,” said Adam Shavulsky, a
partner who heads the financial-services practice at executive
search firm  Canny, Bowen Inc.  in New York. “Most CEOs and C-
suite professionals are averse to boarding a sinking ship and
the risks just might be too high for some of the best people out
there.”  Legg Mason yesterday reported a loss of  $453.9 million , or
$3.45 a share, in the three months ended Dec. 31, the biggest
quarterly shortfall since it posted a $1.5 billion loss at the
end of 2008. Earnings were hurt as redemptions and declining
assets forced Legg Mason to write down assets tied to the 2005
takeover of Citigroup Inc.’s asset-management business and to
the firm’s Permal hedge-fund unit.  Assets Fall  Legg Mason has seen assets fall from a peak of $1 trillion
in 2007 to $649 billion at the end of December because of market
losses and investor redemptions. Starting with the fourth
quarter of 2007, the firm has had withdrawals in 20 of the last
21 quarters, most recently suffering redemptions of $7.5 billion
in the quarter ended Dec. 31.  Unlike its competitors such as BlackRock and  T. Rowe Price
Group Inc. (TROW) , Legg Mason hasn’t yet benefited from investors
returning to stocks this year. U.S. stock mutual funds have
attracted net investor deposits for three consecutive weeks,
adding to evidence a rally in stock markets is prompting
individuals to return to the asset class. Sullivan called
January a “mixed month” on the earnings call yesterday with
analysts and investors, and said a couple of institutional
clients had pulled about $1 billion from global equity mandates.  BlackRock’s ETFs  In contrast, BlackRock CEO Laurence D. Fink said there will
be more movement into equities and it’s started to show as
clients pour money into the firm’s iShares equity exchange-
traded funds. At T. Rowe Price, CEO James Kennedy said people
moved back into equities in January.  Legg Mason is also struggling with some of the multiple
investment units it owns. Its affiliates, such as Western Asset
Management Co. and equity managers such as ClearBridge
Investments and Royce & Associates, operate independently and
have separate revenue-sharing agreements.  Western Asset, the bond manager that is Legg Mason’s
biggest investment unit, is seeking more control of its fund
sales by trying to negotiate a move away from the centralized
distribution model in which sales of retail products go through
Legg Mason, a person familiar with the matter said in November.  Western Rebranding  In May, Western said it was removing the Legg Mason name
from its U.S. mutual funds as part of a rebranding to increase
sales to individual investors. ClearBridge, which is Legg
Mason’s largest stock-fund affiliate, said in October it was
dropping the Legg Mason name from its mutual funds as part of a
push to make its brand better known. In January, Legg Mason said
it was folding Miller’s Legg Mason Capital Management division
into ClearBridge as assets tumbled.  During the fourth quarter, Legg Mason completed
restructuring agreements with its hedge-fund unit Permal, which
include a management equity plan, a revised revenue share
agreement and new multi-year employment contracts with key
Permal employees. Sullivan said on yesterday’s call the equity
plan was a good framework for creating stronger alignments with
other affiliates.  “We believe it will be an important part of succession
planning as both the current management team and the next
generation of affiliate leaders, will have longer-term financial
incentives to create and preserve value,” Sullivan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  