-- Egypt’s $1.5 Billion U.S. Aid Questioned Amid Crackdown
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-02-01T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/egypt-s-1-5-billion-u-s-aid-questioned-amid-crackdown.html
U.S. lawmakers are questioning
whether to continue sending $1.5 billion a year in aid to  Egypt ,
setting the stage for cuts or conditions that may weaken
relations, jeopardize Egypt’s peace treaty with  Israel , and hurt
U.S. defense companies.  The political turmoil in Egypt, with the Muslim Brotherhood
coming to power through elections, coincides with intense
pressure on Congress to cut federal spending. While Egyptian aid
is tiny relative to the  budget deficit , foreign aid has never
been popular with lawmakers since polls show that voters favor
cutting what they think is a costly program.  “It is becoming increasingly difficult to make the case
for assistance to the Egyptian government,” said Senator
Patrick Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who heads the subcommittee
that oversees spending on foreign operations.  The issue is gaining attention as Egyptian President
Mohamed Mursi has sought to quell protests with force, following
other moves that raised U.S. concerns -- his anti-Semitic
comments, opposition to Western intervention in  Mali , and
temporarily asserting broad governing powers. Still, reducing or
threatening to reduce aid may not encourage Mursi to moderate
and could backfire, said analysts such as David Schenker of the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy.  U.S. aid has been a key lever of influence with Egypt for
decades, helping solidify relations with its military
leadership, connect with the Egyptian public through development
projects, and maintain preferential Suez Canal transit for
American warships. Egypt regarded aid as part of the deal when
it made peace with Israel through the U.S.-brokered 1978 Camp
David agreement.  ‘Strings Attached’  Congress will have to examine the enormous changes in Egypt
as lawmakers set aid levels for the next fiscal year, said
Representative Frank Wolf, a  Virginia  Republican on the House
Appropriations Committee. At the very least, he said, it’s clear
that tougher standards will have to be applied to any U.S. funds
for Egypt.  “At a minimum, we need to have strings attached,” Wolf
said.  Referring to the Islamist political party Mursi helped lead
before he ran for president, Wolf added: “This is a Muslim
Brotherhood government. These are not democratic reformers.”  More than 50 people have been killed in demonstrations that
broke out in Egypt on Jan. 25, two years to the day after
protests began that led to the downfall of  then-President  Hosni Mubarak .  The Obama administration expressed some ambivalence about
Mursi as the violence spread.  ‘Jury’s Out’  “The jury’s out,” outgoing Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Jan. 29 on Fox News. “I’ve been around long
enough, so it’s not what somebody says; it’s what they do. And
some of what he’s done we have approved of and supported; and
some of what he’s done, like abrogating a lot of power unto
himself personally, reinstating emergency law provisions that
had been a hallmark of the Mubarak regime, are very troubling.”  Egypt this year receives $250 million in economic
assistance and $1.3 billion in military aid. Even before the
recent unrest, U.S. lawmakers have shown some reluctance to
provide funds to Egypt without imposing conditions.  In a measure approved by the House appropriations panel
last year, the secretary of state would be required to provide
reports about how Egypt’s aid is being used and on human rights
compliance. Senate legislation sponsored by Leahy required the
administration to certify that Egypt’s government was promoting
freedoms and rights before aid could be released.  Aid Released  A provision of Leahy’s bill allowed Clinton to waive that
requirement on national-security grounds, which she did in March
to release the aid. That action avoided a U.S. election-year
disruption in arms sales that might have cost thousands of
American jobs and as much as $2 billion in contracting penalties
for the U.S. government.  Any new U.S. threat to cut aid may be undermined by changes
in Egypt since Mubarak was ousted in February 2011, said  Khaled
Elgindy , a fellow at the Brookings Institution, a Washington
policy group.  He said that Congress also threatened Mubarak with aid
cuts. The difference now is that Mursi isn’t the nation’s
commander-in-chief as Mubarak was, Elgindy said, so cutting
military aid wouldn’t necessarily punish the government
leadership.  Military Establishment  The military “has come to some sort of relationship with
the Brotherhood, but it’s exempt from scrutiny and not under
Brotherhood control,” said Elgindy. “These are two different
entities and relationships. Mursi doesn’t have total control
over the military establishment, and at the same time the
military establishment is not the one that is violating the
people’s rights on the ground.”  Schenker of the Washington Institute agreed that aid cuts
are “not an arrow we have in our quiver to try to dissuade this
government in Egypt from making bad decisions.”  Further, cutting military aid would have U.S. domestic
consequences. Egypt’s $1.3 billion in annual in U.S. military
aid must be spent on American goods.  The Egyptian military uses those funds to buy from
companies such as  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  of Falls Church,
Virginia, which makes M1A1 tanks that are assembled outside
Cairo, and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  of Bethesda,  Maryland , which
builds F-16 fighter jets.  Under the financing agreement with Egypt, the U.S.
government would be required to pay contractors’ termination
fees for canceled contracts. Cutting military aid to Egypt would
hurt U.S. companies and taxpayers, Schenker said.  Serious Look  “You have taxpayers on the hook for contracts we cancel,
if we wanted to stop those F-16s,” he said.  Instead, Congress should re-examine the way aid to Egypt is
structured, Schenker said. “We have to take a serious look at
how the U.S. foreign assistance to Egypt is administered,” he
said. “Even if we modify that today, it will take years.”  Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican and a
member of the House Appropriations Committee, suggested shifting
some of the military aid to economic aid.  “A good case can be made that some of this should be
redirected to economic aid,” Cole said in an interview. “The
problems with the domestic economy there is creating some of the
tensions we see right now. Tourism, for instance, has taken a
terrific beating.”  Egypt’s  unemployment  rate is projected to hit 14 percent
this year from about 9 percent in 2010, and credit risk is
rising, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central
bank kept interest rates on hold yesterday despite the country’s
weakening currency.  Egypt’s Help  Cole said he appreciates that Egypt has done things in
return for U.S. aid -- such as permitting American warships to
go “to the front of the line” in the Suez Canal and
cooperating on intelligence matters. Cole said Mursi also helped
negotiate a resolution of Israel’s November military operation
in the Gaza Strip, which was launched in response to Palestinian
rocket fire.  Even so, the Egyptian leader’s rhetoric on Israel and his
government’s anti-democratic steps warrant increased conditions
on aid, he said.  While foreign assistance is less than 1 percent of the U.S.
 federal budget , the American public’s concern about domestic
programs being cut is another factor, he said.  “I’m sorry, we have a political reality in this country,
just like they have in other countries,” Cole said.  Religious Freedom  Religious freedom should be a factor in any conditions,
said Cole, citing violence and discrimination against Copts,
Egypt’s native Christians.  Wolf recently met with young bloggers from Cairo and would
like to see freedom of expression added to the list.  “There’s reason to both question the level of aid to
Egypt, and to put some restraint on there,” Cole said.  “We need assurances that the American Embassy is going to
be protected and that American nationals aren’t going to be
unnecessarily harassed,” Cole said. “I want to work with the
Egyptians, but I don’t think carte blanche on aid is the
appropriate policy given some of the developments in the last
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  