-- EIA Says Data Monitored to Ensure Fair Distribution
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-02-01T19:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/eia-says-data-monitored-to-ensure-fair-distribution.html
The U.S. Energy Information
Administration, responding to concern natural gas speculators
jumped the gun on market-moving data yesterday, said today that
it monitors its data releases closely to ensure the information
is distributed fairly.  The statement from the EIA comes after analysis company
Nanex LLC released a series of  charts  showing a spike in volume
yesterday for an exchange-traded fund that tracks gas futures.
The activity occurred before the EIA’s weekly report on
inventories of the fuel was released at 10:30 a.m. in
 Washington , suggesting the data was leaked, Nanex said.  “EIA is committed to providing fair access to the
information disseminated through EIA’s website,”  Jonathan Cogan , a spokesman for the Energy Information Administration in
Washington, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Computerized strategies in stocks and derivatives have come
under scrutiny after a series of market structure breakdowns in
past years. While yesterday’s moves occurred at speeds reachable
only through automated software, the volatility isn’t proof that
laws or regulations were broken, said Stephen Schork, president
of Villanova, Pennsylvania consulting firm Schork Group Inc.  “Is this a leak or is it just itchy fingers by the algo
traders?” said Schork, who said he observed a bigger swing in
volume last week. “I’m more in the camp that this is just a lot
of money being tossed around to try to influence the market.”  Data Release  The EIA’s weekly natural gas storage report typically is
published at the same time each Thursday on the agency’s
 website.  The data, which shows how much U.S. gas stockpiles
increased or decreased over the previous week, is closely
watched by energy traders and can spark dramatic price moves.  Almost 400,000 shares of the  U.S. Natural Gas Fund ETF (UNG) 
changed hands between 10:29 and 10:30 a.m., when its price fell
from a high of $18.73 to $18.46, a drop of 1.4 percent. The fund
tracks gas futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Volume in the UNG ETF was about 13,000 shares in the
previous minute and ballooned to more than 1 million shares in
the 60 seconds after the data was released.  Front-month natural gas futures fluctuated in the second
before the EIA release, dropping as much as 4 cents to $3.286
per million British thermal units from $3.326. Prices then slid
to a low of $3.243 after the report before closing 0.4 cent
higher on the day at $3.339.  Nanex Responds  Analysts who say the activity before 10:30 a.m. doesn’t
signal a data leak aren’t examining the charts closely enough,
Eric Scott Hunsader, the founder of Nanex, said in a phone
interview from  Chicago .  “People who make those kinds of trades without any news
usually aren’t around very long because they’ve lost money off a
stupid trade,” Hunsader said. “This was a trade on many
different exchanges, clearly trying to impact the market as
quickly as possible.”  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates
futures and options markets, “regularly monitors trading
activity on commodities,”  Steven Adamske , a spokesman for the
commission in Washington, said in an e-mail. Adamske declined to
comment on whether the CFTC was investigating gas trading
specifically.  Damon Leavell, a spokesman for CME Group Inc., which owns
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  