-- Electrolux Profit Misses Estimates, Weighed Down by Europe Slide
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-02-01T07:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/electrolux-profit-misses-estimates-weighed-down-by-europe-slide.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-
biggest appliance maker, reported lower-than-estimated earnings
after recovering North American markets and expansion in Latin
America failed to counter a consumer slump in  Europe .  Net income rose 32 percent to 291 million kronor ($46
million) in the fourth quarter, the Stockholm-based company said
in a  statement  today. That missed the average 368 million-krona
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The maker of  Frigidaire  refrigerators and  AEG vacuum
cleaners  has suffered from a decline in  consumer confidence  in
mature countries, leading it to push for higher prices in North
America and Europe, expand in emerging markets and add new
products. That helped the company boost existing sales by a
record 7.5 percent. Electrolux is also closing or cutting back
production at some plants.  “Operations in North America and Latin America, which
currently account for 50 percent of total sales, showed strong
sales and earnings growth, primarily attributable to a continued
positive volume trend and improvements in price/mix,” Chief
Executive Officer Keith McLoughlin said in today’s statement.
“In 2013, we believe that the weak market in Europe will be
offset by growth in North America and the  emerging markets .”  Sales rose 2.9 percent to 29.2 billion kronor, driven by a
15 percent increase in sales of major appliances in North
America, beating an average analyst estimate of 28.5 billion
kronor.  Demand for core appliances in North America is likely to
increase this year, contrasting with an expected decline in
Europe, Electrolux said. The Swedish company proposed to pay a
dividend to its shareholders of 6.5 kronor per share for 2012,
unchanged from a year earlier.  Electrolux said in October it will close production of top-
load washing machines in Revin,  France . The company will also
cut back operations at a refrigerator plant in Mariestad,
 Sweden , and a cooking products site in  Schwanden, Switzerland .
The actions are part of a plan announced last year to move more
production to low-cost, high-growth countries. Electrolux has
about 50 plants globally.  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s largest appliance maker,
reported higher than estimated fourth-quarter earnings
yesterday, helped by cost cuts and a reduction in capacity.
Sales dropped 2.4 percent to $4.8 billion.  Electrolux shares  surged  55 percent in 2012, while Sweden’s
OMX Stockholm 30 benchmark index gained 12 percent and Whirlpool
more than doubled in value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  