-- TeliaSonera Chief Nyberg Quits After Uzbek Bribery Report
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-02-01T15:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/teliasonera-chief-nyberg-quits-before-contract-runs-out.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  Chief Executive
Officer Lars Nyberg resigned today after a law firm hired to
investigate graft accusations said the carrier should have been
more careful when it bought an Uzbeki phone license in 2007.  The company named Chief Financial Officer Per-Arne Blomquist acting CEO. Swedish prosecutors opened an
investigation last year into whether TeliaSonera knew, or should
have known, when it bought the license from Takilant Ltd. that
the money went to President Islam Karimov’s family. Law firm
Mannheimer Swartling faulted the lack of adequate internal
controls against corruption, while saying it found no evidence
of bribery or money laundering.  “The criticism in the report is very serious and reflects
the fact that we haven’t followed our own guidelines,”
TeliaSonera Chairman Anders Narvinger said at a press conference
today. It’s “quite clear that the local partner should have
been investigated more thoroughly.”  TeliaSonera, which is almost 40 percent owned by  Sweden ’s
government, has denied it broke any laws. The country’s largest
telephone operator is in the middle of a management overhaul
that will see Narvinger step down on April 3. Nyberg was hired
in July 2007 to replace Anders Igel due to slumping profits.  Board Representative  The Swedish state “has been too far away from this company
for a pretty long time and we’ve now changed that,” Financial
Markets Minister Peter Norman told reporters after meeting
Narvinger this afternoon. “We’re now close to the company and
we will continue to be that,” he said, adding that he didn’t
exclude appointing a representative to the board, which the
government currently doesn’t have.  Shares in the Stockholm-based operator fell 2.2 percent at
4:12 p.m. to 44.89 kronor.  Narvinger said the company doesn’t see any changes in the
carrier’s business in Uzbekistan and that he regretted Nyberg’s
decision to resign.  Nyberg said that when the board received the Mannheimer
Swartling report yesterday, he was told that there would be
significant changes to the composition of the board.  “To continue as chief executive I need a functioning board
and their explicit support,” he said in a statement. “I was
informed that as a result of the pending changes to the board
they were not prepared to express that support.”  TeliaSonera bought Uzbeki mobile operator Ucell, a small
company with half a million subscribers. At the time of
purchase, it agreed to buy a third-generation operating license
and frequencies from Takilant for $30 million, as well as the
Gibraltar-based company’s 26 percent stake in Ucell, as a
“prerequisite” for entering the market, according to
TeliaSonera’s website.  President’s Daughter  The 2007 deal was signed with Takilant’s only registered
director, Gayane Avakyan, TeliaSonera said, adding it believed a
group of unknown businessmen were supporting Avakyan. There was
speculation the president’s daughter, Gulnara Karimova, may have
been part of that group, according to the website report.  “If one carries out business in a corrupt country, one
should quite simply be more thorough than TeliaSonera has
been,” said Bioern Riese, a Mannheimer Swartling lawyer, adding
the Swedish company didn’t follow its own guidelines completely
in the deal.  Nyberg said the money was paid to an account owned by
Takilant, which owned the assets. Takilant existed for years
before the deal and still exists, he said.  A Swedish district court agreed this month to freeze as
much as 1.8 billion kronor ($286 million) of Takilant’s money,
saying there is reason to believe it had accepted bribes in
return for the operating permit. The court gave prosecutors
until Feb. 8 to bring charges against Takilant’s
representatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  