-- TeliaSonera Not Found to Have Bribed in Uzbek Deal, Review Shows
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-02-01T09:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/teliasonera-not-found-to-have-bribed-in-uzbek-deal-review-shows.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  should have been more
careful when it bought an Uzbek phone license in 2007, although
there isn’t evidence that bribery or money laundering occurred,
according to a law firm hired to investigate accusations of
graft.  “If one carries out business in a corrupt country, one
should quite simply be more thorough than TeliaSonera has
been,” said Bioern Riese, a lawyer at Mannheimer Swartling, the
firm probing the deal, adding the Swedish company didn’t follow
its own guidelines completely in the deal.  Swedish prosecutors opened an investigation last year into
whether the country’s largest operator knew, or should have
known, when it bought an Uzbeki phone license from Takilant Ltd
in 2007 that the money was a bribe to President Islam Karimov’s
family. Two TeliaSonera employees have been notified by the
prosecutors that they’re under suspicion for their roles in the
matter.  The Stockholm-based carrier, which is almost 40 percent
owned by the Swedish government, has denied it broke any laws
and said in a statement today “it is evident that a more
stringent investigation of the counterparties should have been
conducted.”  TeliaSonera bought Uzbeki mobile operator Ucell, a small
operator with half a million subscribers. At the time of
purchase, it agreed to buy a third-generation operating license
and frequencies from Takilant for $30 million, as well as the
Gibraltar-based company’s 26 percent stake in Ucell, as a
“prerequisite” for entering the market, according to
TeliaSonera’s website.  The 2007 deal was signed with Takilant’s only registered
director, Gayane Avakyan, TeliaSonera said, adding it believed a
group of unknown businessmen were supporting Avakyan. There was
speculation the president’s daughter, Gulnara Karimova, may have
been part of that group, according to the website report.  Chief Executive Officer Lars Nyberg said the money was paid
to an account owned by Takilant, which owned the assets.
Takilant existed for years before the deal and still exists, he
said.  A Swedish district court agreed this month to freeze as
much as 1.8 billion kronor ($286 million) of Takilant’s money,
saying there is reason to believe it had accepted bribes in
return for the operating permit. The court gave prosecutors
until Feb. 8 to bring charges against Takilant’s
representatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  