-- Temasek Says Chia Takes Over From Tan as Head of Investment
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-02-01T06:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/temasek-says-chia-to-take-over-from-tan-as-head-of-investment.html
Temasek Holdings Pte said Chia Song Hwee replaces Tan Chong Lee as head of the investment unit as
the Singapore state-owned asset manager reshuffles senior
management positions.  Effective today, Chia becomes head of the investment group
in a change of title, while Tan, who was chief investment
officer, assumes the role of head of portfolio and strategy
group as well as head of portfolio management and head of
strategy, according to  changes on Temasek’s website .  The appointments take effect more than three years after
the city-state’s asset manager parted ways with former  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  head Charles “Chip” Goodyear, who was going to
replace  Ho Ching  as CEO, because of differences. Temasek’s
assets rose 2.6 percent to a record S$198 billion ($160 billion)
in the fiscal year to March 31, 2012.  “This is a strategic reshuffle,” said Eugene Tan,
assistant law professor at Singapore Management University, in a
telephone interview. “They are rotating desks so that members
of senior management get a broader understanding of Temasek’s
business.”  More Appointments  David Heng took over the role as head of Southeast Asia
from Lee Theng Kiat, according to Temasek’s website. Nagi Hamiyeh replaced Goh Yong Siang, who retired, as the head of
 Australia  and New Zealand. Leong Wai Leng assumed the position
of head of the corporate development group while keeping the
role as chief financial officer.  Temasek also named Ravi Lambah as a new member to the
management team, according to today’s statement. He serves as
senior managing director of investment and co-head of the India
and Southeast Asia units.  Boon Sim, who joined Temasek last year, kept his role as
president, while assuming the position as head of the markets
group.  “The organization changes are part and parcel of Temasek’s
continuing efforts to reshape the institution and rotate its
staff through various responsibilities to further expand and
deepen its capacity and capabilities, and build Temasek for the
future,”  Stephen Forshaw , managing director of corporate
affairs said in an e-mailed statement.  The company employed 30 managing directors and four senior
managing directors as of April 1, 2012, according to its latest
annual review released in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  