-- Emerging Market Bonds Post Biggest Weekly Slump Since May
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-01T23:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/emerging-market-bonds-head-for-biggest-weekly-slump-since-may.html
Emerging-market bonds posted their
biggest weekly  retreat  in eight months as investors shift assets
into equities on prospects higher corporate earnings will
bolster stocks.  Developing-nation bonds sank 1.4 percent this week, the
biggest slide since the five days ended May 18, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index. The gauge
of dollar-denominated debt slipped 0.1 percent to 676.42 in  New
York . The  extra yield  over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries
widened 19 basis points this week, the most since June, to 265
basis points, or 2.65 percentage points.  About a sixth of the 642 largest developing-nation
companies have  reported  fourth-quarter earnings and have posted
an average sales growth of 256 percent, while net income
improved by 354 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Many people are in emerging market bonds for the yields,
and now the yield story isn’t so attractive and the risk story
is beginning to suggest you shouldn’t be there,” Jeremy Brewin,
who oversees $5 billion as head of emerging market fixed income
at Aviva Investors Ltd. in  London , said today by phone. “The
return expectations on equities, given most people’s forecasts
for earnings over the next business cycle, are somewhat higher
than Treasury yields and are also higher than the returns on
emerging-market hard currency debt.”  Equity funds lured six times the money that went into bonds
worldwide in the week ended Jan. 30, according to a Citigroup
Inc. report that cited EPFR Global data. In  emerging markets ,
total fund inflows slipped to $3.6 billion from $4 billion the
previous week, Citigroup said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  