-- Emerging Stocks Rally on Fed Outlook as Volatility Drops
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-02-01T22:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/emerging-stock-volatility-falls-to-lowest-since-1997-banks-rise.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, capping
a 0.4 percent weekly advance, as an increase in the U.S. jobless
rate boosted prospects the  Federal Reserve  will continue
stimulus that has stoked investment in developing nations.  Energias do Brasil SA drove a 0.8 percent jump in emerging
utility stocks.  PT Bank Negara Indonesia (BBNI)  surged the most in two
years after PT Bank Rakyat  Indonesia  posted its largest annual
profit since at least 2000. Russia’s OAO Rosneft dropped after
earnings trailed estimates, while  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s third-
biggest mining company, rose to a three-week high in Sao Paulo
after posting better-than-expected iron-ore output. Emerging-
market bonds posted their biggest slump since May.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index climbed 0.4 percent to
1,072.82 in  New York , after data showed the U.S. added jobs in
January, while the  unemployment rate  rose. The gauge’s 100-day
 volatility  dropped to 9.1, the lowest level since August 1997.
The Federal Reserve held  interest rates  near zero this week and
said that it will continue bond buying that has helped drive the
developing-nation index up 22 percent from a June low.  “Levels of volatility are very, very low everywhere as
central banks, through interventions and loose monetary policy,
move much of the price of crisis out of the markets,” Martial Godet, head of emerging-market strategy at BNP Paribas SA, said
by phone from London. The increase in the U.S. jobless rate
means we’re moving away “from the moment when the stimulus for
the economy would be removed, so overall it’s better.”  ETF Jumps  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)   exchange-traded
fund , the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, rallied 0.7
percent to $44.51, extending its climb in the week to 0.8
percent. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 5.7 percent to 18.14.  Payrolls rose 157,000 in January, following a revised
196,000 increase in December and a 247,000 surge in November,
according to U.S. Labor Department figures released today. The
jobless rate climbed to 7.9 percent last month, from 7.8
percent. U.S. manufacturing expanded more than forecast in
January, while confidence among American households unexpectedly
rose last month. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 1
percent.  The Fed said Jan. 30 that it will maintain bond purchases
at $85 billion a month to bolster the  U.S. economy , which grew
at the slowest pace in the fourth quarter since in contracted in
2009. The U.S. benchmark rate was held at between zero and 0.25
percent, and compares with Brazil’s 7.25 percent key rate,
 India ’s 7.75 percent and China’s 3 percent deposit rate.  Bovespa Advances  The MSCI emerging-market index’s historical volatility
dropped to levels last seen before the 1997 Asian financial
crisis sparked a collapse in regional currencies and led to
International Monetary Fund bailouts of countries including
South Korea.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index climbed for a second day, adding 1
percent to reduce its 1.3 percent weekly decline. Sao Paulo-
based power producer EDP jumped 2.4 percent.  Preferred shares of Cemig, the nation’s second-biggest
utility by market value, rose for the first time in eight days,
rallying 1.9 percent. The company’s Jaguara hydroelectric plant
license will probably be auctioned off in the first half,
Miranda Farias, director of electricity planning at the
government’s energy planning and research agency, said
yesterday.  Vale added 1.3 percent after saying that fourth-quarter
output rose 3.1 percent from a year earlier, beating the average
of six analysts’ estimates.  Mexico’s  IPC Index (MEXBOL)  rallied 1.1 percent. A blast at the
headquarters of state-owned oil company  Petroleos Mexicanos 
killed at least 26 people and injured 101.  China ADRs  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. advanced 0.8 percent to 101, bringing
its gain in the week to 1.4 percent. American depositary
receipts of travel agency  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  jumped
3.2 percent after posting fourth-quarter net income that beat
analysts’ estimates and saying margins will probably stay at a
similar level in the first quarter of 2013.  The Shanghai Composite Index rallied 1.4 percent, capping a
5.6 percent weekly advance, as two purchasing managers’ indexes
indicated China’s manufacturing expanded in January. Benchmark
indexes in Indonesia and the  Philippines (PSE)  rose to records.
Thailand’s SET Index climbed 1.7 percent to the highest level
since November 1994.  Rosneft Retreats  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  ended the day little changed, after
earlier slipping as much as 0.2 percent. Rosneft, Russia’s
biggest oil producer, sank 1.7 percent to the lowest level since
Jan. 17 after reporting fourth-quarter net income fell 69
percent to 57 billion rubles ($1.9 billion) versus the median
analysts estimate of 77.2 billion rubles. Novorossiysk, Russia’s
largest Black Sea port, surged 4.2 percent.  Istanbul’s ISE National 100 Index gained 1.8 percent.
Benchmark indexes in India and  South Korea  declined.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index of
emerging-market dollar-denominated debt sank 0.1 percent today,
extending the weekly slide to 1.4 percent, the most since the
week ended May 18.  The Polish zloty strengthened 0.7 percent against the euro,
while Russia’s ruble jumped 0.6 percent versus the dollar. South
Korea’s won completed its biggest weekly loss since May on
concern a weakening yen will hurt the nation’s exports.  Fund Inflows  Funds focused on emerging markets lured $3.6 billion in the
week to Jan. 30, down from the previous period’s $4 billion of
inflows, Markus Rosgen and Yue Hin Pong, analysts at  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , wrote in a report today. Global stock funds received $18.8
billion, exceeding the $3 billion that went into bonds, the
analysts wrote, citing data from research firm EPFR Global.  The MSCI emerging-market equities gauge weekly jump trailed
the 0.8 percent advance in the MSCI World Index. The developing-
nations measure trades for 11 times company earnings, while the
MSCI World, which tracks developed markets, has a valuation of
13.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  fell 5.5 percent in Mumbai,
extending four days of declines after reporting its local sales
in January fell dropped 30 percent. The company’s ADRs traded in
New York rose for the first time in four days, adding 0.8
percent.  Won Sinks  South Korea’s won slipped 0.8 percent against the dollar as
Deputy Knowledge Economy Minister Han Jin Hyun said that a weak
yen will affect the country’s exports “after some delay.” A
global currency war seems to be breaking out as monetary easing
in Japan drags the yen lower, Ha Sung Keun, a Bank of Korea
board member, said Jan. 28 in Seoul.  Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co Ltd. (034020)  slumped 8.1
percent, the biggest drop in the emerging-markets index. The
South Korean company is considering selling new shares, Korea
Economic Daily reported, citing unidentified investment banking
officials.  Bank Negara  jumped 8.3 percent to lead gains among
financial companies.  Bank Rakyat (BBRI) , Indonesia’s second-largest
lender by assets, added 0.6 percent to a two-week high after
reporting 2012 net income of 18.5 trillion rupiah ($1.9
billion), which beat the 17.08 trillion-rupiah median estimate
of analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Bank of the Philippine
Islands  gained the most in a week on record earnings.  Globe Telecom Inc. (GLO)  surged more than 10 percent in Manila,
the most in almost two years and the biggest gain on the MSCI
emerging index. A 7.4 percent slump yesterday dragged its
 valuation  to a three-week low of 13.2 times estimated profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  