-- Templeton Says U.S., Japan Debt ‘Bad Value’
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-02-01T06:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/templeton-says-u-s-japan-debt-bad-value-.html
Franklin Templeton Investments said
the debt of countries including the U.S. and Japan is expensive
as their central banks implement easing measures that tend to
drive down their yields and currencies.  Templeton, which manages $782 billion in assets, sees
Italian debt as a viable alternative to U.K. gilts and German
bunds, whose yields dropped to all-time lows last year,
according to John Beck, the London-based co-director of global
fixed income. Among Asian nations, notes of  Singapore  and
 Malaysia  offer opportunities for yield, said Beck.  “The bond markets of countries whose central banks are
trying to debase their currencies are pretty bad value,” Beck
said in an interview in Singapore yesterday. “People are paying
too much for so-called security.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled this week
that he isn’t close to easing up on buying $85 billion in
securities a month to cut the U.S. unemployment rate of 7.8
percent, helping extend the U.S. dollar’s 2012 decline versus
its major peers. His Japanese counterpart Masaaki Shirakawa
announced on Jan. 22 open-ended asset purchases beginning next
year, contributing to a 6.9 percent one-month loss for the yen,
the biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields were at 2 percent as of 6:05
a.m. in  London , down from the 2012 peak of 2.4 percent reached
in March. The rate on similar-maturity  Japanese government bonds 
fell 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, in the past 12
months to 0.77 percent, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Substantial Headwinds’  Minutes of last month’s Bank of England meeting released on
Jan. 23 showed officials voted 8-1 to hold their bond-buying
plan at 375 billion pounds ($595 billion), citing “substantial
headwinds to recovery.”  The U.K.’s  10-year yield  closed two basis points lower
yesterday at 2.1 percent, after declining to a record 1.407
percent in July. Its German counterpart was at 1.68 percent,
about half a percentage point from the historic low of 1.127
percent reached in June.  Borrowing levels in major developed nations also pose a
“long-term problem,” Beck said. The  International Monetary
Fund  estimates  Japan ’s net government debt will climb to 145
percent of its gross domestic product this year, almost twice
the amount seen in 2006. That of the U.S. and the U.K. will both
comprise 88 percent of their respective economies, according to
the Washington-based lender.  “In  Europe ,  Italy  is riskier because it has high debt-to-
GDP,” Beck said. “But in the middle of last year, investors
received yield to compensate for that risk. Spreads have
normalized a bit now, but it still offers good value.”  Narrowing Spread  Italy’s  10-year notes  offered as much as 462 basis points
over similar-maturity German bunds in July last year, when the
nation’s credit rating was lowered two levels to Baa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service. The gap between the two has since narrowed
and reached 181 basis points on Jan. 29, the least in almost 1
1/2 years. The nation’s debt-to-GDP ratio will be at 104 percent
this year, IMF estimates showed.  Beck also favors higher-yielding assets from Singapore and
Malaysia. The rate on 10-year securities of the city state,
which is one of only eight nations with the top score and a
“stable” outlook from all three main credit assessors, climbed
on Jan. 30 to 71 basis points over its Japanese counterparts.
That’s the highest since September.  As of yesterday, the  gap  between Malaysia’s benchmark 10-
year debt and equivalent Japanese  government bonds  was at 278
basis points, the widest in six weeks.  Beck’s $38.9 million  Templeton Global Aggregate Bond Fund (FTAAMDU) ,
which he manages together with David Zahn, has 30 percent of its
assets in the U.S., followed by 9.9 percent in the U.K. It
climbed 7.2 percent in the past year, beating 48 percent of its
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  