-- EnCap Exceeds Target With $5 Billion for Energy Fund
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-02-01T18:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/encap-exceeds-target-with-5-billion-for-energy-fund.html
EnCap Investments LP, the private-
equity firm that has backed about 200 energy companies since
1988, raised $5 billion for its latest fund, exceeding its
target of $4.25 billion.  EnCap Energy Capital Fund IX LP started marketing in
September and has committed $350 million to three companies,
said  David Miller , a managing partner and co-founder at the
firm. The fund will invest in so-called upstream companies, or
those focusing on oil and gas exploration and production.  “There’s growing institutional interest in energy and
specifically in oil and gas,” Miller said in a telephone
interview. “This fundraise was certainly shorter than prior
funds. That’s largely driven by the performance in this space.”  Private-equity firms are amassing cash to take advantage of
investment opportunities arising from strong energy demand.
Riverstone Holdings LLC and First Reserve Corp. are both seeking
$6 billion for new funds, and Riverstone has increased the
amount it can gather to $7.5 billion.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the
largest manager of alternative assets such as private equity and
credit, raised $2.5 billion for its debut energy fund in
September.  EnCap, which has offices in Houston and Dallas, gathered
$3.5 billion in January 2011 for its previous fund. The pool was
generating an internal rate of return of 79 percent as of March
31, 2012, according to  data  from the California State Teachers’
Retirement System, an investor in the fund.  “Energy, and particularly carbon-related energy, is the
single most attractive global area in which to invest today,”
 David Rubenstein , co-chief executive officer of  Carlyle Group
LP (CG) , which raised $1.4 billion last year for energy credit
investments, said on a December conference call. “There is a
revolution going on in the U.S. and a need for energy around the
world as economies in the  emerging markets  grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  