-- Energy Chief Defends U.S. Green-Energy Loans in Resignation
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-02-01T19:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/energy-secretary-chu-to-quit-cabinet-after-successor-confirmed.html
Energy Secretary Steven Chu, whose
tenure was marked by questions about a troubled green-energy
program, said in a letter to department employees today that he
plans to step down and return to  California  and academics.  Chu was criticized by Republicans for supporting Solyndra
LLC, a solar-panel maker that received a $535 million loan
guarantee and went bankrupt two years later. He defended his
support for clean energy in the message, which exceeds 50
paragraphs in length.  “In the scientific world, people are judged by the content
of their ideas,” Chu wrote. “Advances are made with new
insights, but the final arbitrator of any point of view are
experiments that seek the unbiased truth, not information
cherrypicked to support a particular point of view. The power of
our work is derived from this foundation.”  Chu, 64, was a career scientist and co-winner of the  Nobel
Prize  for physics when he joined the Cabinet in January 2009. He
led a team of scientists who studied ways to cap BP Plc’s
Macondo well, which gushed crude oil into the  Gulf of Mexico  for
87 days in 2010.  “As a Nobel Prize-winning scientist, Steve brought to the
Energy Department a  unique understanding of both the urgent
challenge presented by  climate change  and the tremendous
opportunity that clean energy represents for our economy,”
President  Barack Obama  said in a statement.  Possible Successors  Possible successors to Chu include former Senator  Byron Dorgan , a North Dakota Democrat; former Democratic governors
Jennifer Granholm of  Michigan  and Chet Culver of Iowa; and
Ernest Moniz, a physics professor at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology , according to published reports.  Chu also directed the allocation of about $35 billion in
stimulus spending for clean-energy programs -- an amount that
exceeded the department’s annual budget. That money included the
loans paid to Solyndra.  “Secretary Chu has led the Energy Department at a time
when our nation made the single largest investment ever in clean
energy and doubled our use of renewables,” said Gene Karpinski,
president of the  League of Conservation Voters , a Washington-
based environmental group. “He has proven himself to be one of
the world’s greatest scientists and an ally in the fight against
climate change.”  Chu said he plans to stay on as secretary beyond an
advanced energy research summit scheduled later this month, and
may stay until a successor is confirmed.  “I would like to return to an academic life of teaching
and research, but will still work to advance the missions that
we have been working on together for the last four years,” Chu
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  