-- Theolia CEO Vows to Boost Wind Sales at Debt-Strapped Breeze Two
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-02-01T12:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/theolia-ceo-vows-to-boost-wind-sales-at-debt-strapped-breeze-two.html
Theolia SA, the French wind-power
developer that agreed to buy Breeze Two Energy GmbH & Co. this
week, said it will increase sales at the German company in a bid
to reassure bondholders after debt payments were deferred.  “I want Breeze Two to be able to meet its requirements and
its commitments,” Fady Khallouf, chief executive officer of
Aix-en-Provence-based Theolia, said by phone. Theolia will seek
to increase cash flows from Breeze’s wind farms in France and
 Germany  while cutting its costs, he said.  The CEO’s remarks are aimed at buoying investor confidence
in Breeze after lower-than-expected wind output prompted it to
defer interest payments on part of a 470 million-euro ($642
million) bond offering. Theolia, which averted its own
bankruptcy in 2010 amid a funding shortage, is seeking to boost
electricity sales from wind parks to curb debt and boost cash.  “We have a good profitability keeping these assets over
the long term, because we are taking advantage of recurrent
revenues with good margins,” Khallouf said yesterday from
Paris. The Breeze deal doubles Theolia’s installed capacity to
634 megawatts and will increase sales to 100 million euros a
year from 67.5 million euros in 2011, according to the company.  Breeze Two, owned by Luxembourg-registered Monument Trust
Ltd., financed its wind parks using proceeds from 470 million
euros of bonds issued by CRC Breeze Finance SA in 2006: 300
million euros of Class A notes, 50 million euros Class B and 120
million euros Class C.  Enterprise Value  As part of the transaction to take control of Breeze,
Theolia paid 35.5 million euros for 70 percent of the Class C
notes. The deal “reflected” Breeze Two’s 309 million-euro
enterprise value, Theolia said. Khallouf declined to give more
details on the transaction.  Principal payments on the Class B notes have been deferred
since the April 2009 payment date, according to Standard &
Poor’s Financial Services LLC. The New York-based ratings
company revised its outlook on the A and B notes to stable from
negative on Dec. 5 saying wind-park performance improved and the
risk of insolvency decreased. Breeze couldn’t be reached today.  Theolia also has wind projects in Italy and  Morocco . It
expects to select a company to replace operating turbines with
higher-capacity machines at the first 100-megawatt phase of the
Koudia Al Baida venture in northern Morocco in April or May,
Khallouf said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  