-- EON Employee Vote Paves Way for Strikes as Soon as Next Week
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-02-01T16:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/eon-employees-in-germany-vote-for-indefinite-strike-correct-.html
EON SE,  Germany ’s biggest utility,
faces a walkout as early as next week that may curb power
production after a majority of its unionized employees backed
calls for a pay strike.  More than 90 percent of union members voted for the option
to down tools indefinitely, the  Industriegewerkschaft Bergbau,
Chemie, Energie  and  Verdi  unions said today at a press briefing
in Hanover. That exceeded the 75 percent needed to proceed.  Unions have rejected a 1.7 percent pay offer from EON,
demanding a raise of 6.5 percent. The Dusseldorf-based company
and smaller competitor  RWE AG (RWE)  are saving costs, curbing spending
and selling assets after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  ordered the
shutdown of nuclear reactors by 2022 following  Japan ’s Fukushima
disaster. Energy use has also weakened as economic growth slows.  “It’s up to the employer to find a solution before the
strike starts,” said Erhard Ott, a board member of Verdi. “We
want to hit the company and not the population.” Strikes are
scheduled to start Monday, he said.  German power for next week rose for a third day, gaining as
much as 2.1 percent to 40.75 euros a megawatt-hour, according to
broker data compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at 40.50 euros as
of 5:35 p.m. local time. EON added 0.2 percent to close at 12.83
euros in  Frankfurt .  Possible Outcomes  An indefinite strike would be the first such stoppage in
Germany’s energy industry since World War II. Past industry
disputes in Germany indicate that a series of shorter stoppages
at one or more sites are also possible outcomes.  “We urgently have to continue talking to each other and
find a solution that prevents a strike,” EON board member
Regine Stachelhaus said in an e-mailed statement. The company
will do all it can to guarantee security of supply in the event
of a walkout, she said.  Unions will inform the company in “a timely manner” of
any likely disruption to power plants, they said at the
briefing.  RWE, Germany’s second-biggest utility, is also facing a
possible strike. A union bargaining committee is due to meet
Tuesday to consider whether pay talks should be deemed a
failure. That may lead to a strike ballot at the Essen-based
company, which offered to raise pay by 1.5 percent for this year
and 2014 and disburse two payments of 500 euros ($683). Unions
demanded a 6 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  