-- Merck Says 2013 Profit Will Decline as Generics Cut Results
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-02-01T21:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/merck-forecasts-2013-profit-will-decline-as-generics-cut-results.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  forecast profit to
decline this year as generic competition to its top-selling drug
Singulair cuts into results and research setbacks keep the
company from getting new medicines to market.  Merck, the second-largest U.S. drugmaker, also said today
it will delay seeking U.S. approval for experimental
osteoporosis medicine odanacatib until 2014, a year later than
planned. The  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based company is
waiting for results of a second large study before presenting
the medicine to regulators.  The postponement added to investor concerns about the
drugmaker’s inability to bring new products to market and sent
shares down the most since August 2011. Merck said in December
it wouldn’t seek U.S. approval for a cholesterol medicine and it
failed in June to win clearance for a therapy aimed at slowing
the growth of sarcoma. The lack of new drugs contributed to a 2
percent revenue drop last year after Merck’s asthma treatment
Singulair began facing competition from cheaper copies.  “I think the few players that are involved in these stocks
are getting impatient, they have been tested for years,” Bill Smead, chief executive officer of Seattle-based Smead Capital
Management, said in a telephone interview. “They want something
that is going to gratify them in six months, but this is a great
three- to five-year play.”  Seeking Sale  Investors also are looking for Merck to restructure and
possibly sell off non-pharmaceutical units, as other drugmakers
have, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group. Merck
Chief Executive Officer Ken Frazier said he has no plans to
break off Merck’s animal health unit into a separate business
the way Pfizer Inc. did. Zoetis, the Pfizer-owned animal health
company, began trading today.  “We are committed to the business,” Frazier said in a
telephone interview today. “We think it is a good business, it
dovetails nicely with our human health business.”  Merck fell 3.3 percent to $41.83 at the close in New York.
The shares have  gained  8.3 percent in the past 12 months.  Earnings, excluding one-time items, will be $3.60 to $3.70
a share this year, compared with the $3.69 average of 20
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Adjusted earnings in
2012 were $3.82 a share, the company said.  Fourth-Quarter Results  Fourth-quarter net income declined 7.3 percent to $1.4
billion, or 46 cents a share. Excluding one-time items, earnings
were 83 cents a share, beating by 2 cents the average of 17
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue fell 4.5
percent to $11.7 billion, hurt by a 67 percent drop of Singulair
sales to $480 million. Full-year revenue in 2012 was $47.3
billion.  Merck in December said it wouldn’t seek U.S. approval for
good cholesterol drug Tredaptive after a study showed it
ineffective and potentially harmful, and later said it would
stop selling the drug in the 70 countries where it is approved.
In June, Merck and partner  Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA)  failed to
win clearance for the sarcoma therapy, with U.S. regulators
saying the medicine needed more study.  Merck today said it wanted the results of a second study on
the osteoporosis drug before proceeding because in the first
study some potential safety issues occurred. The company didn’t
elaborate on what those concerns were.  The delay “will disappoint many investors and we expect
will pressure the shares today,” Jeffrey Holford, an analyst
with Jefferies & Co. said in a note to clients. “This points to
a more chronic and serious set of potential adverse events for
odanacatib than we had anticipated.”  Merck said today it still plans to seek approval for five
products in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  