-- Euro-Area Unemployment Rate Unexpectedly Holds Steady at 11.7%
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-02-01T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/euro-area-unemployment-rate-unexpectedly-holds-steady-at-11-7-.html
The euro-area jobless rate remained
unchanged in December, adding to signs the currency bloc’s
economy may be starting to emerge from a recession.  Unemployment in the 17-nation currency bloc held at 11.7
percent, the European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg
said today. The November rate was revised down to 11.7 percent
from 11.8 percent reported earlier. Economists had forecast an
increase to 11.9 percent, the median estimate in a  Bloomberg
News survey  of 34 economists.  “Some months are stable, some months pick up a bit, but
the direction of unemployment is very clearly upwards,” said
 Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro Bank NV in
Amsterdam. “The economy is most likely still shrinking or
stagnating so there’s probably quite some upward correction in
unemployment ahead, and we’re likely to climb way into the 12
percent area.”  The currency bloc’s economy will stagnate in the first
three months of this year after contracting for a third
successive quarter at the end of 2012, according to the median
of 26 economists’ forecasts in a separate Bloomberg News survey.
Still, euro-area economic confidence in January rose to the
highest level since June, with  employment expectations  among
manufacturers at a six-month high.  ‘Nearly Stable’  Today’s jobless report showed that  18.7 million people  were
unemployed in the euro area in December, “nearly stable” from
the previous month. The data also showed that youth unemployment
is at 24 percent, with  Spain ’s rate more than double that, at
55.6 percent.  At 26.1 percent, Spain also had the highest overall jobless
rate in the currency bloc among those countries reporting
December data.  Portugal ’s unemployment rate was at 16.5 percent,
while Ireland reported a jobless rate of 14.7 percent.  Germany ’s
jobless rate was 5.3 percent and  France ’s stood at 10.6 percent.
Austria had the lowest rate at 4.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  