-- Europe Bank Dollar Funding Costs Drop on U.S. Investor Appetite
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-02-01T16:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/europe-bank-dollar-funding-costs-drop-on-u-s-investor-appetite.html
Money markets signal that European
banks have become more attractive to U.S. investors this year,
with funds stepping up investment on speculation the chances of
a euro-region break up are receding.  The cost for European banks to convert euros into dollars
using the three-month cross-currency basis swap was 14 basis
points below the euro interbank offered rate as of 4 p.m. in
 London , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s compared
with 27 basis points under Euribor on Dec. 26.  U.S. money-market funds increased their investments in
euro-region financial firms by more than 70 percent on a dollar
basis since June,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report on Jan. 28.
Banks are less dependent on the  European Central Bank  for
dollars, bidding for the least cash in 16 months at an auction
of seven-day loans on Jan. 23.  “Sentiment continues to improve, which makes it cheaper
and easier to get dollars on the swap markets,” said Lars Tranberg Rasmussen, a euro-region economist at Danske Bank A/S
in Copenhagen.  The cost of the cross-currency  basis swap  increased from 12
basis points under Euribor yesterday. That was the lowest since
May 2011, Bloomberg data show. In January, the cost declined
eight basis points, the most since August.  Yankee Bonds  A rise in so-called Yankee bond sales by European banks
also showed how U.S. sentiment toward the continent’s lenders is
improving. Firms including Rabobank Groep and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  sold $13.2 billion of dollar bonds last month, the most in
three months, Bloomberg data show.  U.S. money-market funds’ commitment to European banks rose
for five consecutive months before December, when it fell 6
percent, according to Fitch. Allocations to French banks rose
that month to 6.5 percent of assets, the highest level since
September 2011, Fitch said.  European banks’ “stigma” in the eyes of U.S. money-market
funds “has lifted somewhat,” said  Chris Clark , a London-based
interest-rate strategist at ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
interdealer broker. “That’s very evident in the basis swap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  