-- Ex-BP Trader Accuses Company of Manipulating Gas Prices
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-01T14:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/ex-bp-trader-accuses-company-of-manipulating-gas-prices.html
The former head of natural gas liquids
trading at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s BP Energy Co. in Texas accused the company
in a lawsuit of wrongfully firing him in order to manipulate the
market and gouge Americans with inflated prices.  Drew Sickinger, in a complaint filed Jan. 30 in state court
in Houston, said his removal leaves London-based BP positioned
to engage in price manipulation by establishing a dominant and
controlling position in the market. Details of the alleged plan
aren’t revealed in the complaint.  Sickinger, who was fired in January, was warned by a
supervisor before taking a medical leave in 2012 that “BP’s
positions in the market and strategy although unlawful are
proprietary and not to be disclosed,” according to the
complaint, whose filing was reported earlier by Reuters.  “BP used all means available to it to rid itself of
Sickinger and his knowledge of the positions that BP had taken
in the market,” according to the complaint.  Sickinger is seeking unspecified damages for breach of
contract, fraud and quantum meruit, a Latin phrase describing a
doctrine of a promise to pay in the absence of a specific
contract.  BP agreed to pay $303 million in October 2007 to settle
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission allegations relating
to claims of market manipulation. In January 2009 a BP unit,
Houston-based BP America Inc., agreed to pay $52 million to
propane buyers who accused it of trying to monopolize the supply
of gas flowing through a Texas pipeline in 2003 and actually
doing so in 2004.  Personnel Issues  BP doesn’t generally discuss personnel issues or employment
circumstances publicly, Scott Dean, a company spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement.  “Previous court settlements are a matter of record, but
any additional public allegations of market misbehavior arising
from this specific legal proceeding are untrue and without
merit,” Dean said. “BP is not engaging, and will not engage,
in any price or market manipulation. Our ongoing trading
strategies are lawful and compliant.”  The case is Sickinger v. BP Energy Co., 2013-05955,
District Court of Harris County, Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  