-- Mexico Policy Makers Say Slower Inflation Becoming a Trend
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-02-01T15:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/mexico-policy-makers-say-slower-inflation-becoming-a-trend-1-.html
Mexican policy makers were unanimous
in their decision to keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged
two weeks ago, saying slower inflation appears to be gaining
traction in the second-largest Latin American economy.  The bank left the rate at a record-low 4.5 percent for a
32nd straight meeting on Jan. 18. Banco de  Mexico , led by
Governor Agustin Carstens, is the only central bank in the Group
of 20 to leave rates unchanged and refrain from purchasing debt
to drive down borrowing costs in the past three years.  Banxico said in a statement accompanying its decision that
it may lower borrowing costs should inflation continue to slow,
leading traders and banks including Credit Suisse Group AG and
Deutsche Bank AG to predict a rate cut this year. The annual
rate of consumer-price increases dropped more than economists
expected to a 15-month low of 3.21 percent in the first half of
January after  falling  within the central bank’s target range in
December for the first time since May.  “The downward trend in general and core inflation appears
to be confirming itself, based on healthy fundamentals,”
according to the minutes of the rate decision published on the
central bank’s website today. “If the outlook described is
consolidated, a reduction in the benchmark overnight interbank
interest rate may be advisable.”  Mexico’s real interest rate, which takes account of
inflation, is 0.93 percent, the lowest level of any major rate-
setting Latin American nation.  Growth, Inflation  The economy grew 3.3 percent in the third quarter, down
from 4.4 percent in the previous three months. Mexico probably
expanded 3.8 percent last year, according to the median forecast
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, after growing 3.9 percent in
2011.  Inflation will accelerate to 3.7 percent by year-end,
according to the median estimate in a survey by Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit released Jan. 22. Mexico’s central bank targets
inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  While Credit Suisse Group AG expects the central bank to
cut rates by 50 to 100 basis points this year and Deutsche Bank
says a reduction of 50 basis points is “feasible,” the median
economist estimate in Banamex’s survey is for the central bank
to leave borrowing costs unchanged until March of next year,
when they’ll increase the key rate by 25 basis points.  Inflation Slowdown  “Our central scenario is that there won’t be a cut” this
year, Sergio Luna, chief economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex
unit, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City before the
report. “We don’t see inflation reaching a level that Banxico
would need in order to carry out a cut.”  Annual inflation has slowed from a 30-month high of 4.77
percent in September amid an easing in egg and poultry prices
that had surged following an outbreak of bird-flu. Reduced fees
that America Movil SAB, the wireless provider controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim , charges to connect competitors to its
network have also helped curb consumer-price increases.  Core inflation, which excludes energy and food, reached
2.78 percent in the 12 months through mid-January.  Banxico has shifted from its previous statement on Nov. 30,
when policy makers said they could raise rates if faster
inflation persisted and that the short-term growth outlook had
“marginally” worsened on the economic environment in the U.S.,
the destination of about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 