-- Mexico Peso Gains as U.S. Economic Data Bolster Export Outlook
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-02-01T23:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/mexico-peso-gains-as-u-s-economic-data-bolster-export-outlook.html
Mexico’s peso rose after U.S. data
showed a pickup in hiring and manufacturing, boosting economic
prospects in the Latin American nation’s top export market.  The peso climbed 0.8 percent to 12.6062 per  U.S. dollar  at
4 p.m. in Mexico City. The currency rose 2 percent this week.  The peso strengthened as the readings on the  U.S. economy 
outweighed comments from Mexico’s central bank board indicating
that policy makers might cut rates.  “It’s all about the U.S. data,”  Gabriel Casillas , the
chief economist and head of research at Grupo Financiero Banorte
SAB in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview.  U.S. payrolls rose 157,000 in January following a revised
196,000 advance in the prior month and a surge of 247,000 in
November, the Labor Department said today. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s manufacturing index climbed to 53.1 last
month from 50.2 in December, exceeding the highest estimate
among 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Mexico sends about 80
percent of its exports to the world’s biggest economy.  Mexico’s policy makers were unanimous in their decision to
keep the benchmark  interest rate  at 4.5 percent two weeks ago,
saying slower inflation appears to be gaining traction in the
second-largest Latin American economy, according to central bank
minutes published today.  ‘Healthy Fundamentals’  “The downward trend in general and  core inflation  appears
to be confirming itself, based on healthy fundamentals,” the
central bank said in the minutes. “If the outlook described is
consolidated, a reduction in the benchmark overnight interbank
interest rate may be advisable.”  The annual rate of consumer price increases dropped more
than economists expected to a 15-month low of 3.21 percent in
the first half of January after falling in December within the
central bank’s target range for the first time since May.  Short-term fixed-rate bond yields tumbled as speculation
for a rate cut mounted. Yields on peso bonds due in 2014 tumbled
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, 4.38 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the lowest yield
on a closing basis ever for the security since it was issued in
2005.  Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB changed its forecast today,
saying the central bank will probably cut the  reference rate  by
as much as 75 basis points at its next meeting in March.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is “currently assessing close to
a 50 percent chance of 50 basis points of easing over the next
six months,” although it will keep reviewing inflation figures
going forward to decide its position, economist  Alberto Ramos 
said in an e-mailed research note after the minutes were
released.  Alejandro Urbina, who helps oversee about $800 million in
emerging-market assets at Silva Capital Management, said in a
telephone interview from Independence,  Iowa  that the bonds
rallied as some banks interpreted the minutes as being “very,
very dovish.”  The peso weakened as much as 0.4 percent earlier today amid
speculation that a deadly explosion yesterday at the
headquarters of state-owned oil company Petroleos Mexicanos SAB
was the product of a criminal attack, according to Eduardo Carrillo, a fixed-income trader at Casa de Bolsa Finamex SAB.
The market “overreacted” to the news, Carrillo said in a
telephone interview from Guadalajara,  Mexico .  The inquiry into the explosion continues, and no cause has
been determined, Pemex Chief Executive Officer Emilio Lozoya
said.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 fell six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 5.13 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 0.69 centavo to 143.28
centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  