-- Regulators Won’t Rush to Clear Boeing’s 787, LaHood Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-02T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/faa-feeling-no-pressure-to-resume-787-flights-lahood-says-1-.html
U.S. aviation regulators aren’t
pressing to get  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 back into the air and won’t let
the grounded Dreamliner jet resume flights until they know it’s
safe, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said.  “We’re not feeling any pressure,” LaHood told reporters
after a speech yesterday in  Falls Church ,  Virginia . “We’re
going to get this right. We have to get this right.”  The transportation secretary gave no sign investigators are
closer to discovering why  lithium-ion batteries  overheated on
two 787s last month. That leaves murky at best the pathway for
getting Boeing’s most advanced jetliner airborne again.  All 50 Dreamliners in service around the world have been
grounded since Jan. 16 after an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  787 made
an emergency landing because one of its lithium-ion batteries
smoked and became charred. The U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board and its Japanese counterparts have few definitive
clues into what caused that incident and a Jan. 7 battery fire
in a  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  plane on the ground in  Boston .  “The worst scenario is you don’t find anything,” John Hansman, an aeronautics and astronautics professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , said in an interview.
“And if you don’t find anything, you actually have to correct
all the things it could possibly be, even though there’s no
direct evidence. That’s more complicated and expensive.”  The battery woes have left Boeing surrounded by uncertainty
even as Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney said in a Jan. 30
earnings call that progress toward finding a cause was being
made. McNerney said Boeing hasn’t seen anything that causes it
to question its choice of lithium-ion batteries, which were
approved by the FAA for the Dreamliner in 2007.  Production Continued  Boeing has continued production of the Dreamliner even
though it can’t deliver them because of the grounding. The
company doubled 787 production last year to five a month and is
set to double it again this year.  Boeing rose $1 to $74.87 in  New York  trading yesterday.  Until regulators are satisfied with the jet’s safety, none
of the 787s, including a LOT Polish Airlines SA plane stranded
in  Chicago  by the grounding, will be allowed into the air,
LaHood said.  “We will continue to look at the entire plane with a focus
on the batteries,” he said. “People expect us to get this
right. They don’t want to fly in planes when there are issues.”  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration , which certified
the 787 as safe to fly before it entered service in 2011, is
conducting a broad review of that decision and the plane’s
manufacturing.  ‘Green Light’  “Those planes are not going to fly until we get the green
light from the people doing the top to bottom review that
they’re safe to fly,” LaHood said.  Investigators for the NTSB, which is leading the probe of
the Boston fire, are poring over microscopic battery remains,
production records and circuitry while running tests to rule out
other potential causes.  The safety board yesterday said electrical measurements,
mass measurements and infrared thermal imaging of a battery like
the one on the JAL jet have found nothing out of the ordinary.
Additional tests, including CT scans and a “soft short” test
of battery cells, are continuing, the agency said in a
 statement .  The NTSB probe has no deadline,  Kelly Nantel , an agency
spokeswoman, said in an interview. “We all appreciate the
magnitude of this situation and are working tirelessly on this
investigation,” Nantel said.  ‘Swing Factor’  Boeing’s sales will fall 3 percent below forecasts if the
grounding halts deliveries of 787s for six months, and by 6
percent over nine months,  Peter Arment , an analyst with Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc. in New York, wrote in a note. He’s forecasting
2013 revenue of $84.8 billion, meaning a potential loss of $2.5
billion or $5 billion.  If the investigation ends this quarter and the Chicago-
based planemaker’s required fixes are minimal, as Arment
expects, the impacts will be “limited in scope,” he wrote.  In a worst case, Boeing would have to to write off about $5
billion in anticipated revenue,  Howard Rubel , a Jefferies & Co.
analyst, wrote in a report. Rubel put the odds of that at about
4 percent.  “The biggest swing factor in Boeing’s 2013 guidance is
clearly the 787 assumptions,” Arment said.  An investigation this complex, with evidence that’s been
damaged by fire, could take years, Tom Haueter, the retired
aviation investigations chief at the NTSB, said in an interview.  Five-Year Probe  Haueter, now an aviation safety consultant in Great Falls,
Virginia, helped lead a probe in the 1990s that lasted five
years while investigators looked for evidence to explain rudder
flaws on Boeing’s 737 blamed for crashes near Pittsburgh and in
 Colorado Springs ,  Colorado , that killed 157 people.  If investigators can narrow the possible causes of the
failures to a handful of possibilities, Boeing may be able to
install fixes or warning systems to address each of them that
would satisfy the FAA, Haueter and Hansman said.  “They don’t have to wait until the investigation is
completed,” Haueter said. “They could do some kind of interim
fix.”  Finding technical solutions is just part of what it will
take to resume flights, Hansman, the MIT professor, said. Boeing
and the FAA must also convince lawmakers in  Washington  and other
capitals, and the public, that the plane is safe, he said.  “You are going to have to do something to restore
confidence in the batteries,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  