-- Facebook Sues Profile Technology Over Use of User Data
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/facebook-sues-profile-technology-over-use-of-user-data.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  accused an application
developer in a lawsuit of continuing to display information
about users of the social-networking website after Facebook
tried to add protections to the data.  Profile Technology Ltd.  failed to keep its agreement to
delete the Facebook user data it accessed and displayed on the
ProfileEngine.com website, according to a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in  San Jose , California.  Profile Technology, based in Auckland, was supposed to
delete the information in October 2010 and continues to “use
and display out-of-date user data to this day,” Facebook said
in the complaint. Profile Technology “refused to stop
displaying user data” on its website and “refused to delete or
return” the information, according to the complaint.  The information includes, among other information, users’
names, photographs and names of friends with links to data that
Profile Technology stored, according to the filing.  Facebook’s suit, which follows a complaint Profile
Technology brought in  California  state court in San Mateo County
in October, is “retaliatory” and “procedural gamesmanship”
because it was filed as the companies were in the middle of
settlement negotiations, Ira Rothken, a lawyer for Profile
Technology, said in a phone interview.  By going to court, Facebook is breaking its contractual
obligation to resolve the matter in arbitration, Rothken said.  ‘Improper Conduct’  “We believe Facebook is going to have to pay substantial
damages for their improper conduct,” he said.  Profile Technology in its complaint accused the social
networking company of a “campaign of destruction” to “impede
and interfere with” Profile Technology.  By agreement with Facebook, Profile Technology’s “Advanced
Search” program relied on “automated crawling” of publicly
available information on  Facebook ’s website to make the data
accessible and searchable, according to the October complaint.  Without notice, Facebook closed off access to the automated
crawlers, terminated Profile Technology’s Facebook account, and
blocked Facebook links to Profile Technology applications that
had nothing to do with its search engine, according to Profile
Technology’s complaint. The company alleges breach of contract,
defamation and unfair business practices.  Revoked License  According to Facebook’s complaint, the social networking
website revoked Profile Technology’s license to access the data
in November 2011, after users complained to the  Menlo Park ,
California-based company.  “We’re focused on maintaining the integrity of our site
and ensuring developers adhere to the rules,” Andrew Noyes, a
spokesman for Facebook, said in an e-mail. “If we find that
someone has violated our policies, we take action.”  The case is Facebook v. Profile Technology, 13-00459, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose). The
state court case is Profile Technology v. Facebook, CIV517219,
California Superior Court, San Mateo County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  