-- Fed’s Dudley Calls for Wholesale Funding Market ‘Reform’
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-02-01T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/fed-s-dudley-calls-for-reform-of-wholesale-funding-markets.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said “reform” of the money-market
fund industry and the market for tri-party  repurchase agreements 
is essential because they threaten financial stability.  “The sheer size of banking functions undertaken outside
commercial banking entities -- even now, after the crisis --
suggests that this issue must not be ignored,” Dudley said
today in the text of remarks for a speech in New York. “I don’t
think we should be comfortable with a situation in which
extensive maturity transformation continues to take place
without the appropriate safeguards against runs and fire
sales.”  More than four years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., U.S. regulators are still grappling with how to
reduce the risks from the loosely-regulated so-called shadow
banking system and lower the likelihood that taxpayers will need
to bail out too-big-to-fail banks in a crisis.  Regulators need to “consider whether our current
architecture is satisfactory,” said Dudley, who spoke at the
 New York  Bankers Association’s annual meeting and economic
forum. If supervisors deem it unacceptable, they could either
“curtail the extent of short-term wholesale finance in the
system,” or “expand the range of financial intermediation
activity that is directly backstopped by the central bank’s
lender of last resort function,” he said.  Social Value  These options and “the issue of the social value created
by market-based financial intermediation” will “require
further study and analysis,” Dudley said. “Regardless of where
we come out on these questions, we must make the basic structure
of the wholesale funding market as sound as possible” and
“push ahead with tri-party and money fund reform.”  Five months after beating back a regulatory plan by then-
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, fund companies acknowledge they face longer odds in
blocking a similar proposal expected to reach SEC commissioners
before the end of March. The agency is being pressed to
reconsider changes by the Financial Stability Oversight Council,
or FSOC, a risk-monitoring panel that includes the heads of the
Fed and Treasury Department.  Dudley has repeatedly voiced support for money-market
reforms.  “A glaring vulnerability exists with money-market mutual
funds,” Dudley wrote in an Aug. 15 Bloomberg View column.
“Money funds should have capital buffers and modest limits on
investor withdrawals. Such reforms are necessary to protect the
economy from financial instability in the future.”  Best Option  Dudley said today that the best option proposed by the FSOC
is the one implementing a capital buffer in conjunction with a
restriction on redemptions that would require investors who
withdraw to hold a “small balance” for a “short period” to
absorb losses.  Regulators have worked to impose tighter restrictions on
money funds since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on
debt issued by Lehman, triggered a wider run on prime funds that
helped freeze global credit markets.  Three of the five largest U.S. money-market fund managers,
signaling they can’t stop a second attempt by regulators to
overhaul rules for the $2.7 trillion industry, are fighting
instead to limit the scope of any changes.  Fidelity Investments , Vanguard Group Inc. and Charles
Schwab Corp. are urging regulators to exempt retail-oriented
funds and focus on those that cater to institutional clients and
buy corporate debt, a category that absorbed the bulk of an
investor run in 2008.  ‘Institutional Flaws’  “We have not come close to fixing all the institutional
flaws in our wholesale funding markets,” Dudley said. “The
tri-party repo system and the money fund industry that plays a
crucial role financing collateral through it are both still
exposed to runs.”  The Fed has been seeking to strengthen the market for tri-
party repurchase agreements, which approached collapse in 2008
as Lehman went bankrupt. The central bank intensified its effort
after a private-sector Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform  Task
Force  that it sponsored disbanded. The task force issued a final
report in February 2012 that said more time and effort were
needed to reach its goal of “practical elimination” of the
extension of intraday credit to dealers from the industry’s two
clearing banks.  Primary Dealers  Repos are transactions used by the Fed’s primary dealers
for short-term funding. They typically involve the sale of U.S.
government securities in exchange for cash, with the debt held
as collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date, and cash is sent back to lenders,
which typically are money-market mutual funds.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party, one of two
clearing banks, functions as the agent for the transaction and
holds the security as collateral. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. serve as the industry’s clearing banks.  Dudley said regulators must “deal with the fire sale issue
in tri-party repo and the heightened run risk it creates.” He
proposed three ways of doings so: restricting transactions to
open-market operations eligible collateral, creating a mechanism
to “facilitate the orderly liquidation of a defaulted dealer’s
collateral,” or having regulators limit the use of tri-party
repo “on the grounds that it is still an unstable source of
funds.”  Dudley didn’t comment on the outlook for the economy or
monetary policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  