-- Fed’s Dudley Sees Improving Global Economy Helping U.S.
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-02-01T15:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/fed-s-dudley-sees-improving-global-economy-helping-u-s-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said the international economy is
“gradually improving” in a trend that benefits U.S. growth.  “Things aren’t perfect but I think that things are
definitely improving and that will be helpful for the U.S.
outlook,” Dudley said today in response to audience questions
after a speech in New York. “If the rest of the world gets
healthier” then demand will rise for U.S. goods and services.  The  U.S. economy  stalled last quarter because of what the
 Federal Open Market Committee  this week called “transitory
factors,” with gross domestic product shrinking at an annual
rate of 0.1 percent. The policy-setting FOMC said in a statement
it will continue buying securities at a pace of $85 billion a
month to boost economic growth and help create jobs.  Hiring in the U.S. rose last month after accelerating more
than previously estimated at the end of 2012, evidence the labor
market was making progress even as lawmakers quarreled over the
 federal budget .  Payrolls rose 157,000 following a revised 196,000 advance
in the prior month and a 247,000 surge in November, Labor
Department figures showed today. The revisions added a total of
127,000 jobs to the employment count in November and December.
The jobless rate increased to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent.  U.S. stocks rose, after the best start to a year for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 1997, on the labor market
report. The  S&P 500  gained 0.6 percent to 1,506.31 at 9:43 a.m.
in New York. Yields on 10-year Treasuries fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.93 percent.  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  last month cut its global
growth forecast and now projects a second year of contraction in
the euro region as progress in battling Europe’s debt crisis
fails to produce an economic recovery. The world economy will
expand 3.5 percent this year, less than the 3.6 percent forecast
in October, the Washington-based IMF said on Jan. 23 in an
update of its World Economic Outlook.  In Europe, “the situation is considerably brighter” as
political support for “getting budgets in order” is holding
up, the  European Central Bank  has “provided a credible
backstop,” and it’s “very clear” countries want to preserve
the European Union, Dudley said.  Growth in  China  is also “reaccelerating” after showing
signs of a “significant slowing” that raised concerns about a
property bubble, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  