-- Federal Reserve Bomb Plot Suspect to Enter Guilty Plea
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/federal-reserve-bomb-plot-suspect-set-to-enter-guilty-plea-1-.html
A Bangladeshi man accused of planning
to bomb the  New York   Federal Reserve  is scheduled to enter a
guilty plea next week in federal court in Brooklyn, New York.  Quazi Mohammad Rezwanul Ahsan Nafis, 21, who told a
government informant that he wanted to wage “jihad,” is set to
enter a guilty plea on Feb. 7, according to a notice posted
yesterday in court records.  Nafis was arrested in October after a sting operation in
which government agents helped him plan the would-be attack and
supplied him with fake explosives, according to court papers. He
was indicted on charges of attempting to use a weapon of mass
destruction and attempting to provide material support to a
foreign terrorist organization. He pleaded not guilty to those
charges on Nov. 27.  He could face a sentence of as long as life in prison if
convicted of those charges, according to the office of U.S.
Attorney Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Lynch, confirmed that a
plea hearing had been scheduled and declined to comment further
on it.  Heidi Cesare, a lawyer for Nafis, declined to comment on
the scheduled guilty plea.  Student Visa  Nafis, who came to the U.S. on a student visa and has been
living in Queens, New York, told an informant for the FBI in
July that he wanted to wage “jihad” and had plans for a terror
attack, according to a criminal complaint. He communicated with
co-conspirators, including the informant, on the phone and on
the social media website Facebook, according to the filing.  A government informant communicating with Nafis referred
the would-be bomber to an undercover FBI agent, who was posing
as a member of al-Qaeda, according to the complaint. Agents
helped supply Nafis with what he believed was a 1,000-pound
bomb, according to court filings. The device actually contained
inert materials, the U.S. said.  The case is U.S. v. Nafis, 1:12-cr-00720, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  