-- First Solar May Sell Cheapest Solar Power, Less Than Coal
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-02-01T18:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/first-solar-may-sell-cheapest-solar-power-less-than-coal.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest
maker of thin-film solar panels, may sell electricity at a lower
rate than new coal plants earn, according to a regulatory filing
from a project it purchased in  New Mexico .  El Paso Electric Co. (EE)  agreed to buy power from First Solar’s
the 50-megawatt Macho Springs project for 5.79 cents a kilowatt-
hour, according to a Jan. 22  procedural order  from the New
Mexico Public Regulation Commission. That’s less than half the
12.8 cents a kilowatt-hour for power from typical new coal
plants, according to models compiled by Bloomberg.  First Solar, which said in a statement yesterday that it
bought the Macho Springs project from Element Power Solar,
didn’t disclose any of the state and federal incentives that
will boost the company’s revenue from the project.  The Macho Springs rate would be “the lowest solar power
purchase agreement price we have ever seen,” Aaron Chew, an
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in  New York , said in an e-mail. It’s
less than half the rate that First Solar will get for its
Antelope Valley, Topaz, and Agua Caliente projects, he said.  Federal and state incentives will probably supplement First
Solar’s revenue from the project. That support includes a 30
percent federal business energy investment tax credit, according
to  Anthony Kim , an analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance said
today in an interview.  Incentives vary widely by location and aren’t included in
the London-based research company’s levelized pricing models.  “When you add in the incentives, the PPA value becomes
more comparable to rates we’ve seen signed in California,” said
Kim.  El Paso Electric must submit additional information by
today on how renewable-energy credits related to the project may
affect the utility’s costs.  Alan Bernheimer , a spokesman for Tempe, Arizona-based First
Solar, wouldn’t confirm the rate in the regulatory filing.
“That information is usually confidential,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  