-- Ford Ships Made-in-Mexico Cars to Michigan for Inspection
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/ford-ships-made-in-mexico-cars-to-michigan-for-inspection.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , citing shortages of
its new Lincoln MKZ for the luxury brand’s worst sales month in
32 years, is funneling some of the sedans produced in  Mexico 
through a Michigan plant for inspection to ensure quality.  Ford’s factory in Hermosillo, Mexico, which builds the MKZ
as well as the Ford Fusion sedan, has fallen behind with
validation processes during the ramp up of production, Tom Kowaleski, a spokesman, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
The automaker is sending some new Lincolns to a factory in Flat
Rock, Michigan, before they are shipped to dealers, he said.  “We have instituted a second location for the same luxury-
validation process,” Kowaleski said. He declined to say how
much of MKZ production is being examined at Flat Rock or how
long the arrangement may last. “We intend to ship cars that
reach a higher level of quality, the highest level of quality.”  The restyled MKZ, with a chrome grille inspired by an
eagle’s wings, is the first of four new models Lincoln has
coming in the next four years as Ford spends $1 billion to turn
the brand around. Lincoln sales fell to a 32-year low in the U.S.
last month: 4,191 cars and sport-utility vehicles.  January deliveries for Lincoln, which will air its first
Super Bowl ads tomorrow, dropped 18 percent from a year earlier.
The month’s sales total was the worst for Lincoln since the
brand delivered 3,506 vehicles in July 1981, according to
Southfield, Michigan-based researcher Ward’s Auto.  Ken Czubay , Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s U.S. sales
chief, alluded to rigorous quality inspection that was slowing
Lincoln shipments to dealers during a conference call yesterday.
He didn’t discuss the arrangement in Flat Rock.  ‘Unorthodox’ Move  Ford is emphasizing quality after the restyled 2013 Escape,
Ford’s top-selling SUV, was recalled four times since it was
introduced in May. The revamped Fusion has had two recalls since
its October debut.  “After difficult launches with the Escape and Fusion,
Lincoln is taking it slow and trying to do things right the
first time,”  Dave Sullivan , an analyst at AutoPacific Inc.,
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s an unorthodox
thing for them to do.”  Ford’s Flat Rock plant is adding a second shift and 1,200
workers to build the new Fusion sedan beginning this year. The
factory also builds the Mustang sports car. Since 1992, the
factory had been known as Auto Alliance International to reflect
the joint production of models for Ford and Mazda Motor Corp.,
which ended last year.  MKZ Orders  The MKZ has the largest number of “pre-orders” in the
brand’s history, Czubay told analysts and reporters on
yesterday’s conference call. Dealers haven’t been able to
fulfill those requests because of the deliberate quality checks
Ford is making to the new model, he said.  “We recognize that this is slowing our shipment of MKZs to
our dealers and customers, but this is the right action to take
for our reinvented Lincoln brand,” Czubay said.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  made quality a
cornerstone of his turnaround plan for Ford. The company has
stumbled as the automaker plunged in quality rankings from
researcher J.D. Power & Associates and Consumer Reports magazine.  Lincoln ranked 19th in Consumer Reports’ 2013 auto-brand
perception survey, released this week, behind  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac,  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi
and GM’s Buick.  Mulally is trying to revive Lincoln to get a larger slice
of the market for  luxury vehicles , which produce higher profits
than lower-priced cars. Lincoln’s U.S. sales have fallen 65
percent through last year since peaking in 1990 at 231,660.  Last year, Lincoln sold 82,150 vehicles. BMW was the top-
selling luxury-auto brand in the U.S. in 2012, at 281,460.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  