-- Forint Rallies Most in Six Months This Week on Central Bank, PMI
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-01T16:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/forint-heads-for-best-week-in-six-months-on-pmi-central-bank.html
The forint appreciated for a fourth
day, capping the biggest weekly advance in more than six months,
as data showed manufacturing returned to expansion and the
government eased concern it will influence monetary policy.  The currency strengthened 0.4 percent to 291.58 per euro by
4:37 p.m. in Budapest, extending its advance this week to 2
percent. That was the best performance among more than 100
currencies tracked by Bloomberg and the biggest rally in the
forint since the five days through June 22. Yields on the
government’s 10-year forint bonds rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 6.4 percent.  The forint rallied after the central bank’s rate-setting
Monetary Council and Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  each urged
caution this week on expanding the Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s set of
unconventional tools for boosting economic growth. The currency
extended gains today after a purchasing manager index for
Hungarian  manufacturing  rose to a 10-month high.  “Investors have put faith in Minister Matolcsy’s comments
promising conservative monetary policy, which has shown in the
forint’s performance,” Gergely Tardos and Levente Papa,
Budapest-based analysts at OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, wrote in a research report today.  Matolcsy has been named as the most probable successor to
central bank President Andras Simor, who leaves office in March,
by media including the Index news website. The forint tumbled as
much as 3 percent after Matolcsy said in December the bank
should “bravely” use unorthodox methods to boost the economy.  Matolcsy Story  “The pricing out of the ’Matolcsy story’ from the forint
is continuing, clearly breaking the weakening trend started in
December,” Zsolt Kondrat, a Budapest-based analyst at
Bayerische Landesbank’s MKB unit, wrote in a research report
today.  The central bank’s Monetary Council said on Jan. 29 that
unconventional methods should only be widened in “acute
turmoil.” Policy makers cut the benchmark  interest rate  by 25
basis points to 5.5 percent on Jan. 29 in a sixth consecutive
month of easing. The central bank should avoid “shock
therapy,” the Wall Street Journal reported Matolcsy as saying
in an interview the next day.  The transition of leadership at the central bank will be
“smooth” and the government will respect the monetary
authority’s mandate set in law, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said
on MR1 radio today.  The forint extended gains today after data showed U.S.
payrolls and manufacturing expanded, boosting demand for riskier
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  