-- Four of Five NFL Players Distrust Team Doctor, Survey Says
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-02-01T17:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/four-of-five-nfl-players-distrust-team-doctor-union-survey-says.html
Almost 80 percent of National
Football League players don’t trust their teams’ medical staff,
according to a survey by their union.  “The only people that might be news for is people who
don’t play football,”  DeMaurice Smith , executive director of
the  NFL Players Association , said at a news conference.  About 78 percent of players who responded to a late-season
survey said they had no trust in their teams’ medical staff,
with another 15 percent saying they had very little trust. Only
3 percent indicated some or a lot of trust in team doctors.  Players showed more faith in the trainers that handle the
day-to-day wounds of a 16-game NFL season, with 43 percent
saying they were satisfied with their training staff and 50
percent saying they had little or no trust in their trainers.  The union hasn’t shown the survey to the league and didn’t
mention it during a Jan. 25 meeting that lasted “several
hours,” Greg Aiello, a spokesman for the NFL, said in an e-
mail.  Smith said the survey was a first step in new research on
player injuries and their medical care, including a $100 million
study by Harvard University of the long-term health of NFL
players.  The study, which will be funded from the players’ share of
revenue under the league’s collective bargaining agreement, is a
10-year effort designed to improve injury prevention, create new
treatment and diagnostic tools and improve the quality of life
for athletes at all levels, according to Lee Nadler, a dean at
Harvard Medical School.  “I’ve been a doctor a long time, 35 years at Harvard, and
never have I seen such a challenge,” Nadler said at the news
conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  