-- FTC Chairman Leibowitz Says He’ll Leave Agency by Feb. 15
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-01T17:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/ftc-chairman-leibowitz-says-he-ll-leave-agency-by-feb-15.html
Jonathan Leibowitz , chairman of the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission, said he will leave for the
private sector by Feb. 15 after eight years at the consumer-
protection and antitrust enforcement agency.  Leibowitz, whose watch included a 20-month antitrust
investigation of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  that left the search engine
operator free to extend its dominance, said the agency has made
progress on a number of consumer protection issues including
health care, privacy, technology and so-called last-dollar fraud
cases such as mortgage-modification scams.  “I felt we had gotten through much of our agenda,”
Leibowitz said yesterday in an interview.  Leibowitz, 54, who was chairman for almost four years, said
he doesn’t have another job lined up and will look for a
position at a law firm or company.  He declined to comment on who might succeed him as head of
the five-member commission.  Potential successors whose names have been publicly
mentioned include two Democrats on the commission, Edith Ramirez
and Julie Brill, as well as Howard Shelanski, the director of
the agency’s bureau of economics, Willard Tom, a former FTC
general counsel, Philip Weiser, the dean of the University of
Colorado Law School, and Leslie Overton, a Justice Department
lawyer.  Dysfunctional Washington  Leibowitz said it’s not important that a replacement be
named by the time he leaves because “we’re a functioning bi-
partisan agency in an era when  Washington  is not terribly
functional.”  The FTC released a 14-page summary today of what it said
were agency achievements under Leibowitz with a statement
announcing his departure.  It described an agency straddling new areas of consumer
oversight created by digital technology and more traditional
areas such as deceptive health claims.  Leibowitz said yesterday that efforts to end pay-for-delay
deals between drug companies were among the commission’s most
important initiatives during his tenure. The deals, between
branded pharmaceutical companies and generic-drug makers, may
delay the marketing of cheaper alternatives to blockbuster
compounds.  The FTC has challenged several such agreements in court,
contending that they violate U.S. antitrust laws. One case,
involving a generic testosterone treatment called Androgel, is
pending before the U.S. Supreme Court.  Google Suit  Leibowitz declined to comment on the Google antitrust
inquiry, which ended without FTC enforcement action.  The decision was a setback to rivals like  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) ,
Microsoft Inc. and  Yelp Inc. (YELP)   The FTC examined whether Google unfairly skewed search
results to hobble competition and concluded that the  Mountain
View , California-based company was driven more by an intent to
improve search results than by a desire to stifle competitors.  Google agreed in a letter to the FTC, which the agency said
is legally enforceable, to let websites remove their content
from targeted search services like Google Shopping or Google
Local without removing or demoting that content in the main
Google search engine.  Google also agreed in a consent decree to limits on when it
can seek to block sales of competitors’ products that rely on
so-called standard-essential patents.  Investigators didn’t find evidence for a stronger case,
Leibowitz said in a Jan. 4 press briefing explaining the outcome
of the probe.  Some companies or people may think the agency should do
more “because they are locked in hand-to-hand combat with
Google around the world and have the mistaken belief that
criticizing us will influence the outcome in other
jurisdictions,” Leibowitz said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  