-- Ghana’s Terkper Plans Bonds, More Taxes to Fund Deficit
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-02-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/ghana-s-terkper-plans-bonds-more-taxes-to-fund-deficit.html
Ghana  plans to boost tax collection
and sell local and foreign bonds to finance a widening  budget
deficit  in one of  Africa ’s fastest-growing economies, Finance
Minister Seth Terkper said.  “We are widening the tax net and have formulated new tax
policies which will be sent to Parliament,” he said in an
interview on Jan. 30 in Accra, the capital, after he was sworn
in by President John Dramani Mahama. “We will also go to the
 bond market , both the domestic and international bond market, to
get resources to implement our programs.”  Terkper, 54, was promoted from deputy minister earlier this
month after Mahama won an election in December. The former tax
agency official and International Monetary Fund economist faces
a budget deficit that widened to 7.3 percent in the nine months
to September from 1.9 percent a year earlier, according to the
 Bank of Ghana .  Bond sales “are going to be continued and will be enhanced
in a qualitative way, but we also have in mind the deficit so we
are maintaining a balance,” said Terkper.  Ghana’s fiscal gap is expected to be as much as 9 percent
for the whole of 2012, Sampson Akligoh, head of research at
Accra-based Databank Financial Services Ltd., said by phone on
Jan. 30. The “government wage bill was over-stretched, fuel
subsidy and election-related fiscal pressures” added to
spending, Akligoh said.  Middle Income  The  Finance Ministry  raised its deficit projection for 2012
to 6.7 percent in July. A spending plan approved by lawmakers
for the first quarter of 2013 put the gap at 1.2 percent. The
2013 budget will be presented to Parliament at the end of
February or early March, Terkper said.  “We have to run programs that will fit into our status as
a middle-income country,” he said. “This means we have to find
new ways of collecting taxes and monitoring our projects to
avoid wastage.”  Ghana’s $39 billion economy was designated as lower middle-
income by the  World Bank  in 2009 after it revised measurement of
output. Growth is forecast at 7.8 percent this year, faster than
the sub-Saharan African outlook of about 5.3 percent, according
to the  International Monetary Fund .  Last month, Terkper said Ghana may sell an additional $750
million of debt to refinance its Eurobond, due in October 2017.
The yield on the debt gained a seventh day, adding 3.7 basis
points by 5:24 p.m. in Accra yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point equals 0.01 percentage
point.  In 2012, Ghana’s central bank began selling more domestic
debt to remove excess currency from the market and support the
cedi, which weakened 14 percent against the dollar in the first
half of the year.  The action helped halt the slide and the cedi eased 0.6
percent in the second half. The currency depreciated 0.1 percent
to 1.9040 yesterday making it little changed in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in  Accra  at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  