-- Goldman’s LEG IPO Flat as Property Value Gains Questioned
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-02-01T16:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/goldman-s-leg-german-ipo-flat-as-property-value-gains-questioned.html
LEG Immobilien AG, which completed
the largest initial public offering for a German property
company yesterday, unchanged on its first day of trading as
analysts questioned whether its homes will grow in value.  “Considering their portfolio, the pricing was very
ambitious,” said Georg Kanders, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe
KG. Many of LEG’s apartments are in small cities whose
population is shrinking, he said. Some are in regions with
struggling economies. “The quality of the properties’ locations
doesn’t justify the price.”  LEG Immobilien, which became Germany’s largest publicly
traded property company by market value through the IPO, closed
at 44 euros in Frankfurt, giving the company a market value of
2.3 billion euros. Before the IPO,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
owned 95 percent of the company.  German property stocks have been in demand as investors
seeking a safe haven amid the European sovereign debt crisis.
Stocks of companies that own homes in booming cities such as
Berlin trade more expensively than those with properties in
smaller cities.  “We’re comfortable with our share price development
today,” LEG Chief Executive Officer Thomas Hegel said in an
interview. “Our IPO was clearly oversubscribed. We’re a long-
term product.”  Deutsche Wohnen, Germany’s second-largest listed property
company has about 50% of its apartments in the German capital
and trades at 19 percent above its net asset value, according to
data compiled by Warburg Research GmbH. NAV measures the value
of a property company’s buildings excluding debt. By contrast,
 TAG Immobilien AG (TEG) , whose holdings are more widely scattered
among smaller cities, trades at a 5 percent discount, according
to Warburg.  “The share is expensive compared to its peers,” said
Torsten Klingner, an analyst at Warburg Research. LEG’s IPO was
priced at 16 percent above its net asset value, which is higher
than the average of other German residential companies, he said.
“I don’t see any upside.”  LEG Regions  LEG owns 91,000 apartments in North Rhine-Westphalia,
Germany’s most populous state. The state’s gross domestic
product is the country’s highest, according to data compiled by
the state government.  Some cities, especially former mining centers such as
Dortmund and Essen, have falling populations and declining
economies, said Ralph Henger, an economist at the  IW Koeln
economic institute .  LEG has about 70% of its apartments in cities with
shrinking populations, according to data compiled by Warburg.  “North Rhine-Westphalia has the highest population density
in Germany, and it’s a place where people rent their homes,”
Hegel said. “We have properties in extraordinary locations and
they’re widely spread.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  