-- Greek Companies Test Bond Waters as Exit Risks Fade
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2013-02-01T11:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/greek-companies-test-bond-waters-as-exit-risks-fade-euro-credit.html
Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO) ,  Greece ’s second-biggest company, is seeking
redemption with investors, albeit at a price.  The Athens-based  phone company , 40 percent owned by
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , presented on Jan. 30 its highest  interest
rate  to attract buyers to the lowest-rated offering from a
southern European issuer in at least seven years. The company,
known as OTE, sold 700 million euros ($948 million) of five-year
bonds paying 7.875 percent, hailing the transaction as “a vote
of confidence”.  “It’s a clear positive, and a good sign for other Greek
companies,” said Vassilis Kararizos, deputy director of
equities at  Proton Bank (PRO)  in  Athens . “But the yield shows that
even as euro exit concerns have fallen, there’s still plenty of
work and risks ahead for both Greece and the corporates.”  In October 2009, the then-government of  George Papandreou 
revealed Greece had misled its euro neighbors about the state of
the nation’s finances and the size of its deficit.  Greece’s 10-
year bond yield  has dropped 20 percentage points since reaching
almost 31 percent in May, as investors drove up borrowing costs
in the interlude between two elections that jeopardized the
country’s survival as a euro member.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year bond
increased 2 basis points to 10.67 percent at 1:13 p.m. in Athens
today.  That’s about half the average of the past year. Greece
will sell 625 million euros of 26-week Treasury bills on Feb. 5,
the debt agency said today.  ‘Careful Steps’  “Market access is coming in careful steps as the coupon
suggests and is still quite selective, but the field is being
set for quality Greek companies,” said Thanassis Drogossis,
head of equities at Pantelakis Securities SA in Athens. “It is
a positive sign that not too long after sovereign worries
subsided, debt markets are gradually re-opening for Greek
borrowers like OTE.”  OTE’s bond comes a month after  Titan Cement Co. (TITK) , Greece’s
biggest cement producer, issued 200 million euros of 8.75
percent 2017 bonds. The telecoms company is paying more than the
7.25 percent on securities sold in 2011 that come due next year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield on
bonds of companies in the euro area’s peripheral countries such
as Greece, Spain and  Italy  is 2.9 percent, down from as much as
5.48 percent in June,  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch’s Euro
Periphery Non-Financial index shows.  S&P Rating  Demand at this week’s  OTE sale  outstripped supply, with
investors bidding for 1.9 billion euros of notes, Chief
Executive Officer Michael Tsamaz said in a statement. The
success of the bond means OTE may not need to sell its Bulgarian
unit, Athens-based Imerisia reported, without saying how it got
the information.  The company, 10 percent  owned  by the Greek government, is
 rated  Caa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, seven steps below
investment grade.  Greece had its  credit rating  raised to B- by  Standard &
Poor’s  in December, the highest since June 2011. Moody’s
Investor Services rates Greek debt at C, while  Fitch Ratings  has
a CCC rating for the country’s debt.  Locked out of markets since April 2010, the country is the
only nation to receive two bailout packages from the euro area
and  International Monetary Fund  as public opposition to pension
and wage cuts derailed the pace of promised economic reforms.  Bailout Package  Loans to Athens were frozen in June as opposition to fiscal
austerity grew. Greece held two elections in which anti-bailout
parties gained, with Antonis Samaras emerging as the head of a
three-party coalition in favor of staying in the euro while
seeking more time to meet targets for narrowing the  budget
deficit  as the economy shrinks for a sixth year.  Euro region finance chiefs agreed in December to pay Greece
49.1 billion euros through March after revamping the nation’s
second rescue. Greece received 34.3 billion euros in December,
including funds for its banks, and 9.2 billion euros in January.
It is due to get about 5.6 billion euros in two separate
payments in February and March. The IMF is contributing a
separate amount to Greece of about 3 billion euros this quarter.  The disbursements highlight improved confidence in the
government’s ability to implement budget cuts and market-opening
initiatives outlined in the nation’s international aid program.
Policy makers gave the Samaras government two extra years until
2016 to meet budget-reduction targets. By the end of March,
Greece needs to set three-year expenditure ceilings for
ministries and finish plans to lower state employee staffing
levels by 2015.  Samaras Support  The bailout also foresees that the country’s bank
recapitalization will be completed by the end of April.
Departing executives from Hellenic Financial Stability Fund, the
recapitalization fund, said Jan. 30 that this deadline may be
extended. The country’s banks need fresh funds after taking
losses on their holdings of Greek  government bonds .  “A look at the polls shows that Samaras is building
political capital,” said Lefteris Farmakis, an analyst at
Nomura International in  London . “He needs to keep up the
momentum. He can’t drop the ball on keeping financing
uninterrupted and dealing firmly with union protests.”  Public sector workers walked off the job Jan. 30 to support
state-hospital doctors, who are staging a 24-hour strike to
oppose hospital mergers and job cuts, according to a statement
posted on ADEDY’s website. Trains, buses and suburban rail
services were affected in the latest disruption to public
transit following a nine-day subway strike that Samaras halted
by emergency decree on Jan. 24.  John Mauldin, president of Millennium Wave Advisors LLC,
who recently visited Athens, said Greek officials and investors
share wary optimism, and the next six months are key.  “I heard that term everywhere: Wait six months,” Mauldin,
told  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance” on Jan. 30. “They’re worried about social
unrest all up and down the food chain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  