-- Griswold Booth Empty at NYSE as Broker Pulls Registrations
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-02-01T20:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/griswold-booth-empty-at-nyse-as-broker-pulls-sec-registration.html
The Griswold Co.’s booth at the  New
York  Stock Exchange was empty today and the company withdrew its
dealer registrations, signaling an end of trading for the 25-
year-old firm.  Griswold requested to  terminate  registration with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority yesterday, according to Finra records dated
today. Its action came amid a plunge in U.S. equity volume that
has squeezed profits for exchanges and the professionals who
make their living on them.  Smaller brokerages are finding it harder to earn
commissions amid shrinking  trading volume  and increased
automation. ThinkEquity LLC, Rodman & Renshaw LLC and WJB
Capital Group Inc. closed last year, while Atlantic Equities
LLP, the London-based brokerage, ended a foray into New York.
Trading firm Ticonderoga Securities LLC also shut.  Griswold took in $8.4 million in commissions in  2011 , the
most recent data available, down from $10.6 million  the previous
year , according to SEC filings. It lost $381,563 in 2011 and
$182,980 in 2010. U.S. equity volume slipped to a daily average
of 6.41 billion shares last month, compared with 9.77 billion in
2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mark McCooey, president of the company, didn’t return e-
mails seeking comment and phone calls to the firm went
unanswered. The company was founded in March 1988 by the McCooey
family, according to its website. U.S. brokerages must be listed
with regulators to operate in the securities industry.  Robert H. McCooey, who was a member of the NYSE for 46
years, created Griswold together with his sons and daughter,
according to a 2001  death notice  in the New York Times. One of
the sons, Robert H. McCooey Jr., is a senior vice president of
new listings and capital markets at Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. in New
York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  