-- Gross Says Unemployment Gives Yields Room to Fall: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-02-01T16:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/gross-says-unemployment-rate-gives-bond-yields-room-to-fall.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond-fund manager, said an increase in the U.S.
 unemployment rate  in January gives bond yields room to decline
after the Treasury market’s worst start to a year since 2009.  “The unemployment rate, instead of drifting to 6.5 percent
is drifting up to 7.9 percent,” Pacific Investment Management
Co. founder Gross said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “That gives space, certainly in
the front end of the curve for yields to move down. It gives a
little bit of hope on the long end as well.”  Central bank stimulus measures have made bond markets
“bubbly,” Gross said. He has been advising investors to avoid
longer-maturity  government bonds  because of the risk that
measures such as quantitative easing, or QE, will spur
inflation. Labor Department figures showed today that the
 jobless rate  rose from 7.8 percent in December, holding above
the 6.5 percent goal the Federal Reserve has set before it will
probably begin to wind down asset purchases.  The Fed’s efforts to spur growth have included  purchases  of
over $2 trillion in securities from December 2008 through
several rounds of QE, including combined purchases this year of
$85 billion in mortgage debt and Treasuries. The  European
Central Bank  flooded its banking system with over 1 trillion
euros ($1.37 trillion) in short-term cash beginning over a year
ago, while the  Bank of England  and  Bank of Japan  have each
undertaken their own QE programs.  ‘All Clear’  “As long as that check writing in the trillions continues
then that’s a foundation for the  bond market , whether or not
it’s overvalued or not,” Gross said. “The secret to the
analysis is the continuation of the bubble. And we see today’s
number at 7.9 percent, and we say ‘hey, it’s still all clear,’
they will still be writing checks and probably continue for a
while.”  U.S. government securities lost 0.95 percent in January,
the worst start to a year since a 0.08 percent drop in 2009,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Payrolls rose in January by 157,000, while revisions of the
prior two months added 127,000 jobs to the employment count, the
Labor Department said.  Inflation for the 12 months ending in November was 1.4
percent, according to the Fed’s preferred gauge. The  Federal
Open Market Committee  this week left unchanged its statement
that it plans to hold its target interest rate near zero as long
as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and inflation remains
no more than 2.5 percent.  Fund Performance  Gross, who serves as co-chief investment officer of Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco, recommended five-year  Treasury
securities  after minutes of the Fed’s Dec. 11-12 meeting showed
several policy makers said it would probably be appropriate to
slow or stop purchases well before the end of 2013.  Gross raised the percentage of Treasuries held in his
flagship $285 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 26 percent in
December, the highest level since July, according to the latest
available fund data on Pimco’s  website .  The fund gained 10.4 percent in 2012, beating 95 percent of
its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund
fell 0.28 percent in January.  Investors aren’t fleeing bond funds even after last month’s
losses and gains by equities, according to Mohamed El-Erian,
Pimco’s chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer
with Gross.  ‘Great Rotation’  “We had a very strong January in terms of inflow, into
bond funds,” El-Erian said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu  today. “If the
‘Great Rotation’ is happening, it’s not happening at Pimco. What
we are seeing the equity funds, the fixed income funds, the
commodity funds, is a rotation out of  money market funds  and out
of bank accounts that no longer have complete FDIC insurance.
Cash is being pushed into both the equity and fixed-income
markets.”  Clients of the largest U.S. banks withdrew funds this month
at the fastest weekly pace since the Sept. 11 attacks as a
deposit-insurance program ended and customers tapped into their
year-end cash hoards. A Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
backstop, the Transaction Account Guarantee program, ended in
December, removing temporary unlimited insurance on non-interest
bearing transactions accounts over the prior limit of $250,000.  Net withdrawals at the 25 largest U.S. lenders totaled
 $114.1 billion  in the week ended Jan. 9, pushing deposits down
to $5.37 trillion, according to  Federal Reserve  data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  