-- Ground Zero for Irish Crisis May Swap Lending for Lattes
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-02-01T11:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/ground-zero-for-irish-banking-crisis-may-swap-lending-for-lattes.html
The Dublin headquarters of Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., dubbed the world’s worst bank, may swap loans
for lattes under a plan to turn the epicenter of Ireland’s
financial crisis into a café.  The concrete and brick-faced office overlooking St.
Stephen’s Green has been the site of angry demonstrations
against irresponsible lenders and a government rescue of the
bank that cost every Irish man, woman and child more than 6,500
euros ($8,850). Building owner  Irish Life  Group Ltd. has applied
to convert the ground floor into a coffee shop, according to a
filing to city authorities.  “We could have a lot of fun thinking of different names
for the coffees,” Bobby Kerr, chairman of Insomnia, a coffee
chain with over 60 stores across Ireland. “I’d ask how much is
the rent and can I make a bid on it,” if permission is granted.  The offices have long been regarded as a symbol of a
financial meltdown that led to a 67.5 billion international
bailout for Ireland. When the bank’s signs were taken down in
April 2011, the process was shown by national TV broadcaster
RTE. The silvery lettering is now on display at the  National
Museum of Ireland  in Dublin.  Anglo Irish, renamed the Irish Banking Resolution
Corporation, left the 3,493 square-foot (324 square meter) space
in the fourth quarter of last year, according to the company.
Eamon Gilmore, now deputy prime minister, in 2010 called the
ill-fated lender the worst bank in the world as spiraling loan
losses led to a 30 billion-euro bailout.  Bitter Coffee  “Hopefully it doesn’t make the coffee too bitter,” Simon
Kelly, a developer and author of “Breakfast with Anglo,” said
by telephone. Kelly and his family borrowed about 800 million
euros from the bank before it collapsed, he said by telephone.
They have since lost control of many of the assets that secured
the loans.  Anglo Irish  was planning to lease a new headquarters when
it collapsed in 2009. The unfinished concrete skeleton in the
city’s north docks, bought by the central bank last year, is
another widely known symbol of Ireland’s financial crisis.  Irish Resolution Corp. employees still occupy two other
floors of the building as well as part of the ground floor and
the basement, as the lender moves toward closure in 2020.  Landlord Stephen Court Ltd., a unit of Irish Life, told
planners in December that it wants to turn the space into a
coffee shop.  Council officials last month told Irish Life to seek full
planning approval for the change, according to documents
published on its website. A coffee shop is one of a number of
options being considered for the space, Irish Life spokesman  Ray
Gordon  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  