-- IBM May Need Multibillion-Dollar Deal to Jump-Start Sales
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-02-01T21:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/ibm-stagnant-sales-make-netapp-splunk-targets-real-m-a.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) ’s plan to spend almost $15 billion on deals through 2015
is turning  NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  and  Splunk Inc. (SPLK)  into takeover candidates.  IBM finds itself looking for deals after  sales increased 
just 0.8 percent in four years, the worst rate since the period
that ended in 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Investors have taken notice, with its shares lagging behind
those of rivals Oracle Corp. and SAP AG by the most in at least
nine years in 2012, the data show.  The company, with a market value of $232 billion, has
identified areas for expansion through the end of 2015. Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc. sees NetApp, which has almost  doubled  revenue
since 2008, strengthening IBM’s standing in cloud storage.
Splunk, which has  rallied  almost twofold since its initial
public offering last year, would help IBM meet a goal of growing
in data analytics, according to  Credit Agricole  SA. Royal Bank
of Canada says  Imperva Inc. (IMPV)  would bolster its position in
security products.  “It’ll probably be a surprise acquisition that will really
get things going,” Laurence Balter, an analyst with Oracle
Investment Research in Fox Island,  Washington , said in a
telephone interview. “Unless IBM does something real
interesting, an acquisition down the road or something that will
stir up growth, we’re at a little bit of a plateau.”  Biggest Deals  James Sciales, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
said the company doesn’t comment on potential acquisition
targets. NetApp’s Roger Villareal, Splunk’s Ken Tinsley and
Imperva’s Rob Rachwald also declined to comment.  IBM shares rose 1 percent to $205.18 today, closing at the
highest price in more than three months. NetApp climbed 0.7
percent to $36.25, Splunk rallied 2.9 percent to $33.90, and
Imperva added 2 percent to $35.  IBM has faced pressure for years to expand through deals,
with investors saying in 2010 that profit growth hinged on doing
a multibillion-dollar acquisition. The company managed to
increase net income to $16.6 billion last year, up 12 percent
from $14.8 billion in 2010, even without announcing any
transactions that eclipsed its two biggest: the 2008 purchase of
Cognos Inc. for $4.5 billion and the $3.9 billion deal for
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s consulting business in 2002. Both
figures include net debt.  The company’s preference is to strike deals valued at $200
million to $1.5 billion, Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge
said in May. “We are not looking at big acquisitions, nor do we
want to communicate that we’re looking at big acquisitions,” he
said during the presentation at a conference.  ‘Larger Scale’  To make a difference in IBM’s revenue, which totaled $104.5
billion last year, up just 0.8 percent since 2008, the company
may have to consider bigger transactions, said Joe Foresi, a
Boston-based analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  “Clearly, given the size of the company, acquisitions will
have to be on a larger scale,” he said in a phone interview.  IBM has a goal of doing $20 billion of deals from the start
of 2011 through the end of 2015. Counting already announced
transactions, IBM has $14.5 billion left to spend. IBM completed
11 purchases in 2012, including five in data analysis and two in
cloud computing, according to the company. It bought Worklight
Inc. for mobile tools and spent $1.2 billion including net cash
on Kenexa Corp. to add social business capabilities.  Takeover Speculation  Splunk, a $3.3 billion company based in  San Francisco ,
could help IBM grab a larger slice of the global market for
analyzing large, complex databases that should reach $48.3
billion by 2018, up from $6.3 billion in 2012, according to
Transparency Market Research. Splunk also has intellectual
property for data analysis that would be valuable to IBM, said
Edward Maguire, a New York-based analyst at Credit Agricole.  Splunk’s shares rose 6.9 percent on Jan. 15 amid
speculation it could be bought by IBM or Oracle, according to
 Brian White , an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets Inc.  “Buying Splunk makes sense from a products perspective,
because Splunk is a gigantic analytics engine,”  Peter Goldmacher , a San Francisco-based analyst at Cowen Group Inc.,
said in a phone interview. “It can take data from data centers
or cars or planes, and that’s what IBM is all about.”  Analysts estimate Splunk’s sales increased 60 percent in
the fiscal year that ended in January, according to the average
of projections compiled by Bloomberg. It went public in April
and has since rallied 94 percent.  IBM today said it’s buying Star Analytics Inc. for an
undisclosed amount. The  Redwood City , California-based company
integrates business information and helps sort out what’s
important, eliminating time-consuming steps for data analysis.  ‘Weak Areas’  NetApp, valued at $13 billion, has been speculated as an
IBM target for years, said Shaw Wu, a San Francisco-based
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach. The computer-storage company
would bolster IBM’s cloud-computing plans, he said.  “Storage is definitely one of the weak areas for the
company,” Wu said in a phone interview. “For them to get
stronger there would make sense.”  The analyst said IBM may have to pay a 30 percent to 100
percent premium for NetApp, which at current prices would exceed
the $14.5 billion left in IBM’s projected takeover budget.  Adding Imperva, valued at $842 million, would help IBM’s
customers better protect applications and data, particularly
information on remote servers referred to as the cloud, said
 Amit Daryanani , a San Francisco-based analyst at RBC.  Juniper, Akamai  Sales at the Redwood Shores, California-based company rose
30 percent in 2012, according to the average of analysts’
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Imperva’s software for managing
databases, files, Web applications, servers and hardware
appliances is used by  more than 2,000 customers  -- including top
telecommunications providers, U.S. banks and government agencies
-- in over 60 countries.  Sterne Agee’s Wu said that a purchase of  Juniper Networks
Inc. (JNPR)  would add higher-margin hardware, helping IBM compete with
Cisco Systems Inc., while adding security capabilities.  Akamai
Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  would bolster IBM’s cloud plans, he said.  Juniper’s Cindy Ta and Akamai’s Rob Morton declined to
comment.  Today, shares of Juniper declined 0.3 percent to $22.32.
Akamai rallied 2.7 percent, the most in a month, to $41.81.  IBM rallied 4.4 percent on Jan. 23, the most in a year,
after the world’s biggest computer-services provider forecast
profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Last year, shares of
Redwood City, California-based Oracle rallied 30 percent, versus
IBM’s 4.2 percent gain, while SAP of Walldorf,  Germany , rose 49
percent. Oracle won by the most since 1999, while SAP last
outperformed IBM by that amount in 2003.  “They’re probably aware that the absence of top-line
growth hurts the stock price,”  David Grossman , a San Francisco-
based analyst at Stifel Financial Corp., said in a phone
interview. “They’re constantly evolving their strategy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  