-- IGT Says Former Chairman Was Awarded Backdated Stock Options
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-01T21:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/igt-says-former-chairman-was-awarded-backdated-stock-options.html
International Game Technology (IGT) ,
embroiled in a proxy battle with its former chief executive
officer, said he received backdated  stock options  to capture
almost $2.8 million in personal profit.  Charles Mathewson, who served as IGT’s CEO until 2000,
engaged in “questionable” compensation practices “despite
publicly trumpeting an annual salary of $1,” IGT said in a
letter to shareholders today.  Mathewson and two others are the proposed nominees to IGT’s
board by dissident investor Ader Investment Management LLC, a
New York-based money-management firm. In public filings, the
group said IGT management has lost focus on its core business
and misallocated capital. IGT, based in Reno,  Nevada , is the
world’s largest slot machine maker.  “I would never backdate an option, I’m positive of that,”
Mathewson, 83, said in a telephone interview. The compensation
committee awarded the options and he said he believed they did
so based on the day he was reappointed chief executive.  On May 13, 1996, IGT’s compensation committee approved a 1
million-share grant tied to the company’s $13.625 trading price
on Feb. 20, the letter said. The price on the date of the grant
was $16, making the award worth $2.38 million, according to the
letter.  In August, the committee repriced the grant to an earlier
date and a lower close, giving Mathewson an immediate profit of
almost $400,000 more, the company said. He was appointed CEO a
second time in February 1996, according to a filing.  No Vesting  In December, the committee decided to jettison the standard
five-year vesting and made the full grant exercisable
immediately, according to the letter.  “The board believes that Mr. Mathewson’s decidedly ‘old-
school’ approach to corporate governance, which was driven by
his own self-interests during his tenure as both CEO and
Chairman, would not be in the best interests of shareholders,”
the company said in its letter.  IGT’s annual meeting will be held on March 5.  Mathewson stepped down as chairman in 2003. IGT continued
to pay for his staff,  office space , and personal expenses,
including $12,000 for fitness training and $400,000 for multiple
country club memberships, at a time when the company was forced
to fire workers, according to the letter.  Business Purpose  He also sought $18,000 in reimbursements for his Bentley
automobile and $560,204 related to maintenance of his personal
airplane.  Country club memberships and other perks were used for
corporate sales purposes or given in lieu of severance pay which
he didn’t receive, Mathewson said. The aircraft expense involved
a plane he purchased from IGT that required more maintenance
than the company had disclosed, he said.  “They’re just stretching, real smoke and mirrors,”
Mathewson said of IGT’s letter. “I am not interested in one
nickel.”  IGT  rose  1.2 percent to $15.55 at the close in  New York .
The stock declined 18 percent last year, its third straight
annual drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  