-- North Africa Seen as Terror Training Camp for Europeans
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2013-02-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/militants-in-northern-africa-said-to-pose-growing-threat.html
Islamist groups in northern  Africa 
are trading personnel, equipment and expertise and pose a
growing threat to potential targets there, including Western
businesses and diplomats, according to U.S. officials.  Three intelligence officials said that what they called
cross-pollination among groups such as al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb, Ansar al-Dine and al Mulathameen have prompted U.S.
agencies to focus more closely on the desert lands from
Mauritania to Niger, especially in light of recent terrorist
attacks in Libya,  Algeria  and Mali.  So far, the officials, who asked to not be named in
discussing intelligence matters, said they’ve seen no evidence
of new plans to attack American or other targets in the region
and no indication that terrorist groups there are able to mount
attacks in  Europe  or the U.S. They cautioned that they’re still
collecting intelligence from eyewitnesses and other nations on
the Jan. 16 attack on the In Amenas gas complex in Algeria.  While the U.S. officials said they couldn’t confirm reports
that two Canadians participated in that attack, they said the
presence in North Africa of a small number of jihadists from
Western Europe and elsewhere is especially worrisome. Those who
hold Western passports that let them travel in Europe without
visas would pose a threat if they returned home with training
and combat experience.  Aspiring Islamic radicals from 10 or more countries are
being drawn to the battlegrounds in northern Africa and  Syria ,
as the core of al-Qaeda is pinned down and battered in  Pakistan 
and its affiliates in Yemen and Somalia are increasingly under
attack by U.S. drones and local forces, the officials said.  Disparate Groups  The officials said their understanding of the disparate
extremist groups and their shifting alliances and agendas is
limited because the U.S. has fewer intelligence resources in the
region and because local governments can’t provide even the
limited support that their counterparts in Pakistan and Yemen
have. While Algeria has the most competent counterterrorism
forces, according to the officials, it restricts its efforts to
protecting its own borders and territory.  That raises concerns that extremists may be able to carve
out a safe haven in the deserts of northern  Mali  comparable to
those that al-Qaeda once enjoyed in Afghanistan and Pakistan,
the officials said.  They said that while the French military operation in Mali
has wrested control of the major northern towns from extremists,
success will depend not on capturing territory but on disrupting
and degrading the militant groups. That, in turn, may depend on
whether a United Nations or African force can maintain security
in northern Mali and on French efforts to enlist some local
groups to oppose the extremists.  Separately, two other U.S. officials said that a U.S. plan
to base unarmed reconnaissance drones in Niger under the terms
of a new security agreement could hinder the movements of
extremist bands and locate their camps. They said the militants
make difficult targets because they don’t use satellite or
mobile phones to communicate and are hard to distinguish from
other nomads in the area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  