-- Time Warner Cable CEO Said to Be Retiring at Year’s End
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/time-warner-cable-ceo-to-step-down-at-year-end-journal-reports.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  Chief
Executive Officer Glenn Britt, who has run the second-largest
U.S. cable company for more than a decade, will retire at the
end of the year, a person familiar with the situation said.  Rob Marcus, Time Warner Cable’s chief operating officer, is
the top candidate to replace Britt, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the decision is private.  Britt, who turns 64 next month, was named CEO in 2001 and
led Time Warner Cable through its spinoff from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) 
in 2007. He first joined the parent company in 1972 when he took
a job in the controller’s department of Time Inc., which later
merged with Warner Communications Inc.  Time Warner Cable declined to confirm Britt’s plans.  “If and when Glenn decides to step down, we will have an
announcement,” said  Maureen Huff , a spokeswoman for New York-
based Time Warner Cable.  Stock buybacks and dividends payments, along with a lack of
exposure to the  European debt crisis , have fueled stock gains in
recent years. The shares have more than quadrupled in price
since March 2009, during the depths of the last recession.  “Glenn will be viewed as an industry leader in cable,”
 Vijay Jayant , an analyst at ISI Group in New York, said in an
interview. “Time Warner Cable has been a hugely successful
stock. The industry will miss him.”  Time Warner Cable, which ranks second to Comcast Corp. in
U.S. subscribers, gained 1 percent to $90.27 at the close
yesterday in  New York . Shares fell the most in almost four years
on Jan. 31 after the company forecast 2013 earnings that missed
analyst estimates.  Britt’s retirement plan was  reported  earlier yesterday by
the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  