-- Lincoln’s Sales Fall to Reagan-Era Level on MKZ Sedan Shortage
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-01T19:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/lincoln-s-sales-fall-to-reagan-era-level-on-mkz-sedan-shortage.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Lincoln sales fell
to a 32-year low in the U.S. last month as dealers ran short of
the MKZ sedan that the automaker expects to lead the luxury
brand’s revival.  Lincoln, which will air its first Super Bowl ads Feb. 3,
sold 4,191 cars and sport-utility vehicles in January, an
18 percent drop from a year earlier. That was the fewest since
the brand posted 3,506 sales in July 1981, according to
Southfield, Michigan-based researcher Ward’s Auto.  The restyled MKZ, with a chrome grille inspired by an
eagle’s wings, is the first of four new models Lincoln has
coming in the next four years as Ford spends $1 billion to turn
the brand around. The MKZ is arriving in showrooms slowly
because of a more rigorous quality inspection following multiple
recalls on models Ford introduced last year,  Ken Czubay , the
Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s U.S. sales chief, said today.  “It’s an uphill battle for Lincoln,” said  Jesse Toprak ,
an analyst at researcher TrueCar.com in Santa Monica,
California. “The reason people buy luxury brand vehicles is the
image. Lincoln’s image is not up to par.”  Lincoln’s January sales were the lowest for any month since
the first year  Ronald Reagan  served as U.S. president. The brand
is still remembered mostly for the Town Car, which has been an
airport shuttle for generations of business travelers. Ford
stopped building the Town Car last year.  In one of the commercials debuting during the Super Bowl,
Lincoln immolates a Town Car and transforms it into an MKZ. The
MKZ also is featured in the other Super Bowl ad, produced by
comedian  Jimmy Fallon , which is scheduled to air in the game’s
third quarter.  Record ‘Pre-Orders’  The MKZ has the largest number of “pre-orders” in the
brand’s history, Czubay told analysts and reporters on a
conference call. Dealers haven’t been able to fulfill those
orders because of the deliberate quality checks Ford is making
to the new model, he said.  “We recognize that this is slowing our shipment of MKZs to
our dealers and customers, but this is the right action to take
for our reinvented Lincoln brand,” Czubay said.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  made quality a
cornerstone of his turnaround plan for Ford. That effort has
stumbled as the automaker has plunged in quality rankings from
researcher J.D. Power & Associates and Consumer Reports
magazine. The restyled 2013 Escape, Ford’s top-selling SUV, has
been recalled four times since it was introduced in May. The
revamped Fusion has had two recalls since its October debut.  Lincoln ranked 19th in Consumer Reports’ 2013 auto-brand
perception survey, released this week, behind  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac,  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi
and GM’s Buick.  1990 Peak  Mulally is trying to revive Lincoln to get a larger slice
of the market for luxury vehicles, which produce higher profits
than lower-priced models. Lincoln’s U.S. sales have fallen
65 percent since peaking in 1990 at 231,660.  Last year, Lincoln sold 82,150 vehicles. BMW was the top-
selling luxury-auto brand in the U.S. in 2012, at 281,460.  “The product Lincoln has today is the best they’ve had,
from any angle,” Toprak said. “But it’s going to be a long
process to change the brand’s image. It’s going to take probably
a good decade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  