-- Indonesia’s Inflation Accelerates on Floods, Power Tariffs
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-02-01T03:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/indonesia-s-inflation-accelerates-on-floods-power-tariffs-1-.html
Indonesia ’s inflation accelerated in
January after power tariffs rose and as floods submerged areas
of Jakarta and other provinces.  Consumer prices  climbed 4.57 percent from a year earlier,
after a previously reported 4.3 percent gain in December, the
Statistics Bureau said in Jakarta today. The  median  estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists was 4.47 percent.  Bank Indonesia  has held interest rates steady for nearly a
year and the central bank won’t need to react to the floods with
monetary policy as the impact will be temporary, Deputy Governor
 Hartadi Sarwono  said last week. Inflationary pressures may rise
in coming months amid higher power prices and minimum wages, and
as a weakening rupiah raises the costs of imported goods.  “Inflation accelerated due to higher power tariffs and
minimum wages, and also food prices climbed on the bad weather
last month,” said David Sumual, an economist at PT Bank Central
 Asia  in Jakarta. “BI will likely keep the  interest rate 
unchanged as inflation pressure is only temporary and the
economy needs stimulus.”  The rupiah declined 0.3 percent to 9,765 per dollar as of
10:26 a.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. In the past year, the currency is the
worst performer in Asia after the yen among 11 most-active Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices rose 1.03 percent last  month  from December,
today’s report showed.  Core inflation  was 4.32 percent, compared
with a previously reported 4.4 percent pace the month before.  Fuel Subsidies  Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is under
growing pressure to raise fuel prices and curb oil imports as
currency risks persist and the window to act narrows ahead of
elections in 2014. The government will probably need to increase
subsidized-fuel prices this year, according to economists at
Bank of America Corp., Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd., Standard Chartered Plc, PT Bank Danamon Indonesia and
Moody’s Analytics.  The country announced in January it will limit the use of
partially government-funded diesel and the trade minister said
Yudhoyono will evaluate energy charges in the next few weeks.  Floods which began on Jan. 15 affected 41 square kilometers
(16 square miles) of Jakarta, representing about six percent of
the city’s land area, Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesman at the
National Agency for Disaster Management, said Jan. 18.  “We hope the government will pay attention to the January
inflation figure,” said Suryamin, chairman of the statistics
office, in Jakarta today. “The government needs to monitor and
control inflation in the coming months.”  Exports Decline  Exports fell 9.8 percent in December, a separate report
showed today. Imports declined 5.6 percent from a year earlier,
leading to a deficit of $155 million. For 2012, exports dropped
6.61 percent and imports climbed 8.02 percent. The  trade deficit 
was $1.63 billion last year, today’s report showed.  The government will release fourth-quarter  gross domestic
product  figures on Feb. 5.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy grew
6.24 percent last quarter from a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The economy grew 6.17 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30 from a year earlier, holding above a 6 percent pace for
an eighth quarter supported by domestic demand and investment.  “Buoyant consumer spending and investment helped to offset
weaker exports, hurt by slumping commodity export prices,” said
Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America
Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  