-- Indonesia In Talks on Currency Forwards With Malaysia, Singapore
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-02-01T08:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/indonesia-in-talks-on-currency-forwards-with-malaysia-singapore.html
Indonesia ’s central bank is in talks
with counterparts in  Singapore  and  Malaysia  as it considers rule
changes governing the use of non-deliverable forward contracts
on the rupiah.  Bank Indonesia  will continue to monitor transactions in the
derivatives to see whether they are having an impact on the
local  currency market , Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah told
reporters in Jakarta today. “We have several options in terms
of regulations,” he said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore began a probe of the
Association of Banks in Singapore in September to ascertain
whether there was any manipulation of benchmarks, including
daily fixings that are used to settle NDFs.  Bank Negara Malaysia 
has started requiring the nation’s banks use a ringgit reference
rate set domestically to settle foreign-exchange contracts, a
person familiar with the matter said on Jan. 29.  The Association of Banks in Singapore compiles reference
rates used to settle forward transactions involving the
currencies of Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and
Vietnam. The fixings are based on an average of quotes submitted
by the global banks that make up its membership and can be
influenced if participants collude.  The group’s rupiah fixings were as much as 2.6 percent
weaker than prevailing exchange rates quoted by banks in
Indonesia during January. The two levels converged today for the
first time in more than six weeks as the onshore spot rate fell
as low as 9,778 per dollar and the association’s  reference rate 
rose 0.3 percent to 9,769.  Disciplinary Action  Singapore’s central bank said in a statement in September
that it asked lenders who are part of the rates-setting panel to
review the process for non-deliverable foreign-exchange
contracts. Banks should report irregularities immediately and
take disciplinary action against any staff involved, it said.  Banks including UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
have suspended some traders in Singapore amid the central bank’s
probe, which includes money-market benchmarks.  Unlike foreign-exchange forward contracts, where two
parties agree to physically exchange currencies at a set rate at
a specific date in the future, NDF traders settle the net
position in U.S. dollars. Who pays and how much at the end of
the contract is determined by reference to a fixing, which in
some jurisdictions is set by a survey of banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  