-- Intercontinental Credit-Swap Futures Said to Shield Default Risk
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-02-01T18:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/intercontinental-credit-swap-futures-said-to-shield-default-risk.html
Credit swap index futures planned by
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE)  are being designed to shield
investors from the risk of underlying borrowers defaulting,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The contracts, which may begin trading in April, will
reference upcoming Markit Group Ltd. indexes that contain only
companies that are current on their debt payments, said the
people, who asked not to be named because details aren’t public.
Investors in existing swap indexes are affected if members
default because the composition of the basket changes.  Intercontinental is seeking to capitalize on providing
broader access to directional bets on credit markets by
obtaining in October the right to link futures to indexes owned
by Markit, the largest creator of the derivative instruments in
the $23.8 trillion market. The license, which no other exchange
has, may give the contracts a better chance of success than
previous efforts to offer credit swap futures.  In 2007, the world’s largest banks that buy and sell
credit-default swaps resisted efforts by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and
Eurex AG to offer credit swaps-like futures. That was before the
September 2008 failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., one of
the biggest swaps dealers.  Then in 2010, Deutsche Bank AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  held discussions with exchanges including CME
Group about creating futures contracts on credit swaps indexes,
people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Markit CDX  Previously, Atlanta-based Intercontinental said the
contracts would begin trading in the first quarter and didn’t
specify which exact Markit indexes would be referenced.  The first four contracts from Intercontinental, which last
month agreed to buy NYSE Euronext for cash and stock worth about
$8.6 billion, will be based on the Markit CDX North American
Investment Grade Index, the Markit CDX North American High Yield
Index, the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  and the Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index, the people said.  “We are in the final stages of a process to work out the
details of these products with market participants,” Brookly
McLaughlin, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “As
soon as this is final, we will make an announcement.” She
declined to comment on the details of the contracts.  Because there’s no default risk associated with the futures
contract, the margin investors have to pay will be low,
according to the people.  Low Margins  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed in 2010 to overhaul financial-
market regulation, is moving most credit swaps into
clearinghouses. The contracts will also trade on electronic
systems after the unregulated transactions contributed to and
complicated efforts to resolve the credit crisis.  Futures, which are agreements to buy or sell an asset or
commodity at a specific price and time, on credit swaps may open
the investments to small  hedge funds  and others who can’t afford
to participate or don’t want to take the risk of transacting in
the swaps market.  Benchmark credit-default swap indexes are created every six
months. The old index is replaced in a process known as a roll
that allows companies to be removed if they no longer have
appropriate credit grades, aren’t among the most actively traded
borrowers or fail to meet other criteria. Any companies that
defaulted are also replaced.  In September, the new series 19 of the Markit CDX North
American Investment Grade Index added Ford Motor Co.,
MeadWestvaco Corp. and Staples Inc., replacing CA Inc., GATX
Corp. and a unit of Vornado Realty Trust.  Intercontinental, which owns the world’s largest
clearinghouse for credit-default swaps, plans to offer futures
that mimic the performance of the swap indexes later this year,
the people said. Those contracts will reference the basket of
companies and face the effects of any defaults, the people said.  The idea behind the first contracts is to offer investors a
new product, rather than one that mirrors an existing index,
they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 