-- Iogen Focusing on Biofuels in Brazil After Selling Enzyme Unit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-02-01T00:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/iogen-focusing-on-biofuels-in-brazil-after-selling-enzyme-unit.html
Iogen Corp., a closely held
biotechnology company, is focusing on producing ethanol from
sugar cane waste in  Brazil  after selling its industrial enzyme
business to  Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , according to Chief Executive Officer
Brian Foody.  “We’re fully focused on making cellulosic ethanol a big
success,” Foody said today by telephone. The fuel is made from
non-food sources such as agricultural waste, wood or energy
crops. Iogen began production in 2004 at a  demonstration plant 
in Ottawa, the same city in which it’s based. The company hasn’t
completed a commercial-scale facility.  Novozymes today agreed to pay as much as C$80 million
($80.2 million) for Iogen’s Bio-Products unit, which makes
enzymes for textile makers, grain processors and pulp and paper
producers. Iogen also gave Novozymes an exclusive license for
its enzyme technology for cellulosic ethanol and won’t use it in
the future, Foody said. Iogen retains other processing
technologies for making cellulosic ethanol, “but we’ll be doing
it with other people’s enzymes,” he said.  Foody also leads Iogen Energy, a venture half-owned by
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which in 2011 said it would transfer the
shares to its Raizen venture with Cosan SA Industria & Comercio.
Iogen is expected to help design Raizen’s first project in
Brazil, though the Shell and Cosan venture has yet to complete
its investment, according to Foody.  “It will be a big step forward when Raizen decides to
proceed, and it would be a setback if they decided not to
proceed,” Foody said. “There’s no magic in that.”  Proceeds from the Bio-Products sale will be used to pay off
debt, Foody said.  Iogen hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in 2010 to evaluate
strategic alternatives, and that culminated in Shell’s decision
in April to cancel a cellulosic ethanol project in Manitoba and
eliminate 150 jobs at Iogen, Foody said. A total of 50 employees
remain after today’s sale, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  