-- Lira Keeps Gains After Embassy Blast as PMI Buoys Rate Outlook
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-02-01T16:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/lira-keeps-gains-after-embassy-blast-as-pmi-buoys-rate-outlook.html
The lira remained higher after a
blast at the U.S. embassy in Ankara, heading for the strongest
level in 11 months, as data showed Turkish output grew at the
fastest pace in 22 months. Benchmark bonds climbed.  The advance added to five consecutive months of gains
through January, the longest stretch since July 2007. A rise in
the purchasing manager’s index to 54 fueled speculation the
central bank won’t cut  interest rates  this month, underpinning
the currency’s advance.  “The data is supporting a broader strengthening of
economic activity,” Murat Yardimci, head of trading at ING Bank
AS in Istanbul, said by telephone today.  The lira appreciated 0.6 percent to 1.7482 per dollar by
6:15 p.m. in Istanbul, poised for its highest level since Feb.
20, even after the explosion that killed at least one person and
damaged the back gate outside the embassy complex. Yields on
two-year benchmark bonds closed five basis points lower at 5.8
percent, retreating for the first time in three days.  The lira jumped the most in two weeks yesterday after
December’s trade deficit narrowed to $7.18 billion, compared
with the median estimate of $9.45 billion in a Bloomberg survey
of 10 economists.  Turkish manufacturing conditions improved for a fifth month
as an increase in domestic business helped propel new orders at
the fastest pace since March 2011, according to  HSBC Holdings
Plc. (HSBA)   Central bank Governor Erdem Basci said on Jan. 29 “a
measured cut” in interest rates is possible if the real
effective  exchange rate , or REER, appreciates “excessively.”
 The bank  deploys the REER to monitor the lira against  Turkey ’s
trade partners and considers a reading of 120 or above as
excessive currency strength.  “We are estimating the REER at 118.5 and this is reducing
the chances of a rate cut this month as well,” said ING’s
Yardimci. The rate was 118.3 in December, according to the
central bank’s website.  The currency has gained 1.8 percent this year even as the
Turkish central bank cut interest rates by 0.25 percentage point
on Jan. 22 and Moody’s Investors Service dashed hopes for an
imminent rating upgrade in the market, saying “further
progress” is needed in lowering the current-account gap and
leaving it one level below investment grade.  “We expect the U.S. dollar-Turkish lira to remain within
its trading range between 1.7350 and 1.8400 in the coming
months,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt  said in a note published yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  