-- IRS Loses Bid for Power Over Tax Preparers Pending Appeal
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-02T01:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/irs-loses-bid-for-power-over-tax-preparers-pending-appeal.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service 
lost a bid to delay a court ruling blocking its regulation of as
many as 700,000 tax preparers while an appeal of the decision is
pending.  U.S. District Judge James Boasberg, while upholding his
order barring enforcement of the program’s licensing
requirements, modified it to say the IRS isn’t blocked from
testing preparers on a voluntary basis or keeping continuing
education centers open while the agency tries to overturn his
ruling at the appeals court in  Washington .  “But no tax-return preparer may be required to pay testing
or continuing-education fees or to complete any testing or
continuing education unless and until this injunction is stayed
or vacated by the Court of Appeals,” Boasberg said in an
opinion today in Washington.  Boasberg’s ruling “is a victory for tax preparers. They
will be able to continue preparing tax returns this season
without having to get permission from the IRS,” said Dan Alban,
an attorney with the  Institute for Justice , a self-described
libertarian public interest law firm in Arlington,  Virginia ,
representing three tax preparers who filed the suit.  Dean Patterson , a spokesman for the IRS, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  IRS Appeal  The IRS previously said it would appeal even if Boasberg
didn’t lift his injunction.  Boasberg invalidated the preparer oversight program on Jan.
18, ruling that the IRS overstepped its authority by relying on
an 1884 law that allows it to regulate people presenting cases
before the Treasury Department.  The program required preparers to register with the federal
government, pass a competency test and meet continuing-education
requirements. A 15-hour continuing-education regime began in
2012 and the testing was set to go into effect this year.  The registration component of the program remains in
effect, according to Boasberg’s order today.  Public Accountants  The rules were designed to impose standards on
return preparers who aren’t certified public accountants,
attorneys or enrolled agents already licensed to practice before
the IRS.  They affect independent tax preparers as well as those who
work for large companies like  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)   The IRS asked Boasberg to lift the injunction for the
duration of an appeal to prevent the waste of more than $50
million spent so far to operate the program and limit exposure
to lawsuits and demands for refunds of user fees.  The injunction was modified “to make it clear that its
requirements are less burdensome than the IRS claims,” Boasberg
wrote.  The case is Loving v.  Internal Revenue Service , 12-
cv-00385, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  