-- Mitsubishi UFJ Profit Jumps as Stock Rally Boosts Fee Income
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-02-01T09:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/mitsubishi-ufj-quarterly-profit-jumps-as-stock-rally-boosts-fees.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
 Japan ’s biggest bank, doubled its third-quarter profit as the
country’s stock rally helped boost fee income and reduced its
losses from shareholdings.  Net income  jumped to 242 billion yen ($2.6 billion) in the
three months ended Dec. 31 from 119.7 billion yen a year
earlier. Quarterly earnings were calculated by subtracting
first-half profit from nine-month figures reported in a
statement today.  Mitsubishi UFJ joins  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) 
and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in posting higher quarterly
earnings as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledge to stimulate the
economy fueled the rebound in Japanese stocks. The bank’s
lending income fell 7.8 percent even amid signs of a recovery in
borrowing demand at home.  “We are witnessing signs of a fundamental recovery,”
Toyoki Sameshima, a Tokyo-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA, said
before today’s announcement. “Some of the banks’ impairment
charges on equity holdings were erased and brokerage units’
earnings were helped by the stock rally.”  Third-quarter income from fees and commissions rose 8.5
percent to 244 billion yen, offsetting a decline in lending
profit to 433.5 billion yen, according to calculations based on
today’s statement. Profit from trading  government bonds  and
other securities plunged 22 percent.  Earnings for the period beat the the 238.5 billion yen
average  estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stock Rebound  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ slipped 1.2 percent to close at
515 yen in Tokyo ahead of the earnings announcement. The stock
climbed 26 percent last quarter. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) 
rose 0.5 percent today, capping a 12-week advance, the longest
weekly winning streak since at least 1970.  Japan’s economy, the world’s third largest, is showing
recovery signs following two quarters of contraction. Industrial
production rose the most in 18 months in December, government
figures showed yesterday.  Loans outstanding at Japan’s city banks rose 0.3 percent in
December, the first increase since October 2009, according to
central bank data. Including regional banks,  lending  increased
1.4 percent.  Overseas Expansion  The nation’s anemic demand for lending has spurred
Mitsubishi UFJ,  Sumitomo Mitsui  and Mizuho to seek loan growth
abroad through acquisitions.  Mitsubishi UFJ, a 22 percent stakeholder of Morgan Stanley
and the owner of San Francisco-based UnionBanCal Corp., is now
targeting additional acquisitions in the U.S., Takashi Morimura,
deputy president at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., said in
an interview last month.  The bank in December clinched a 15.5 trillion dong ($744
million) deal to buy a 20 percent stake in VietinBank, marking
the biggest Japanese investment in a Vietnamese bank.  Profit for the nine months ended Dec. 31 dropped 35 percent
to 532.5 billion yen, the company said in the statement.
Mitsubishi UFJ maintained its profit target of 670 billion yen
for the year ending March.  The decline in nine-month profit reflects a year-ago gain
of 291 billion yen from converting its  Morgan Stanley (MS)  shares
into common stock.  Losses Ease  The bank’s losses from shareholdings eased to 90.9 billion
yen in the nine months ended Dec. 31, from 173.6 billion yen in
the six months through Sept. 30. The losses were 41 percent
lower than 155 billion yen posted a year earlier, according to
the statement.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s profit growth was boosted by an earnings
rebound at its brokerage  business . Mitsubishi UFJ Securities
Holdings Co. yesterday posted a profit of 10.1 billion yen last
quarter, reversing from a loss of 12.3 billion yen.  Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-largest bank by market
value, on Jan. 30 posted third-quarter net income of 219.4
billion yen, more than doubling from a year earlier and putting
it on pace to post a record annual profit. The bank’s SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. unit rebounded to a profit in the period.  Mizuho, the third largest, yesterday said profit surged
207.5 billion yen last quarter from 16.3 billion yen a year,
also helped by a return to profit at its brokerage unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  