-- J&J Failed to Weigh Hip Metal Debris Risk, Witness Says
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/j-j-failed-to-weigh-risk-of-metal-debris-from-hips-witness-says.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s DePuy unit failed
to consider the harmful effects of chromium and cobalt debris in
designing the 93,000 all-metal hip implants J&J later recalled,
a toxicologist told a California jury.  DePuy should have analyzed and tested for the effects of
those metals before selling ASR XL in the U.S. in 2005, Robert
Harrison, a professor of medicine at the University of
California, San Francisco, told jurors yesterday in state court
in Los Angeles.  Harrison testified at the first of 10,000 lawsuits to go to
trial over claims that J&J defectively designed the ASR hip and
failed to warn of risks. At the time of the August 2010 recall,
J&J said 12 percent failed. Analysts say the lawsuits may cost
J&J billions of dollars. Harrison was a witness for Loren
Kransky, a Montana man who is suing over his failed hip.  “I would have advised to do a very thorough and careful
analysis of chromium and cobalt toxicity and the potential that
this could be a problem from this particular hip design,”
Harrison said. He also said DePuy should have done studies
“before the product was put on the market.”  Lawyers for Kransky, 65, claim that DePuy poorly designed
the ASR and failed to test it adequately. They say the ASR
generated debris from a metal ball placed atop the femur and
rotating in a metal cup implanted in the hip. That debris
blackened tissue and entered the bloodstream, Kransky claims.  Harmful Levels  J&J, the world’s largest seller of health-care products,
denies it defectively designed the ASR or that it contributed to
Kransky’s elevated metal levels. J&J, based in New Brunswick,
New Jersey, blames them on poor health, including his diabetes,
high blood pressure and cholesterol, strokes and kidney cancer.
Kransky, J&J argues, is a vasculopath, which means he has
diseased blood vessels throughout his entire body.  Harrison said the  California  Poison Control System has said
that cobalt levels above 7 micrograms per liter are harmful.
Kransky, who had his ASR hip implanted in December 2007, had a
level of 53.6 on Sept. 1, 2011, or almost eight times the
acceptable level, he said. After Kransky had the ASR replaced in
a revision surgery in February 2012, his level dropped to 5
micrograms per liter.  “The higher the dose, the greater the poisonous effect,”
said Harrison, who was paid $500 hour an hour by the plaintiffs
for his work on the case.  Harrison said the poisoning can damage tissues near the
hip, and it can be systemic as the metal circulates in the
bloodstream. The metals can kill cells, he said.  ‘Not Poisonous’  On Jan. 17, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued an
advisory about metal-on-metal hip implants that said the agency
“does not have enough scientific data to specify the
concentration of metal ions in a patient’s body or blood
necessary to produce adverse systemic effects.”  Harrison was asked whether he agreed with a statement made
by J&J attorney Alexander Calfo said in his opening statement on
Jan. 25: “Chromium and cobalt and the ASR hip, ladies and
gentlemen, they’re not poisonous. They did not poison Mr.
Kransky.”  “I don’t agree,” Harrison said. “It’s just incorrect,
plain and simple. It’s incorrect to say that chromium and cobalt
are not poisonous. They are toxic. We’ve known this for
decades.”  On cross-examination by Calfo, Harrison said he never did a
study to determine the adverse level of chromium and cobalt.  DePuy Engineer  After Harrison’s testimony, Kransky attorney Michael Kelly
resumed questioning of Graham Isaac, a DePuy engineer who
testified Jan. 31 about his work on the design of the device.  Kelly asked Isaac about a series of e-mails about surgeons
who complained of problems with ASR hips. On June 28, 2006, an
e-mail between DePuy sales people discussed Dr. Paul Bom, a
Netherlands orthopedic surgeon who implanted about 100 ASRs a
year. He said that two patients had pain and high concentrations
of metal ion levels about a year after their implant.  His results “show a significance in failure rates for the
ASR,” said the e-mail. “He will not use the ASR any more for
this reason.” The e-mail said Bom’s statement “is a huge
problem for us as all other ASR users will listen to Dr. Bom.”  Isaac said he couldn’t recall if anyone told DePuy’s
vigilance and complaint committee about Bom.  David Beverland, a surgeon in Northern Ireland, e-mailed
Isaac on May 15, 2006, to report a second patient with problems.  “I’m just wondering if any of the other surgeons have had
a similar problem,” he wrote. “Do you have any way of asking
them.”  More Pain  Isaac said he talked to Beverland, a personal friend,
although he can’t remember the conversation or if he logged the
complaint internally. Kelly said Beverland quit using the ASR in
May 2007 because his patients were having much more pain.  Asked if DePuy told other doctors about the experiences of
Bom or Beverland, Isaac said: “You wouldn’t typically tell
anyone that someone had stopped using our product or had started
using it. We wouldn’t necessarily tell the physicians about a
small number of cases until we were sure of the data.”  In March 2009, Beverland e-mailed a researcher at DePuy,
saying he had implanted 158 ASR cups.  “My concern is that this is the tip of the iceberg and
that there are many more patients out there having problems,”
Beverland wrote. “Two new problems appeared last week.”  Kelly asked if Beverland’s complaints prompted DePuy to
consider suspending sales of the ASR.  “I don’t believe we did,” Isaac said.  Beverland e-mailed Isaac in May 2010 to say that he had
spoken with another British surgeon, Antoni Nargol, and both men
agreed that their ASR failure rate was around 17 percent.  “This ASR problem has to date been the worst problem I
have had in my surgical career -- it has been a real nightmare -
- I am still seeing at least one patient for revision at every
problem clinic,” Beverland wrote. “It was a relief to speak to
someone like Tony who has been having similar problems.”  The Kransky case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California
Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maurice Possley in Los Angeles Superior Court
at  mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  