-- Japan Olympic Committee Widens Probe After Judo Athletes Abused
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-02-01T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/japan-olympic-committee-widens-probe-after-judo-athletes-abused.html
The  Japanese Olympic Committee  will
widen an investigation into violence in other sports after a
coach on the national women’s judo league said he will resign
over abuse by trainers, including beatings with bamboo rods.  After identifying and punishing judo trainers who
participated in the abuse, officials will broaden their
investigation to include other Japanese sports leagues, said
Masato Mizuno, vice president of the country’s Olympic
committee.  “We’ll investigate whether anything happened in other
sports,” Mizuno said in an interview yesterday. He said he
hasn’t heard of any other specific reports of abuse outside of
the women’s judo league.  The head coach of the national women’s judo team, Ryuji
Sonoda, said on Thursday that he would resign after the league
confirmed allegations that athletes were slapped, kicked and
beaten with bamboo swords, the Asahi newspaper  reported  in its
English-language edition. All  Japan  Judo Federation President
Haruki Uemura also announced his resignation from his post as an
athletic training director with the national Olympic committee.  The allegations of abuse by Sonoda and other coaches were
originally detailed in a December complaint by 15 judo athletes,
including a medalist at the London Olympics, to the Japanese
Olympic Committee, the Asahi reported, citing unidentified
committee and judo federation officials.  ‘Adversity Creates Character’  The abuse is consistent with a pattern of violence within
Japanese sports, where an authoritarian culture allows coaches
to beat their athletes in the name of training, said Lee
Thompson, a professor of sports sociology at Tokyo’s  Waseda
University .  “There’s the idea that adversity creates character and so
the coach is trying to create this adversity for the student,”
Thompson said. “At least this is some of the justification for
it. I think what actually happens is people get angry and they
do what was done to them.”  A 17-year-old captain of a high-school basketball team in
 Osaka  hanged himself in December after telling his mother that
he had been beaten 30 to 40 times, Kyodo news service  reported 
on Jan. 12. The coach said he had slapped the teen “to make the
team stronger,” Kyodo said, citing Osaka’s board of education.
The report did not identify the teen or the coach.  In 2007, 17-year-old sumo trainee Takashi Saito died after
being beaten with  beer bottles  and a baseball bat at his
wrestling stable. The former master of the stable, Junichi
Yamamoto, was convicted in May 2009 in Saito’s death by a court
that ruled he had ordered three senior wrestlers to mete out the
abuse as part of his training.  Mizuno said that any trainers found to have beaten athletes
would be disciplined and that the organization would work to
prevent the recurrence of any abuse.  Although no members of the  International Olympic Committee 
reviewing Tokyo’s bid to host the 2020 games have expressed
reservations about the judo violence, Japan’s committee was
working to show that it will not tolerate any abuse by trainers,
Mizuno said.  “We have to train or motivate athletes without using
violence,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  