-- Japan Said to Have Bought 10.3 Percent of ESM Bonds in January
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-02-01T08:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/japan-said-to-have-bought-10-3-percent-of-esm-bonds-in-january.html
Japan  purchased 10.3 percent of bonds
issued by the  European Stability Mechanism  last month, a step
which may help to deflect overseas criticism of the country’s
monetary easing.  The Japanese government bought 400 million euros ($545
million) of the European rescue fund’s debt auctioned in
January, a finance ministry official who asked not to be named
due to the ministry’s policy said today.  Japan may point to its efforts to aid  Europe  to try to
deflect complaints from officials in that region about measures
to drive down the yen. The currency has fallen more than 17
percent against the euro in three months as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe calls for unlimited monetary easing to end more than
a decade of  deflation .  “Japan’s purchase of ESM bonds can help quiet overseas
criticism on the policy of weakening the yen,” said Takahiro Sekido, a strategist in  Tokyo  at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. who formerly worked at the  Bank of Japan. (8301)  Countries know
Japan’s debt purchases contribute to global financial stability
and they probably won’t single out Japan for criticism at the
Group of Twenty meeting in Moscow this month, Sekido said.  The yen slid 1 percent to 125.79 per euro, the least since
April 2010, before trading at 125.56 at 4:51 p.m. in Tokyo. It
sank 0.6 percent to 92.15 per dollar after earlier touching
92.30, the weakest since June 2010.  The ESM was inaugurated in October 2012 and will run in
parallel with the European Financial Stability Facility, the
temporary rescue program formed in 2010 to provide loans to
European Union countries. Japan had purchased about 7 billion
euros of EFSF bonds, or 6.7 percent of total issuance, by the
end of 2012, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Push Back  Japanese officials have pushed back at criticism of the
nation’s monetary policy, with Deputy Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura asking for Japan’s policies to be evaluated overall.  “Europe is in no position to criticize Japan,” Nishimura,
50, said in an interview on Jan. 24. “Europe has brought about
a prolonged weakness of the euro as a result of their own
policies, while Japan has supported Europe through purchases of
bonds.”  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President
 James Bullard  said Jan. 10 that he’s “a little disturbed” by
Japan’s stance and the risk of “beggar-thy-neighbor” policies.
U.S. automakers have said an undervalued yen distorts trade and
stunts job growth for American manufacturers.  European Central Bank  governing council member Jens Weidmann last month warned against “politicizing” the yen
exchange rate. Michael Meister, the parliamentary finance
spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party, said that
Japan risks retaliatory action by G-20 nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  