-- Jefferson County Trustee to Halt Payments, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-02-01T22:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/jefferson-county-bond-trustee-to-suspend-payments-lawyer-says.html
The trustee for Jefferson County,
 Alabama , warrant holders will suspend debt payments on at least
part of about $3.2 billion in debt tied to the county’s
insolvent sewage system, a lawyer said.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the trustee responsible for
collecting payments from the bankrupt county and passing them on
to investors, informed warrant holders of the halt today,
attorney Gerald F. Mace said at a hearing in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Birmingham, Alabama.  The trustee plans to ask the judge overseeing Jefferson
County’s bankruptcy for permission to sue the county so it can
accelerate repayment of the debt, Mace said. “We thought you
ought to know,” Mace told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett.  Mace, an attorney with Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis LLP,
declined to comment on the reasons for the suspension.  The notice informing warrant holders that they wouldn’t be
paid claimed that the sewage system isn’t generating enough
revenue to cover debt service.  The trustee is battling the county in Bennett’s court over
control of sewer rates and in a federal appeals court over
whether the county, or a receiver, should run the sewage system.  Also at the hearing today, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett said he would extend the court fight in order to give
the county time to present its case later. He asked both sides
to submit by Wednesday a new schedule for finishing the hearing.  Rate Increase  The trustee is asking Bennett for permission to sue the
county in state court, where a judge in 2011 gave control of the
sewage system to a receiver. The trustee would then ask a state
court judge to impose a rate increase high enough to raise
revenues by 22 percent.  In 2011, the county filed bankruptcy, preventing the
receiver, who represents the interest of the warrant holders,
from raising sewer rates by 25 percent. After the filing,
Bennett returned control of the system to county officials.  Warrant holders have appealed that decision, asking the
federal appellate court in Atlanta to put the receiver back in
charge of the system.  Warrant holders claim the county is intentionally keeping
rates low in order to boost their bargaining power over
investors and force a write down of the debt. A consultant hired
by the trustee testified yesterday that the system could repay
its debt by boosting rates above 20 percent for multiple years,
followed by smaller increases.  Another Boost  Jefferson County adopted a 5.9 percent rate increase and
may consider another boost, according to court documents. The
county denied the trustee’s claim that it is limiting rate
increases so that it can negotiate bigger cuts on what it must
repay on the sewer warrants.  For months, the county and its major creditors have tried
to negotiate a plan to cut the sewer debt and end the biggest-
ever municipal U.S. bankruptcy.  Jefferson County filed for bankruptcy in 2011, a few months
after warrant holders persuaded a state court to install a
receiver to run the system and raise rates so the debt could be
repaid.  After the bankruptcy filing, Bennett returned control of
the system to the county. Since then, the county and the trustee
have battled over how much money the county can spend on
upgrading and operating the system and how much must go to
warrant holders.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  