-- Kassay Turns Silver Deposit, Acrylic Into Gold: Interview
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/kassay-turns-silver-deposit-acrylic-into-gold-interview.html
Artfully put together 20-somethings
mingled with fur-bedecked matrons of a certain age for the
opening of Jacob Kassay’s show at the  Kitchen  in Chelsea.  Dressed in a bright print shirt and glasses, the 28-year-
old artist stood in a far corner of the gallery, next to one of
his signature burnished silver paintings -- a similar work sold
at  Phillips de Pury  in 2011 for $290,500.  The occasional flash of an iPhone illuminated the artworks,
most of which were oddly-shaped, raw canvases, formed out of
left-over material.  Kassay left  Eleven Rivington  about six months ago and is
now represented only by galleries in Europe:  Art Concept  in
Paris, and  Xavier Hufkens  in Brussels.  The day before the opening, Kassay met me at the Kitchen,
which was in a state of disarray. As we wandered through the
space, canvases were folded up in corners and walls in the room
had yet to be built.  Tarmy: Can you tell me about your new show?  Kassay: All of the work is within the last year. I don’t
want to give away too much, but works are in other places in the
building as well, like some will be here in the theater, some
will be in the offices.  Tarmy: If people come to see the exhibition and the theater
is closed, are they only getting a partial experience of your
work?  Kassay: I don’t think that there’s any chance that they
could come to an understanding of the work as a whole -- as I
imagine it anyway, so what’s the idea of being “complete?”  I might be the only one who gets to see everything that’s a
part of it.  High Prices  Tarmy: Does the knowledge that your work is selling for
hundreds of thousands of dollars affect how you make it?  Kassay: In one sense, of course it has to. But all you have
to do is take a break and continue what you’ve been doing. Are
you really not going to trust yourself to keep making the
decisions that got you to this point in the first place?  I don’t think you make good work or even keep a level head
by listening to a lot of people.  Tarmy: Do you collect art?  Kassay: Sure. I got a Scott Lyall painting, the first thing
that I ever bought. I had a Franz Erhard Walther given to me
once and that was an amazing gift, and I’ve traded a lot of
work.  Tarmy: Do you invest? How do you handle your money?  Art Investing  Kassay: Poorly. I just bought a painting -- I guess some
people consider that an investment. But I wasn’t kidding when I
said I handled my money poorly. It’s a separate job, you know,
to actually deal with it.  Tarmy: It’s a little surprising that you don’t have a
gallery representing you in the U.S. Do people now try to
contact you directly?  Kassay: I’ve had that happen a couple of times. Someone
contacted me from  Europe  asking me to collaborate on some sort
of jewelry design with him.  I had to say no, because that’s just not what I do. Stick
to what you’re good at.  Tarmy: What’s next?  Kassay: I don’t know. I can really only talk about what’s
in front of me. And everything’s been going so well here -- this
might be a bad thing, but no one’s said “no” to a decision
that I’ve made so far.  That’s not to say that everyone is saying “yes” to
everything I say, either.  Tarmy: So you don’t have a career plan?  Kassay: I don’t know that it’s a career yet. I’ve laid out
the next five months of my life -- isn’t that planning far
enough ahead?  “Jacob Kassay: Untitled” runs through Feb. 16 at the
Kitchen, 512 W. 19th St. Information: +1-646-481-4704;
 http://thekitchen.org .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s  podcast  and Zinta
Lundborg on  Best Weekend .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in  New York :  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  