-- MTN Didn’t Bribe for Turkcell’s Iran License, Report Says
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-02-01T14:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/mtn-didn-t-pay-bribes-for-turkcell-s-iran-license-report-finds.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
mobile-phone operator, didn’t break the law to obtain a
wireless-service license in Iran, according to the findings of
an internal investigation.  MTN-appointed investigators, led by former U.K. House of
Lords Judge Leonard Hoffmann, found no evidence of bribes or
promises to get the South African government to support Iran’s
nuclear policy at the  International Atomic Energy Agency , the
company said today in a statement.  Turkcell Iletisim Hismet AS (TCELL)  is suing MTN in the U.S. for
$4.2 billion, alleging it bribed officials, arranged meetings
between Iranian and South African leaders, and promised Iran
weapons and United Nations votes in exchange for a license to
provide mobile-phone service in Iran.  Turkey ’s largest mobile-
phone company said it was initially awarded the license, which
was then given to MTN in 2005.  “MTN did the right thing,” Steve Minnaar, a portfolio
manager at Abax Investments who helps oversee $6.7 billion, said
by phone from  Cape Town . “We’re not entirely surprised by the
outcome. Not because it’s from an MTN-appointed committee, but
because the nature and extent of the allegations seemed spurious
and vindictive.”  The report doesn’t change the court proceedings and the
case will continue, David Farber, Turkcell’s U.S. counsel, said
by mobile phone from Washington D.C. today.  U.S. Decision  The Turkish company contends the 1789 Alien Tort Statute
gives it the right to sue MTN in American courts, a stance
opposed by MTN.  Reggie Walton , a U.S. district court judge,
decided on Oct. 12 to put the case on hold pending a Supreme
Court ruling.  Turkcell’s allegations are “a fabric of lies, distortions
and inventions,” according to the statement on the Hoffmann
Committee findings. There was no conspiracy between MTN and
Iranian officials, it said.  MTN  rose  as much as 1.6 percent and was up 0.2 percent to
175.50 rand by 4:09 p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  