-- Naked Sovereign CDS Ban to Apply to Market-Makers, ESMA Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-02-01T16:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/naked-sovereign-cds-ban-to-apply-to-market-makers-esma-says.html
The European Union’s top markets
regulator granted market-makers an exemption from some tougher
rules on short-selling, while stopping short of allowing them to
trade naked sovereign credit-default swaps.  The  European Securities and Markets Authority , set up in
2011 to harmonize rules across the bloc, said products that
aren’t traded on a regulated market, including sovereign CDS,
wouldn’t qualify for the exemption.  “ESMA has taken considerable time to closely consider the
regulation and explore through a legal analysis whether there
were ways to accommodate non-admitted/non-traded instruments,”
the Paris-based agency said in a report on its website today.
“Results of the analysis led to a negative conclusion.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and lawmakers in
the European Parliament have called for a ban on naked CDS
trades on government debt over concerns the practice fueled the
euro-area debt crisis. Germany already has restrictions on using
swaps to bet on sovereign defaults. The EU agreed on short-
selling restrictions, including on sovereign CDS, last year.
ESMA’s guidelines clarified whether market-makers were subject
to the curbs.  Credit-default swaps are derivatives that pay the buyer
face value if a borrower -- a country or a company -- defaults.
In exchange, the swap seller gets the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent. Traders in naked credit-default swaps buy
and sell insurance on bonds they don’t own.  A market maker maintains a liquid market for a particular
security by buying and selling as circumstances require.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  