-- National Oilwell Profit Rises on Deepwater Gear Orders
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-02-01T12:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/national-oilwell-profit-rises-on-deepwater-gear-orders.html
National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , the
largest U.S. maker of oilfield equipment, said fourth quarter
profit rose as customers boosted orders for deepwater rigs.  Net income climbed to $668 million, or $1.56 a share, from
$574 million, or $1.35, a year earlier, Houston-based National
Oilwell Varco said today in a statement on Business Wire.
Excluding one-time items, the company earned five cents more
than the $1.44 average of 27 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Brent oil prices, an international benchmark, rose 1
percent to average $110.13 in the quarter. The company’s biggest
ticket item is its sale of a drilling-rig package that makes up
almost half the cost of a $600 million ultra-deepwater vessel.  “The momentum continues in the deepwater,” Trey Stolz, an
analyst at Iberia Capital Partners in New Orleans, said in a
telephone interview before the earnings were released. He rates
the shares at outperform, which means investors should buy the
stock, and owns none. National Oilwell is likely to win
deepwater rig packages that are currently under construction
because they’ve won contracts from the companies in the past,
Stolz said.  Operating profit for the rig-technology segment, the
company’s largest unit, was expected to grow 2.3 percent to $617
million compared to a year earlier, Jeff Tillery, an analyst at
Tudor Pickering Holt & Co., said in a telephone interview before
the earnings were released.  The earnings statement was released before the start of
regular trading on U.S. markets. National Oilwell has 28 buy
ratings from analysts and seven holds. The shares rose 0.7
percent to $74.14 yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  