-- NBA Union Chief Billy Hunter Put on Indefinite Leave by Players
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/nba-union-chief-hunter-placed-on-leave-executive-committee-says.html
Billy Hunter has been placed on
indefinite leave by the executive committee of the National
Basketball Players Association in what might be the first step
in removing him as executive director, according to a statement
from the organization’s executive committee.  Staff attorney Ron Klempner will serve as interim executive
director, according to the statement released yesterday.  “I am deeply troubled by the lack of fundamental fairness
shown my client by a group whose authority to take such action
is highly questionable,” Hunter’s attorney, Thomas Ashley, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We believe his contract is valid and
we will soon offer a comprehensive rebuttal.”  Hunter, 70, has been criticized after an independent report
found that he put personal interests ahead of the association,
failed to manage conflicts of interest and didn’t disclose that
his $3 million-a-year contract wasn’t properly ratified.  The report was issued about two weeks ago by the  New York 
law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, which
conducted a nine-month investigation into union practices.  “Immediate change is necessary and I, along with the
committee members, are committed to driving the process as
difficult as it may be,” union President Derek Fisher said in
the statement.  Federal Probe  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in Manhattan is conducting an
investigation begun after Fisher called for a review of union
business practices.  Being put on leave possibly denies Hunter the opportunity
to lobby for support during the Feb. 15-17 All-Star break in
Houston, where the players are scheduled to convene to decide
the union’s future.  “Mr. Hunter was not given any opportunity to respond to
the Paul, Weiss report prior to the time that a decision was
made to place him on administrative leave,” Ashley said
yesterday. “He was never given an opportunity to defend himself
or refute the allegations made in the report.”  The union said in the statement that it had formed an
interim executive committee as well as an advisory committee to
move the organization forward. The interim executive committee
will be comprised of all five active members of the most recent
executive panel.  In addition, the union said, the players would retain
outside counsel to help the committees and players in their next
moves.  Family Members  The New York-based union paid almost $4.8 million to
Hunter’s family members and their professional firms since 2001,
according to public records as reported by Bloomberg News in
April. Hunter, who makes $3 million a year, announced the
terminations of family members this week and said he would
implement an antinepotism policy.  Robyn Hunter, the director’s daughter, ceased working at
the National Basketball Players Association on Jan. 25. Megan Inaba, his daughter-in-law and director of special events and
sponsorships, will leave on Feb. 17.  Hunter also secured a letter of resignation from Prim
Capital, which employs his son, Todd.  Arn Tellem, one of the most influential agents in
basketball, sent a letter this week to his clients saying Hunter
should be fired.  Tellem, in a telephone interview, called yesterday’s action
by the players “a necessary first step.”  “The players need a leader of integrity and strong moral
character who will put the needs of the membership first and
champion their cause,” he said.  Hunter responded to Tellem’s letter to clients in a
statement, saying he has always looked after the players’
interests, even if their agents didn’t. He also said the agents
have never been satisfied that they couldn’t control the union
for their own agendas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  