-- NBC News President Steve Capus Steps Down After Two Decades
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-02-01T20:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/nbc-news-president-steve-capus-to-step-down.html
Steve Capus, president of NBC News,
is leaving the broadcaster, which has been making changes in its
executive ranks as it loses ground to ABC’s morning shows.  In a memo to employees today, Capus said he informed Pat Fili-Krushel, NBCUniversal News Group’s chairman, of his
departure. Fili-Krushel will begin looking for a replacement
“in the coming weeks,” Capus said in the memo obtained by
Bloomberg News. NBC is a unit of cable carrier  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   Capus joined NBC in 1993 and became the news division’s
president in 2005 under Jeff Zucker, who left the company in
2011 and was named president of  CNN  in November. Capus began
reporting last year to Fili-Krushel, who was hired as part of a
reorganization to improve collaboration between NBC News, CNBC,
 MSNBC  and the Weather Channel.  NBC’s “Today” show is losing to ABC’s “Good Morning
America” in the 25- to 54-year-old ratings demographic coveted
by advertisers, after a 16-year run on top. Capus replaced Ann Curry with Savannah Guthrie as Matt Lauer’s co-host last year,
aiming to reinvigorate the show. NBC also named Alexandra
Wallace and Don Nash to lead “Today” last year, taking over
for executive producer Jim Bell.  Capus will be pursuing “the next phase of his career,”
according to a memo by Fili-Krushel, who didn’t provide
specifics. Christa Robinson, a CNN spokeswoman, declined to
comment on whether Capus would join Zucker.  NBC, majority-owned by Philadelphia-based Comcast, is
creating an interim leadership structure in its news division
until a replacement for Capus is named, Fili-Krushel said.
Wallace will oversee “NBC Nightly News” in addition to
“Today” and “Rock Center,” Fili-Krushel said.  ABC is owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  