-- Netanyahu Juggles Coalition Talks to Steer Post-Fischer Economy
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-02-01T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/netanyahu-juggles-coalition-talks-to-steer-post-fischer-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  waited six
days before calling Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to
congratulate him for “winning a plurality of Knesset seats.”  There wasn’t much more he could say, because the fragmented
results of Israel’s Jan. 22 election mean voters won’t learn who
really won for another month or so. President Shimon Peres is
set later today to formally give Netanyahu, 63, the go-ahead to
start coalition talks. Because he emerged weakened from the
vote, Netanyahu will have to cede to a variety of partners to
build a sustainable majority in the 120-seat parliament.  Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer’s surprise decision
to step down in June may push Netanyahu to form a government
with Yair Lapid, the centrist second-place finisher, and
settlement champion Naftali Bennett, said Dani Filc, a political
scientist at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Beersheba.
That’s because the three agree on the need for fiscal
discipline, even as political disputes linger, he said.  “This gives Netanyahu his third term, and it can work for
all three of them,” Filc said. “He’s going to lose Fischer
soon, so he needs to address the economic problems and he’s not
in such a rush to deal with all the issues involved with the
Palestinians.”  Coalition-building is a perennial exercise in  Israel 
because no single party has ever managed to field a Knesset
majority alone. Netanyahu’s Likud-Beitenu ticket captured only
31 seats in last month’s election, down from the combined 42
seats controlled previously by the Likud and Yisrael Beitenu
parties, which formed an alliance for the election. Party
leaders had said they expected 45.  ‘Dance of Swords’  With 19 seats for his Yesh Atid party, Lapid was the first
potential partner summoned by Netanyahu after the vote as
pundits suggested he would be named either foreign, defense or
finance minister. The popular television news host and columnist
cautioned supporters in a Facebook posting that nothing was
assured going into coalition talks, which he described as a
“dance of swords” that may take more than a month.  Depending on which among 11 other parties in the Knesset
Netanyahu brings to his coalition, Israelis could find
themselves with a fiscally prudent leadership that slashes the
$10.6 billion budget deficit, a socially liberal Cabinet that
prods ultra-Orthodox rabbinical students into the army or an
internationally isolated government that again threatens to bomb
 Iran  and expands settlement construction in the West Bank.  Obama and Netanyahu have had a prickly relationship from
the time they took office in 2009 within three months of each
other, sparring on how to stop Iran’s nuclear program and
whether Israel should freeze settlement construction.  Campaign Promises  Netanyahu needs another 30 seats to clinch the coalition
and could use a few more to protect him against parliamentary
no-confidence votes. His initial overture to Lapid suggests
he’ll seek to move closer toward the political center, said Noah
Efron, a philosopher and social critic who teaches at Bar Ilan
University near Tel Aviv.  “The irony is that Netanyahu’s new coalition partners may
force him to make good on promises he made in his last term,
like getting ultra-orthodox men into the army and workplace,
cutting middle-class taxes and resuming peace talks,” said
Efron, author of the 2003 book, “Real Jews: Secular Versus
Ultra-Orthodox and the Struggle for Jewish Identity in Israel.”  On the other hand, Netanyahu may embrace the settler
movement by including Bennett, 40, head of the Jewish Home party
that came in fourth with 12 seats, as well as the ultra-Orthodox
Shas and United Torah Judaism parties. While newcomer Bennett’s
early popularity fed campaign declarations that he was a natural
partner for Netanyahu, settler leaders have been damping
expectations since the results emerged.  Lacking Leitmotif  “Netanyahu doesn’t have a real leitmotif,” said Yisrael
Harel, founding director of the Institute for Zionist Strategies
and a former chief of the settlers’ Yesha Council. “His main
motive is to be prime minister, and the only thing that’s deeply
rooted in him is economics.”  Netanyahu has said he wants to establish the broadest
government possible, a goal he briefly achieved last year when
he recruited the Kadima Party’s 28 Knesset members and his
coalition ballooned to 94. That arrangement lasted 70 days and
broke down over the issue of drafting the ultra-Orthodox. Kadima
won only two seats last week.  Probably left outside to lead the Knesset opposition are
Labor Party leader Shelly Yachimovich, who came in third with 15
seats; Meretz, which advocates territorial withdrawal to make
peace with the Palestinians; and three Arab parties that
together have 11 seats. Also unclear is the fate of former
Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni’s Hatenuah party, which gained a
less-than-expected six seats after running as the only major
party dedicated to engineering a peace agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  