-- Nigeria Spill Fines on Shell, Chevron, Not Backed by Law
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-02-01T11:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/nigeria-fines-on-shell-chevron-not-backed-by-law.html
Fines amounting to $8 billion sought
by Nigeria from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  for oil
spills are not backed by law, said Bukola Saraki, chairman of
the country’s Senate Committee on Environment.  “Under the existing law, there is no penalty for oil
spills apart from just to clean it up,” Saraki, a senator
representing the ruling People’s Democratic Party from central
Kwara state, said in an interview in Abuja on Jan. 29. “You
only pay 1 million naira ($6,362) for late reporting.”  Without the backing of law it is difficult for the  National
Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency , or Nosdra, to enforce
fines levied on oil companies, he said. Lawmakers have moved to
amend the law and stipulate tougher penalties, according to
Saraki.  Shell,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Chevron,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run
joint ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp. that pump more than 90 percent of the output of Africa’s
top oil producer.  Nosdra recommended to the government in July that Shell
should pay $5 billion for a December 2011 rupture from its
offshore Bonga field that spilled about 40,000 barrels of oil,
the country’s worst in more than a decade. The agency is also
seeking $3 billion from Chevron for a rig explosion that caused
a 46-day blaze in January last year on Nigeria’s Atlantic coast.
It has been unable enforce the penalties because “there’s no
law,” Saraki said.  Additional Penalties  The government is studying existing laws as they relate to
oil spills and will make pronouncements in due course,
Environment Minister Hadiza Mailafia said yesterday in Abuja
without giving further details. Precious Okolobo, Shell
spokesman in Nigeria, declined to comment when contacted on his
mobile phone. Chevron obeys the laws of the countries in which
it operates and won’t “comment on political matters,” Jim
Craig, a San Ramon, California-based spokesman, said in an e-
mailed response.  A new National Oil Pollution Management Agency Bill
proposes fines of 250,000 naira for every barrel of oil spilled
and will compel producers to pay compensation to affected
communities, Saraki said. The bill proposes additional penalties
of 15 billion naira for every onshore spill incident and 5
billion naira if it happens offshore, he said.  While improving the law will “definitely strengthen”
Nosdra’s capacity to monitor energy producers, tough measures
are unlikely to be enforced against companies engaged in
partnerships with the government, Nnimmo Bassey, executive
director of  Environmental Rights Action , an affiliate of  Friends
of the Earth  campaigning against oil pollution in Nigeria, said
by phone today from Benin City. “I think that’s the political
issue we still have to confront, no matter how good the law will
be.”  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous country with more than 160
million people, relies on oil for 95 percent of export earnings
and 80 percent of government revenue, according to the Petroleum
Ministry. With pipeline networks spread over the 70,000 square-
kilometre (43,500 square-mile) Niger River delta region and
largely unguarded, oil companies blame sabotage for most of the
spills.  A Dutch District Court in The Hague ruled on Jan. 30 that
Shell must pay compensation in one of five claims by Nigerian
villagers from the Niger delta for a spill from its facility
that affected their livelihood. Judge Henk Wien said Shell
wasn’t liable for four other claims.  Bonny Light crude, Nigeria’s leading export grade, rose
less than 1 percent to $117.41 as of 10.06 a.m. in  London . The
naira declined 0.1 percent to 157.20 a dollar as of 11.08 a.m.
in Lagos, the commercial capital, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  