-- North Dakota Owns Mineral Rights Near Water, Court Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/north-dakota-wins-court-ruling-on-mineral-rights-ownership.html
North Dakota  defeated a bid for
control of mineral deposits along navigable waterways by
landowners who claimed the rights are worth millions of dollars
in the second-biggest oil-producing U.S. state.  The ruling by Williams County District Court Judge  David W.
Nelson  resolves for now an almost year-old court battle over who
controls access to, and development of, subterranean resources
that riparian landowners have claimed between the typical high
and low watermarks.  “The court understands that its decision is not
necessarily the final word on this title question,” Williams
wrote in his three-page decision dated Jan. 28.  North Dakota ranks second among U.S. states in oil
production with more than 21 million barrels of crude being
produced in November, according to U.S. Energy Information
Administration  data .  The oil, extracted from the Bakken shale formation, has
spurred an economic boom that has put the state at the top of
Bloomberg economic health data for its increasing employment
rates, personal income and  tax revenue .  The Bakken formation is part of a geologic region called
the Williston Basin, centered beneath the city of Williston,
where Nelson heard arguments over the mineral rights issue on
Dec. 17.  Shore Zone  While the oil in question is about two miles below the
surface of what the parties called the “shore zone,” its
extraction is performed by horizontal drilling, or fracking,
plaintiffs’ lawyer Jan Conlin told the court then.  Conlin contended that the state relinquished title to the
strata when it set the boundary for its own riparian rights at
the low water mark when it entered the union in 1889.  Assistant Attorney General Charles Carvell disputed that
argument. State Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem’s office had
previously argued in court papers the land had public value
beyond that found in its resources.  “We believe the district court decision correctly
determined the status of the law in this important case,”
Stenehjem said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Still, this
was only the first step. We hope to have this matter presented
to the North Dakota  Supreme Court  as expeditiously as possible.
They will likely have the final word in the matter.”  Conlin, in a phone interview yesterday, said her clients
would appeal.  “We’ve always said the judge’s ruling would be the first
step in getting this issue before the Supreme Court,” she said.
“We’re moving ahead.”  The case is Reep v.  State of North Dakota , 53-2012-
CV-00213, District Court of North Dakota, Northwest Judicial
Circuit (Williston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  