-- Norway May Boost Hydro Output 12% by 2020, Survey Shows
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-02-01T08:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/norway-may-boost-hydro-output-12-by-2020-survey-shows.html
Norway ,  Europe ’s biggest producer of
hydropower, may increase annual production by 12 percent through
2020 as the country strives to meet EU targets for higher
renewable energy output, an investor survey showed.  Hydropower investors are ready to build new plants and
upgrade existing stations, adding at least 15 terawatt-hours of
annual output to Norway’s average  130 terawatt-hours  over the
next eight years, a survey published today by the Oslo-based
Center for International Climate and Environmental Research,
 Cicero , showed.  “Investors believe in a surprisingly high potential for
raising production,” Kristin Linnerud, senior research fellow
at Cicero, said today by e-mail from the Norwegian capital.  According to an  agreement with the EU , Norway must step up
the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption
to 67.5 percent by 2020, an increase of 6.4 percentage points
from 2010. Meanwhile,  Norway  and  Sweden  plan to boost annual
renewable power production by 13.2 terawatt-hours each by 2020,
using  electricity certificate  subsidies tradeable in both
countries.  Altogether, hydropower developers have identified a
potential for raising annual output by as much as 20 terawatt-
hours, the survey showed. “However, they may underestimate the
complexity and costs related to winning licensing from Norway’s
water resources and energy directorate. I think 10 to 12
terawatt hours is more realistic, when accounting for limiting
factors such as access to financing and power grids,” Linnerud
said.  The Nordic country gets 99 percent of its electricity
consumption by running water through turbines. Increases in
power production are subject to  permits  from Norway’s Water
Resources and Energy Directorate.  Norway could double installed capacity in its hydropower
plants if it builds new cross-border links to ship the surplus
electricity abroad, Christian Rynning-Toennesen, chief executive
officer of  Statkraft SF, Norway’s biggest power producer, said
on Jan. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  