-- Mobile Apps Must Guard Privacy Or Laws Will, FTC Chief Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-02-01T18:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/mobile-apps-must-guard-privacy-or-risk-new-laws-leibowitz-says.html
Online companies may face action by
Congress to toughen U.S. privacy standards if they don’t do a
better job of protecting the privacy of mobile device users,
Federal Trade Commission Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said today.  If some companies “don’t wake up and do the right thing,
my sense is that industry is far more likely to face much more
prescriptive laws down the road,” Leibowitz, the outgoing FTC
head, said on a conference call with reporters. “I don’t think
that’s going to be very far down the road because privacy is the
quintessential bipartisan issue in Congress.”  The FTC today released a set of mobile-privacy
recommendations for application stores, such as those run by
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , app developers and online
advertising networks. FTC staff “strongly encourages”
companies to adopt the non-binding guidelines, the agency said
in a news  release .  The growing popularity of mobile devices and apps that can,
for example, track a user’s location and habits has prompted
hearings and proposals by U.S. lawmakers for privacy
legislation. Mobile application store revenue is expected to
reach $74 billion in 2016, from $15 billion last year, according
to technology research firm Gartner Inc.  ‘Massive’ Data  The FTC report is reminder to industry that the agency is
“on the case,” said  Jeffrey Chester , executive director of the
Center for Digital Democracy, a Washington-based privacy group.
At the same time, Chester said the report fell short by focusing
on how companies disclose their data practices without looking
at the broader issue of how they collect information from users.  “Consumers aren’t aware of the massive amounts of data
scooped out of the mobile device that are used, analyzed and
sold to the highest bidder,” Chester said.  The FTC also announced a settlement today with Path Inc.,
the developer of a mobile social-networking application, over
complaints that it deceived consumers by collecting personal
information from mobile address books.  As part of the settlement, Path will develop a
comprehensive privacy program and submit to independent privacy
assessments over the next 20 years, according to the FTC. The
company will also pay $800,000 to settle charges that it
illegally collected data from about 3,000 children without
getting their parents’ consent. Path said in a blog post that it
has since closed those accounts.  Leibowitz Leaving  The FTC mobile-privacy report is one of the agency’s last
actions under Leibowitz, who said that he will leave for the
private sector by Feb. 15 after eight years at the commission.  The report contains guidelines for mobile “platforms”
such as Apple and Google, recommending that they develop a
dashboard for users to see the type of content accessed by apps
they have downloaded; tell users to what extent they review apps
before making them available; and offer a “do not track”
mechanism to let consumers prevent tracking by ad networks and
other third parties.  Apple spokesman  Tom Neumayr  declined to comment. Niki Fenwick, spokeswoman for Google, didn’t immediately respond to
an email seeking comment.  The report says app developers should immediately get
consumers’ consent before accessing and sharing sensitive
information and do a better job of understanding how they
integrate with ad networks to provide better disclosure to users
about information that’s being collected.  California Effort  “The Commission’s recommendation to make privacy policies
a requirement for apps is a sensible step and one that ACT has
been advocating to its members for some time,” Morgan Reed,
executive director of the Association for Competitive
Technology, a group representing 5,000 app developers and
technology firms, said in an e-mail message.  California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  has taken a
prominent role in mobile-privacy efforts, warning companies to
adhere to a state law requiring apps to have a privacy policy.
Harris announced last February that Apple, Google, and other
mobile platforms signed an agreement to encourage compliance
with the law.  Separate from the FTC, the U.S. Commerce Department is
holding a series of meetings involving companies and consumer
advocates to hammer out a voluntary code of conduct for
informing users about the kinds of personal data their mobile
applications collect and how the information is used.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  