-- OCC Said to Admit Missing JPMorgan’s VaR Change in Probe
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-02-04T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/occ-said-to-admit-it-missed-jpmorgan-var-change-in-senate-probe.html
The U.S. Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency told lawmakers it missed changes to  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ’s risk-tracking system that could have alerted the
watchdog sooner to the lender’s mounting derivatives bets, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The OCC described the lapse in a report sent in last year’s
second half to the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations, said two people, requesting anonymity because
the discussions aren’t public. The congressional panel is set to
release its own findings in coming weeks after examining how
JPMorgan and regulators handled the bank’s botched trades, which
resulted in losses exceeding $6.2 billion in the first nine
months of 2012.  The admission of responsibility is among the first by
regulators since an initial hearing in June of the oversight
roles they played. Thomas J. Curry, then two months into his
tenure as head of the OCC, told the Senate Banking Committee
that his agency was examining whether there were “gaps within
our assessment of the risks and risk controls in place” in
JPMorgan’s chief investment office, where the losses occurred.  The lawmakers’ report will criticize the bank and the OCC
for lax oversight of the trades, two people with knowledge of
the matter said last month.  The OCC, which oversees national banks, didn’t catch a
January 2012 change in the way JPMorgan calculated so-called
value-at-risk for the chief investment office, one of the people
said. The revised model, which was later scrapped, cut the
firm’s reported risk in half and ultimately exacerbated losses
by underestimating their potential size as they began to mount,
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  told lawmakers in June.  ‘Error-Prone’  JPMorgan released the results of its own review on Jan. 16.
It said that internal controls were inadequate, traders sought
to hide losses and leaders, including Dimon, 56, weren’t
aggressive enough in responding. His pay for 2012 was cut by 50
percent to $11.5 million.  The report described the CIO’s risk-modeling system as
“error-prone,” because it required employees to cut and paste
electronic data to a spreadsheet. Workers inadvertently used the
sum of two numbers instead of the average in calculating value-
at-risk, or VaR, which represents the maximum amount that
traders would expect to lose on 95 out of 100 trading days.  Curry told lawmakers in June that the agency had opened a
review into the loss that would look at the  board’s oversight ,
compensation practices within the CIO, and the adequacy of risk
controls at JPMorgan and other banks.  Capital Requirements  The OCC typically reviews and decides on allowing changes
in a bank’s VaR model if the calculation relates to current
 capital requirements , the person said. JPMorgan’s change was
intended to reduce the impact of future regulatory capital rules
and therefore escaped the OCC’s normal scrutiny, according to
the person.  The bank also is supposed to notify the OCC of changes in
risk management, and should have made the regulator aware of
changes to the VaR formula, said another person with direct
knowledge of the situation, who also requested anonymity because
talks with the company weren’t public.  Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman, and  Joe Evangelisti  at
JPMorgan declined to comment. The regulator and the  Federal
Reserve  both issued cease-and-desist orders against the bank
last month, citing deficiencies in the firm’s risk modeling,
audit functions and the process for alerting the board of
directors to problems.  London Whale  The JPMorgan trader who made bets on  credit derivatives 
that led to the losses was nicknamed the London Whale because
the position he amassed was big enough to move the market.  John Walsh , who was acting comptroller at the time the wagers were
made, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the
Senate investigations panel, has interviewed Dimon and former
CIO head Ina Drew, 56, among others. Elise Bean, the
subcommittee’s staff director, declined to comment.  The Fed’s internal investigative arm, the Office of
Inspector General, also has opened its own investigation into
the central bank’s supervision of JPMorgan’s CIO loss to assess
the effectiveness of its oversight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  