-- Hollande to Visit Mali as French Close to Securing Towns
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-02-01T11:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/hollande-to-visit-mali-as-french-close-to-securing-towns.html
French President Francois Hollande
tomorrow will visit  Mali , where his country’s forces have driven
insurgents out of most major towns they controlled in the north,
the government said.  Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and Development Minister Pascal Canfin will accompany
Hollande, his office said today in an e-mailed statement,
without giving further details.  Since intervening in Mali on Jan. 11 to prevent northern
insurgents from seizing the capital, Bamako, French aircraft,
paratroopers and ground units have driven the rebels out of
several key towns, including the historic city of Timbuktu. The
French and contingents from African armies are helping Mali’s
military regain control of a nation that vies with Tanzania as
 Africa ’s third-biggest gold producer.  Fabius, speaking to reporters in Paris today, reiterated
that  France  is “advancing positively” against the rebels in
the West African nation’s desert north and that African troops
will take over from its forces, which won’t stay in Mali
permanently.  After seizing control of the towns of Gao and Timbuktu, 
French troops on Jan. 30 also occupied the airport in Kidal, 
the last major city to be occupied by rebels. Sandstorms
prevented them from taking over the town, Le Drian said
yesterday.  Touareg rebels demanding greater autonomy for the north and
Islamist militants won control over northern Mali following a
March military coup in Bamako. European and U.S. officials fear
the region may become a haven and training ground for Al-Qaeda-
linked Islamists intent on attacking western targets.  Mali’s interim President, Dioncounda Traore, yesterday said
he’d negotiate with the National Movement for the Liberation of
Azawad, the main Touareg rebel group known as the MNLA, provided
it drops any claims for a separate homeland. He rejected talks
with Islamist groups such as Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda in the
Islamic Maghreb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  