-- Hollande to Visit Mali as French Close to Securing Key Towns
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-02-01T15:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/hollande-to-visit-mali-as-french-close-to-securing-key-towns-2-.html
French President Francois Hollande
will visit  Mali  tomorrow after his country’s forces drove
insurgents out of most major towns they controlled in the north.  Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and Development Minister Pascal Canfin will accompany
Hollande, his office said today in an e-mailed statement,
without giving further details.  Fabius, speaking to reporters in Paris, reiterated that
France is “advancing positively” against the rebels in the
West African nation’s desert north and that African troops will
take over from its forces, which won’t stay in Mali permanently.  After seizing control of the towns of Gao and Timbuktu,
French troops have also occupied the airport in Kidal, the last
major rebel stronghold.  France  began a military campaign on Jan.
11 to help Mali restore state control over a nation that vies
with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-biggest gold producer.  On the eve of the French campaign, Malian troops killed
civilians suspected of siding with Islamist militants, while the
insurgents executed captured soldiers and used children as
fighters, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch said
today in separate statements.  Civilians Executed  Malian soldiers killed at least 13 men in the then rebel-
held towns of Konna and Sevare, New York-based Human Rights
Watch said in a  statement  on its website. The insurgents
executed at least seven soldiers, including five who were
wounded, it said.  Eyewitnesses in Sevare said “more than two dozen
civilians” suspected of supporting the Islamists were executed,
according to Amnesty. The groups urged the Malian authorities to
investigate the abuses and respect international humanitarian
law.  Mali’s army spokesman, Colonel Diarran Kone, declined to
comment when called today.  In the north, the presence of anti-personnel landmines and
unexploded weaponry is a “serious concern” for the local
population and for aid agencies planning to help them, Adrian
Edwards, spokesman of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees, UNHCR, told reporters today in Geneva.  Some Malians who fled their homes told the agency their
houses have been destroyed while others are eager to return to
the north as soon as the roads reopen, Edwards said. A widely
shared complaint is about the lack of assistance from the
government and aid agencies, according to UNHCR.  Training Ground  Separatist Touareg rebels and Islamist militants overran
northern Mali following a March military coup in Bamako.
European and U.S. officials expressed concern the region may
become a haven and training ground for militant groups intent on
attacking western targets.  Mali’s interim president, Dioncounda Traore, said yesterday
he’d negotiate with the National Movement for the Liberation of
Azawad, the main Touareg rebel group known as the MNLA, provided
it drops claims for a separate homeland. He rejected talks with
Islamist groups such as Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net 
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  