-- London Cop Gets 15 Months in News Corp. Tabloid Bribery Case
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-01T13:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/london-cop-sentenced-to-15-months-in-jail-in-tabloid-bribe-case.html
A senior London police detective was
sentenced to 15 months in prison for trying to sell information
about a phone-hacking probe in 2010 to  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the
World tabloid, which was at the center of the investigation.  April Casburn, a 53-year-old counter-terrorism officer with
the  Metropolitan Police Service , received the jail term today at
London’s Old Bailey criminal court. She’s the first person
sentenced since police began probing bribery at the now-defunct
News of the World and News Corp.’s other U.K. tabloid, the Sun.  “Ms. Casburn, having worked hard for many years, has lost
her good character and will undoubtedly lose her job,” Judge
Adrian Fulford said at today’s hearing. “As a police officer,
prison will be a difficult experience for this defendant.”  The bribery probe, named Operation Elveden, has snared
nearly 60 people, including prison workers, health-care
employees, members of the military, Sun journalists and Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K.
unit. A 33-year-old officer in the Met’s specialist crime unit
was arrested in the investigation today.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News of the
World in July 2011 to help quell public anger over its rampant
phone hacking. The Sun, the main target of the bribery probe, is
still being published. The two affairs have cost the New York-
based company at least $315 million in civil settlements with
victims, legal fees and other costs.  Counter Terrorism  Casburn, a detective chief inspector, was found guilty of
misconduct in public office on Jan. 10. The jury rejected her
claim that she hadn’t sought cash from the News of the World and
that she’d only called the tabloid out of anger over counter-
terrorism resources being redirected to probe phone hacking.  Casburn “betrayed the service and let down her colleagues
-- the hard-working honest police officers who make up the vast
majority of the MPS,” the police force said today in an e-
mailed statement about the sentencing.  Fulford said Casburn’s call to the tabloid on Sept. 11,
2010, “revealed the actual intentions of the investigating
team” as police began exploring claims that celebrities’
mobile-phone voice mail had been accessed.  “She discussed who would be undertaking the police work
and she rehearsed in detail the current thinking on the
available charges, a piece of information which could have been
of considerable tactical use to suspects,” Fulford said.  Adopted Child  The judge had delayed sentencing in order to receive
additional information from a social worker about how Casburn’s
three-year-old adopted child might be affected by the sentence.
Fulford said today he had considered a sentence of as long as
three years, but reduced it, citing the child’s “disastrous
start to life” and newfound bond with Casburn as the reason.  The bribery probe was triggered by evidence found through
searches of computers during the phone-hacking probe. In
Casburn’s case, police uncovered an internal News of the World
e-mail describing her unsolicited call.  Casburn, who oversaw officers investigating terror
financing, argued she didn’t ask for money and that the person
who took the call, former News of the World employee Tim Wood,
had misunderstood at the end of his 13-hour night shift.  “Mr. Wood was a reliable, honest and disinterested
witness,” Fulford said today. “He took time and trouble during
the telephone call to find out exactly what Ms. Casburn was
saying, questioning the defendant on the detail of her account
in order to make an accurate note for his superiors.”  The News of the World didn’t use the information she
offered and didn’t pay her.  Fulford said he didn’t accept the claim Casburn was a
whistle-blower who couldn’t deal with her concerns internally
because she had difficulties working with male superiors.  “No police officer can take it upon his or herself to vent
professional frustration this way,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  