-- London Cab Maker Rescued by Geely From Administration
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-02-01T09:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/london-cab-maker-rescued-by-geely-from-administration.html
Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co.
agreed to purchase Manganese Bronze Holdings Plc, rescuing the
maker of London’s iconic black taxis after the U.K. automaker
entered administration last year.  Zhejiang Geely will pay 11.04 million pounds ($17.5
million) to buy Manganese Bronze on a debt-free basis, the
Chinese automaker said in a statement today.  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) , the Hong Kong-traded unit
of Zhejiang Geely, already owned a 20 percent stake in Manganese
following a 2006 joint-venture deal under which the U.K. company
bought China-made components and body parts. The purchase will
help Zhejiang Geely, the closely held automaker headed by  Li
Shufu , speed up its expansion following the purchase of Volvo
Cars in  Sweden .  “We are determined to restore the fortunes of this totemic
marque,” Li said in the statement. “We are a long-term and
committed investor and we believe the illustrious past of the
London black cab can be matched by a successful and healthy
future.”  London has almost 23,000 licensed taxis -- those that can
legally be hailed in the street. About 1,400 new ones are
registered each year, according to Manganese Bronze, a market
worth about 50 million pounds annually. The company says it has
supplied more than 100,000 of the taxis over the past five
decades.  Known as hackney cabs from their origin as horse-drawn
coaches, their drivers must pass a four-year “Knowledge” test
to demonstrate an encyclopedic understanding of 25,000 streets
and 20,000 landmarks across the U.K. capital.  Administration  Regulations first developed by  London ’s Public Carriage
Office in 1906, and updated just a few times since, require cabs
to have a 28-foot (8.5 meter) turning circle, 51 inches of
internal headroom, separate passenger and driver compartments
and a ramp for wheelchair access.  Manganese Bronze went into administration -- a form of
creditor protection -- on Oct. 30 after the discovery of defects
in steering boxes provided by a Chinese supplier. The steering
problems led to a recall and production freeze, cutting off  cash
flow . Prior to the administration, the automaker had 274
workers. It now employs 107 people. The stock was suspended Oct.
11.  The latest crisis followed a succession of shocks,
including a 4,400-car recall after engine fires in 12 TX4s,
threatening to overwhelm a company that hasn’t posted a profit
since 2007. The business suffered a pretax loss of 3.6 million
pounds in the first half of 2012 as revenue dropped 11 percent.  Survival Prospects  Manganese Bronze will continue to build its vehicles in
Coventry,  England , where it has assembled cars since 1948, Geely
said today.  Manganese Bronze’s survival prospects were boosted on Nov.
15 when the company said it had solved the steering fault and
that recalled cabs would be back on the road by mid-December.  Administrator Matthew Hammond, a partner at accountants
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in Birmingham, said at the time that
some potential purchasers had come forward, lured by a global
reach that last year saw  Azerbaijan  order 1,000 taxis to be
built in  China .  “I am delighted that Geely has successfully secured the
future of the London taxi company, ensuring the continuing
manufacture of a world famous, fully accessible and instantly
recognizable vehicle synonymous with London,”  Boris Johnson ,
the city’s mayor, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  