-- Orban Helps Matolcsy Bid With Hungary MNB Delay, RBS Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-02-01T12:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/orban-helps-matolcsy-bid-with-hungary-mnb-delay-rbs-says.html
Hungary Premier  Viktor Orban  picking
the new central bank chief the day before the incumbent’s term
ends gives Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy time to endear
himself to investors,  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  said.  Orban may announce his decision on March 1, the last
working day before Andras Simor’s six-year term ends at the helm
of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, London-based RBS strategists
including Phoenix Kalen said in an e-mailed report today. Orban
was earlier said to unveil his choice at a three-day ruling-
party meeting that starts Feb. 5, the Index news website
reported Jan. 17.  The central bank should pursue a “conservative” policy
course, avoid “surprises,” and “absolutely not” engage in
budget financing, Matolcsy said in an interview with the Wall
Street Journal on Jan. 30. RBS said the minister “essentially
backtracked” on comments made in December, when he called for
the “brave” use of “unorthodox” monetary-policy tools.  “Orban’s decision to wait until the last moment to
nominate the candidate suggests that the nominee is unlikely to
be market friendly, in our view,” RBS said. “We believe this
increases the likelihood of a Matolcsy appointment.”  The forint, which fell to an eight-month low against the
euro after Matolcsy’s December comment, rallied 0.9 percent
against the euro since his interview this week. The currency
traded at 292.36 per euro by 11:54 a.m. in Budapest.  Standard
Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd. yesterday said the interview showed “Matolcsy
wants the job.”  The timing of Orban’s announcement may also help Hungary
sell a Eurobond “ahead of any adverse market reaction to an
unfavorably perceived candidate,” RBS said.  Hungary plans to sell bonds on the international market by
the beginning of this month as efforts to obtain aid from the
 International Monetary Fund  are coming to an end, Orban said on
Jan. 30 in Brussels. Debt Management Agency officials are
currently meeting investors in the U.S. and in  Europe  ahead of
the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  