-- Orix Said Last Bidder in Talks for Rabobank’s Robeco Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-02-01T14:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/orix-said-last-bidder-in-talks-for-rabobank-s-robeco-unit.html
Orix Corp. (8591) , a Japanese provider of
financial services ranging from leasing to insurance, is the
remaining bidder in talks to buy Rabobank Groep’s asset-
management unit, Robeco Groep NV, people with knowledge of the
talks said.  Orix was competing with  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s
largest investment bank, and buyout firm Permira Advisers LLP,
which teamed with  Affiliated Managers Group Inc. (AMG) , two of the
people said. Rabobank, the biggest Dutch retail lender, and Orix
may make a final decision in coming months, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because negotiations are private.
Robeco may fetch more than 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion), two
of the people said last October.  Rabobank is divesting Robeco to help reach self-imposed
capital requirements as  Europe ’s banks bolster their balance
sheets after the financial crisis. Orix, a Tokyo-based finance
and leasing company, is buying assets from European financial-
services firms as they seek to strengthen capital.  Rabobank, based in Utrecht,  Netherlands , is among the
highest-rated privately owned banks. It would like to attain a
core tier 1 ratio, a measure of a bank’s financial strength, of
14 percent by 2016, Chairman Piet Moerland said in December.
Smaller domestic rival  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  was taken over by the
Netherlands today after real estate losses brought the fourth-
largest Dutch lender to the brink of collapse, the country’s
second banking nationalization since 2008.  Basel Requirements  Rabobank expects next year it will have to pay about one
third of a 1 billion-euro charge the Dutch government imposed on
its lenders to help pay for the bailout. The lender had a core
tier ratio of 12.7 percent at the end of June, already
meeting stricter Basel III  capital requirements  that will be
phased in from 2013.  Rabobank spokesman Rene Loman said the lender is
considering strategic options for Robeco and declined to comment
further. Representatives of Macquarie and Permira also declined
to comment.  Rabobank, which said in April it’s reviewing options for
its asset-management unit, kicked off the auction process in
July, people said at the time. The Dutch lender and Japanese
firm are willing to walk away from the deal if they can’t agree
on price, said the people.  14 Countries  Robeco, founded in 1929 and a full subsidiary of Rabobank
since 2001, managed 179 billion euros in assets at the end of
June, of which 51 percent was for institutional customers. It
has about 1,600 employees in 14 countries, according to its
website. It reported a profit of 97 million euros in the first
six months of 2012, down from 105 million euros in the same
period a year earlier.  Its operations include Chicago-based fund manager Harbor
Capital Advisors Inc., with about 45 billion euros in assets
under management and Rotterdam-based Transtrend; an asset
manager trading on the basis of quantitative analysis that has
about 7 billion euros in assets; and a U.S. and Dutch asset-
management unit.  In September, Orix opened a unit in  Brazil  to seek
acquisitions in  South America . Orix’s operations include
insurance, aircraft and auto leasing, as well as the Buffaloes
baseball team, based in Osaka and Kobe,  Japan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  