-- Mortgage Push, Deutsche Bank, College Finance: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-01T13:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/mortgage-push-deutsche-bank-college-finance-compliance.html
The U.S. Treasury Department and
members of Congress are preparing to move forward with plans to
expand government-backed refinancing programs to underwater
homeowners whose loans are packaged in private-label securities.  Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat, is drafting a
bill modeled on a proposal he outlined last year to set up a
federal trust to purchase or guarantee refinanced mortgages,
according to two people familiar with the discussions who asked
not to be identified because the bill hasn’t been introduced.  The trust, as described in Merkley’s earlier proposal,
would provide relief to borrowers with privately owned loans and
probably would be set up under the oversight of an existing
housing agency. If Congress doesn’t pass such a measure, the
Treasury is planning to step in to pay for rate modifications
for those homeowners.  Treasury also is poised to approve a pilot program in
Oregon that would use federal housing aid to purchase mortgages
from private securities and modify the interest rates, a model
that could be used in other states, according to two people
familiar with the plan, who asked not to be identified because
it hasn’t been announced.  The efforts come a year after President Barack Obama called
for a universal refinancing program in his  State of the Union 
address. Underwater borrowers who purchased homes when rates
were above the current historic lows can often save hundreds of
dollars a month if they refinance, adding to their disposable
income and potentially stimulating the economy.  Almost 1.8 million borrowers have taken advantage of the
Home Affordable Refinancing Program for mortgages backed by
government-owned Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac since it began in
2009. The Merkley plan would create a similar avenue for an
estimated 930,000 borrowers whose loans are in private-label
securities and who are current on their payments, according to
the proposal  outlined  last year.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Barnier Tells EU Lawmakers in Letter Not to Block Swap Rules  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, told lawmakers to drop a threat to block derivatives
rules, saying the plan may harm the EU’s credibility and give
its global competitors a boost.  Barnier made the comments in a letter dated Jan. 30 and
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Global regulators are seeking to toughen rules for the  $639
trillion market  for OTC derivatives, which became a target for
oversight after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., and the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two
of the largest traders in credit-default swaps.  The Group of 20 nations agreed in 2009 that standard types
of OTC trades should be pushed through clearinghouses, and
logged in repositories. The EU adopted legislation in 2012 to
apply the international agreement and is now in the process of
adopting technical rules to flesh out the law.  Members of the European Parliament have threatened to
reject two technical standards proposed by Barnier’s aides amid
concerns they would be too onerous for non-financial businesses
and aren’t in line with the overall legislation. The
parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee is
scheduled to vote on the matter on Feb. 4.  Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for Barnier, couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment.  For more, click here.  EBA to Get Stronger Stress Test Powers, EU Lawmaker Giegold Says  Sven Giegold, the European Union lawmaker in charge of
draft rules for the European Banking Authority, said that he’s
“very optimistic” that the law will give the EBA “stronger
power” over bank stress tests.  Giegold said the new law should give the EBA the power to
carry out on-the-ground inspections to check that data it is
receiving is accurate, Giegold told reporters at a conference in
Brussels.  This should apply to site-visits of regulators and also of
individual banks, he said.  Negotiations on the draft law, which is part of a package
of legislation to hand the European Central Bank oversight
powers, may be concluded by a meeting of finance ministers on
March 5, Giegold said.  Talks are continuing about whether the EBA should be tasked
with carrying out annual bank stress tests, Giegold said.  U.S. Consumer Bureau Seeks Comment on College Finance Products  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is seeking
input on the impact of financial products marketed to students
through colleges and universities, the agency said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  A 2009 law on credit cards restricted some kinds of
marketing practices on college campuses, according to CFPB. The
bureau is seeking information in particular on other kinds of
products, such as student identification cards that can be used
as debit cards, cards that tap scholarships and student loans,
and bank accounts affiliated with a particular school, according
to the statement.  The agency is  seeking  public comments through March 18
about student experiences with the products, fees charged, how
the deals are set up, information shared with financial
companies when they work with a school and how the products are
marketed to students.  Compliance Action  Google Submits Settlement Offer, EU Antitrust Chief Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  submitted an offer to European Union regulators
in a bid to settle a probe into whether the world’s largest
search engine operator discriminates against rivals, the EU’s
antitrust chief said.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told reporters
in Brussels today that his officials would study the proposal.  Almunia had asked Google to submit concessions by the end
of January to address allegations that the company promotes its
own specialist search-services, copies rivals’ travel and
restaurant reviews, and has agreements with websites and
software developers that stifle competition in the advertising
industry. He first told Google in May that he wanted to settle
the case.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia, said he
couldn’t anticipate if Google’s offer was sufficient to allay
antitrust concerns or whether it would be sent to rivals and
customers for comments. If this market test is successful, the
EU can make the commitments legally binding. Such a settlement
would avoid possible fines against the Mountain View,
California-based company.  Google continues “to work co-operatively with the
commission,” the company’s Brussels-based spokesman Al Verney
said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. ended an investigation into Google’s search
business last month, saying there was no evidence that the
company’s actions harmed consumers.  Japanese Auto-Component Makers Bracing for EU Cartel Fines  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  suppliers embroiled in the largest
cartel probe on record have rebounded from a slump that followed
almost $1 billion in fines in Japan and the U.S. Now they face
the prospect of even more penalties in Europe.  EU fines will probably be announced this year, said Takeshi
Shinagawa, a director at the Japan Fair Trade Commission. Parts
makers  Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. (5802) ,  JTekt Corp. (6473)  and at
least 12 others could get EU cartel fines higher than those
levied in Japan, he said.  Toyota affiliate  Denso Corp. (6902)  and Sumitomo Electric, also a
supplier to Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co., have been
investigated in cartel probes following raids of four
manufacturers by watchdogs in the U.S., the EU and Japan in
2010.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission,
declined to comment on future fines for car parts makers. He
said regulators have visited producers of automotive lighting,
safety equipment, bearings and thermal systems and had no
deadline for completing the inquiries. These add to a formal
probe the EU opened in August into car wire harnesses that
didn’t identify companies under investigation.  The probes include companies based in Japan, Europe and the
U.S., and have widened to Canada and Australia. So far, Japanese
companies have received the biggest penalties.  Sharis Pozen, then the Justice Department division’s acting
chief, said the U.S. investigation was the agency’s largest
ever. Fines in Europe can be as much as 10 percent of sales,
though authorities rarely impose the maximum.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Considers Selling CoCos to Meet U.S. Capital Rules  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Europe’s biggest bank by assets, is
considering selling contingent convertible bonds to bolster
capital at its U.S. unit should the Federal Reserve implement
stricter rules for foreign banks.  The Fed in December proposed subjecting two dozen foreign
banks with at least $50 billion of global assets to stricter
capital rules to lower risks to the financial system. That could
erode the ability of the banks to compete and may prompt
“retribution” from European regulators seeking tighter rules
for U.S. firms,  Stefan Krause , the Frankfurt-based lender’s
chief financial officer, said yesterday on a conference call
with analysts.  CoCos convert into shares when a bank’s capital ratio falls
below a predefined level.  Deutsche Bank said it expects to take a charge of 2 billion
euros ($2.7 billion) to 2.5 billion euros in the fourth quarter
related to its U.S. Taunus unit under German HGB accounting
rules, Krause said. That won’t stop the bank from paying a
dividend for 2012 and has no bearing on its capital levels or
profit under IFRS rules, he said.  The “conservative” German accounting rules require
valuations to reflect the performance of a business as far as
five years in advance, said Krause.  Libor Rate-Rigging Brings Record Fines, Banker Arrests  The London interbank offered rate is the basis for more
than $300 trillion of securities. The banks that set the rate
stand accused of rigging it for years to boost profits. Five
years after alarm bells first sounded, regulators are handing
out fines and criminal sanctions to those responsible for rate
manipulation. This story is featured in the March issue of
Bloomberg Markets Magazine.  Bloomberg Television’s Mark Barton reports.  For the video, click here.  Courts  Rajaratnam Two-Time Tipper Roomy Khan Gets One Year in Prison  Roomy Khan, the former Intel Corp. executive twice
convicted of passing illegal tips to Raj Rajaratnam, was ordered
to serve one year in prison for obstructing justice after she’d
agreed to help the U.S.  Defense lawyers and prosecutors sought leniency for Khan,
54, saying she helped the government win convictions against
hedge fund managers Rajaratnam, Doug Whitman and others. Khan
was twice convicted of passing illegal tips to Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Rajaratnam, once in 2001 and again in 2009.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara ’s prosecutors cited
Khan’s cooperation in a letter to the judge, despite her having
lied, destroyed evidence and tipped off co-conspirators to the
government’s investigation when she was working with federal
agents.  Another cooperator in the governor’s insider-trading
crackdown, former Barai Capital Management LP analyst Jason
Pflaum, who testified against an expert networking consultant
convicted by a jury in 2011, yesterday was spared a prison
sentence.  Pflaum, who was a key government witness at the trial of
former Primary Global Research LLC consultant Winifred Jiau, was
ordered by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff to serve two years’
probation and forfeit $500,000.  In Khan’s case, Rakoff said he couldn’t ignore that after
pleading guilty and agreeing to cooperate with a federal
investigation of Rajaratnam in California, she returned to
insider trading and passed the fund manager illegal tips. He
said that Khan obstructed justice after she agreed to cooperate
with federal investigators in New York in 2007.  Rakoff described Khan’s conduct as a “whole series of
lies” that “cannot be ignored.” He directed Khan to forfeit
more than $1.5 million she earned as a result of the scheme.  “I understand the court’s reasoning and logic in giving a
sentence but considering individuals who went to trial and got
two years and a one-year sentence for Ms. Khan is a lot under
the circumstances,” her lawyer, Stanislao German, said in an
interview after court yesterday.  German said Khan wouldn’t appeal her sentence.  For more, click here.  Peregrine’s Wasendorf Gets 50 Years in Prison for Theft  Russell Wasendorf Sr., the founder of now-bankrupt
commodities firm Peregrine Financial Group Inc., was sentenced
yesterday to 50 years in prison for what prosecutors said was a
theft of more than $215 million from customers.  Wasendorf was sentenced in federal court in Cedar Rapids,
Iowa, the Associated Press reported. He used a printer, software
and a post office box in a scheme to create false bank
statements and other documents and hide from regulators and
auditors that he embezzled customer funds over a 20-year period
starting in the early 1990s, prosecutors said in court filings.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter Deegan told U.S. District
Judge Linda Reade in court filings that Wasendorf deserved the
maximum 50-year penalty because of the amount customers lost and
the sophistication used to carry out the crime. Wasendorf
started stealing customer funds within two years of Peregrine’s
original financing.  He pleaded guilty in September to mail fraud and two counts
of lying to federal prosecutors. His crimes came to light on
July 9 when he tried to kill himself by asphyxiation with car
exhaust outside the firm’s Cedar Falls, Iowa, headquarters.  Jane Kelly, an attorney for Peregrine, filed a sentencing
recommendation for her client under seal. She couldn’t be
reached for comment.  The case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-cr-2021, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  Interviews/Panels  CFTC Roundtable on ‘Futurization of Swaps’  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary
Gensler  held a public roundtable to discuss the “futurization”
of the swaps market.  For the audio, which covers the morning session of the
hearing, click here.  Jain Says Dialogue Between Regulators, Banks Is Good  Deutsche Bank AG co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain
discusses the bank’s capital ratio and discussions between
regulators and banks on global financial rules.  He talked in Frankfurt with Bloomberg Television’s  Guy
Johnson .  For the video, click here.  Separately, Jain said at a news conference in Frankfurt
that he had discussed a possible global settlement of alleged
rigging of interbank lending rates with fellow CEOs at the World
Economic Forum in Davos last month.  “This came up in Davos, a number of bank CEOs were there
and we openly discussed whether this made sense for there to be
a process,” Jain said.  “There were unofficial discussions, where we felt that if
you went back and looked at other industries that have gone
through an industrywide settlement process, whether there is
something to be gained.”  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  Barclays’s CEO  Antony Jenkins  Says He Won’t Take Bonus for 2012  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer Antony Jenkins said he
won’t take a bonus for 2012 after a series of regulatory
missteps including a fine for attempting to rig global interest
rates.  Jenkins said in an e-mailed statement today that it is
“only right that I bear an appropriate degree of
accountability” for multiple issues “besetting” the bank. It
would be “wrong” to receive a bonus in 2012 “given those
circumstances,” he said in the statement.  Jenkins was in line for a bonus of at least 1 million
pounds ($1.6 million), the Guardian newspaper reported on Jan.
29. Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds in June for
attempting to manipulate the London interbank offered rate and
other benchmark interest rates, with the London-based lender’s
three top executives, including former CEO  Robert Diamond ,
departing after criticism by bank supervisors and politicians.  The bank is also being investigated by the Serious Fraud
Office and the U.S. Justice Department.  Canellos Named Acting SEC Enforcement Chief as Khuzami Departs  George Canellos, deputy director of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s enforcement division, was named acting
head of the unit that polices Wall Street, the agency said
yesterday.  Canellos, 48, will serve on an interim basis in the job
that will be left vacant by  Robert Khuzami , who is leaving the
SEC after four years as enforcement chief. Canellos begins the
role on Feb. 8, the SEC said in a statement.  He became Khuzami’s deputy in April after three years
overseeing the SEC’s regional office in New York, where he was
responsible for about 400 staff, including investigators,
accountants and examiners.  Canellos in 1994 became a U.S. prosecutor in the Southern
District of New York, where he worked for Mary Jo White, the
former U.S. attorney who was nominated Jan. 24 to become the
next SEC Chairman.  After eight years as a prosecutor, Canellos entered private
legal practice where he remained until 2009, when he left for
the SEC.  CFPB Says Steve Antonakes Will Serve as Acting Deputy Director  Steve Antonakes will be acting deputy director of the
Consumer Finance Protection Bureau while it continues its search
for a replacement for Raj Date, whose last day at the agency was
yesterday, the agency said in e-mailed statement.  Antonakes will keep his current job as associate director
for supervision, enforcement and fair lending, the agency said
in the statement.  Date was an early hire to the bureau in the fall of 2010.
During the debate over the Dodd-Frank law that created the
agency, he argued for it alongside  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard
University law professor who subsequently became an Obama
administration adviser charged with setting up the bureau.
Warren is now a U.S. senator from Massachusetts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  