-- Pakistan Sends More Police to Karachi on Terror Warning
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-02-01T04:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/pakistan-sends-extra-police-into-karachi-after-terrorism-warning.html
The chief minister of  Pakistan ’s
southern province of Sindh ordered reserve police into Karachi,
days after the country’s top security official warned of
imminent terrorist attacks in the city.  Reserve contingents from the province’s 23 districts should
start arriving in the city today and will be deployed in
sensitive areas, the daily Dawn newspaper said, citing Sharjeel
Memon, Sindh’s Minister for Information. “Well-coordinated
operations will be launched against criminals in the city,”
Memon told the paper.  The bolstering of security in Karachi, which is the capital
of Sindh and Pakistan’s commercial hub, comes 72 hours after
federal Interior Minister Rehman Malik warned of possible
attacks. Malik has been criticized by opposition politicians and
allies for spreading panic.  The city of 18 million people witnesses spikes in violence
involving members of rival political parties, ethnic communities
or criminal gangs. More than 2,000 people were killed last year.
Last month, politicians of major political parties moved to put
their differences aside to confront Taliban militants they hold
responsible for recent bombings.  Chief Minister Qaim Ali Shah urged security forces to
remain vigilant in a statement issued by his office. The Express
Tribune newspaper cited Memon as saying a recent surge in
killings in the city aimed to create instability ahead of
general elections scheduled for May.  Thirteen people died in attacks yesterday in Karachi as
gunmen targeted a popular cleric among others, police said.
Private security camera footage, aired by television channels,
showed assailants firing into the car of the cleric, who
belonged to the Deoband school of Islamic practice.  To thwart bombings, mobile-phone services will be suspended
between 12 p.m. and 3 p.m. local time today, Geo TV said, citing
Malik.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  