-- Panasonic-Sharp Win Time for Turnarounds as Yen Boosts Earnings
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-02-01T11:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/panasonic-has-surprise-quarterly-profit-on-weaker-yen-cost-cuts.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp Corp.,
struggling to recover from record losses, may have won some time
after job cuts, asset sales and a weaker yen helped them improve
third-quarter earnings.  Panasonic, Japan’s second-largest TV maker, posted 61.3
billion yen ($665 million) in  net income  for the three months
ended Dec. 31, according to a statement today. Analysts expected
a 17 billion-yen loss, based on the average of three  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sharp, Japan’s No. 3 TV maker, reported
its first operating profit in five quarters.  The weaker yen is helping the two companies and larger
rival  Sony Corp. (6758)  weather slowing demand and competition from
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  as they seek to restructure operations.
Sharp’s improving performance may also bolster its hand in talks
with possible investor Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., said
President Takashi Okuda.  “It’s looking increasingly likely that they’ll be able to
survive,”  Mitsushige Akino , Tokyo-based chief fund officer at
Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co., said of Sharp and Panasonic.
“It’s important that they carry out drastic reforms.”  Sharp made an operating profit, or sales minus the cost of
goods sold and administrative expenses, of 2.6 billion yen in
the three months ended Dec. 31. It had an operating loss of 24
billion yen a year earlier.  Loss Forecasts  The two TV-makers maintained forecasts for full-year net
losses totaling $13.2 billion, even as Panasonic Chief Financial
Officer Hideaki Kawai said the weaker yen may help the company
beat its 765 billion-yen loss estimate. The yen, which has
declined to the weakest against the  U.S. dollar  in 2 1/2 years,
boosted Panasonic’s third-quarter operating profit by 3 billion
yen, the company said.  Sony, which reports earnings Feb. 7, is forecasting net
income of 20 billion yen for the year ending March 31, ending a
four-year streak of losses.  Panasonic is in “transition” toward profitability, Kawai
told reporters in  Tokyo . The company has eliminated more than
38,000 jobs in the past year to cut costs.  The maker of Viera TVs and Lumix cameras made a third-
quarter operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold
and administrative expenses, of 34.6 billion yen. That compared
with an operating loss of 8.1 billion yen a year earlier.  Panasonic Plan  Panasonic is due to announce a new medium-term plan by the
end of March. President  Kazuhiro Tsuga , who was promoted in June,
has said the company may pull out of businesses with operating
margins of less than 5 percent by March 2016.  “Panasonic should go faster,” said Tetsuro Ii, president
of Commons Asset Management Inc. in Tokyo. “Significant
structural reforms haven’t occurred yet. The company should
accelerate sales of unprofitable assets and divisions.”  Third-quarter sales dropped 8 percent to 1.8 trillion yen,
led by a 12 percent drop in domestic sales to the lowest in at
least eight quarters. Sales of audio-visual equipment -- such as
flat-panel TVs, Blu-ray recorders and digital cameras -- fell 20
percent to 389 billion yen.  Sharp’s  net loss  was 36.7 billion yen, compared with a loss
of 174 billion yen a year earlier, according to a  statement . The
Osaka-based company was expected to post a 34 billion-yen loss,
based on the average of three  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hon Hai  Sharp agreed in December to sell as much as 9.9 billion yen
of new shares to Qualcomm Inc. The chipmaker has so far bought
4.9 billion yen as part of the two-step transaction. Sharp also
has held talks about selling a stake to Hon Hai. The Apple
assembler’s founder Terry Gou bought a stake in a Sharp LCD
plant last year.  “We want to proceed with the negotiations with Hon Hai
based on the fact that our trend is starting to rise,” Sharp
President Okuda told reporters. “Until now, there had only been
negatives for us.”  Japan ’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays reiterated
that it expects an annual loss of 450 billion yen, its second
straight unprofitable year. Fourth-quarter orders for small- and
mid-sized LCD panels for smartphones missed estimates and may
have been affected by slower-than-estimated sales of Apple
Inc.’s iPad and iPhone 5.  The U.S. phone-maker is Sharp’s single  biggest  customer,
accounting for 3.4 percent of sales, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Our financial situation is tough,” Okuda said. “We will
speed up our structural reform to post an operating profit in
the second half and post net income next fiscal year.”  The TV maker said last year there was “material doubt”
about its ability to survive after it hemorrhaged 103 billion
yen in cash from operations in the six months ended September.
The company has 200 billion yen of convertible bonds maturing
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its  debt  was
cut to junk by Fitch Rating and  Standard & Poor’s  last year.  “There were at least no negative surprises in the results
for Sharp and Panasonic,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive
officer at Myojo Asset Management Japan Co., a Tokyo-based hedge
fund advisory firm. “Still, it’s hard to see how they can post
net incomes next fiscal year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  