-- Path Settles With FTC Over Complaints It Took Personal Data
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-02-01T16:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/path-settles-with-ftc-over-complaints-it-collected-personal-data.html
Path Inc., the developer of a mobile
social-networking application, settled with the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission over complaints that it deceived consumers by
collecting personal information from mobile address books.  The company also will pay $800,000 to settle charges that
it illegally collected data from children without getting their
parents’ consent, the FTC said today in a statement. Path said
in a blog post that it has since closed those accounts.  “There was a period of time where our system was not
automatically rejecting people who indicated that they were
under 13,” the San Francisco-based company said today in the
 blog post . “It wasn’t until we gave our account verification
system a second look that we realized there was a problem.”  Path lets friends give updates on their day such as posting
pictures of experiences tagged to locations or saying when
they’re going to sleep. People who signed up for an account were
given an option to pick friends from their list of address book
contents, information that Path stored. The FTC said the user
interface was misleading, providing no meaningful way for
consumers to choose what personal information was collected.  “Path is prohibited from making any misrepresentations
about the extent to which it maintains the privacy and
confidentiality of consumers’ personal information,” the FTC
said in its statement.  The closely held company has almost 6 million users and has
raised about $41 million in  venture capital , said Dani Metz, a
spokeswoman for Path who works for the public relations firm
Hatch Agency. Metz referred to the blog post when asked to
comment about the settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  