-- Paulson ‘Exploring’ AngloGold Split to Increase Value
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-02-01T21:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/paulson-exploring-anglogold-split-to-increase-value.html
John Paulson, the billionaire whose
hedge fund is the largest shareholder of  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,
said Africa’s largest producer of the metal might increase in
value if it were to split in two.  “We are exploring ways for AngloGold to improve its
valuation,” Paulson’s New York-based hedge fund said in a year-
end report that was obtained by Bloomberg News. “Based on our
analysis, AngloGold’s shares could increase in value by up to 68
percent if the company was to split its business into South
African and non-South African businesses.”  AngloGold, which is based in Johannesburg, appears to be
“exploring options to improve their valuation,” Paulson & Co.
said in the report about the firm’s Advantage funds.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , another South African gold miner in which
Paulson invests, said in November it plans to spin off most of
its operations in the country. Gold Fields said it will create a
new company that will trade in Johannesburg and New York.  “AngloGold could also unlock value if it split into two
companies: a high growth international business, and a mature
high dividend paying South African company,” Paulson & Co.
said.  AngloGold’s American depositary  receipts  rose 4.6 percent
to $29.30 at the close in New York. The ADRs have  declined  36
percent in the past 12 months.  ‘All Options’  “AngloGold Ashanti values the views and feedback from all
of its shareholders,” Stewart Bailey, a New York-based
AngloGold spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement. “The
board of directors and executive team are committed to
maximizing value for all shareholders and consistently look at
all options to enhance shareholder returns.”  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co., said by e-mail
he declined to comment.  The New York-based firm, which manages $18 billion in
assets, has a 7.4 percent stake in AngloGold, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Paulson’s $4.9 billion Advantage funds, which seek to
profit from corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies,
and the $1 billion Gold Fund, which buys bullion-related
equities and derivatives, fell last year.  Paulson’s Advantage Plus fund, which uses leverage to
amplify returns, dropped 19 percent on bets that gold stocks
would rise and that the European sovereign-debt crisis would
worsen, while the Gold Fund slumped 25 percent in 2012.  Falling Equities  Gold stocks  plummeted 9.6 percent including reinvested
dividends in 2012 as investors bought exchanged-traded bullion
funds for exposure to the metal’s now 12-year rise, while
producers battled surging costs to build and operate mines.  Paulson & Co. remains convinced gold stocks are undervalued
and that the metal will climb and protect against rising
inflation, according to a year-end report about the firm’s Gold
Fund, which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  “We remain positive on the outlook for gold given the
magnitude of the quantitative easing programs implemented by
central banks around the world,” Paulson & Co. said. “While
inflation has been subdued to date, this aggressive expansion of
the monetary base creates the potential for future inflation.”  AngloGold, the Advantage funds’ biggest long position, or
bet that a security will rise, said last month Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Cutifani  will leave March 31 to become CEO of  Anglo
American Plc. (AAL)   South Africa  AngloGold in November cut its dividend by half and reduced
planned spending by $200 million after its South African mines
were shut down because of unauthorized work stoppages. It also
operates in Mali, Australia, Brazil, Colombia and the U.S.  Cutifani said last year AngloGold had no immediate plans to
split the business, an option the company has considered before.  “We have no plans today to split the business but all
options must remain open,” he said in a Nov. 21 interview in
Geneva. “If at end of the day we can’t get true value reflected
for the global mix, then we have to look at all options. We’ve
become a global company. South Africa is important, but it’s not
critical.”  In October, John Hathaway, managing director at Tocqueville
Asset Management LP, said AngloGold and Gold Fields should
separate their troubled mines in South Africa from their foreign
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  