-- Pemex Boosting Security After Deadliest Blast since 2006
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z ,   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-02-01T20:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/pemex-headquarters-explosion-leaves-14-dead-about-100-injured.html
Petroleos Mexicanos  is stepping up
security at oil production facilities as authorities investigate
a blast that killed at least 33 people at the state-owned
company’s headquarters in Mexico City yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer Emilio Lozoya Austin, while
assuring the incident didn’t hinder output, said disaster
investigations are complex and declined to cite any preliminary
finding in an interview in the nation’s capital today. The blast
also injured 121 at offices where about 10,000 work or visit
daily, he said. Security will be boosted at production wells
while the probe is conducted, Pemex said in an e-mail.
Authorities haven’t said whether the blast was an accident.  “We will use all resources to find out the root causes of
the incident” Lozoya, who cut short a trip to  Asia  because of
the emergency, told reporters at a press conference. Pemex is
producing 2.55 million barrels of oil today and the headquarters
will reopen Feb. 5, he added.  The nation’s deadliest explosion since a mine blast in 2006
comes as President Enrique Pena Nieto, who took office two
months ago, plans to submit a bill to increase private
investment in the  energy industry  and lower taxes on Pemex, the
nation’s largest company by revenue and the world’s fourth
biggest crude producer. The initiative is set to be the biggest
energy-industry overhaul since the nation seized  oil fields  from
British and U.S. companies 75 years ago.  ‘No Hypothesis’  Investigators from the attorney general’s office, the
 Defense Ministry , the Navy and the National Autonomous
University of Mexico are working on the probe along with
international experts, Lozoya said.  “We cannot affirm any hypothesis nor can we rule any
out,” Deputy Interior Minister Eduardo Sanchez said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City last night. The government
“will remove every bit of rubble to make sure no one remains
trapped,” Interior Minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong told
reporters yesterday, standing in the plaza of the complex.  Footage on Milenio TV showed shattered windows and gaping
holes in walls on several floors after the blast rocked the B2
building adjacent to the company’s main office, the second-
tallest tower in the country, between 3:40 p.m. and 3:45 p.m.
local time yesterday. Security personnel surrounded the complex
and roped off the area outside, where dozens of ambulances were
parked and a bust of the late President  Lazaro Cardenas , who
nationalized Mexico’s oil industry in 1938, stood intact.  Employee Evacuation  Employees were evacuated from the scene of the blast, some
on stretchers, as smoke billowed. The Army cordoned off the
Pemex complex and sent in search parties with dogs to look for
survivors. The government said it rescued one person from the
debris and didn’t know whether more were trapped underneath,
after earlier estimating 30 were stuck inside.  The explosion won’t have any financial or economic impact,
Lozoya said.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps was little changed at 98
basis points at 2:30 p.m. in Mexico City, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value if the issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  Yields on the company’s dollar bonds due 2022 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.52 percent,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The Mexican peso
erased earlier losses to rise 0.8 percent to 12.6068 per  U.S.
dollar .  Shockwaves  Leticia Vigueras, who was working on the second floor of
the adjacent B1 building, said she felt a burst like a shockwave
as the windows shattered.  “From the magnitude of the damage, it’s hard for me to
think it was an accident,” said Vigueras, 38, a finance
department employee who said one of her co-workers was killed
and another is missing. “The whole structure of the first floor
and mezzanine were destroyed.”  The explosion “seriously” damaged the basement and the
first two floors of building B2, Osorio Chong said.  The blast may have been related to maintenance deficiencies
in the boilers used for power generation and air conditioning,
 Mexico  City-based newspaper El Universal reported,  citing Moises
Flores , the leader of one of Pemex’s unions.  Pemex earlier said on its Twitter account that an
electrical failure had prompted a preventive evacuation of the
headquarters. Lozoya declined to comment on the bad equipment
report.  Pena Nieto  “We’re going to dedicate ourselves as much as possible to
first know what happened,” Pena Nieto said from the explosion
site last night. “If there are people who are responsible in
this case, we’ll put the full weight of the law on them.”  Pena Nieto spent part of this week at an annual conference
for his  Institutional Revolutionary Party , promoting his
proposed energy-industry overhaul in a bid to stem production
declines at Pemex. While he’s promised not to privatize Pemex,
he’s also pledged to forge ahead on a modernization that would
allow more non-government investment and boost competitiveness.  The government undertook some overhaul efforts with Pemex
under the previous administration. In 2008, then-president
 Felipe Calderon  pushed through a bill that allowed performance-
based contracts.  Other Incidents  At least three other incidents have caused significant
casualties at Pemex in the past five years. A fire at a gas
distribution hub near the U.S. border left at least 30 dead last
year, and 21 workers were killed in 2007 when an oil rig hit a
drilling platform in the  Gulf of Mexico .  In addition, an explosion prompted by a criminal gang
attempting to steal oil from a pipeline in the state of Puebla
killed 28 in 2010. Mexico has been wracked by drug violence
since Calderon sent troops to fight the nation’s organized crime
groups after taking office in December 2006. The drug war
resulted in more than 58,000 deaths during his term, and his
government estimated it shaved one percentage point annually off
gross domestic product.  Milenio newspaper  reported  that between 2008 and 2011 Pemex
requested funds to update disaster-prevention equipment, such as
smoke detectors, at its headquarters. The government repeatedly
denied those requests, Milenio said.  The explosion could have been even more deadly at other
times of day.  “At the time of the blast many Pemex employees, including
my staff and those of other board members, were out” board
member Fluvio Ruiz said in an interview yesterday. “It was
lunch hour.”  The Pemex facilities are “very well maintained,” leaving
a “low probability” of accidents at the site, Sergio Flores, a
former Pemex employee who teaches architecture at Mexico’s
National Autonomous University in Mexico City, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  