-- Pfeiffer Says No Question Hagel Will Be Confirmed (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-02-01T20:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/pfeiffer-says-no-question-hagel-will-be-confirmed-transcript-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s senior
adviser  Dan Pfeiffer  said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend, that there’s “no question” Republican Chuck Hagel, a
former Nebraska senator, will be confirmed as the next U.S.
secretary of defense even after a contentious Senate hearing in
which he was put on the defensive by members of his own party.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with the newly appointed senior
adviser to the president, Dan Pfeiffer. Dan, thank you so much
for being with us.  DAN PFEIFFER: Thank you, Al. Thanks for having me.  HUNT: There have been some - some at least semi-troubling
economic reports out in the last couple of days, GDP in the
fourth quarter. The jobs report out Friday was OK, not as - not
as much as you all would hope. Is the White House formulating
any new - any new programs to promote economic growth?  PFEIFFER: Well, I think, as we look at the jobs report
today, it’s - we’ve now created private-sector jobs for 35
straight months, 6.1 million jobs in those 35 months, so that’s
a good sign. But as the president has said many times, there’s a
lot more work to do. We’re creating jobs, not enough. Economy
has been - in certain industries have been growing, not enough.  And there are some hopeful signs in housing. You know, in
this jobs report -  HUNT: There are.  PFEIFFER: - there’s for the first time some real growth in
construction jobs. So that’s good. The question is, is
 Washington  going to get out of the way, as we’ve seen with - you
know, with the sequester, with the debt-ceiling debates of
recent months, that has an impact. And the president’s very
focused on an agenda that creates jobs, grows the economy, and
helps the middle class.  HUNT: Well, you bring up the sequester. That’s - that’s a
month away. Do you think it’ll be headed off?  PFEIFFER: Well, the president certainly hopes it’ll be
headed off.  HUNT: But what do you think is going to happen?  PFEIFFER: Well, we’re disturbed by reports that Republicans
who decried the sequester, said it would be the end of
civilization as we know it during the election campaign, now
seem comfortable letting it go - having it go into effect. That
would be bad for the economy. The last - the GDP report that
came out about last quarter, earlier this week, says - showed
that the potential of the sequester going into effect had a
dramatic effect on the economy. So we shouldn’t let that happen.  HUNT: But no signs yet that any kind of a deal is dealing
place to avoid it?  PFEIFFER: Well, we think - we think, with a balanced
approach, you can avoid it. The president’s preference would be
to do it over the long term, as part of a long-term deal to
reform our  tax code , reform our entitlements, and deal with
spending and deficits.  That would be the best way to do it. We
were able to delay it for two months, working with Congress. Our
hope is that Republicans and Democrats will be willing to work
together with us to do that.  HUNT: Another congressional question.  Chuck Hagel got a
real rough going-over before that committee in the Senate. Are
you confident that Senator Hagel will be confirmed as defense
secretary?  PFEIFFER: We’re very confident of that.  There’s no
question that there will be more than 50 votes to confirm
Senator Hagel.  HUNT: And you’re not worried about a filibuster?  PFEIFFER: I - I would be disappointed and surprised if the
Republicans - if the Republicans were willing to filibuster one
of their former colleagues for the secretary of defense.  HUNT: OK. Let me turn to immigration. The president has
said that if Congress doesn’t act in a timely fashion that he’ll
submit his own legislation. He told a network the other day
that, you know, he wants a Senate bill by March. If you don’t
get a Senate bill by April 1, the president then submits his
own?  PFEIFFER: Well, we’re going to monitor this. I think -  HUNT: So it’s not a firm deadline?  PFEIFFER: I think if progress is being made, we’re going to
- we’re going to continue to give the Senate room to work. It’s
important to recognize how far we’ve come. When the president
first got to the Senate, there were 23 Republicans who supported
comprehensive immigration reform. A year later, it was down to
like seven or nine. For the last five years, it’s been zero. And
so the fact that seven days after the president was sworn in
again, you have the - the  Republican Party ’s 2008 nominee,
potential 2016 candidate in the Republican Party coming together
with Democrats to put forward a bipartisan framework that
reflects the president’s vision. That’s a good sign.  So we’re going to let this continue.  And we’re going to
see if they’re making progress. But we can’t wait forever,
because we can’t let - as the president said in his remarks, we
can’t have this fall victim to endless debate.  HUNT: There was, as you know, widespread support and a
remarkable coalition in the Senate, and they agree on a whole
lot of things. One thing, however, that they don’t agree on,
Republicans like  John McCain  say that there can’t be any bill
that offers immigration benefits to same-sex couples. That’s off
the table. Would that be a deal-killer?  PFEIFFER: Well, I think the president in his plan said that
you should treat same-sex families the same way we treat
heterosexual families. It’s wrong to discriminate. It’s a
natural extension of the president’s view about same-sex
marriage, the view about providing equal rights, no matter who
you love. And so we’re going to work with the Senate. Our hope
is that they will come around and do the right thing here. But
our - the president’s view is there’s good bipartisan progress.
We’re going to let that go forward. But he believes strongly
that it would be wrong to discriminate against same-sex couples.  HUNT: But you’re not going to say it’s a deal-killer at
this stage?  PFEIFFER: Well, I think our view - our step on all issues
is to lay out what the president wants done, provide that as a
roadmap for this Senate gang, and let them work. And we’ll see
what their product is in the end.  HUNT: Dan, you were at the White House in a key role during
Obamacare, the enactment of Obamacare, and I think most people
would acknowledge that  Rahm Emanuel  was the experienced White
House point man who helped guide that through in a very
important way. Rahm would certainly say that. Who’s the Rahm
Emanuel of immigration?  PFEIFFER: Well, I think we have a number of people with
tremendous legislative experience who will help drive this. Rob
Nabors, who was the president’s legislative director, is now
deputy chief of staff. He’s going to work very closely with the
Senate. Denis McDonough has many, many years on the Hill working
for - both in the House and the Senate, including working for
the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle. So we have a lot of
people who are going to be -  HUNT: So there will be a number of Rahm Emanuels, not one?  PFEIFFER: I think that Rahm would be the first to tell you,
it’s going to take more than one person to be the Rahm Emanuel
of anything.  (LAUGHTER)  HUNT: You have got a very experienced and loyal team -
you’ve mentioned some of them - at the White House. And you’ve
brought in certainly interesting cabinet members. There are some
Democrats - not just Republicans, some Democrats - who worry
that it’s too insular. You’ve heard this complaint, that they
wish there was some - an infusion of some fresh blood, not
replacing people, but just bringing in more new thinking of
this. What do you say to that complaint?  PFEIFFER: Well, I think it’s going to be incumbent upon
those of us who are in the White House, those of us who work for
the president, to be - do the best job we can to reach out to
get outside voices in, whether they’re meeting with the
president, whether we’re calling them for advice. You know,
we’ve heard the criticism that we’re too insular, and I’m sure
sometimes that’s right. But it’s not because we don’t respect
the advice of other people and we don’t want to hear what they
have to say. It’s just sometimes in the White House you’re just
trying to get through the five minutes in front of you and you
don’t have time to reach out to folks.  So we have - we’ve done - we’ve tried to bring folks in to
meet with us, people with experience in both parties and
different administrations, different parts of government, to
give us some advice on how we go about enacting the president’s
agenda and helping the country. We’re going to continue to do
that. I know that’s going to be a big priority of  Denis
McDonough ’s when he assumes the chief of staff role next week.  HUNT: Dan, second terms are always different than first
terms. That’s a rather obvious statement. But what’s the -
what’s the main difference you see in how you think you all will
govern over the next four years versus the past four years?  PFEIFFER: Well, I think we’re going to try to - I think we
view the second term as an extension of the first term. The
President Obama that folks - America sees this month is not
different from the one they saw last month.  I do - we are aware of the fact that time is limited, you
know, and the president said to us, this is the best opportunity
we’ll have to do the most good for the most people in our lives
over the next four years. And so we want to take it - he wants
to take every one of those days and use it to make sure we get
everything out of it, because we’ll - there will - there’s lots
of things you can get more of. You can’t get more of time.  HUNT: Do you think most of it has to be done in the first
of those next four years?  PFEIFFER: No, I don’t - that is sort of - I think the
sooner you do it, the better.  HUNT: Right.  PFEIFFER: I think that, you know, presidents have had great
accomplishments in their second two years or their last two
years of their second term.  HUNT: That’s true.  PFEIFFER: And so we don’t necessarily agree that you can’t
- that, you know, come 18 months from now that he’ll - he won’t
be able to keep (inaudible) we don’t buy that. But you want to
use every day as you have it.  HUNT: Do you have a big worry that keeps you awake at
night, other than the fact that your Georgetown basketball team
loses sometimes?  PFEIFFER: That does keep me up. I think - I mean, in - you
know, when you work in the White House, you have national
security worries, you have worries about the economy. The things
that end up being some of the biggest things, you never even
thought could happen, an  oil spill  in the gulf, potential flu
pandemic in 2009 -  HUNT: So you can’t anticipate -  PFEIFFER: It’s the things you can’t -  (CROSSTALK)  PFEIFFER: There are a lot of things I worry about.  The
things I worry about most is the thing I haven’t thought I
should worry about it.  HUNT: Dan Pfeiffer, congratulations on your new assignment,
and thank you for being with us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 