-- Philippine Peso Falls as Tetangco Sees More Measures; Bonds Rise
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-02-01T08:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/philippine-peso-falls-as-tetangco-sees-more-measures-bonds-rise.html
The Philippine peso completed a
second weekly decline on speculation the central bank will step
up efforts to curb capital inflows. Five-year bonds rose.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is studying measures to counter
excessive capital flows lured by the improving economy, Governor
Amando Tetangco said in an interview this week. The Philippines
may further loosen foreign-exchange rules to encourage outflows
and is assessing measures to discourage carry trades involving
the nation’s fixed-income assets, Felipe Medalla, a member of
the central bank’s Monetary Board said Jan. 30. Carry trades
involve borrowing funds where interest rates are low and
investing in higher-yielding assets elsewhere.  The peso dropped 0.1 percent this week to 40.70 per dollar
at the close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It was
little changed from 40.658 yesterday. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate
used to price options, held at 4.3 percent today.  “We will probably see more concrete action on inflows as
we go along and these moves are not out of sync in the region,”
said Enrico Tanuwidjaja, a Singapore-based economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  South Korea should consider taxes on currency trading and
bonds to help limit “speculative” inflows of capital, Deputy
Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku said Jan. 30. Thailand will set up
a team of economists, including central bank Governor Prasarn
Trairatvorakul, to study how to respond to short-term inflows,
Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said the same day.  The Philippines has to manage peso appreciation as
sustained currency strength affects the competitiveness of
exporters and outsourcing sectors, Economic Planning Secretary
Arsenio Balisacan said yesterday.  Special Deposits  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas can’t rule out a further
reduction in the rate it pays on special deposit accounts after
a cut last week, Tetangco said on Jan. 30. The $225 billion
Philippine economy expanded 6.6 percent in 2012, the fastest
pace in two years and exceeding the official 5 percent to 6
percent target, the government reported yesterday.  “This gives us more degrees of freedom to adjust our
market operations and institute other macroprudential tools as
appropriate to ensure that volatilities in financial markets do
not translate into excesses in other sectors of the economy,”
Tetangco said yesterday after the growth report.  The Philippine monetary authority in December announced
limits on banks’ currency forward positions and in July banned
overseas funds from parking money in its special deposit
accounts. The central bank reduced on Jan. 24 the rate it pays
on 1.72 trillion pesos ($42 billion) in the accounts, a gauge of
surplus cash, to 3 percent from more than 3.5 percent. It kept
the benchmark  overnight borrowing rate  unchanged at a record-low
3.5 percent.  The yield on the government’s 5 percent bonds due August
2018 fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, today to
3.6 percent, the lowest since the notes were first sold in
August 2011, according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate
declined 38 basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  