-- Piracy and Fraud Propelled the U.S. Industrial Revolution
-- B y   P e t e r   A n d r e a s
-- 2013-02-01T16:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/piracy-and-fraud-propelled-the-u-s-industrial-revolution.html
Although typically glossed over in
high-school textbooks, as a young and newly industrializing
nation the U.S. aggressively engaged in the kind of
intellectual-property theft it now insists other countries
prohibit.  In other words, the U.S. government’s message to  China  and
other nations today is “Do as I say, not as I did.”  In its adolescent years, the U.S. was a hotbed of
intellectual piracy and technology smuggling, particularly in
the textile industry, acquiring both machines and skilled
machinists in violation of British export and emigration laws.
Only after it had become a mature industrial power did the
country vigorously campaign for intellectual-property
protection.  The U.S. emerged from the Revolutionary War acutely aware
of Europe’s technological superiority. It aspired to catch up
and rapidly close the technology gap. The prevailing hope was
that the acquisition of new industrial technologies from abroad
would help solve the country’s chronic labor shortage and
enhance its self-sufficiency and competitiveness.  As the Pennsylvania Gazette put it in 1788: “Machines
appear to be objects of immense consequence to this country.” It
was therefore appropriate to “borrow of  Europe  their
inventions.” “Borrow,” of course, really meant “steal,” since
there was certainly no intention of giving the inventions back.  Hamilton’s Manifesto  The most candid mission statement in this regard was
Alexander Hamilton’s “ Report on Manufactures ,” submitted to Congress
in December 1791. “To procure all such machines as are known in
any part of Europe can only require a proper provision and due
pains,” Hamilton wrote. “The knowledge of several of the most
important of them is already possessed. The preparation of them
here is, in most cases, practicable on nearly equal terms.”  Notice that Hamilton wasn’t urging the development of
indigenous inventions to compete with Europe but rather the
direct procurement of European technologies through “proper
provision and due pains” -- meaning, breaking the laws of other
countries. As the report acknowledged, most manufacturing
nations “prohibit, under severe penalties, the exportation of
implements and machines, which they have either invented or
improved.” At least part of the “Report on Manufactures” can
therefore be read as a manifesto calling for state-sponsored
theft and smuggling.  The first U.S. Patent Act encouraged this policy. Although
the law safeguarded domestic inventors, it didn’t extend the
same courtesy to foreign ones -- they couldn’t obtain a U.S.
patent on an invention they had previously patented in Europe.
In practice, this meant one could steal a foreign invention,
smuggle it to the U.S., and develop it for domestic commercial
applications without fear of legal reprisal.  The most important limitation to smuggling machines was
that they were useless unless one knew how to use them. After
all, they didn’t come with instructions. Thus, almost as
important as the machines themselves were machinists from the
British Isles who knew how to operate them. British emigration
laws prohibited the departure of skilled machinists, but
thousands still made the clandestine crossing to the U.S.  Remarkable Espionage  The most celebrated was Samuel Slater. Slater had worked his
way up from a teenage apprentice to middle management at the
Jedediah Strutt mills in Milford,  England . Enticed by stories of
opportunity and success in America, he pretended to be a non-
skilled laborer and boarded a U.S.-bound ship in 1789. Leaving
tools, machines, models and drawings behind, all he brought with
him was his memory.  Meanwhile, in Rhode Island, the industrialist Moses Brown was
looking for someone to figure out how to use the spinning
machines he had illicitly imported. Slater took on the job and
moved to Pawtucket. Brown’s smuggled machines proved inoperable,
but Slater was able to cannibalize them for parts and build his
own. Soon, Slater-style mills were proliferating, and New
England cloth manufacturing increased 50-fold from 1805 to 1815.  But it was Boston businessman Francis Cabot Lowell who
truly transformed New England textile manufacturing into an
internationally competitive factory system. And he did so, in
large part, by pulling off the most remarkable case of
industrial espionage in American history.  Lowell traveled to Britain in 1810 for an extended stay,
allegedly for “health reasons.” The wealthy merchant wasn’t
considered a rival by local manufacturers and therefore wasn’t
treated with suspicion as he toured the Glasgow factories in the
spring of 1811. Soon after, he visited other factories to obtain
“all possible information” on cotton manufacturing “with a view
to the introduction of the improved manufacture in the United
States,” as his business partner later recounted.  Lowell’s bags were searched before he returned to the U.S.,
but the British customs agents came up empty-handed. Lowell, who
had majored in mathematics at Harvard University and had an
exceptional memory, used his mind to smuggle out British
industrial secrets.  Lowell’s Transformation  With the assistance of mechanical expert Paul Moody, Lowell
reproduced and even improved on the original models. Backed by
his newly formed Boston Manufacturing Co., he opened his first
cotton mill in Waltham,  Massachusetts , in 1813. It was the first
in the country to bring together all phases of the textile-
production process -- from carding and spinning to weaving and
dressing -- under one roof.  This all-in-one model was a transformative development in
textile manufacturing, ultimately replacing the smaller family-
run mill operations and making the American industry competitive
with Britain for the first time. This new system also required
much larger-scale investment -- exemplified by the development
of an entire mill town, appropriately named Lowell.  England loosened its restrictions in phases from 1824 to
1843. The emigration bans, which cut against growing public
support for freedom of movement, were lifted in 1824. While
strict controls remained on the  export  of spinning and weaving
machinery, a licensing system was implemented for other
industrial equipment.  Licensing, in turn, created opportunities for new forms of
smuggling: An exporter could receive a license to ship one
machine and use it as a cover to ship a different one --
gambling that port inspectors would either not check beyond the
paperwork or not be able to tell the difference. Apparently,
this practice was sufficiently institutionalized that illicit
exporters could even take out insurance to protect against the
occasional seizure.  British export controls were finally repealed in 1843 with
the spread of free-trade ideology. By that time, the U.S. had
established itself as one of the leading industrial economies in
the world -- thanks, in no small part, to the successful evasion
of British emigration and export prohibitions.  (Peter Andreas is a professor of political science and the
interim director of the Watson Institute for International
Studies at Brown University. This essay is adapted from his new
book, “Smuggler Nation: How Illicit Trade Made America.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Peter Andreas at
 peter_andreas@brown.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  