-- Pound Falls as Much as 1.8% Versus Euro, Biggest Drop in
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-01T17:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/pound-falls-as-much-as-1-8-versus-euro-biggest-drop-in.html
The pound slumped the most in more
than two years against the euro after an industry report showed
U.K. manufacturing grew less in January than economists
forecast, sapping demand for Britain’s currency as a haven.  Sterling headed for its biggest weekly drop versus the
common currency since June 2011 as a European report this week
showed economic confidence improved in January, adding to signs
the region’s debt crisis is easing.  Mark Carney , who will take
over as governor of the  Bank of England  in July, will testify to
lawmakers next week. Gilts were little changed.  “The pound is in a perfect storm,” said Arne Rasmussen,
the head of currency research at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen.
“The momentum for its weakness is building as the economic
outlook is poor, and the safe-haven status is diminishing given
the improvement in sentiment towards the euro. With the new Bank
of England’s chief testifying next week, the market is
nervous.”  The pound depreciated 1.6 percent to 86.98 pence per euro
at 5:19 p.m. in  London , after falling as much as 1.8 percent to
87.17 pence. That’s the biggest decline since May 7, 2010, and
the weakest level since Oct. 31, 2011. The currency has slumped
2 percent this week. Sterling dropped 0.8 percent to $1.5729.  Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply  said their gauge of U.K. manufacturing output fell to
50.8 this month from a revised 51.2 in December. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a decline to 51. A reading above
50 indicates expansion.  Consumer Sentiment  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro-
area climbed to 89.2 in January, the highest since June, from
87.8 in December, the European Commission said Jan. 30.  “The pound’s weakness against the euro is likely to
continue,” said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FxPro
Financial Services Ltd. in London. “The decline is driven by a
combination of both euro and U.K. stories. People are more
optimistic about the euro and the U.K. is now less of a haven,
especially when its economy is moving sideways.”  The pound has weakened 4.2 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen of 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
strengthened 3.5 percent and the dollar dropped 0.6 percent.  Sterling extended losses against the euro even after the
 European Central Bank  said financial institutions will repay 3.5
billion euros ($4.77 billion) of three-year loans next week that
they had borrowed through the so-called Longer-Term Refinancing
Operations, down from 137.2 billion euros at their first
opportunity to pay back the funds this week.  Policy Meetings  The ECB, led by President  Mario Draghi , will meet on Feb. 7
to set interest rates. Policy makers will keep their benchmark
rate unchanged at record-low 0.75 percent, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  The Bank of England will maintain its asset-purchase  target 
at 375 billion pounds and the main  interest rate  at 0.5 percent
the same day, separate Bloomberg surveys show.  Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc suggested investors buy
the pound against the euro, betting its slide is about to end.  Royal Bank of Scotland said Draghi’s comments at next
week’s policy meeting may temporarily halt the euro’s advance.  “Recently the euro has rallied on LTRO withdrawal” and
measures to contain the region’s debt crisis, Greg Gibbs, a
senior currency strategist at RBS in  Singapore , wrote in a note
to clients. “The risk is now that the market has built all this
in and that Draghi may shift to noting risks to the economic
outlook.”  The 10-year gilt yielded 2.10 percent. The 1.75 percent
bond maturing in September 2022 traded at 97. The rate earlier
climbed to 2.12 percent. The yield rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, on the week.  Gilts have lost 1.9 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds dropped
1.8 percent and Treasuries fell 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  