-- Premier League Clubs Double January Transfer Spending From 2012
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-01T13:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/premier-league-clubs-double-january-transfer-spending-from-2012.html
English Premier League clubs spent
about 120 million pounds ($190 million) during the January
transfer period, according to accountant Deloitte LLP.  While the amount spent doubled from January 2012, it was
105 million less than the record for the mid-season window set
two years ago.  Queens Park Rangers, Liverpool and  Newcastle United 
accounted for 50 percent of the total spending, Deloitte said.
QPR and Newcastle were among the top-three spenders in 2012 as
well.  “There were relatively few active spenders in the winter
window, with over half of this January’s total transfer spending
coming from three clubs,” Dan Jones, a partner in Deloitte’s
Sports Business Group, said in a statement. “Winter window
activity tends to be driven by the on-pitch competition at the
upper and lower ends of the Premier League table.  Both QPR and Newcastle are battling to avoid relegation
this season. QPR is last in the 20-team league and Newcastle is
in 16th place, four points above the relegation zone.  English clubs paid 75 million pounds in transfer fees to
overseas team, more than doubling last year’s 30 million-pound
total, according to Deloitte.  Jones believes that financial fair play rules of European
soccer governing body  UEFA , along with possible measures from
the Premier League next season, affected spending.  “Clubs are now in a reporting period that will count
toward the first assessment of UEFA’s financial fair play break-
even requirement for international competition and Premier
League clubs are also considering the implementation of
additional cost control regulation at a domestic level,” he
said. “Their apparent relative restraint in this transfer
window may reflect an increasing focus on clubs achieving more
sustainable levels of expenditure relative to revenues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 