-- Goodell Says Prevention of Head Injuries Is NFL’s Top Priority
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/preventing-head-injuries-nfl-s-top-priority-commissioner-says.html
National Football League Commissioner
Roger Goodell said preventing head injuries during tackles is
the top priority for the U.S.’s most popular sport as the season
closes with tomorrow’s title game between the Baltimore Ravens
and San Francisco 49ers.  “The No. 1 issue is take the head out of the game,”
Goodell said in New Orleans at his annual pre-Super Bowl news
conference. “I think we’ve seen in the past several decades
players using their heads more than they have.”  At least 2,000 former NFL players have filed more than 80
lawsuits against the league seeking damages for head injuries
they say were sustained on the field. Chronic traumatic
encephalopathy, a brain disease caused by repeated head hits,
has been found in the autopsies of at least three former NFL
players who killed themselves, including 12-time Pro Bowl
linebacker Junior Seau.  Goodell took at least eight questions on health and safety
yesterday and said the league was looking to protect players by
placing independent neurosurgeons on the sidelines during games,
requiring postseason physicals for players that last three days,
eliminating blows to the head and knees and suspending players
for illegal hits.  “I’ll do anything that’s going to make the game safer and
better,” he said.  An NFL Players Association survey released two days ago
found that almost 80 percent of players said they don’t trust
their teams’ medical staff.  Player Survey  About 78 percent of players who responded to a late-season
survey said they had no trust in their medical help, with
another 15 percent saying they had very little trust. Only 3
percent indicated some or a lot of trust in team doctors.  DeMaurice Smith, executive director of the union, said the
survey was a first step in new research on players’ injuries and
medical care, including a $100 million study by Harvard
University of their long-term health.  The study, which will be funded from the players’ share of
revenue under the league’s collective bargaining agreement, is a
10-year effort to improve injury prevention, create new
treatment and diagnostic tools and improve the quality of life
for athletes at all levels, according to Lee Nadler, a dean at
Harvard Medical School.  Goodell said the union hadn’t mentioned the survey in a
recent four-hour meeting.  “I’m disappointed because I think we have tremendous
medical care for our players,” he said. “These doctors are
affiliated with the best medical institutions in the world.”  More Bans  Goodell said he expects to see more suspensions for illegal
hits because the bans “get through” to players who don’t want
to let down their teammates. He said testing for human growth
hormone would also help improve player safety.  “I think HGH testing is going to happen before the 2013
season,” he said.  Goodell said he welcomed comments by U.S. President  Barack Obama , who said this week he’d have to think long and hard about
allowing a child to play football. Goodell said he started
playing tackle football in fourth grade and learned values,
character and how to get up after being knocked down.  “I wouldn’t give back one day of playing tackle
football,” he said.  Minority Hiring  Goodell said the league needed “a new generation” of
rules encouraging the hiring of minority coaches and executives
after none of 15 head coach and general manager jobs this season
went to minorities.  “The results this year were simply not acceptable,” he
said.  The commissioner also said the nickname of the Washington
franchise was unlikely to change after a reporter said a survey
of U.S. indigenous people suggested “Redskins” was offensive.  “I don’t think anybody wants to offend anybody,” Goodell
said. “This has been discussed several times over a long period
of time and I think Dan Snyder and the organization have made it
very clear that they are proud of that heritage and that name.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New Orleans at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 