-- Provida Plunges in Santiago on MetLife’s $2 Billion Buyout
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e
-- 2013-02-01T22:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/provida-plunges-in-santiago-on-metlife-s-2-billion-buyout-offer.html
AFP Provida SA (PROVIDA)  plunged the most in
eight months amid concern  MetLife Inc.’s (MET)  $2 billion offer to buy
the Chilean pension fund administrator values the company’s
shares at a lower price than some investors were expecting.  Provida fell 5.4 percent to 3,283.50 pesos at the close in
Santiago, the biggest drop since May. Trading volume was more
than six times the full-day average of the past three months.
The benchmark  Ipsa index  gained 0.3 percent.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, will conduct a
public cash tender offer for all of Provida’s outstanding shares
as part of a deal it valued at about $2 billion. Provida
shareholders should receive dividends representing excess cash
and the proceeds from the sale of minority stakes in other
businesses, MetLife said in the statement.  The price per Provida share will be U.S. $6.0365, the
pension administrator said in a  filing  with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. That works out to about 2,847.62 pesos
per share at the current  exchange rate . Shareholders will also a
receive dividends totaling an estimated $340 million, according
to the filing. That’s an equivalent of $1.026, or 485.60 pesos,
for each of the 331.3 million shares.  Shareholders might have expected a better offer after
 Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG)  paid a premium when it bought
Chilean pension fund  AFP Cuprum (CUPRUM)  SA for about $1.5 billion in
October, Christopher Disalvatore, an analyst with IM Trust SA,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. Santiago-based
Provida had a market capitalization of about $2.4 billion
earlier this week.  “After the Cuprum premium, shareholders may have been more
optimistic than the fundamentals permitted,” Disalvatore wrote.  William Wheeler, president of the Americas at  New York- 
based MetLife, said Provida shareholders will receive a payout
that is about equal to the stock’s market value.  “My expectation is that when you take $2.4 billion, the
market price, minus the expected cash dividend, you’re going to
come very close to the $2 billion we’re paying for the
company,” Wheeler said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Verbrigghe in  New York  at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  