-- Treasuries Drop for First Time in Three Days Before Jobs
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-01T12:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/treasuries-trail-stocks-by-most-in-15-months-before-jobs.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for the
first time in three days before a government report that
analysts said will show the job market in the world’s biggest
economy improved in January.  The benchmark 10-year yield approached the highest level
since April before separate data forecast to show manufacturing
quickened last month and  consumer confidence  was higher than
first estimated. Treasuries handed investors a 1 percent loss
last month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of shares gained 4.5 percent.
The difference was the most since February.  “The jobs data is going to be what drives the market
today,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Dublin. “If we get a good number, Treasuries could sell off
quite aggressively. If a reasonable recovery takes place in the
U.S., we could see yields climb toward 2.25 percent.”  U.S. 10-year  yields  rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2 percent at 7:29 a.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 1.625
percent security due November 2022 dropped 5/32, or $1.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 96 21/32. The rate climbed to 2.03
percent on Jan. 30, the highest level since April 25.  U.S. Jobs  U.S. employers hired 165,000 workers last month, the most
since August, following a 155,000 gain in December, according to
the median forecast of 90 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
before today’s release at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington . The
 unemployment rate  in January held at 7.8 percent, where it’s
been since November, a separate survey projected.  Data today showing a gain in Chinese manufacturing boosted
speculation economic growth will quicken. A government  report 
and a private index both showed manufacturing expanded in
January.  Euro-area manufacturing output contracted less than
estimated last month, adding to signs the 17-nation currency
bloc’s economy is beginning to emerge from a recession.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area rose to
47.9 from 46.1 in December, London-based Markit Economics said
today. That’s above an initial estimate of 47.5 on Jan. 24.  “Bond-market sentiment is getting cold,” said Park Sungjin, the head of asset management at Meritz Securities Co.
in  Seoul , which oversees the equivalent of $7 billion. “The
economic recovery is proceeding.”  Japan ’s yen depreciated past 92 per dollar, its weakest
level in 2 1/2 years, on speculation Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
is close to choosing a new  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor who will boost
stimulus to the economy to spur inflation.  Central Banks  Central banks in the U.S., Japan, and the U.K. have all
bought bonds to spur growth.  “The current rise in yields is due to the Federal Reserve
easing,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior investor for Tokyo-
based Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent
of $35.8 billion. “Investors expect money to go into riskier
assets, and equity markets are rising.”  Meritz’s Park and Nakamura both said the tumble in
Treasuries may not go much further. Park said he has a bet
against bonds that he’s considering ending. Nakamura said
economic growth is still weak enough to send yields lower.  Ten-year yields will drop to 1.83 percent by March 31,
based on a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the most
recent projections given the heaviest weightings. That would
result in a return of more than 12 percent for investors who
hold these securities during the period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund,
reiterated his warning that unprecedented central bank efforts
to spur growth will result in higher costs for goods and
services.  ‘Eventual Inflation’  “Position for eventual inflation,” Gross wrote in his
monthly investment outlook on  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s website yesterday.  The U.S. 10-year term premium, a model that includes
expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation, was at
minus 0.59 percent, the cheapest level since April 5, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The measure dropped to a record
minus 1.02 percent in July.  The Fed’s measure of inflation expectations for the period
from 2018 to 2023, known as the  five-year five-year  forward
break-even rate, climbed to 2.89 percent. It hasn’t been so high
since August 2011. The average last year was 2.61 percent.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, widened to 2.58 percentage points yesterday. That’s the
most since October and compares with an average of the past
decade of 2.19 percentage points.  “The end stage of a supernova credit explosion is likely
to produce more inflation than growth,” Gross wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  