-- Treasury Yields Reach Nine-Month Highs After Payrolls Increase
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-02-01T22:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/treasuries-erase-losses-as-u-s-unemployment-rate-increases.html
Treasury yields rose to nine-month
highs after a government report showing gains in payrolls last
month added to signs the U.S. economic recovery is gaining
traction, sapping the securities’ haven appeal.  Yields on benchmark  10-year notes  rose for a second week
and stocks surged as January’s jobs increase was supported by
upward revisions in the two prior months.  Break-even rates  on
30-year inflation-protected securities, or how much investors
estimate consumer prices will rise over the life of the
securities, touched the highest level since September.  “We have settled at higher yields as the market is
suspicious of these low bond yields in an environment where risk
assets are rallying,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees
$2.1 billion as chief investment officer at United Nations
Federal Credit Union in New York. “The data has been generally
mixed, but the market is focusing more on positive indicators of
moderate strength than negative numbers.”  Ten-year  note yields  rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.02 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The yield reached 2.04
percent, the highest since April 13.  The 30-year bond  yield  rose as much as six basis points to
3.24 percent, the highest since April 5.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose climbed above 14,000
for the first time since 2007, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index jumped 1 percent to return to a five-year high.  Payrolls Revisions  The difference between rates on 30-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
widened to as much as 2.63 percentage points, the most since
Sept. 17. The average over the past decade is 2.48 percentage
points.  U.S. employers added 157,000 jobs last month following a
revised 196,000 advance in December and a 247,000 surge in
November, Labor Department figures showed. January’s increase
was less than the advance of 165,000 that was the median
forecast of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yields fell earlier as an increase in the  unemployment rate 
to 7.9 percent soothed concern that the  Federal Reserve  will
start winding down purchases of  U.S. government debt . A survey
projected the jobless rate to hold steady at 7.8 percent.  Engine ‘Revving’  “This job’s figure today indicates that the engine of the
economy is revving, but the car isn’t going anywhere,” said
Thomas di Galoma, a managing director at Navigate Advisors LLC,
a brokerage for institutional investors in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “There’s a bearish stance that rates will rise,
and this number today has kind of tempered the feeling that
rates need to rise substantially.”  The economy had added an average of 153,000 people a month
to nonfarm payrolls in 2011-2012, Labor Department data show.
The  jobless rate  had stayed above 8 percent since February 2009
until it broke the trend in September.  “Steady to higher participation rate suggests unemployment
a long time away from 6.5 percent,”  Bill Gross , manager of the
world’s largest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
wrote in a Twitter message. “Sell long-term bonds, own 5-7 yr
maturities.”  U.S. government debt gained Jan. 30 after the Commerce
Department said the  U.S. economy  unexpectedly shrank in the
fourth quarter and the Fed reiterated its commitment to asset
purchases to push down yields and lift growth.  Fed Buying  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement that
growth, while slowed by “transitory factors,” faces “downside
risks” even after strains in global financial markets have
eased. The expansion will pick up and unemployment will fall in
response to “appropriate policy accommodation,” Fed officials
said in a statement after a two-day meeting.  “Certainly any risks of recession have retreated, but the
reality is we are still muddling along,” said  David Ader , head
of U.S. government-bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut. “This week’s data -- from the jobs
report, weaker gross domestic product and lower inflation prints
-- buys the Fed more time to act.”  Fed policy makers said in the statement they may end their
$85 billion monthly bond purchases sometime in 2013, with
members divided between a mid-or end-of-year finish.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard , an advocate
for slowing stimulus, said today that U.S. job growth in the
past three months has been “an encouraging sign.”  At its December meeting, the FOMC announced Treasury
purchases of $45 billion a month in addition to $40 billion a
month of mortgage-debt purchases begun in September. Policy
makers didn’t set a limit on the program’s size or duration and
said the purchases will continue “if the outlook for the labor
market does not improve substantially.”  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of
purchases, known as quantitative easing, or QE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  