-- Critics Want More Exemptions From U.S. Birth-Control Rule
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/religious-nonprofits-won-t-pay-for-birth-control-u-s-says.html
The Obama administration’s revised
 rules  on insurance coverage for birth control designed to dispel
concerns of religious groups haven’t appeased critics who say
the policy violates employers’ rights.  Insurers who provide coverage for religious nonprofits, or
companies that administer the benefits, will provide
contraceptive coverage without cost to the organization or its
workers should the group object on religious grounds, the
government said yesterday.  The rules provide a broad exemption for nonprofit
organizations, but not for-profit companies, from a requirement
of the 2010 health-care law that health plans cover birth
control without cost to their workers. Senator  Orrin Hatch , a
Utah Republican, said the requirement violates a 1993 law on
religious freedom because for-profit companies don’t get the
exemption under the compromise announced yesterday.  “Freedom of religion and the right of peoples of faith to
be protected against government intrusion must be sacrosanct,”
Hatch said in a statement. “Unfortunately, this White House
doesn’t seem to believe in that constitutional guarantee --
forcing private companies to provide health-care services in
violation of their beliefs.”  Fourteen for-profit firms have sued the government over the
mandate; 10 have won an injunction against complying, according
to the  Becket Fund  for Religious Liberty, a legal group fighting
the requirement.  Health Law  The  Affordable Care Act  requires insurers and employers who
provide health coverage to their workers to pay for government-
recommended preventive services without co-payments. In August
2011, the Obama administration said those services would include
contraception such as birth control pills, implants and
sterilization procedures. The decision was backed by a
recommendation from the  Institute of Medicine , nonpartisan
scientific advisers to the government.  Religious organizations opposed to birth control demanded
an exception to the requirement. The Obama administration
initially provided a one-year delay until this August to allow
the groups to comply, while promising further compromise.  “The administration is taking the next step in providing
women across the nation with coverage of recommended preventive
care at no cost, while respecting religious concerns,” Health
and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said yesterday in
a statement.  The issue has drawn enormous scrutiny. About 200,000 people
and organizations sent formal comments on preliminary rules
outlining a compromise the administration issued in March 2012.  Broadening Eligibility  The government said the rules announced yesterday would
broaden the types of organizations eligible for an exemption
from the birth-control mandate and make it easier for them to
escape it. Nonprofits that object to the requirement need only
lodge a protest with the health insurer that covers their
workers, or the company that administers their health benefits
if they are self-insured.  The rule “would limit any accommodation to nonprofit
organizations that hold themselves out as religious,” the
administration said, a definition that may include church-
affiliated hospitals and universities that weren’t previously
exempt.  It’s unclear how the new rules affect 30 lawsuits filed
against the government by nonprofits, said Kyle Duncan, general
counsel for the Becket Fund.  The owners of for-profit companies that have sued object to
covering certain types of birth control such as  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s morning-after pill, Plan B One-
Step.  “Today’s proposed rule does nothing to protect the
religious liberty of millions of Americans,” Duncan said.  Rights Advocates  Groups that advocate for civil liberties and abortion
rights, including the Planned Parenthood Federation of America
and the  American Civil Liberties Union , have argued that
employers shouldn’t be able to decide whether Americans have
insurance coverage for birth control. They applauded the
government’s proposal.  “Over the last year, we’ve seen a disturbing number of
instances where employers are trying to impose their religious
beliefs on a diverse workforce that does not share them, and
opponents of the law have made it clear that they won’t rest
until no insurance plan, whatever the source, is required to
cover contraception,” said  Sarah Lipton-Lubet , policy counsel
for the American Civil Liberties Union, in a statement.  Women’s Issue  The Obama administration, she said, “continues to stand
with women.”  According to the new rules, if a nonprofit’s workers get
health insurance through a plan offered by companies such as
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the insurer will have to arrange
coverage of birth control without any cost to the nonprofit or
to workers.  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for America’s Health
Insurance Plans, the industry’s main trade group, said the
organization is reviewing the proposal. “We will be talking
with our members and will submit comments through the regulatory
process,” he said.  Matt Stearns, a spokesman for Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth, the biggest U.S. health insurance company,
declined to comment.  “Actuaries, economists and insurers estimate that
providing contraceptive coverage is at least cost neutral, and
may result in cost savings when taking into account all costs
and benefits for the insurer,” the government said in a
regulatory filing.  Complicated Coverage  For nonprofits that are self-insured, birth-control
coverage for their workers may be more complicated.  The responsibility will fall to companies that manage
benefits for the nonprofits, called third-party administrators.
While many insurers including UnitedHealth act as third-party
administrators, other companies that aren’t insurers also
perform the service.  If there is a cost to third-party administrators for the
coverage, the government will reimburse them by reducing the
fees their insurers pay to offer plans in new health insurance
marketplaces, called exchanges, which are being established
under the health law.  The government has no estimate of how much the
reimbursements may cost, said Chiquita Brooks-LaSure, deputy
director of policy and regulation at the  Center for Consumer
Information and Insurance Oversight , which administers much of
the health law.  The government said almost all self-insured nonprofits
employ an independent company to administer their benefits.  One atheist advocacy group, The Secular Coalition, warned
that the exemption for nonprofits is too broad, and women
working for the groups risk not having coverage for  birth
control  if the alternative insurance mechanism doesn’t work.  “These accommodations set a terrible precedent for
religious interference in individual choice,” Edwina Rogers,
the group’s executive director, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  