-- Republican Senators Remain Opposed to Cordray Nomination
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-02-01T21:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/republican-senators-remain-opposed-to-cordray-nomination.html
A group of 43 Republican senators
said in a letter to President Barack Obama that they will
continue to oppose confirmation of any nominee to lead the U.S.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau until “key changes are
made to ensure accountability and transparency at the bureau.”  Obama last week re-nominated  Richard Cordray  to a full
five-year term at the agency, created to protect consumers from
scams and abuses in the financial services market.  Obama installed the former Ohio attorney general to the job
in January 2012. He bypassed Republican opposition by making a
so-called recess appointment, contending the Senate was out of
session. That move put Cordray in the job through the end of
2013.  “We have serious concerns about the lack of congressional
oversight of the agency and the lack of normal, democratic
checks on its sole director,” the senators said in a letter
authored by Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky
and Senator  Mike Crapo  of Idaho, ranking Republican on the
Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee.  Bob Corker  of Tennessee and  Rob Portman  of Ohio were the
only Republican senators who didn’t sign the letter. Corker is a
member of the Banking Committee, which would consider the
nomination. Opposition from 43 senators would be enough to block
Senate confirmation.  ‘Weaken’ Structure  Responding to the letter, White House spokeswoman  Amy Brundage  said Obama “has always said that he will not accept
efforts to weaken the structure of the CFPB.” Jen Howard, a
spokeswoman for the bureau, declined to comment.  Senator Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican and banking
committee member, introduced legislation that would replace the
bureau director with a five-member commission confirmed by the
Senate. The measure was also introduced in 2011.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington ruled Jan. 26 that
Obama violated the Constitution by making recess appointments
last year to the  National Labor Relations Board . The court said
the appointments, made after Republicans refused to consider his
nominees, were “constitutionally invalid” because the Senate
wasn’t in recess at the time.  Although the ruling didn’t address Cordray’s appointment,
McConnell said at the time that it cast “serious doubt” on
whether it was lawful. He and 41 other Republican senators had
filed court papers challenging the NLRB appointments.  When Obama first nominated Cordray for the CFPB post, he
bypassed former Treasury Department and White House adviser
 Elizabeth Warren . She had helped organize the bureau and was
opposed by Senate Republicans.  Warren is now a freshman Democratic senator from
Massachusetts after defeating Republican  Scott Brown  in the
November election. She is a member of the Banking Committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  