-- Trial of Len Blavatnik’s Suit Against JPMorgan Ends
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-02-01T20:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/trial-of-len-blavatnik-s-suit-against-jpmorgan-ends.html
Billionaire Leonard Blavatnik’s
lawyers asked a New York judge to hold  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
responsible for stuffing a fund with risky mortgage securities
and losing 10 percent of his $1 billion investment.  Blavatnik, 55, ranked 49th on Bloomberg’s billionaires
index with a net worth of $16.2 billion, sued JPMorgan in New
York state court in June 2009, accusing the biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets of putting more money into mortgage securities in his
CMMF fund than investment guidelines allowed.  Richard I. Werder Jr., an attorney with Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP who is representing Blavatnik, today
asked Supreme Court Justice Melvin Schweitzer to order JPMorgan
to pay more than $100 million in damages to the billionaire for
the losses to the fund.  “We’re talking about this account being converted into a
totally different kind of account than the one it was supposed
to be,” Werder said during closing arguments in a two-week,
nonjury trial in  Manhattan .  Attorneys for New York-based JPMorgan have argued that CMMF
rejected the “most conservative strategy” it was offered in
favor of one that sought a higher return than a money-market
fund, with higher risk and less liquidity.  Lewis R. Clayton, an attorney with Paul Weiss Rifkind
Wharton & Garrison LLP, representing JPMorgan, told Schweitzer
today that the losses were the result of unexpected market
conditions and that the mortgage securities purchased for the
fund were “remarkably liquid” until the financial crisis hit
in 2008.  “This is classic backward-looking, after-the-fact second-
guessing,” Clayton said during his closing argument.  Schweitzer didn’t indicate when he planned to rule. Werder
said he expected a decision within several months, while Clayton
declined to comment after today’s proceedings.  The case is CMMF LLC v. J.P. Morgan Investment Management
Inc., 601924-09,  New York  State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  