-- Roche’s Avastin Fails to Win NICE Backing for Ovarian Use
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-02-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/roche-s-avastin-fails-to-win-nice-backing-for-second-ovarian-use.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s anti-tumor drug
Avastin failed for the second time in two months to win the
backing of the U.K.’s health-cost regulator as a treatment for
ovarian cancer in a draft decision issued today.  The  National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
recommended against the drug as an initial treatment for women
with ovarian cancer that has spread beyond the ovarian lining
and then returned six months or more after first being treated
with platinum-based chemotherapy. The guidance also covers
fallopian tube and primary peritoneal cancer, NICE said.  Though Avastin “may help to delay the spread of a
patient’s cancer for a limited time,” there wasn’t evidence to
show the drug’s benefit justified its cost,  Andrew Dillon ,
NICE’s chief executive, said in the statement. National Health
Service patients have other options for treatment, Dillon said.  Today’s recommendation comes after NICE refused on Dec. 18
to back Avastin for use after ovarian cancer has initially
spread. Ovarian is one of the types of cancer Roche has said
will drive sales growth for Avastin. The agency in December said
it wasn’t clear whether the drug helped women live longer.  Roche said in a statement it’s disappointed with the NICE
decision and will work with the agency to get a different
recommendation for both categories of ovarian cancer. Avastin
was the first drug in 15 years shown to improve the outcome for
women with advanced ovarian cancer, the Basel, Switzerland-based
company said.  Avastin had 5.76 billion Swiss francs ($6.32 billion) in
sales last year, making it Roche’s third-biggest-selling drug.  Both NICE ovarian cancer recommendations are draft
decisions subject to final review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  