-- Rothstein’s Wife Admits Guilt in Hiding Jewelry From IRS
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-01T22:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/rothstein-s-wife-admits-guilt-in-hiding-jewelry-from-irs.html
The wife of Scott Rothstein, a
disbarred  Florida  attorney who ran a $1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme ,
pleaded guilty to hiding $1 million in jewelry from U.S.
authorities trying to seize his assets to repay investors.  Kimberly Wendell Rothstein, 38, admitted today in federal
court in  Fort Lauderdale , Florida, that she lied after Internal
Revenue Service agents tried to confiscate the jewelry,
including a 12-carat yellow diamond ring. A friend of hers,
Stacie Weisman, 49, also pleaded guilty.  Scott Rothstein, who is serving a 50-year prison term,
amassed tens of millions of dollars in real estate, cars, boats,
watches, jewelry and sports memorabilia, authorities said. After
he agreed to plead guilty and forfeit his illegal gains, his
wife held back some jewelry when federal agents showed up on
Nov. 9, 2009, she admitted.  “Kimberly Rothstein, Weisman, and others sold or attempted
to sell a portion of the missing jewelry to and through various
persons,” according to a statement of facts filed in court
today that Kimberly Rothstein admitted.  Both women pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit  money
laundering . Sentencing for Rothstein will be on April 19; for
Weisman, June 7.  Other Pleas  On Jan. 30, attorney Scott Saidel, 45, pleaded guilty to
conspiracy for his role in the scheme. Two other men, Eddy
Marin, 50, and Patrick Daoud, 54, were charged with obstruction
of justice and perjury. They face trial on April 8.  The Ponzi scheme orchestrated by Scott Rothstein involved
persuading wealthy investors to buy stakes in what he said were
payouts in confidential sexual harassment and workplace
discrimination cases. The cases were fabricated. Rothstein used
forged court documents and phony bank records to sell the scheme
to investors, including four  hedge funds  and several wealthy
South Florida businessmen.  The scheme fell apart over Halloween weekend 2009 when he
was unable to bring in new investors to pay off old ones. He
fled to  Morocco , returning a few days later, and has cooperated
with federal authorities and the trustee appointed in the
bankruptcy of his former Fort Lauderdale law firm, Rothstein,
Rosenfeldt & Adler.  The case is U.S. v. Rothstein, 12-cr-60204, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 