-- Rupiah Forwards Surge as Offshore Fixing Matches Onshore Spot
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-02-01T10:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/rupiah-onshore-offshore-rates-match-for-first-time-in-six-weeks.html
Indonesia’s rupiah forwards jumped
the most since September after global banks strengthened their
quotes for the currency, causing an offshore fixing to converge
with the onshore spot rate for the first time in six weeks.  One-month contracts climbed 1.2 percent to 9,688 per dollar
as of 4:52 p.m. in Jakarta after the  fixing , an average of 18
global lenders’ quotes in Singapore that is used to settle non-
deliverable forwards, strengthened 0.3 percent to 9,769. The
currency fell as low as 9,778, before closing 0.3 percent higher
on the day at 9,713, according to prices from banks in Indonesia
compiled by Bloomberg.  The rate published by the Association of Banks in Singapore
was 2.6 percent weaker than quotes within Indonesia on Jan. 11,
the biggest discount since September 2011. Analysts at HSBC
Holdings Plc led by Paul Mackel wrote in a report the same day
that the rupiah’s “two-tiered market” may prompt companies and
Indonesians to hoard dollars, worsening an onshore shortage of
U.S. currency.  “Sentiment has improved quite a bit and dollar liquidity
is flush,” Andy Ji, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said in an interview from
Singapore. “The key issue now is whether the central bank will
loosen its control and make the market more of a marketplace.”  Bank Indonesia has increased dollar supply in the domestic
market since the second week of January to support the rupiah
and reduce the difference between local and overseas rates,
Hendar, executive director for monetary policy, said in a Jan.
28 interview.  Liqudity Normalized  Local rupiah prices last exceeded the overseas fixing by
more than 2 percent in May, when analysts at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. said the central bank had set an “unofficial
ceiling” for the currency and asked local banks not to quote
beyond that level.  “Dollar-rupiah liquidity has normalized, which has helped
close the gap between onshore and offshore rates,” said Branko Windoe, the head of treasury at PT Bank Central Asia, the
nation’s largest lender by market value, said in an interview
from Jakarta. “This more efficient market will see overall
demand for Indonesian assets pick up.”  One-month implied volatility in the currency, which
measures expected moves in exchange rates used to price options,
was unchanged for a seventh day at 6.25 percent.  Bank Indonesia is in talks with central banks in Singapore
and Malaysia as it monitors the effect of non-deliverable
forward transactions on the local market, amid an ongoing probe
into fixings set by the Association of Banks in Singapore,
Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah told reporters in Jakarta today.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore said in a Dec. 20 statement
that it’s reviewing benchmarks set by the association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  