-- Russia Stocks Climb Second Day as Magnit Surges to Record High
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-02-01T17:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/russia-stocks-climb-second-day-on-crude-oil-manufacturing-gains.html
Russian (INDEXCF)  stocks rose for a second day,
climbing for a fourth week, as manufacturing grew more than
forecast and consumer services shares advanced.  The Micex Index added less than 0.1 percent to 1,547.22 by
the close in Moscow, extending this week’s advance to 0.2
percent. Of 50 stocks, 20 dropped and 30 rallied. The dollar-
denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  rose 0.4 percent to 1,628.31. The Micex’s
 50-day volatility  fell to 12.202, the lowest in at least 10
years. OAO Magnit,  Russia ’s biggest food retailer by market
value, surged 2.9 percent to the highest since it was listed on
the exchange in 2006.  Consumer stocks and industrial shares added 2.3 percent and
2.2 percent, respectively. The country’s manufacturing rebounded
in January from a 15-month low as an increase in domestic
business helped propel new orders at the fastest pace since
March 2011,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said. Equities extended gains as
data showed U.S. hiring increased in January.  “Russian PMI shows that the growth is continuing, warming
appetite for riskier assets,” Slava Smolyaninov, chief
strategist at UralSib Capital in Moscow, said by phone.  The Micex Index pared gains as OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
biggest oil producer, retreated 1.7 percent to 261.87 rubles,
the most since Nov. 22. Fourth-quarter earnings fell 69 percent
to 57 billion rubles following a charge related to unproven
reserves, the Moscow-based company said today in a regulatory
filing.  That missed the 77.2 billion-ruble average adjusted
forecast from 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Rosneft has the
fourth-largest weighting on the Micex at 5.7 percent.  Mechel, Gazprom  OAO Mechel, Russia’s biggest coking coal producer, surged
as much as 4 percent, third-biggest gainer on the Micex, after
the company’s Mecheltrans unit acquired 21.6 percent of Vanino
Sea Trade Port’s common shares for $152 million. OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s largest company and natural gas export monopoly, added
0.5 percent.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index advanced to 52.0 in January
from 50.0 in December, HSBC said today in an e-mailed statement,
citing data compiled by London-based Markit Economics. A reading
above 50 indicates an improvement in business conditions, while
a result below that suggests deterioration. Economists projected
an advance to 50.2, according to the median of five estimates in
a Bloomberg survey.  The Moscow Exchange, Russia’s main equity and bonds bourse,
will start meeting with investors on Feb. 4 in Moscow to promote
its planned initial public offering, Roman Filatov, a portfolio
manager at Sberbank Asset Management, who received an
invitation, said by phone from Moscow. Meetings will follow in
 Europe  and the U.S., he said.  Uralkali Caution  The number of shares traded on the Micex was 17 percent
below the 10-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index of commodities  gained 0.4 percent
to 677.83. The Russian Depositary Index rose 0.3 percent, led by
depositary receipts of  OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the largest potash producer
by output, which added 3.9 percent.  Uralkali has received a cautionary notice from Bank of  New
York  BNY Mellon that the company’s program to convert Moscow-
listed shares into depositary receipts has nearly reached its
limit, according to a Uralkali press representative. Depositary
receipts can only account for 25 percent of a company’s shares
and 50 percent of its listed shares, according to Russian
regulations.  Veropharm Slides  OAO Veropharm declined 1.3 percent to 778 rubles, the
lowest level since Nov. 1. OAO Pharmacy Chain 36.6 has halted
talks with AFK Sistema on the sale of the Russian drugmaker over
price negotiations, Kommersant reported today, citing officials
close to both companies without identifying them.  “The news is negative for  Veropharm (VRPH)  as the deal with
Sistema was supposed to heat up interest in the stock,” Ksenia Arutyunova, an analyst at Rye, Man & Gor Securities in Moscow,
said in an e-mailed note.  Inflows into Russian equities funds climbed to $255 million
in the week ended Jan. 30, according to an e-mailed note from
VTB Capital, which cited EPFR Global data.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, rose 0.8 percent to $30.82
yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected
swings in the  stock futures , dropped 6.7 percent to 19.42.  The Micex trades at about 5.7 times  estimated earnings  and
has added 4.9 percent this year. That compares with a multiple
of 11 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has
gained 1.6 percent over the same period.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  