-- Samsung’s Lee Keeps $3.7 Billion Stake in Family Feud
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-02-01T06:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/samsung-s-lee-retains-3-7-billion-stake-in-family-feud-ruling.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Chairman Lee Kun Hee will retain control of  Asia ’s biggest consumer-
electronics maker after a court rejected relatives’ bids for a
4.1 trillion-won ($3.7 billion) stake in the family group.  The brother, sister and three other family members of
billionaire Lee, 71, failed to prove they should be given the
stakes in Samsung Electronics and Samsung Life Insurance Co.,
the Seoul District Court ruled today.  The family feud comes as Samsung Electronics barrels ahead
of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  as the world’s
biggest maker of mobile phones, TVs and computer-memory chips.
The Suwon, South Korea-based company boosted fourth-quarter
profit 76 percent after shipping one of every three smartphones
and  selling  one of every four flat-panel TVs.  Lee’s brother Lee Maeng Hee and sister Lee Sook Hee, who
don’t have any role in the group, sued in February 2012,
claiming they were entitled to additional stakes. Three other
relatives also sued.  The five plaintiffs will decide if they will appeal after
reviewing the ruling, their lawyer, Cha Dong Eon, said.  Yun Jae Yun, a lawyer for Chairman Lee, said the judge’s
decision was reasonable. Lee had said before the ruling he
wouldn’t give a “dime” to his relatives because inheritance
matters had been settled by his father, and he would appeal a
loss, according to media reports.  Samsung Group said it had no comment on the ruling.  Cross Holdings  Handing over the shares to his siblings would have meant
the chairman no longer would be the largest investor in Samsung
Life. In  South Korea ’s complex world of cross-holding of shares
in companies, that could have triggered a dispute over control
of Samsung Electronics, Chae Yi Bai, a researcher at the  Center
for Good Corporate Governance , a Seoul-based private institute
monitoring South Korean conglomerates, said before the ruling.  Samsung shares advanced about 34 percent in the past 12
months and reached a record 1,576,000 won on Jan. 2 as the
company’s Galaxy smartphones extended their sales lead over
Apple’s iPhone in the $219 billion global market.  The company currently is valued at $195 billion, making it
the world’s 23rd-largest, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chairman Lee holds 41.5 million shares, or about 21
percent, of Samsung Life, making him the largest shareholder,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The elder brother
wanted at least 9.65 million shares and the sister wants 2.6
million shares.  Richest Man  The public holdings of South Korea’s richest man are valued
at $11.2 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
family conglomerate,  Samsung Group , controls more than 80
companies making armored vehicles and artillery guns for South
Korea’s military, oil tankers, amusement parks and apartment
complexes.  Samsung Electronics accounted for 44 percent of Samsung
Group’s total revenue in 2011. The group generates about 20
percent of South Korea’s gross domestic product.  Lee Byung Chul founded what is today South Korea’s biggest
business group in 1938 and died in 1987 without leaving a will.
Lee Kun Hee transformed the dried-fish and produce company into
the world’s biggest maker of TVs, mobile phones and computer-
memory chips.  The chairman’s lawyer said the family patriarch repeatedly
expressed his desire for Lee Kun Hee to take over the group.  The dispute dragged Lee Kun Hee, a lung cancer survivor,
back into a courtroom following a series of run-ins with the
law. He was convicted of paying bribes to former Presidents Chun Doo Hwan and Roh Tae Woo in 1996 before receiving a pardon from
then-President Kim Young Sam a year later.  Lee quit as chairman of the group and electronics company
in 2008 after being charged with  tax evasion . He received
another presidential pardon in 2009 and reassumed his post
running Samsung Electronics in 2010.  In December, he promoted his son, Lee Jae Yong, to vice
chairman of Samsung Electronics, putting him a step closer to
succession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  