-- Santander Misses Rebound on Late Loans: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-02-01T15:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/santander-misses-rebound-on-late-loans-corporate-brazil.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s Brazil unit, the
nation’s lowest-rated lender by analysts, is missing a rebound
in banking stocks as its bad loans rise and lending growth lags
behind peers.  Late payments at Banco Santander Brasil SA, the worst-
performer among the country’s top four banks in the past six
months, rose to 5.5 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with
4.1 percent at  Banco Bradesco SA. (BBDC4)  Fourth-quarter loans at Sao
Paulo-based Santander grew 7.6 percent from a year earlier,
versus 12 percent at Bradesco. Santander is Brazil’s fourth-
biggest bank by market value and Bradesco is No. 2.  While Bradesco and  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  managed to cut
delinquency rates and improve credit quality amid recovering
economic growth, Santander Brasil said its default rates won’t
improve until the end of the second quarter. This helps explain
Santander’s 2.35 consensus rating among analysts, the lowest
score for a financial firm on the benchmark Bovespa Index, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The figure, a gauge of share-price
expectations, is calculated by converting each analyst’s
recommendation into a number from one to five.  “Santander is in a tougher position to boost lending,”
Renato Schuetz, an analyst at Votorantim Corretora in  Sao Paulo ,
said in a telephone interview. “Its delinquency rates are a
little bit higher at the moment, which would make it difficult
for the bank to increase lending once the Brazilian economy
picks up.”  Share Performance  Santander Brasil trades 37 percent below the 23.50-real
($11.85) initial public offering price from 2009, at 14.81 reais
as of 1:06 p.m. in Sao Paulo. The shares  dropped  7.3 percent in
the past six months, compared with gains of 18 percent at  Banco
do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , 22 percent at Itau and 29 percent at Bradesco.  The bank expects a “gradual improvement of credit
quality” as Brazil’s economy rebounds this year,  Emilio Botin ,
chairman of Santander Brasil’s Madrid-based parent company, said
yesterday in a web presentation after the bank posted fourth-
quarter results. Banco Santander is  Spain ’s biggest lender.  Santander Brasil’s lending growth in the fourth quarter was
a “meager” 2 percent from the previous quarter,  Mario Pierry ,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Sao Paulo, wrote in a research
note after earnings were released. Pierry said his “main point
of concern” was the deterioration in credit quality as payments
more than 90 days late increased.  Delinquency Forecast  Delinquencies rose in the fourth quarter as the lender
boosted small- and medium-sized companies’ share of its loan
portfolio, Chief Executive Officer Marcial Portela told analysts
on a conference call. Oscar Herrero, vice-president of risk
management, said on the same call that the delinquency rate will
improve at the end of the second quarter.  The company declined to comment on analysts’ consensus
recommendations.  Santander Brasil has been a disappointment since its IPO in
October 2009, as the bank failed to use excess capital to boost
lending more than competitors, said Inigo Vega, an analyst at
Nau Securities Ltd. The unit raised 14.1 billion reais in the
offering to fund expansion plans.  “When it held the IPO, the outlook for Brazil was great in
terms of potential to grow,” Vega said in a telephone interview
from  Madrid . “But Brazil hasn’t done very well since then, and
there were some  credit-quality  issues in the nation’s lending
market.”  Analysts have become more pessimistic about Santander
Brasil’s prospects in the past three years, with the  consensus
rating  dropping almost by half, from 4.56 in March 2010. Sao
Paulo-based Itau’s rating is 4.48 and Bradesco’s is 4.  Stock Performance  Economists estimated Brazil, the world’s biggest emerging
market after  China , will expand 3.1 percent this year,
rebounding from 1 percent in 2012, according to a weekly central
bank market survey.  The nation’s delinquency rate for consumers and
corporations on payments at least 90 days overdue started
improving in December, when it dropped to 5.8 percent, after
remaining at a record 5.9 percent between July and November,
according to  Brazil ’s central bank.  Deutsche Bank’s Pierry said speculation the Spanish parent
might sell a stake in the unit has helped the shares avoid even
deeper declines.  Santander Brasil jumped the most in five months on Jan. 10
after a magazine report that was later retracted said the
Spanish parent might sell a stake in its Brazil unit. Bradesco
offered to invest in Santander Brasil, Veja reported on its
website. The magazine withdrew the report 20 minutes later,
saying it was mistaken. Both banks denied they were in talks in
separate e-mailed statements.  Most Important  Botin said last month that the company doesn’t plan to sell
assets in Brazil, which he called the bank’s most important
country. He said yesterday the company hasn’t had any talks with
Bradesco.  Banco Santander  yesterday posted fourth-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates as it set aside money for future loan
losses in Spain. It took provisions of 18.8 billion euros ($25.5
billion) last year after the government ordered banks there to
recognize losses on real estate.  Santander Brasil expanded in 2007, when it spent 11 billion
euros to purchase ABN Amro Holding NV’s Banco Real unit. The
bank “struggled” to increase lending because of the
integration process with Banco Real, Schuetz at Votorantim said.  Santander Brasil ended last quarter with a Basel II capital
ratio of 20.8 percent, compared with Bradesco’s 16.1 percent.
The ratio indicates how much capital banks have compared with
loans.  “The bank has lagged competitors in terms of loan-book
growth, which isn’t the best use of capital,” Schuetz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  