-- Seat Pagine Bonds Extend Drop on Second S&P Downgrade This Week
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-02-01T16:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/seat-pagine-bonds-extend-drop-on-second-s-p-downgrade-this-week.html
Seat Pagine Gialle SpA (PG) ’s bonds
extended losses after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the ratings of
Italy’s largest directory publisher for the second time in a
week because of a missed coupon payment.  The company’s 10.5 percent notes due 2017 dropped 0.5 cents
on the euro to 36 cents at 3:40 p.m. in  London , the 11th
consecutive day of declines, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The notes have fallen 36 percent since the company
said Jan. 28 it would suspend a 42 million-euro ($57 million)
interest payment before a board meeting on Feb. 6.  S&P downgraded the Turin-based publisher to “Selective
Default” from CC because it doesn’t expect the payment to occur
within five working days. The rating company, which cut Seat
Pagine’s ranking to CC from B- on Jan. 30, said it may downgrade
again, to D, if other financial obligations are missed.  Europe ’s biggest directories businesses are restructuring
as they manage high debt levels and a decline in paper
directories. Hibu Plc, the U.K. yellow pages publisher, is in
restructuring talks with lenders while European Directories SA
of the Netherlands agreed a deal at the end of 2012.  Seat Pagine said Jan. 28 it’s assessing its  capital
structure  given the current economic and market environment.  “Missing the coupon payment was completely unexpected, and
took bondholders by surprise,” said Steven Mitra, a London-
based partner at LNG Capital LLP. “We’ll get a clearer picture
of the level of cash burn on Feb. 6.”  Seat Pagine restructured its debt in September, swapping
1.3 billion euros of junior-ranking bonds into shares and
refinancing 686 million euros of loans. That cut the company’s
2.7 billion euros of net debt and left it with about 190 million
euros of  cash  at the end of September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  