-- SEC’s Walter Calls Designated Successor White a Quick Study
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-02-01T17:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/sec-s-walter-praises-nominee-white-as-she-leads-agency-for-now.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Elisse B. Walter said her designated
successor Mary Jo White will be a quick study as the nation’s
top financial-markets regulator.  Walter was appointed chairman after  Mary Schapiro  left the
post in December. Walter’s tenure as chairman may be brief as
President  Barack Obama  last week said he will nominate White, a
former prosecutor and corporate lawyer with no experience as a
regulator, to succeed her.  “She’s a very quick study and she’s a very smart woman and
I look forward to working with her as she comes,” Walter told
reporters today in Washington. “I think she’s terrific.”  Walter, 62, said she would remain chairman until White, a
former U.S. Attorney in  Manhattan , is confirmed by the Senate.
White is a partner at law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in  New
York  and served on the board of the  Nasdaq Stock Market Inc. (NDAQ)   Walter, who became a commissioner in July 2008, said she
hasn’t decided how long she’ll remain on the commission once
White joins.  “I have decided not to think about it for now because that
may be a very short time and that may be a very long time,” she
said.  Walter said the commissioners are “working well together”
on an effort to overhaul rules governing the $2.7 trillion money
market mutual-fund industry. The SEC has been working to change
the rules since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion
Reserve Primary Fund.  Schapiro Plan  A plan by Schapiro to force money funds to choose between a
floating share value or a combination of capital buffers and
withdrawal restrictions was dropped in August after a majority
of the five-member commission didn’t support moving forward.  Commissioners renewed consideration of a proposal after the
Financial Stability Oversight Council issued recommended rules
in November. The FSOC, a panel of regulatory chiefs lead by the
Treasury secretary, was created by the Dodd-Frank Act to address
systemic risks in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.  “The whole dynamic around that project has changed,”
Walter said.  SEC Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher, a Republican
appointee, said commissioners are studying options for new
money-fund regulation prepared by the SEC staff. He declined
to describe the proposals.  “I think there is a path forward developing,” Gallagher
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in  Washington  at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  