-- Sharp Narrows Third-Quarter Loss on Weaker Yen, Workforce Cuts
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-02-01T06:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/sharp-narrows-third-quarter-loss-on-weaker-yen-workforce-cuts.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese TV-maker
that has warned about its ability to survive, posted a narrower
loss helped by job cuts, asset sales and a weaker yen.  The  net loss  was 36.7 billion yen ($398 million) in the
three months ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of 174 billion
yen a year earlier, according to a  statement  today. The Osaka-
based company was expected to report a 34 billion yen loss,
based on the average of three  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Japan ’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays has shed
staff and sold a  stake  to Qualcomm Inc. as it restructures amid
slowing TV sales and competition from Samsung Electronics Co.
Sharp and other Japanese exporters have also benefited from the
yen’s about 15 percent plunge since the end of September, which
boosts the repatriated value of overseas sales.  “The weaker yen is helping Japanese TV-makers like Sharp
improve business,” Keita Wakabayashi, a Mito Securities Co.
analyst in  Tokyo , said before the announcement. “Demand hasn’t
yet shown any significant recovery.”  The company reiterated that it expects an annual loss of
450 billion yen, its second straight unprofitable year. Sony
Corp. and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s two biggest TV-makers, have
also announced turnaround plans because of losses from producing
televisions.  Sharp made an operating profit, or sales minus the cost of
goods sold and administrative expenses, of 2.6 billion yen in
the three months ended Dec. 31. It had an operating loss of 24
billion yen a year earlier. Third-quarter sales totaled 678.2
billion yen.  Job Cuts  Sharp expected to book a 25.3 billion-yen one-time charge
in the quarter to eliminate 2,960 jobs, it said Nov. 20. The
following month, it agreed to sell as much as 9.9 billion yen of
new shares to Qualcomm. The chipmaker has so far bought 4.9
billion yen as part of the two-step transaction.  The TV-maker has also held talks about selling a stake to
Apple Inc. assembler  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  Hon Hai
founder Terry Gou bought a stake in a Sharp LCD plant last year.  Slower than anticipated sales of Apple Inc. iPads and
iPhone 5s may also have hit Sharp. The U.S. phone-maker is
Sharp’s single  biggest  customer, accounting for 3.4 percent of
sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Japanese company slowed a  production line  making iPad
screens in December, Reuters said last month, citing people it
didn’t identify. It is also cutting production of iPhone panels
this quarter to about 40 percent of capacity from close to
100 percent in the previous three months, the Nikkei said Jan.
15. Sharp said it wasn’t the source of the information in the
reports.  Material Doubt  The TV-maker said last year there was “material doubt”
about its ability to survive after it hemorrhaged 103 billion
yen in cash from operations in the six months ended September.
The company has 200 billion yen of convertible bonds maturing
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its  debt 
was cut to junk by Fitch Rating and  Standard & Poor’s  last year.  The TV-maker rose 5.8 percent to 329 yen in Tokyo trading
today, before the earnings announcement. It’s risen 8.6 percent
this year. In 2012, it tumbled 55 percent, the worst performance
in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Sharp’s main banks, Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., are set to extend the due date of 360
billion yen of  loans  from June 30 on the condition the TV-maker
posts an operating profit in the six months to March 31 and
forecasts a net profit next fiscal year, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said last month.  The company is also in final talks about selling a TV
plant in  China  to Lenovo Group Ltd. and another in  Malaysia  to
Wistron Corp., the Nikkei said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 