-- Shell, Sinopec May Buy Australian LNG Stake, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-01T04:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/shell-sinopec-may-buy-australian-lng-stake-jpmorgan-says.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest oil company, and China Petrochemical Corp. are possible
buyers of a stake in a A$23 billion ($24 billion) liquefied
natural gas project in  Australia , JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  Shell, through its Arrow Energy Ltd. venture with
PetroChina Co., may bid for a stake in the Australia Pacific LNG
project being built by ConocoPhillips and  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) ,
Jason Steed and Christopher Laybutt, Sydney-based analysts at
JPMorgan said yesterday in a report.  ConocoPhillips and Sydney-based Origin are developing the
APLNG venture in Queensland state, one of seven projects going
ahead in Australia to tap Asian demand. Origin has said JPMorgan
was hired for the sale, which would help fund the project, and
that the process will last through the first quarter.  If Origin successfully sells a 7.5 percent stake, its
“capital position will be dramatically improved” by about A$2
billion, the JPMorgan analysts said.  China Petrochemical, known as Sinopec Group, already owns
25 percent of APLNG, leaving Origin and Houston-based
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  with 37.5 percent each. Origin said in July that
it’s looking to keep about 30 percent of the project after the
partners jointly agreed to further cut their stakes.  Lv Dapeng, Sinopec Group’s Beijing-based spokesman, didn’t
answer calls to his office today seeking comment. A call to
Shell’s Australian media line wasn’t immediately returned.  Origin has sufficient funds to meet its share of APLNG to
2015 and to “support the ongoing needs of the business,” the
company reiterated today in an e-mailed response to questions.  Three Plants  While a failure by Origin to reach an agreement to reduce
its project ownership will “undoubtedly dent sentiment,” it
won’t necessarily prompt the company to sell shares to raise
funds, according to the analysts at JPMorgan, who also named
infrastructure investors as potential buyers.  Origin,  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and BG Group Plc have approved
construction of three LNG plants in the state. Shell said in
November it may delay until 2014 a decision on whether to go
ahead with the Arrow venture amid rising costs in Australia.  Shell has slowed the pace of developing new LNG projects in
Australia “where there is cost inflation pressure,” Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Voser  told investors on a call yesterday.
The company is taking more time on an expansion of the Gorgon
LNG project operated by Chevron Corp. off the northwest coast
and on Arrow, he said.  Shell was studying plans to combine its Arrow gas resources
with third parties,  Andy Brown , director of international
production, said in November.  “We see a potential transaction with Arrow as adding the
most project value,”  David Leitch  and Andrew Moller, Sydney-
based analysts at UBS AG, said yesterday in a report.  Sovereign wealth funds, national  oil companies  or LNG
buyers in Japan, India, Thailand or Chile also may want to
acquire a 15 percent interest in the APLNG development,  Mark Wiseman  and Anthony Ta, Sydney-based analysts at Goldman Sachs
Australia Pty, wrote in a Nov. 26 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  