-- Sidetur Trustee Said to Declare Steelmaker in Default
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-02-01T21:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/sidetur-trustee-said-to-declare-steelmaker-in-default.html
Siderurgica del Turbio SA, the
Venezuelan steelmaker taken over by the government in 2010, was
found to be in default, creating a fresh opportunity for
bondholders to demand immediate repayment.  Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, the trustee for the
$75 million of outstanding bonds issued by the Caracas-based
steel producer known as Sidetur, said in a Jan. 30 letter to
creditors that a technical default occurred because a reserve
account maintained by the company wasn’t fully funded, according
to Russell Dallen, the head trader at Caracas Capital Markets,
and Ray Zucaro at SW Asset Management LLC. They said they
received the trustee’s notice because they own some of the debt.  The technical default offers another chance for debtholders
to vote to demand they immediately be repaid in full, an
opportunity that first surfaced when the company was taken over
because of a change-of-control clause in the bonds, Dallen said
today. The securities, which Fitch Ratings cut to seven steps
below investment grade in November, last traded at 85 cents on
the dollar on Jan. 22 to yield 16 percent, according to prices
compiled by Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Venezuela’s government, which nationalized Sidetur in 2010
and seized its assets in October, said last year it would
determine a “fair” price for the company that it would pay.  Duncan King, a spokesman at Deutsche Bank in New York,
declined to comment. Calls and e-mails sent to Venezuela’s
Industry Ministry, which oversaw the nationalization of Sidetur,
weren’t returned. Calls to the phone number listed on Sidetur’s
website went unanswered.  Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has seized companies in
the energy, food, metals, cement and banking industries since
first taking office in 1999 as part of his plan to create a
socialist country. His takeover of FertiNitro in October 2010
handed bond investors windfall profits the next year because of
a clause requiring a payout above face value in the event of a
nationalization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  