-- SNS Reaal Nationalization Triggers Jump in Junior Bank Debt Risk
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-02-01T14:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/sns-reaal-nationalization-triggers-jump-in-junior-bank-debt-risk.html
SNS Reaal (SR)  NV’s nationalization
triggered a surge in the cost of insuring against default on
European junior bank debt amid concern the move will encourage
governments to impose losses on bondholders.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on the subordinated bonds of 25 banks and insurers jumped as
much as 15 basis points, the most since Sept. 26, to a more than
seven-week high of 265, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The move was led by contracts on  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , which rose 14
basis points to 518.  The Netherlands moved to take control of SNS Reaal after
real estate losses brought the nation’s fourth-largest lender to
the brink of collapse. Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said today that, while the government will
“expropriate” SNS’s equity and subordinated debt, senior
bondholders won’t be affected.  “There’s a trend of using sub bondholders to recover
capital for bad banks around  Europe ,” said  Alberto Gallo , head
of European macro credit research at  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  in  London . “After Ireland, there’s been  Spain  and now
there’s Cyprus and Holland and there could be other cases going
forward.”  Irish lenders imposed losses of as much as 90 percent on
their junior debt investors as the government pledged 64 billion
euros ($87.4 billion) to rescue them following that country’s
housing collapse. Cypriot Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said
yesterday junior creditors will have to take losses in a
proposed rescue of the country’s banks.  Monte Paschi  Credit-default swaps on the junior debt of  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  rose for a fifth day to the highest since
November. The Italian lender is seeking state help to bolster
its balance sheet after failing to meet  capital requirements  set
by the European Banking Authority and faces a criminal probe
into money-losing structured deals.  Contracts on the junior debt of ING Bank NV, the biggest
Dutch financial-services company, rose 12 basis points to 210
and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  increased six basis points to 418.  “These are not only problems for the Dutch banks and
insurers but also for others in Europe,” said  Bill Blain , a
strategist at Mint Partners in London. “The bail-in of SNS
should leave capital holders of other struggling European banks
wondering.”  Credit-default swaps on SNS’s senior debt were quoted at
399 basis points, according to data provider CMA. The lender is
not included in the credit-default swaps index or among the
1,000 most-traded companies tracked by the  Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp.   Junior Bonds  SNS’s junior bonds tumbled to record lows, with its 250
million euros of 6.258 percent Tier 1 perpetual notes quoted 25
euro cents, or 61 percent, lower at 15.5 cents, according to
Bloomberg prices. Its senior bonds rose after the government
said investors in these notes won’t face losses.  The Utrecht, Netherlands-based bank and insurer received a
government bailout in 2008, two years after acquiring ABN Amro
Holding NV’s property finance unit. .  SNS’s 301 million euros of 6.625 percent senior, unsecured
bonds maturing in November 2016 rose 1.7 euro cents to 105.36,
Bloomberg prices show. The Dutch lender’s 615 million euros of
0.285 percent senior floating-rate notes due June 2014 climbed 1
euro cent to 94.78 cents.  The subordinated financial index pared its advance after a
report showed hiring increased in the U.S. in January after
accelerating more than previously estimated at the end of 2012,
and was trading at 255 basis points at 2:30 p.m. in London.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers increased three basis points to 150. The
Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-
grade ratings, including the 25 financial companies, rose 1.5
basis points to 114.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings climbed
three basis points to 445. An increase signals deterioration in
perceptions of  credit quality .  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  