-- Sony Said to Be Prepping PlayStation 4 to Keep Consoles Relevant
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-02-02T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/sony-preps-playstation-update-in-push-to-keep-consoles-relevant.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , trying to reverse a two-
year decline in PlayStation sales, is prepping a powerful new
version of the home console to deliver more realistic games and
entertainment features, an analyst said.  Sony “is 100 percent certain to announce the PlayStation
4” at a Feb. 20 event,  Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush
Securities in Los Angeles, said yesterday, citing his checks
with game developers and retailers.  The company this week invited journalists and analysts to a
PlayStation meeting in  New York , without providing details of
the agenda. Dan Race, a Sony spokesman, didn’t respond to phone
calls and e-mails seeking comment. A year ago, Tokyo-based Sony
company introduced the PlayStation Vita portable game console in
Japan.  “They’ll be able to put a lot more characters on the
screen and allow for hyper-realistic games,” Pachter said.  Sony’s new console will feature graphics chips developed by
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  and processors capable of rendering
games at 240 frames a second, Pachter said. Current-generation
games typically render at 30 or 60 frames per second. As with
past model changes, Sony would continue to produce and sell the
almost 7-year-old PlayStation 3.  “We don’t comment on rumor or speculation as a matter of
policy,” said  Drew Prairie , a spokesman for Sunnyvale,
California-based AMD.  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  provided the graphics chips
for the current generation of Sony game consoles.  The New York presentation is expected to focus on Sony’s
effort to deliver better integration with its entertainment
properties and the ability to shift content off the device to
the Internet, Pachter said.  Tablets, Phones  Sony fell 0.5 percent to 1,355 yen yesterday in Tokyo. The
Wall Street Journal reported that Sony would unveil the new
console at the February event. Advanced Micro closed unchanged
at $2.60 in New York. Nvidia, based in Santa Clara, California,
added 0.9 percent to $12.37.  Sony, Nintendo Co. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have been working to
position consoles as entertainment hubs capable of delivering
movies, music and games. They’re trying to reverse a 22 percent
decline last year in sales of games, hardware and accessories
sold at retail.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, is expected before
the end of the year to begin selling a new Xbox console that
includes more processing power and more home-entertainment
features, people with knowledge of the situation said last year.  This week, Nintendo cut its full-year forecast for sales of
the new Wii U home console to 4 million units from 5.5 million
as it struggles to compete with tablet computers and smartphones
made by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. Games for those
devices typically sell for less than $5, while packaged video-
games fetch as much as $60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  