-- South Africa’s PMI Rises in January as Weak Rand Boosts Exports
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-02-01T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/south-africa-s-pmi-rises-in-january-as-weak-rand-boosts-exports.html
South Africa’s purchasing managers’
 index  rose in January as a weaker rand may help boost exports
and mining output resumed after strikes at platinum and gold
mines, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index increased to 49.1 from 47.4
in November, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso  said in an e-mailed
statement today. An index level below 50 indicates a contraction
in factory output. The Bureau for Economic Research, based at
the University of Stellenbosch near Cape Town, conducts the PMI
survey for Kagiso.  “The apparent stabilization in the EU economy and the
weaker rand exchange rate may have helped,” Hugo Pienaar,
senior economist at the BER, said in the statement.
“Unfortunately, the latest PMI results also contain some
worrying developments.”  South Africa’s economy is slumping as concerns about growth
in  Europe , the U.S. and  China  sap demand for manufactured
exports. Strikes at platinum and gold mines last year shaved
about 0.5 percentage points off economic growth. The rand has
dropped 5.4 percent this year against the dollar, the worst
performer among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The index measuring employment sank 2.4 points to 42.3,
Kagiso said. The business activity index rose 2.3 points to
49.6, while the new sales orders index increased 6 points to
50.9, it said. The price sub-index rose to 82.  South Africa’s 25.5 percent  jobless  rate is at risk of
rising as  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest
producer of the metal, considers firing as many as 14,000
workers and shutting four mines. Other mining companies are also
considering job cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  