-- Standard Chartered’s Korea Unit Sells Notes Tied to Euro Swaps
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-02-01T03:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/standard-chartered-s-korea-unit-sells-notes-tied-to-euro-swaps.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s South Korean
banking unit sold structured notes tracking euro swap rates as
part of its first offerings of securities linked to borrowing
costs in six months.  The lender, the largest issuer of rate-linked notes in
 South Korea  last year, sold 100 billion won ($92 million) of 15-
year securities on Jan. 23 that yield more when there’s a wider
spread between the 20-year and two-year constant-maturity swap
rates in euros, according to a regulatory filing.  South Korean issuers are looking overseas to generate
higher yields, as falling rates in the country amid forecasts of
an economic slowdown make it harder to create certain products
with attractive coupons. The difference between  the country ’s
20- and two-year won interest rate swaps was narrower than 50
basis points as of Jan. 31, less than a third of the spread in
 euros , according to Bloomberg data.  “It’s pretty difficult to engineer structured notes just
using local curves now,” Chae Kyu Cheol, a researcher at Nice
Pricing Services Inc., a bond-pricing agency in  Seoul , wrote in
an e-mailed response to questions. “There have been bigger
moves in swap curves overseas because of changes in fiscal
policy, so Korean issuers are trying to use that.”  Euro Swaps  The  Standard Chartered  securities pay 4.5 percent annually
for the first two years. From then on through maturity, the
payout rate correlates with the difference between the averages
of 20-year and two-year euro constant-maturity swap rates, with
a cap at 6.5 percent, according to terms filed with South
Korea’s Financial Supervisory Service.  The notes were sold to  Dongbu Securities Co. (016610) , a brokerage
house in the country, according to a regulatory filing.  Standard Chartered also sold a total of 40 billion won of
15-year range-accrual notes linked to the gap between 10-year
swap rates in won and U.S. dollars in two offerings this month.  The larger security, totaling 30 billion won, pays 4.56
percent annually for days when the 10-year dollar constant-
maturity swap doesn’t exceed the comparable Korean rate by 30
basis points, and when the country’s 91-day certificates of
deposit earn less than 5.5 percent.  Standard Chartered had last sold rate-linked notes in July,
tied to London interbank offered rates in yen, according to
regulatory filings compiled by Nice. The bank issued 630 billion
won of rate-linked securities in South Korea last year, or 29
percent of the total issuance in the country, as sales of such
investments dropped to a four-year low, according to Nice data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  