-- Starbucks’ Culver Sees ‘Hundreds’ of Vietnam Cafes
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-02-01T16:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/starbucks-sees-hundreds-of-vietnam-cafes-long-term.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , which is opening its
first cafe in Vietnam today, plans to add hundreds of stores in
the Asian nation.  “We will aggressively grow” in Vietnam and there will be
“hundreds of stores for Starbucks,”  John Culver , president of
the company’s China and Asia Pacific region, said in a telephone
interview this week. He didn’t give a time frame for the
expansion.  “There is definitely a pent-up demand for Starbucks coming
to the country,” which will be the company’s 62nd nation,
Culver said.  Starbucks, which has said it will have about 4,000 stores
in China and Asia Pacific by the end of this year, announced in
January that it was planning to open a cafe in  Ho Chi Minh City .
The Seattle-based brewer, which has about the same number of
U.S. stores it did two years ago, has been expanding in Asia to
boost  sales .  The new two-story cafe, which will be about 4,000 square
feet (372 square meters) and have an outdoor patio, will sell
locally inspired items such as a roast-duck wrap and an Asian
dolce latte, Culver said.  Hong Kong  Maxim’s Group subsidiary
Coffee Concepts (Vietnam) Ltd., which already has stores in Hong
Kong and Macau, will operate the location and is the licensee
for Vietnam.  Starbucks, which has more than 18,200 stores worldwide,
will enter other Asian nations, Culver said. While the company
has no locations in Laos or Cambodia, “over time, we will move
into those markets,” he said.  Growing Economy  Vietnam’s gross domestic product, or the volume of goods
and services produced,  expanded  at 4.7 percent per capita in
2011, compared to a 1 percent  gain  in the U.S., according to the
 World Bank .  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  announced earlier this week that
it is planning to open units in  Vietnam , where it already has
Baskin-Robbins ice cream stores.  Starbucks rose 1.2 percent to $56.80 at 11:32 a.m. in New
York while Canton, Massachusetts-based Dunkin’ Brands advanced
1.1 percent to $36.91.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  