-- Suez Canal Seen Kept Open by Army as Ship Agent Suspends Service
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-02-01T14:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/suez-canal-seen-kept-open-by-army-as-ship-agent-suspends-service.html
Egypt ’s army is maintaining shipping
services through the  Suez Canal , which handles about 8 percent
of world trade, amid unrest that’s suspended some port services,
 Inchcape Shipping Services , a global maritime agent said.  “The canal is a controlled military zone, therefore there
are no transit issues,” Sheila Armstrong, spokeswoman for the
Chafford Hundred, England company, said in an e-mailed response
to questions. The agency hasn’t been providing ship supplies or
organising crew changes since Jan. 29 for vessels calling at
Egypt because they can’t guarantee safety to ports, she said.  Egypt’s army is using cameras and helicopters to guard
traffic through the 193 kilometer- (120 mile)-long canal that
earned $5.13 billion in tolls in 2012, amid rioting. A week ago,
demonstrations marking the second anniversary
of the Jan. 25 uprising that ousted former president  Hosni
Mubarak  unleashed street battles that led to a state of
emergency being declared and curfews in three provinces.  Cargo couldn’t be released at Port Said, at the mouth of
the canal, as staff weren’t working, according to Inchcape.
Operations at Sukhna Port stopped on Jan. 31 due to a strike by
contractors, while bad weather also caused delays at other ports
along the canal, according to Inchcape.  The changing of crew and the supply of ship provisions and
vessel parts were still being provided by Gulf Agency Company
(Egypt) Ltd., the port agent’s Cairo-based managing director
Mohamed Badawi said by phone today.  In 2011 about 17,799 ships went through the canal, which
connects the  Red Sea  with the  Mediterranean Sea , carrying 691.8
million tons of cargo, equal to about 8 percent of world trade,
figures from the Suez Canal Authority and United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  