-- Sugar Mills Rally as India May End Curbs on Sales: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-02-01T09:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/sugar-mills-rally-as-india-may-end-curbs-on-sales-mumbai-mover.html
Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd. (BJH) , India’s
biggest sugar producer, led a rally among mills for a second day
on speculation that end to state curbs on sale of the sweetener
in the local market may boost earnings.  Bajaj Hindusthan climbed as much as 3.4 percent to 24.20
rupees in Mumbai today, extending a 2 percent advance yesterday,
while Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd., the second-biggest, rose as
much as 2.7 percent to 46.95 rupees.  Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) ,
the largest refiner, surged as much as 3.4 percent to 30.30
rupees, the highest level since Jan. 23.  The Food Ministry will soon send a proposal to the cabinet
to end curbs on sales in the local market and scrap the practice
of the government buying sugar from mills at below-market rate
to supply to the poor, Minister K.V. Thomas said in an interview
yesterday. The move to end curbs, introduced in 1972, is based
on a report by a panel headed by Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief
of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory council, he said.  “The move will help producers improve their margins,
increasing earnings,” Chanchal Biswas, an analyst at Dalmia
Securities Pvt., said by phone from Kolkata. “This will also
help companies decide timing of sales depending on prices.”  Bajaj, Balrampur and other producers will earn about 27
billion rupees ($508 million) annually should the government
stop buying the commodity at subsidized rates, said Abinash
Verma, director general of the  Indian Sugar Mills Association .
Producers are riled by a government policy that sets limits on
sales by each mill for every four-month period to cap sugar
prices, while states fix cane rates to boost earnings for 50
million farmers, a powerful voting block.  Farmer Dues  Mills in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh owe as much as
29.87 billion rupees to farmers after cane prices were raised by
as much as 17 percent to a record for the 2012-2013 crop,
according to the mills association. Producers will lose about 60
billion rupees as they sell sugar below production cost because
of a surge in imports, Verma said last month.  “Scrapping of levy sugar and freeing sugar sales will
alleviate arrears and farmers will be paid on time,” Vivek Saraogi, managing director of  Balrampur, (BRCM)  said yesterday. “There
will be sustainable production.”  Output in India, the second-biggest producer, will fall
next season from 24.3 million tons in 2012-2013, according to
the mills association. Drought in the states of Maharashtra and
Karnataka, which together account for 45 percent of output, will
encourage farmers to cut plantings, said M. Srinivaasan,
president of the association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  