-- Super Bowl Scene: Benson, Jones, Johnson, Mara, Tisch
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/super-bowl-scene-benson-jones-johnson-mara-tisch.html
Watch out, New York and New Jersey.
Thursday night  New Orleans  showed how to throw a party as host
city of the Super Bowl.  Tom and Gayle Benson, owners of the New Orleans Saints,
hosted the owners of National Football League teams at City
Park, transformed by event designer Bronson van Wyck.  Tom Benson said the party was a thank-you to the owners for
selecting New Orleans as the 2013 host city, as well as a way to
share the beauty and talent of New Orleans. He also had the
future in mind.  “We hope it won’t be very long until the game is back
here again, with our team on the field” he said.  Post-Katrina and the bounty scandal that had Saints coach
 Sean Payton  suspended for the season, the pressure was on to
knock people’s socks off. Trombone Shorty, the Louisiana
Philharmonic and clarinetist Dr.  Michael White  helped do just
that.  “This is an incredible time,” said NFL Commissioner
 Roger Goodell . “The thing about the NFL, we’re pretty
competitive. The next two nights are the two nights when the
owners do come together.” The commissioner hosted last night's 
dinner at Mardi Gras World.  The owners of the teams from next year’s host city --Steve Tisch and  John Mara  of the New York Giants and Woody Johnson of
the New York Jets -- were among those who gathered at a grove of
60 live oaks behind the New Orleans Museum of Art.  Woodland Party  The area was untamed until Jan. 17, when van Wyck began
laying down an acre’s worth of plank floor. By dusk Thursday
night, it felt like an enchanted woodland party, with flickering
lanterns and huge balls of hydrangeas and red roses (matching
Gayle Benson’s ruby necklace).  As Dallas Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  and former NFL
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue arrived, waiters served Sazeracs in
and around what looked like old-fashioned striped circus tents.
One was black and gold, the colors of the Saints.  New England Patriots owner  Robert Kraft  and  Shahid Khan ,
owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars, sat together at dinner. It
was served in an enclosed tent with transparent ceiling and
sisal carpeting, which was carefully laid down around one very
old tree on the site.  Restaurateur and chef Susan Spicer’s menu: Louisiana oyster
and artichoke soup, Covey Rise Farm roasted duck breast and a
Doberge cake.  Jazz Parade  At dessert, a “second line” came in -- a jazz-band parade
-- bringing guests including Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  to
their feet. Louisiana mayor Mitch Landrieu explained what to do:
grab a white napkin and wave it in the air while dancing.  “The great thing is to see all the people here, they
didn’t just come and leave, they stayed and enjoyed,” said
Gayle Benson.  The Bensons first saw van Wyck’s work at a party thrown by
Mercedes-Benz in Germany. Tom Benson owns Mercedes dealerships
and the Saints’ arena of course is the Mercedes-Benz Superdome.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on
 movies .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 