-- Biden Says Syria’s Assad ‘Hellbent’ on Power, Must Go
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-02-02T18:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/syrian-opposition-may-seek-no-fly-zone-as-envoy-tells-un-to-lead.html
Vice President Joseph Biden said
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad must relinquish power, as a top
diplomat said the  United Nations  has to step into an expanding
conflict that the warring parties can’t resolve.  “President Assad, a tyrant hellbent on clinging to power,
is no longer fit to lead the Syrian people and he must go,” the
U.S. vice president told an audience today at the Munich
Security Conference in the Bavarian capital. UN special envoy
Lakhdar Brahimi told the conference late yesterday that the
world body is the only institution that can end the conflict.  Biden made the remarks in  Germany  during a European trip,
the first foreign tour of his second term. He then met with
Brahimi as well as Moaz Al-Khatib, the head of an umbrella group
trying to topple Syria’s regime, who said a no-fly zone or
international military force may be needed in Syria. Western
nations haven’t backed such a move.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  also met with
Khatib, who had requested the encounter, according to a Russian
Foreign Ministry official who declined to be identified. Lavrov
was receptive to comments made by Khatib yesterday that he was
willing to negotiate with the Syrian regime. Lavrov offered
further talks, in Moscow or elsewhere, the official said.  Rejects Force  Lavrov had earlier said that his country rejects any use of
force or air support to create safe havens in Syria.  The Syrian regime has defied forecasts of imminent
collapse, and no end to the conflict is in sight. The UN
estimates more than 60,000 Syrians have been killed, and there
is growing concern that chemical weapons may fall into
terrorists’ hands.  Brahimi, underscoring his Jan. 29 report to the UN Security
Council that  Syria  is unraveling, said that the council is “all
that’s left” to resolve the turmoil. He sat on a panel in
Munich beside Khatib, who told defense officials that while he
was willing to negotiate, he would call for a military solution
if all other avenues were exhausted.  Biden reiterated that the U.S. is throwing its weight
behind the emerging opposition.  “The days ahead will continue to be very difficult, but
the opposition continues to grow strong,” Biden said. “As the
Syrian people have the chance to forge their own future, they
will continue to find a partner in the  United States .”  Islamist Fighters  What began as anti-government protests on the back of the
Arab revolts two years ago has mutated into a fight to the death
between an Alawite-led minority clinging to power and a Sunni-
led opposition that counts Islamist fighters among its ranks.  “It’s such a difficult problem, because the regime has
been there for so long and it takes for granted that their word
is law,” Brahimi said. Khatib had a list of accusations, saying
Assad had turned Syria into a “lake of blood.”  A year ago, Western leaders including then-French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  asserted
Assad’s days were numbered.  Israeli jets struck inside Syria on Jan. 29, the first such
attack since the unrest began. Syria said the target was a
defense research center while a Western official said the
warplanes hit Syrian trucks carrying anti-aircraft missiles for
Lebanon’s Islamic militant group Hezbollah.  Earlier this week Brahimi offered UN Security Council
diplomats the worst picture yet of Syria’s descent into chaos,
leaving little doubt that diplomatic paths have been exhausted
as the conflict drags on.  After the session in  New York , he told reporters that Syria
is being destroyed “bit by bit,” and the conflict is pushing
the region into a situation that is “extremely bad and
extremely important for the entire world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Munich at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Munich at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  