-- U.K. Disappointed After Argentina Rejects Falklands Talks
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-02-01T13:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/u-k-disappointed-after-argentina-rejects-falklands-talks.html
Britain’s government said it’s
disappointed after Argentine Foreign Minister Hector Timerman
pulled out of a planned meeting to discuss the disputed Falkland
Islands with Foreign Secretary  William Hague .  Timerman said yesterday he wouldn’t attend the meeting in
the U.K. because he was unwilling to hold talks involving
representatives of the Falkland Islands government and wanted to
talk to Hague alone, Argentine media reported.  Argentina  claims sovereignty over the islands, an
archipelago in the South Atlantic Ocean that it calls the
Malvinas. Its forces invaded the territory in 1982 before U.K.
troops retook it after a war that claimed the lives of 255
British military personnel, three islanders and 649
Argentinians.  “We are disappointed by the decision,” U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told
reporters in  London  today. “We are not prepared to talk over
the heads of the Falkland Islanders over matters that directly
affect their status as a British overseas territory or their
economy.”  The Falklands will hold a referendum on March 10-11 in
which voters will be asked whether they want to retain their
current political status. Tensions over the islands heightened
last year, with Argentina protesting the U.K.’s deployment of a
modern warship to the South Atlantic.  “The offer still stands,” Sheriff said. “If the
Argentinians change their minds we’d be very happy to talk to
them.”  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
published an open letter to Cameron last month saying he should
abide by a 1960 United Nations resolution urging  member states 
to “end colonialism in all its forms and manifestations.” She
said the islands were “forcibly stripped” from Argentina 180
years ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  