-- U.K. Manufacturing Grows in Sign of Industry Stabilization
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-01T10:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/u-k-manufacturing-expands-for-second-month-as-orders-increase.html
U.K. manufacturing  expanded for a
second month in January as orders rose and output surged the
most since September 2011.  A gauge of factory activity was at 50.8, compared with a
revised 51.2 in December, Markit Economics and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said in London today. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion. Separate reports today
showed euro-area manufacturing shrank less than initially
estimated last month, while Chinese manufacturing expanded.  Britain’s economy shrank by a more-than-forecast 0.3
percent in the  fourth quarter  and the  Bank of England  said last
month that “substantial headwinds to recovery remained.”
Still, Markit said the fact that its factory index remains above
50 is an encouraging start to 2013.  “On the surface this is good news for manufacturing and
should be welcomed,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer  David Noble 
said in the statement. “However, underlying factors suggest
deep rooted problems remain.”  The median forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey  was for a decline to 51 in January from an initially
reported 51.4. Markit said the increase in the output gauge
reflected a “robust increase in  consumer goods .” Domestic
orders improved, countering a decline in export orders, and the
labor market “continued to stabilize,”  it said.  ‘Offers Hope’  The output reading “offers hope that the contraction in
the fourth quarter will not be repeated in the first quarter,”
said  James Knightley , an economist at ING Bank NV in London.
“Order books are also looking OK, so we are hopeful of another
positive manufacturing figure in February and March.”  The pound weakened against the dollar after the report. It
was trading at $1.5831 as of 10:48 a.m. London time, down 0.2
percent from yesterday.  London-based  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  said in a Jan. 24 statement that
there was “continued softness” in European and North American
equipment orders in the final quarter of 2012. It expects its
performance will improve for the full year “subject to any
significant changes to the global macro-economic environment.”  While manufacturing is showing signs of improving, the
larger services industry remains weak. Markit will publish its
survey of services on Feb. 5.  The factory survey “will do little to assuage fears of a
triple-dip recession unless accompanied by an improvement in the
services sector, which contracted at the fastest rate for two
years in December,” Markit said.  Global Backdrop  In the euro region, a  factory gauge  rose to 47.9 in January
from 46.1 in December, according to a separate Markit report
today. That compares with an initial estimate of 47.5 on Jan.
24. The index for  Germany , the region’s largest economy, jumped
to 49.8 from 46. Italy’s measure also rose, while France’s
declined.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for China was 50.4 in
January compared with 50.6 in December, the National Bureau of
Statistics said. A separate gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit covering fewer businesses rose to a two-year high of 52.3
from 51.5.  U.S. manufacturing probably strengthened last month,
economists said before a report today. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s January  factory index  will rise to 50.6 from 50.2
the prior month, according to the median estimate in a survey.  The U.S. Labor Department also publishes payrolls data
today. That report will show that employers hired 165,000 new
workers last month, the most since August, following a 155,000
gain in December, according to another Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  