-- U.S. Cattle Herd Slumping to 61-Year Low Means Longer Beef Rally
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/u-s-cattle-herd-slumping-to-61-year-low-means-longer-beef-rally.html
The cattle herd in the U.S., the
world’s largest beef producer, probably shrank to the smallest
in 61 years as drought ravages pastures from Texas to  Nebraska 
and boosts feed costs.  Ranchers held 88.92 million head of cattle as of Jan. 1,
according to the average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . That’s down 2 percent from a year earlier and is
the fewest for that date since 1952. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  is scheduled to release its semiannual inventory
report at 3 p.m. in  Washington .  The worst U.S. drought since the 1930s cut Midwest corn
harvests for a third straight year, sending prices to a record
in August. Crop-insurance claims for 2012 surged as  payouts 
reached a record $13 billion. Higher feed costs discouraged herd
expansions, even as retail-beef prices surged to a record. Dry
weather has spread over a wider area since 2011, when parched
fields led to $3.23 billion of losses on livestock in  Texas , the
biggest cattle-producing state.  “Drought in the southern plains in 2011 expanding to the
Corn Belt and other northern areas last year is instrumental in
numbers being down,” Tim Petry, a livestock economist at North
Dakota State University in Fargo, said in a telephone interview.
“With lower production, I fully expect consumers to pay higher
prices for beef.”  Cattle futures advanced 8.9 percent last year on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the fourth straight annual gain.
Prices rose 0.4 percent in January to $1.328 a pound yesterday,
capping the fourth monthly gain.  Beef Rally  The price of all-fresh retail beef climbed to record $4.797
a pound in November, USDA  data  show. While costs eased to $4.766
in December, prices still were 4.7 percent higher than a year
earlier.  Consumers may pay as much as 4 percent more for beef this
year, after prices rose 6.4 percent last year, according to the
USDA. That was the biggest expected increase of any food  item 
tracked by the agency and more than double the 2.6 percent rise
forecast in overall food costs. Restaurants from steakhouses to
hamburger joints are projecting accelerating beef costs.  On average, profit for U.S. cow-calf operations dropped to
$57 per head last year from $87 in 2011, said  Ron Plain , a
livestock economist at the  University of Missouri  in Columbia,
citing the Livestock Marketing Information Center, a researcher
funded by the industry and government. Producers are ready to
expand “as soon as the weather cooperates,” he said.  Dry Weather  More than 57 percent of the U.S. was in  drought  as of the
week ended Jan. 29, compared to 36 percent a year earlier,
according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. About 27 percent of the
 High Plains  is in “exceptional” drought, compared to less than
0.1 percent in that category a year earlier, according to the
Monitor in Lincoln, Nebraska.  Drought conditions are expected to persist through the
Great Plains and spread across most of Texas, according to a
three-month U.S. outlook by the  Climate Prediction Center  that’s
valid through April 30.  The number of young, female cattle held back for breeding
probably rose 0.5 percent to 5.24 million head, according to the
Bloomberg survey. An increase that small will just maintain the
cow herd rather than signal an expansion, said  Lane Broadbent , a
KIS Futures Inc. vice president in  Oklahoma City .  “The thing that’s holding them back is dry weather,”
Broadbent, who has been a commodity broker for more than two
decades, said in a telephone interview. “If we were to have any
kind of rain, it’s not going to grow by big amounts, but it’s
going to grow some.”  Slow Process  Going from herd liquidation to an expansion is a slow
process, according to Plain, who has studied the industry for
three decades. Calves have nine-month gestation periods and take
20 months to reach slaughter weight, he said. Animals typically
are fattened on corn until they weigh about 1,200 pounds (544
kilograms), when they are sold to meatpackers.  The calf crop on Jan. 1 probably slid to 34.63 million
head, down 1.9 percent from a year earlier, the Bloomberg survey
showed. That would be the 18th straight decline, according to
Sterling Marketing Inc., an agricultural economic researcher and
adviser in  Vale ,  Oregon .  U.S. beef production will total 11.273 million metric tons
(24.9 billion pounds) this year, the lowest since 2004 and down
3.7 percent from a year earlier, according to the USDA.  Beef Costs  Wendy’s Co. (WEN) , the Dublin, Ohio-based fast-food chain,
expects most of its commodity inflation to come from beef,
Stephen Hare, the chief financial officer, said during a
presentation on Jan. 16.  At  Ruth’s Hospitality Group Inc. (RUTH) , the Heathrow, Florida-
based owner of upscale steakhouses, beef costs may climb 10
percent to 15 percent or more, after rising 14 percent last
year, Michael O’Donnell, the chief executive officer, said
during a presentation on Jan. 16.  “The herds are low,” Kelly Wiesbrock, who helps manage
$1.3 billion of assets for Harvest Capital Strategies, a San
Francisco-based hedge fund, said in a telephone interview. “The
folks that I talk to, restaurant companies and grocery stores,
everyone is continuing to see higher beef prices, and they think
they’re going to go even higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  