-- U.S. Michigan Consumer Sentiment Increase May Boost Spending
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-01T15:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-increase-may-boost-spending.html
Confidence among American households
unexpectedly rose last month in a possible benefit to  consumer
spending , the  largest part  of the economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  index  of
consumer sentiment climbed to 73.8 in January from 72.9 in
December. The gauge was projected to drop to 71.5, according to
the  median  forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It
compared with a preliminary reading of 71.3.  While consumers are watching to see if Congress will be
able to reach an agreement to avert across-the-board spending
cuts, the Labor Department said today payrolls increased 157,000
jobs last month. Falling gasoline prices and rising property
values may also be helping to compensate for the smaller
paychecks workers are receiving due to a two percentage-point
increase in payroll taxes.  “Wealth is rising again,”  Jim O’Sullivan , chief U.S.
economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla,  New York ,
before the confidence report was issued. “I think the backdrop
in general for consumer spending is improving.”  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 69 to 74,
according to the Bloomberg survey. The index averaged 64.2
during the recession ended in June 2009, and 89 in the five
years prior to the 18-month slump.  Current Conditions  The Michigan survey’s current condition index, which
measures whether Americans think it’s a good time to make big
investments and assesses consumers’ view of their personal
finances, fell to 85 in January from 87 in the prior month. The
preliminary reading was 84.8 for January.  The index of  expectations  six months from now, which more
closely projects the direction of consumer spending, rose to
66.6 in January from 63.8 the month before.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.3 percent over the next 12 months, compared
with 3.2 percent in December. Over the next five years,
Americans expected a 2.9 percent rate of inflation, unchanged
from December.  In a separate report released yesterday, Bloomberg’s weekly
Consumer Comfort Index dropped to a three-month low of minus
37.5 for the period ended Jan. 27 from a prior-week reading of
minus 36.4.  Conference Board  The  Conference Board’s index  of confidence among U.S.
consumers decreased to 58.6 in January, the weakest since
November 2011, after a revised 66.7 in December, the group
reported Jan. 29.  Consumers are benefiting as low  mortgage rates  drive a
housing recovery and property values increase. For all of 2012,
homebuilding climbed 11.9 percent, its best showing since 1992,
the Commerce Department reported this week.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, climbed in December as incomes grew by the most in
eight years, a Commerce Department report showed yesterday.
Buying rose 0.2 percent after a 0.4 percent gain in the prior
month. Still, spending could take a hit from the higher payroll
tax.  Congress allowed the tax that funds  Social Security  to
revert to 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent starting in January. That
puts the levy at its 2010 level and will cost someone who earns
$50,000 annually an extra $83 a month.  While the auto manufacturing industry has been a bright
spot in the economy,  Monro Muffler Brake Inc. (MNRO)  President John W. van Heel said in a Jan. 29 earnings call the automotive repair
and tire service chain operator believes the aging U.S. car
fleet will keep driving his company’s business moving forward,
particularly when consumers consider the cost of a new car.  More Pessimistic  “I’m probably more pessimistic about the economy and the
consumer than most other retailers and believe that the consumer
is in much worse shape than most,” he said. That’s evident in
“deteriorating” consumer sentiment, he said, and “certainly
won’t be helped in coming months as people begin to adjust to
less disposable income due to higher taxes.”  Still, consumers have benefited from rising home values and
cheaper fuel prices. A gallon of regular gasoline at the pump
averaged $3.46 nationally yesterday, down from a recent high of
$3.87 in September, according to AAA, the biggest U.S. motoring
group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  