-- U.S. January ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-02-01T15:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/u-s-january-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the  Institute for Supply
Management .  DO NOT CONFUSE THIS NATIONAL REPORT with the various
regional purchasing reports released across the country. The
national report’s information reflects the entire  United States ,
while the regional reports contain primarily regional data from
their local vicinities. Also, the information in the regional
reports is not used in calculating the results of the national
report. The information compiled in this report is for the month
of January 2013.  This report reflects the U.S. Department of Commerce’s
recently completed annual adjustment to the seasonal factors
used to calculate the indexes.  Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in
January for the second consecutive month, and the overall
economy grew for the 44th consecutive month, say the nation’s
supply executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business.  The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM,
CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The PMI registered 53.1 percent, an
increase of 2.9 percentage points from December’s seasonally
adjusted reading of 50.2 percent, indicating expansion in
manufacturing for the second consecutive month. The New Orders
Index registered 53.3 percent, an increase of 3.6 percent over
December’s seasonally adjusted reading of 49.7 percent,
indicating growth in new orders. Manufacturing is starting out
the year on a positive note, with all five of the PMI’s
component indexes -- new orders, production, employment,
 supplier deliveries  and inventories -- registering above 50
percent in January.”  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 13 are reporting growth
in January in the following order: Plastics & Rubber Products;
Textile Mills; Furniture & Related Products; Printing & Related
Support Activities; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Fabricated Metal Products; Transportation
Equipment; Petroleum & Coal Products; Machinery; Primary Metals;
and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products. The four industries
reporting contraction in January are: Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Computer & Electronic Products; Wood Products; and
Chemical Products.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “Fiscal cliff, uncertainty in general and EU economic
weakness are factors causing our customers to be very tentative
with commitments for product purchases in 2013.” (Machinery)
“Midwest drought impact will be felt at least through midyear,
impacting protein, sweeteners, eggs, oils, emulsifiers, etc.”
(Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products) “Slowing interest in high-
dollar purchases reflects continuing economic uncertainty.”
(Miscellaneous Manufacturing) “Expenditure and investment are
expected to remain high in  North America  in Q1 and Q2, 2013.”
(Petroleum & Coal Products) “Housing sales are trending upward
in light of overall market uncertainty, translating to improving
optimism in appliance market.” (Electrical Equipment, Appliances
& Components) “Still waiting for reaction to consumer tax
increases.” (Fabricated Metal Products) “ Government spending  is
very low, probably due to the fiscal cliff and the looming debt
ceiling.” (Transportation Equipment) “Business is improving.”
(Furniture & Related Products) “The general theme developing in
our industry is that we can move suitable volumes. However,
profit margin is elusive.” (Wood Products) “Overall production
volume decreasing. Decrease is led by decline in exports of 10
percent.” (Chemical Products)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price Aluminum Products (4); Benzene (2);
Caustic Soda (6); Copper; Copper Based Products; Corrugated
Boxes/Packaging (6); HDPE; Lumber; Oil; PET Bottles;
Polypropylene (3); Polystyrene; Stainless Steel Sheet; Steel --
Cold Rolled (2); and Vitamins.  Commodities Down in Price Steel (11); Sugar (2); Titanium
Dioxide (2); and Wheat.  Commodities in Short Supply No commodities are reported in
short supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  JANUARY 2013 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES
PMI  Manufacturing expanded in January as the PMI registered
53.1 percent, an increase of 2.9 percentage points when compared
to December’s seasonally adjusted reading of 50.2 percent. A
reading above 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing
economy is generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates that
it is generally contracting.  A PMI in excess of 42.2 percent, over a period of time,
generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy.
Therefore, the January PMI indicates growth for the 44th
consecutive month in the overall economy, and indicates
expansion in the manufacturing sector for the second consecutive
month. Holcomb stated, “The past relationship between the PMI
and the overall economy indicates that the PMI for January (53.1
percent) corresponds to a 3.4 percent increase in real gross
domestic product (GDP) on an annualized basis.”  New Orders  ISM’s New Orders Index registered 53.3 percent in January,
an increase of 3.6 percentage points when compared to the
seasonally adjusted December reading of 49.7 percent. This
represents growth in new orders, following one month of
contraction. A New Orders Index above 52.2 percent, over time,
is generally consistent with an increase in the Census Bureau’s
series on manufacturing orders (in constant 2000 dollars).  The 10 industries reporting growth in new orders in January
-- listed in order -- are: Textile Mills; Printing & Related
Support Activities; Furniture & Related Products; Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products;  Electrical Equipment , Appliances &
Components; Fabricated Metal Products; Petroleum & Coal
Products; Machinery; Transportation Equipment; and Primary
Metals. The five industries reporting a decrease in new orders
during January are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Wood Products;
Chemical Products; Computer & Electronic Products; and Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products.  Production  ISM’s Production Index registered 53.6 percent in January,
which is an increase of 1 percentage point when compared to the
seasonally adjusted 52.6 percent reported in December. This
indicates growth in production for the fifth consecutive month.
An index above 51.2 percent, over time, is generally consistent
with an increase in the Federal Reserve Board’s Industrial
Production figures.  The nine industries reporting growth in production during
the month of January -- listed in order -- are: Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Textile Mills; Plastics &
Rubber Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Furniture & Related
Products; Primary Metals; and Transportation Equipment. The six
industries reporting a decrease in production in January --
listed in order -- are: Printing & Related Support Activities;
Petroleum & Coal Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Computer & Electronic Products; Chemical Products; and
Nonmetallic Mineral Products.  Employment  ISM’s Employment Index registered 54 percent in January,
which is 2.1 percentage points higher than the seasonally
adjusted 51.9 percent reported in December, and indicates growth
in employment for the 40th consecutive month. An Employment
Index above 50.5 percent, over time, is generally consistent
with an increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data on
manufacturing employment.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, nine reported growth in
employment in January in the following order: Petroleum & Coal
Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Fabricated Metal Products; Furniture & Related
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; and
Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products. The five industries reporting
a decrease in employment in January are: Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Computer & Electronic Products; Chemical Products;
Machinery; and Wood Products.  Supplier Deliveries  The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing
organizations was slower in January as the Supplier Deliveries
Index registered 53.6 percent, which is 0.1 percentage point
lower than the seasonally adjusted 53.7 percent reported in
December. This indicates the third consecutive month of slower
supplier deliveries. A reading below 50 percent indicates faster
deliveries, while a reading above 50 percent indicates slower
deliveries.  The seven industries reporting slower supplier deliveries
in January -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Chemical Products;
Petroleum & Coal Products; Furniture & Related Products; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Transportation Equipment. The
four industries reporting faster supplier deliveries in January
are: Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Fabricated
Metal Products; Computer & Electronic Products; and Primary
Metals. Seven industries reported no change in supplier
deliveries in January compared to December.  Inventories*  The Inventories Index registered 51 percent in January,
which is 8 percentage points higher than the 43 percent reported
in December. This month’s reading indicates that respondents are
reporting inventories are growing in January, following two
consecutive months of contraction in inventories. An Inventories
Index greater than 42.7 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with expansion in the  Bureau of Economic Analysis ’
(BEA) figures on overall manufacturing inventories (in chained
2000 dollars).  The seven industries reporting higher inventories in
January -- listed in order -- are: Plastics & Rubber Products;
Furniture & Related Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; Transportation Equipment;
Machinery; and Primary Metals. The seven industries reporting
decreases in inventories in January -- listed in order -- are:
Petroleum & Coal Products; Computer & Electronic Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Chemical
Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; and Apparel, Leather & Allied Products.  Customers’ Inventories*  The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 48.5
percent in January, which is 1.5 percentage points higher than
in December when the index registered 47 percent. This month’s
reading indicates that customers’ inventories are considered too
low, but not as low as reported in December. Customers’
inventories have registered at or below 50 percent for 46
consecutive months. A reading below 50 percent indicates
customers’ inventories are considered too low.  The four manufacturing industries reporting customers’
inventories as being too high during the month of January are:
Petroleum & Coal Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Chemical
Products; and Computer & Electronic Products. The nine
industries reporting customers’ inventories as too low during
January -- listed in order -- are: Furniture & Related Products;
Transportation Equipment; Paper Products; Primary Metals;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Fabricated Metal Products; Machinery; and Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products.  Prices*  The ISM Prices Index registered 56.5 percent in January,
which is an increase of 1 percentage point compared to the
December reading of 55.5 percent. In January, 23 percent of
respondents reported paying higher prices, 10 percent reported
paying lower prices, and 67 percent of supply executives
reported paying the same prices as in December. A Prices Index
above 49.7 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an
increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Index of
Manufacturers Prices.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 10 reported paying
increased prices during the month of January in the following
order: Plastics & Rubber Products; Wood Products; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Chemical Products; Paper Products; Food, Beverage
& Tobacco Products; Furniture & Related Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
and Fabricated Metal Products. The two industries reporting
paying lower prices during January are: Machinery; and Primary
Metals. Six industries reported no change in prices paid in
January compared to December.  Backlog of Orders*  ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 47.5 percent in
January, which is 1 percentage point lower than the 48.5 percent
reported in December. This is the 10th consecutive month of
contraction in order backlogs. Of the 85 percent of respondents
who reported their backlog of orders, 20 percent reported
greater backlogs, 25 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 55
percent reported no change from December.  The eight industries reporting increased order backlogs in
January -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal Products;
Primary Metals; Furniture & Related Products; Fabricated Metal
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Paper
Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Machinery. The
seven industries reporting decreases in order backlogs during
January -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Chemical Products; Computer & Electronic Products; Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; and Transportation Equipment.  New Export Orders*  ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 50.5 percent in
January, which is 1 percentage point lower than the 51.5 percent
reported in December. This month’s reading represents only the
second month of growth in the index since May 2012, when the
index registered 53.5 percent.  The four industries reporting growth in new export orders
in January are: Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Textile
Mills; Fabricated Metal Products; and Furniture & Related
Products. The six industries reporting a decrease in new export
orders during January -- listed in order -- are: Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Primary Metals; Chemical Products; Transportation
Equipment; Machinery; and Computer & Electronic Products. Eight
industries reported no change in new exports for the month of
January when compared to December.  Imports*  ISM’s Imports Index registered 50 percent in January, which
is 1.5 percentage points lower than the 51.5 percent reported in
December. This month’s reading indicates that import levels are
unchanged from December.  The six industries reporting growth in imports during the
month of January -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; Furniture & Related Products;
Fabricated Metal Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. The
seven industries reporting a decrease in imports during January
-- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary
Metals; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Transportation Equipment; Computer & Electronic Products;
Chemical Products; and Machinery.  * The Inventories, Customers’ Inventories, Prices, Backlog of
Orders, New Export Orders and Imports Indexes do not meet the
accepted criteria for seasonal adjustments.  Buying Policy Average commitment lead time for  Capital
Expenditures  increased 4 days to 120 days. Average lead time for
Production Materials increased 5 days to 59 days. Average lead
time for Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies
increased 3 days to 28 days.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS code
categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Textile Mills;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Paper
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Furniture & Related Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing
(products such as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry,
sporting goods, toys and office supplies).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
Imports, Production, Supplier Deliveries, Inventories,
Customers’ Inventories, Employment and Prices), this report
shows the percentage reporting each response, the net difference
between the number of responses in the positive economic
direction (higher, better and slower for Supplier Deliveries)
and the negative economic direction (lower, worse and faster for
Supplier Deliveries), and the diffusion index. Responses are raw
data and are never changed. The diffusion index includes the
percent of positive responses plus one-half of those responding
the same (considered positive).  The resulting single index number for those meeting the
criteria for seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production,
Employment and Supplier Deliveries) is then seasonally adjusted
to allow for the effects of repetitive intra-year variations
resulting primarily from normal differences in weather
conditions, various institutional arrangements, and differences
attributable to non-moveable holidays. All seasonal adjustment
factors are supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce and are
subject annually to relatively minor changes when conditions
warrant them. The PMI is a composite index based on the
diffusion indexes of five of the indexes with equal weights: New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Production (seasonally adjusted),
Employment (seasonally adjusted), Supplier Deliveries
(seasonally adjusted), and Inventories.  Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators
and are convenient summary measures showing the prevailing
direction of change and the scope of change. A PMI reading above
50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally
expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally
declining. A PMI in excess of 42.2 percent, over a period of
time, indicates that the overall economy, or gross domestic
product (GDP), is generally expanding; below 42.2 percent, it is
generally declining. The distance from 50 percent or 42.2
percent is indicative of the strength of the expansion or
decline. With some of the indicators within this report, ISM has
indicated the departure point between expansion and decline of
comparable government series, as determined by regression
analysis.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are sent
out to Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the
first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report
on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the first business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting the
current month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number of
days ahead for which commitments are made for Production
Materials; Capital Expenditures; and Maintenance, Repair and
Operating (MRO) Supplies, expressed as hand-to-mouth (five
days), 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, six months (180 days), a year
or more (360 days), and the weighted average number of days.
These responses are raw data, never revised, and not seasonally
adjusted since there is no significant seasonal pattern.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the Institute for Supply Management, the first supply
institute in the world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and
serve the supply management profession and is a highly
influential and respected association in the global marketplace.
ISM’s mission is to lead the supply management profession
through its standards of excellence, research, promotional
activities and education. This report has been issued by the
association since 1931, except for a four-year interruption
during World War II.  The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s website at www.ism.ws on the first
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
February 2013 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Friday, March 1, 2013.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management
 http://www.ism.ws  