-- U.S. Secret Service Director to Retire After 30 Years
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-02-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/u-s-secret-service-director-to-retire-after-30-years.html
U.S. Secret Service Director  Mark Sullivan , a 30-year veteran of the agency that protects American
presidents and visiting dignitaries, will retire on Feb. 22,
according to Brian Leary, a spokesman.  Sullivan, who began his Secret Service career in 1983, has
been its director since 2006, when he was promoted from
assistant director. He will retire as the third-longest-serving
head of the agency, Leary said yesterday.  “From securing large events such as presidential
inaugurations to safeguarding our financial system, the men and
women of the agency perform their mission with professionalism
and dedication,” President  Barack Obama  said in a statement.
“That is a testament to Mark and his steadfast leadership,
which will be missed.”  Sullivan, a Massachusetts native, joined the Secret Service
as a special agent in the Detroit Field Office and rose through
the ranks to lead the agency’s more than 150 offices around the
world. In 1991, Sullivan began work in the Presidential
Protective Division, where he served for four years, according
to his biography on the agency’s website.  “Mark Sullivan epitomizes the term ‘public service,’ and
has devoted his life to the safety of our First Families, our
nation’s leaders, and the public at large,”  Homeland Security 
Secretary  Janet Napolitano  said in a statement. “I am deeply
grateful for his contributions.”  Dual Role  The Secret Service, part of the Homeland Security, has a
dual role as the chief protective service for the president and
as an authority to police the nation’s financial infrastructure.  Created in 1865 to combat counterfeit currency, the agency
began providing part-time protection for the president in 1894.
In 1902, the agency assumed full-time responsibility for
protecting the president. The service employs about 7,000 people
with a $1.6 billion budget, according to its website.  A scandal arose at the agency last year, resulting in nine
employees being either fired or voluntarily leaving. The
departures followed allegations of misconduct involving
prostitutes in  Colombia , where members of the service were
preparing security for a visit by Obama.  At the time, the president expressed confidence in
Sullivan, who testified before a congressional panel that the
scandal was an isolated incident.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
credited Sullivan yesterday for taking swift action and
providing “forthright answers” as last year’s controversy
unfolded.  “This enhanced his credibility, allowing Congress and the
American people to remain confident in his agency’s ability to
effectively do its job,” Issa said in a statement released by
his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  