-- Washington Post Considering Selling Building to Relocate
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-02-01T22:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/washington-post-considering-selling-headquarters-to-relocate.html
Washington Post Co. (WPO)  may sell its
downtown headquarters to relocate to a property that will make
its operations more efficient, following similar moves by
newspaper companies throughout the U.S.  “Once we removed the presses from this building over 10
years ago, we were no longer tied to this particular location,”
Publisher Katharine Weymouth said in a  memo  to employees today.
“Our goal is to give us a more modern, bright, open and
efficient building.”  As newspaper owners struggle with plunging circulation and
advertising spending at a six-decade low, many are selling their
downtown buildings to take advantage of a real estate recovery.
The  Washington  Post is likely to find strong buyer demand for
its headquarters, said Dan Fasulo, managing director at
property-research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  “The D.C. office market was the leader in the recovery
over the past few years,” Fasulo said in a telephone interview.
“Any time you are a stone’s throw away from the White House,
you’ll draw great interest from developers.”  Other companies have sought to profit from their property
holdings.  New York  Times Co. in 2009 sold the space it occupies
in its Manhattan headquarters for $225 million to pay debt and
leased it back. The newspaper moved to the building in July 2007
after selling its former headquarters to Tishman Speyer
Properties LP for $175 million in 2004.  Gannett Buildings  A.H. Belo Corp. (AHC) , based in  Dallas , is trying to sell the
main offices of its Providence Journal in  Rhode Island  and
adjacent lots, and USA Today owner  Gannett Co. (GCI)  has put the Des
Moines Register’s Iowa building on the market and is evaluating
options for its Virginia headquarters.  Washington Post Co. is working to contain its costs as its
namesake newspaper struggles to keep readers and advertisers.
Its average weekday circulation dropped to 471,200 in the first
nine months of last year, down 9.2 percent from a year earlier,
while its print advertising revenue fell 14 percent to $160.7
million.  The company relies primarily on Kaplan, its for-profit
education unit, which accounts for almost 60 percent of annual
sales. Its publishing business brings in 15.5 percent of sales.  Washington Post Co. hired Studley Inc. and JM Zell Partners
Ltd. as its real estate advisers, Weymouth said. They will seek
buyers and identify sites for relocation, she said. The building
is at 1150 15th Street NW in Washington.  Falling Advertising  Advertising expenditures for print and online media in the
U.S. have fallen every quarter since the start of 2007,
according to the  Newspaper Association of America . Advertising
revenue totaled an estimated $19 billion in 2012, the lowest
when adjusted for inflation since at least 1950, according to
data compiled by  Mark Perry , an economics and finance professor
at the University of Michigan-Flint who tracks newspaper
advertising. Daily circulation volume dropped 12 percent between
2007 and 2011.  Commercial-property values, meanwhile, are on the rise,
particularly in the urban areas where newspapers tend to be
based. U.S. prices climbed 7 percent last year and are, on
average, within “a few percentage points” of their 2007 highs,
according to a January report from Green Street Advisors Inc., a
 Newport Beach , California-based property-research firm.  In Washington, the average price for  office space  was $478
a square foot last year, down 3 percent from 2011, according to
New York-based Real Capital. That compares with a 4 percent
increase to $232 a square foot nationwide.  The price for the Washington Post’s headquarters is “just
a matter of how much the investment community wants to spend,
given that most government agencies are contracting and office
prices in the D.C. market have cooled over the past six
months,” said Fasulo of Real Capital.  Washington Post Co. rose less than 1 percent to $388.44 at
the close in New York. The shares are little changed over the
past year, compared with a 14 percent increase in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  