-- Wheat Rises as Lingering U.S. Drought Curbs Production Outlook
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-02-01T16:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/wheat-heads-for-highest-price-in-a-week-on-u-s-drought-concerns.html
Wheat rose as production prospects
dimmed because of a persistent drought in the southern Great
Plains, the biggest U.S. growing region for winter crops.  The area will have mostly below-normal rainfall in the next
10 days, with no significant relief expected, weather forecaster
DTN said in a report. Severe to exceptional drought conditions
cover most of the cultivation region for hard, red winter wheat,
running from the Texas panhandle to  Colorado  to  South Dakota ,
the U.S. Drought Monitor shows.  “There’s definitely concern” about the winter crops,
 Shawn McCambridge , a senior grain analyst for Jefferies Bache
LLC in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “While the crop
is in dormancy, the water requirements are very low, so the
spring weather conditions will be crucial to determining
production.”  Wheat futures for March delivery climbed 0.9 percent to
$7.8625 a bushel at 10:23 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price gained 0.2 percent last month, the first increase
since September.  Wheat demand may increase if  Russia  decides to scrap an
import tax on the grain after domestic prices surged, Jaime
Nolan-Miralles, an INTL FCStone Inc. commodity risk manager in
Dublin, said in a report. Russia, once the world’s third-largest
wheat exporter, will consider abolishing the 5 percent duty,
Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fedorov said in Moscow yesterday.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $14.4
billion in 2011, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  Chicago  at 
 dreibus@bloomberg.net , or  Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  