-- Wheeler Says Return to Fiscal Surplus Should Be N.Z. Priority
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-02-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/wheeler-says-return-to-fiscal-surplus-should-be-n-z-priority.html
New Zealand  must eliminate its  budget
deficit  and reduce debt to strengthen the economy’s resilience
to shocks, Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said.  Returning to surplus “will strengthen the economy’s
resilience and create more fiscal room for responding to future
shocks,” Wheeler said in the text of a speech to business
executives in Christchurch, the South Island city rocked by
earthquakes in the past 2 1/2 years. Failure to narrow the
budget shortfall “means monetary policy has to be tighter and
 interest rates  higher than otherwise,” he said.  Wheeler’s remarks align him with Prime Minister John Key’s
program to return to a  budget surplus  by 2015 by reforming
welfare payments, selling assets and cutting expenditures.
Wheeler yesterday kept the nation’s benchmark borrowing cost at
a record-low 2.5 percent, where it has been held since March
2011, and said the government’s so-called fiscal consolidation
is curbing the economic recovery.  “Important steps are being take to reduce  government
spending  and this will be an ongoing challenge as demographic
change will greatly expand government outlays unless there’s
significant policy change,” he said.  Wheeler said New Zealand’s economic fortunes hinge on
higher prices for its commodity exports, and on improved labor
productivity.  “The good news is that there’s strong international demand
for our commodity exports,” he said. “Our labor productivity
story is much less impressive.”  Raising the level of saving and investment, and improving
the quality of investment are means to improve per-capita
income, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  