-- Won Set for Third Weekly Drop on Yen, Trading Tax; Bonds Decline
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-02-01T01:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/won-set-for-third-weekly-drop-on-yen-trading-tax-bonds-decline.html
South Korea ’s won headed for a third
straight weekly decline on concern a weak yen will hurt the
nation’s exports, and after the government proposed a tax on
securities trading to curb speculative flows. Bonds fell.  A global currency war seems to be breaking out as monetary
easing in  Japan  drags the yen lower, Ha Sung Keun, a Bank of
 Korea  board member, said Jan. 28 in  Seoul . Japan and South Korea
compete in the world market for electronic products and autos.
The government wants to cut the “vicious cycle” in which fast
money inflows increase the won’s volatility, Deputy Finance
Minister Choi Jong Ku said Jan. 30.  “The won’s drop this week was largely due to fear stoked
by the expectation that the yen would erode the competitiveness
of Korea,” said Wai Ho Leong, a Singapore-based economist at
Barclays Plc. “The mention of a transaction tax on  currency
trading  accentuated the fear factor in the market.”  The currency fell 1.2 percent this week to 1,087 per dollar
as of 9:54 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It rose 0.1 percent today. One-month implied
volatility in the won, a gauge of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, rose 143 basis points, or 1.43
percentage points, this week to 8.05 percent. The gauge dropped
20 basis points today.  Global funds sold $616 million more Korean shares than they
bought this week through yesterday, boosting this year’s net
sales to $1.7 billion.  ‘Fears Unfounded’  South Korean exports rose 11.8 percent in January after a
revised 5.7 percent decline in December, the government said in
a statement today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey was for an 8.9 percent increase.  Consumer prices rose 1.5 percent last month from a year
earlier, Statistics Korea said in a separate report, matching
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Exports came in stronger than consensus and it shows the
fears over the weaker yen are unfounded,” Leong said. “The
benign inflation print we’re seeing is conducive for asset
markets in Korea.”  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due September 2017 climbed seven basis points this week to 2.89
percent and was unchanged today, Korea Exchange prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  