-- World’s Richest Gain $14 Billion as Bezos Fortune Falters
-- B y   P a m e l a   R o u x
-- 2013-02-01T22:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/world-s-richest-gain-14-billion-as-bezos-fortune-falters.html
The 100 wealthiest people on the
planet added $14 billion to their collective net worth this week
as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index delivered its strongest start
to a year since 1997.  One of the week’s biggest winners was Charoen
Sirivadhanabhakdi, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index . Thailand’s richest man won control of Fraser & Neave Ltd.
Wednesday after his S$13.8 billion ($11.2 billion) offer for the
130-year-old property and beverage company gained the backing of
a majority of shareholders. He has an $11.2 billion fortune, up
$1.6 billion for the week.  “U.S. equities remain the default asset class as investors
continue to rotate out of others that appeared fully or over-
valued,” said Stephen Pendergast, first vice president and
investment officer at Wells Fargo Advisors, in a phone interview
from his office in Danbury, Connecticut. “Additionally, the
euro has been surprisingly strong, which has accelerated cross
border money flows into the U.S.”  U.S. stocks surged yesterday as growth in American payrolls
was enough to ease concern about the economy without stoking
speculation the Federal Reserve will hasten the end of stimulus.
Silver and copper led gains in commodities and the yen weakened,
while Treasuries erased early gains.  The S&P 500 gained 0.7 percent during the week to close at
1513.17 in New York. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.5
percent, closing at 288.2.  Bezos, Slim  Jeff Bezos , the founder of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , dropped $1.7
billion after the world’s largest online retailer fell 6.7
percent. The Seattle-based company’s fourth-quarter sales
climbed 22 percent to $21.3 billion, the company said Tuesday in
a statement. Bezos has a $24.8 billion fortune and is the 22nd-
richest person in the world. He is up $1.2 billion year-to-date.  Mexican telecommunications magnate  Carlos Slim , 73, remains
the richest person in the world, with a fortune of $79.4
billion, up $1.1 billion for the week. Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, 57, is second with a net worth of $66.2 billion. The
billionaire released his annual letter from the Bill and Melinda
Gates Foundation on Thursday.  Europe’s richest man,  Amancio Ortega , the 76-year-old
founder of  Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s biggest clothing retailer and
owner of the Zara clothing chain, is No. 3 on the index with a
net worth of $57.4 billion, $4.9 billion ahead of  Warren Buffett , 82.  Dell Buyout  Michael Dell , 47, is seeking majority control of  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
in a buyout that would combine his 15.7 percent stake in the
company with as much as $1 billion of his personal funds, said
people familiar with the matter. The billionaire may contribute
equity financing of $500 million to $1 billion, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  Dell is the 60th-richest person in the world, according to
the Bloomberg ranking. He has a fortune valued at $14.5 billion.  Jorge Paulo Lemann , 73, Brazil’s richest man, lost $62
million, according to the Bloomberg ranking. Shares of his AB
InBev plunged Thursday after the Justice Department filed a
complaint today in federal court in Washington to block AB InBev
from acquiring Grupo Modelo SAB. The government argued the
transaction violates antitrust law because it would eliminate
the “substantial head-to-head competition” between AB InBev
and Modelo and “diminish ABI’s incentive to innovate.”  Eike Batista , 56, dropped $872 million during the week as
his  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  fell to a four-year low
Thursday after a dry hole stoked concerns about the outlook for
production. Brazil’s third-richest person has a net worth of
$11.9 billion, down 4.4 percent for the year.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Newcomb in New York at 
 pnewcomb2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  