-- Yankees’ Rodriguez Was Injected by Clinic Owner Bosch, ESPN Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-02-01T19:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/yankees-rodriguez-was-injected-by-clinic-owner-bosch-espn-says.html
New York Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez received injections directly from Anthony Bosch, the
clinic owner linked to supplying performance-enhancing drugs to
several Major League Baseball players, according to ESPN.  Bosch, whose practices at the anti-aging clinic Biogenesis
of America were detailed in a Miami New Times article published
Jan. 29, paid several visits to Rodriguez’s home on Biscayne Bay
in  Florida  to inject the 14-time All-Star, with one visit taking
place within the last year,  ESPN said , citing several people it
didn’t identify. While other athletes interacted with Bosch
through intermediaries, “Only Tony handled A-Rod,” one person
said, according to ESPN.  Rodriguez, 37, said in a statement following the New Times
story that he wasn’t a patient of Bosch and was never treated or
advised by him. Terry Fahn, a spokesman for Rodriguez, said
today in a telephone interview that the ESPN article wasn’t
true.  “Mr. Bosch vehemently denies the assertions that MLB
players such as Alex Rodriguez and Gio Gonzalez were treated by
or associated with him,” Bosch’s attorney, Susy Ribero-Ayala,
said in a Jan. 29 statement. Inquiries to her office today for
further comment were directed to the earlier statement.  Rodriguez, Gonzalez, Nelson Cruz, Melky Cabrera and Bartolo Colon were among the major leaguers cited by the New Times as
having had ties to Bosch’s clinic.  Major League Baseball said following the initial report
that it is investigating the situation and declined further
comment, while the Yankees said they support baseball’s efforts
and won’t comment further until the investigation is completed.
Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman declined to comment on
Rodriguez’s status or the reports in an interview today on 98.7
FM ESPN  New York . An e-mail sent today to Yankees spokesman
Jason Zillo wasn’t immediately returned.  Previous Doping  Rodriguez said in February 2009 that his cousin injected
him with a performance-enhancing drug from the 2001 to the 2003
baseball seasons, while he was playing for the Texas Rangers. He
said he stopped using the substance in 2003 and that he hadn’t
taken it since. He also said he never used human growth hormone.  Rodriguez’s name appeared 16 times in records of Bosch
obtained by the New Times, including on a patient list from a
2009 personal notebook of Bosch. Rodriguez paid $3,500 for
several banned products including HGH, according to the
newspaper’s report.  Rodriguez, whose 647 home runs rank fifth on the major-
league career list, may miss the 2013 season after undergoing
hip surgery last month, according to Cashman. He was re-signed
to a 10-year, $275 million contract after the 2007 season, a
deal that included bonus payments for milestone homers leading
up to Barry Bonds’s record of 762. Rodriguez is owed about $114
million on the remainder of the contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  