-- LyondellBasell Drops as Earnings Miss Estimates
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-02-01T21:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/lyondellbasell-drops-as-earnings-miss-estimates.html
LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the
world’s largest maker of polypropylene, fell the most in 11
weeks after fourth-quarter earnings trailed analysts’ estimates
as the loss at the European plastics unit widened.  LyondellBasell  fell  3.2 percent to $61.37 at the close in
 New York , the most since Nov. 15. Shares of the company, based
in Rotterdam and run from Houston, have gained 7.5 percent this
year.  Net income  was $1.09 a share, compared with a net loss of
38 cents a year earlier, LyondellBasell said today in a
statement. Profit excluding discontinued operations was $1.13 a
share, trailing the $1.14 average of 19  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The operating loss from olefins and polyolefins in Europe
and  Asia  widened to $94 million, from $73 million a year
earlier, while other segments gained.  Results in the European olefins business were “well below
our estimates,” Laurence Alexander, a New York-based analyst at
Jefferies & Co. who rates the shares buy, said in a note today.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James Gallogly is
adding capacity in the U.S. as shale-gas extraction boosts
supplies of natural gas liquids used to make plastics such as
polypropylene and polyethylene.  “Outside of  North America , the global olefins industry
continues to experience low operating rates and profitability,
negatively impacting our European olefins and commodity
polyolefin businesses,” Gallogly said in the statement.  Investors probably expected better results after U.S.
prices for ethane, a natural gas liquid used to make ethylene
and related plastics, fell “precipitously” in the fourth
quarter,  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic
Global Advisors, said today in a note.  Ethane at Mont Belvieu,  Texas , tumbled  66 percent  in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier and hit a multiyear low of
21.5 cents a gallon on Jan. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  