-- Lyondell Lightening Crude at Houston With Long Eye on Canada
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-02-01T19:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/lyondell-lightening-crude-at-houston-with-long-eye-on-canada.html
LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  is
lightening the crude slate at its 265,000-barrel-a-day Houston
refinery and has a long-term vision of running more heavy
Canadian crude there, Chief Executive Officer Jim Gallogly said.  The refinery will work on the smaller of its two crude
units during a planned turnaround this quarter to allow it to
run more domestic light, sweet crude, Gallogly said in a
conference call.  A surge in production of crude from shale fields including
the Bakken in  North Dakota  and the Eagle Ford in Texas have
boosted U.S. oil output to the highest level since 1993 and
driven down the cost of domestic crude. The U.S. benchmark crude
averaged a $5.50-a-barrel  discount  to Maya in 2012 after
averaging a premium every year before 2011.  “Right now, as you know, the WTI and WTS barrels are very,
very competitively cracked,” Gallogly said, referring to
domestic light sweet and light sour crudes. “We can crack those
barrels, too, and we’re starting to bring more of that product
into our refinery.”  The turnaround, which also includes work on a coker, is in
its early stages right now, said  David Harpole , a Houston-based
company spokesman. It will be completed before the end of March,
and will reduce throughput at the refinery by 80,000 barrels a
day this quarter.  More Canadian  The refinery has typically run dense, high-sulfur crude,
Gallogly said. Lyondell used to get most of its crude from
 Venezuela , and has been diversifying its sources in recent
years, the company said at a Barclays Capital Industrial Select
Conference last year.  In the long run, Lyondell plans to run heavy Canadian
crude, which is discounted to Mexico’s Maya crude, the heavy oil
benchmark used on the  Gulf Coast .  “Over time, heavy Canadian oil is going to be extremely
important to this refinery,” he said. “It’s not all getting
down there today but as time goes on, that will become more and
more powerful to an asset like we have.”  Western Canada Select oil in  Alberta  was priced at a record
$46.54-a-barrel  discount  to Maya crude on Dec. 14, according to
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was at $41.62 at 12:13 p.m.
 New York  time today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  