-- Zambia Railways Plans $500 Million Bond to Expand Network
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-02-01T13:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-01/zambia-railways-plans-500-million-bond-sale-to-expand-network.html
Zambia Railways Ltd., the state-owned
operator, plans to sell a $500 million-dollar bond as it joins
at least three other government companies and municipalities
issuing more than $4 billion in debt this year.  Zambia’s maiden $750 million Eurobond, which saw 24 times
more demand than government sought to raise, has encouraged
local companies, including the Roads Development Agency, Zesco
Ltd., and the Lusaka City Council to follow.  “From what I’ve seen so far I think we can raise half a
billion,” Regina Mwale, finance director at Kabwe-based Zambia
Railways, said in an interview yesterday. “We’re thinking
within the next six months.”  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which was the joint bookrunner with Deutsche
Bank AG for Zambia’s Eurobond it sold in September, “has
suggested to us they’re ready to help,” she said. Zambia
Railways has also had informal talks with  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s local
unit over the planned listing on the Lusaka Stock Exchange, said
Mwale, without giving a timeline for an initial public offering.  Before embarking on a debt sale, the company will revalue
its assets, as this has not occurred for the past 25 years, she
said.  President  Michael Sata  in September canceled a contract
with Railway Systems of Zambia and New Limpopo Bridge Projects
Investment Ltd. to operate a 1,200-kilometer (746 mile) stretch
of network. He restored it to the government’s Zambia Railways,
and appointed Clive Chirwa, then a professor at the U.K.’s
Bolton University, as chief executive officer.  ‘Not Fit’  The stations and train tracks are “not fit for purpose”,
and Zambia Railways will spend $1.5 billion refurbishing and
expanding the system over the next five years, Chirwa said in a
speech yesterday in Lusaka, the capital of  Africa ’s biggest
copper producer.  The company will raise part of this through offering shares
to the Zambian public, and will list on an international stock
exchange at a later stage, Chirwa said in an interview. Lenders
from the U.K., U.S. and  China  have also approached Zambia
Railways over possible funding deals, he said, declining to
identify them.  The country’s Road Development Agency is seeking to raise
$1.5 billion in a bond sale to fund construction and repairs,
Bernard Chiwala, the chief executive officer, said Jan. 16. He
discussed the proposal on Jan. 29 with Finance Minister
Alexander Chikwanda, who “wants to go ahead with it fairly
soon,” Chiwala said in an interview in Lusaka yesterday. The
government-owned company will probably advertise for advisers
and bookrunners in March, he said.  The yield on the Zambian government’s 5.375 percent dollar
bonds due September 2022 rose 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage
points to 5.16 at 3:19 p.m in Lusaka, the highest since Jan. 7.
The kwacha weakened 1.1 percent to 5.39 percent against the
dollar, extending its decline this week to 3.3 percent, the
second-worst performer on the continent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  