-- 3M CEO Thulin Recasts Unmet Sales Goal as Stretch Target
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-06-01T20:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/3m-ceo-thulin-recasts-unmet-sales-goal-as-stretch-target.html
3M Co. (MMM)  Chief Executive Officer Inge Thulin recast as a “stretch target” a revenue goal set by his
predecessor more than two years ago that the maker of Scotch
tape and dental braces has failed to meet.  3M has posted sales growth excluding acquisitions of 3.4
percent over the past decade, half of the 7 percent to 8 percent
goal that former CEO  George Buckley  set in December 2009,
according to Thulin, who took over the top job in February.  “That was laid out during George Buckley’s leadership at,
I would say, a different economic environment,” said Thulin at
a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. conference in  New York  today. “The
world has changed since that time. I view 7 to 8 as a stretch
target to be honest.”  Thulin didn’t scrap Buckley’s revenue target today and said
he will work to increase sales growth through the introduction
of new products, greater emphasis on marketing and by the
creation of a new mining, oil and gas business. The company’s
first-quarter profit, which beat estimates, was helped by U.S.
sales gains at its industrial and transportation unit.  Besides sales, the company focuses on return on invested
capital, earnings per share and profit margins, Thulin said.
Including acquisitions, sales have grown 7.4 percent over the
last decade, he said.  ‘Doing Well’  “We have multiple metrics that we try to balance. We’re
doing well in most of them,” he said. “We would like to grow
more.”  3M fell 1.8 percent to $82.85 at the close in New York. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 2.2 percent.  Thulin praised Buckley for boosting spending on research
and development during his six years as CEO, which has resulted
in a higher rate of new products. Before Buckley, the company
improved manufacturing efficiency under then-CEO Jim McNerney,
helping operating margins jump to as high as 23 percent in 2005
from 17 percent in 2002, Thulin said. Margins were 21 percent in
2011, the company said today.  “We’re in a very good position as a company,” Thulin
said. “Now we need to improve our commercialization
capabilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  