-- Labor Wisconsin Recall Hopes Ebb as Walker Cash Pays Off
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-06-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/labor-wisconsin-recall-hopes-ebb-as-walker-cash-pays-off.html
The first vote hasn’t been cast in
the recall election of  Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker , yet
labor unions already are offering excuses for why their efforts
to oust him could fall short.  The election is no longer a fight over workers’ rights to
engage in collective bargaining, which sparked the recall, union
leaders say. The debate has turned to the economy and negative
campaigning. In addition, they say, recall supporters are facing
a significant financial disadvantage after Walker raised more
than  $20 million  this year -- five times that of his opponent --
in his quest to keep his job.  “The election is about a vicious mud fight between two
candidates,” Michael Podhorzer, the political director of the
Washington-based AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest labor federation,
said in an interview. “It is not a verdict on collective
bargaining at all.”  Walker is leading Democratic challenger Tom Barrett, the
mayor of  Milwaukee , by 7 percentage points among likely voters,
according to a poll released May 30 by Milwaukee’s Marquette Law
School.  The outcome of the June 5 recall vote is important because
other Republican governors are likely to take a more aggressive
posture toward public employees’ unions if Walker prevails --and
some already have with mixed success.  Insight Into November  “If Walker wins, the Republicans will think they have an
opening,” said  Edward Miller , a politics professor at the
University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point. “It will embolden
other governors and will give insight into the presidential
election, with the thought that Romney can win Wisconsin.”  In November, Ohio voters repealed a law pushed by Governor
 John Kasich , a former Republican congressman, that lifted
collective bargaining for public employees. In  New Jersey ,
Governor  Chris Christie  signed a law increasing pension and
health care expenses paid by workers.  The governors say such changes are needed to deal with
declining state revenue after the longest recession since the
1930s. Labor leaders say it’s part of an effort to diminish the
influence of unions, which traditionally support Democratic
candidates.  “If Walker wins, everything the unions have done over 18
months have still led to annihilation,” said Mordecai Lee, a
government affairs professor at the  University of Wisconsin  at
Milwaukee. “This is ‘High Noon.’”  Union Membership Decline  The rate of U.S. union membership fell to a record low in
2011, and labor unions represent just 6.9 percent of employees
in private companies, down from 7.2 percent in 2009.  The showdown, only the third gubernatorial recall in U.S.
history, follows Walker’s passage of legislation last year that
requires annual recertification votes by a majority of all
members for public employee union representation. It also makes
payment of membership dues voluntary.  After the bill’s passage, Madison, Wisconsin’s capital and
a university town, turned into a hub of activism with daily
protests, runaway Democratic lawmakers, street theater and a
tent city near the Capitol building that union members and other
protesters dubbed “Walkerville.”  Walker’s adversaries used that energy to collect 900,000
signatures to force a referendum on the governor’s performance.  “It’s important to send a message to other people who want
to make radical attacks on working people,” said  Stephanie
Bloomingdale , the secretary-treasurer for the Wisconsin AFL-CIO.  Barrett Primary Victory  Barrett, who lost to Walker 18 months ago, survived a May 8
primary challenge from Dane County Executive Kathleen Falk, a
favorite of labor, to set up a rematch.  Since then, the campaign debate has expanded beyond the
labor issue to include unemployment and environmental concerns,
said Tony Cornelius, the president of Teamsters Local Union 662
in  Green Bay . In addition, Walker has started drawing attention
to crime rates in Milwaukee during Barrett’s tenure.  “There’s a lot of other things on the table,” Cornelius
said.  Walker also is trying to trumpet his record on jobs. In a
report prepared by his administration and released this month,
Walker claims the state gained 23,321 jobs last year, countering
the Bureau of Labor Statistics which documented 33,900 in lost
jobs.  “The emphasis in the campaign has moved off the unions and
moved to other things the governor has done in policy matters,”
Miller said. “There’s greater concern about other things, like
jobs.”  Outside Money  Money has flooded in from around the U.S. Bob Perry, the
Houston-based owner of Perry Homes and a supporter of the Swift
Boat Veterans For Truth ads that attacked the war record of
Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry  in the 2004 Democratic
presidential election, donated $500,000 to Walker, according to
the National Institute on Money in State Politics.  Las Vegas
Sands Corp. (LVS)  Chief Executive Officer  Sheldon Adelson , who
supported former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  in the Republican
presidential primary, gave $250,000.  Walker took in more than $20 million in loans and
contributions this year, compared to Barrett’s less than $4
million, according to state disclosure  reports .  Podhorzer said the AFL-CIO’s contribution is “trivial”
compared with Walker’s fundraising, though he declined to
specify the total. Barrett is having trouble attracting out-of-
state Democratic money when most are focused on the presidential
race, said Miller.  With just days left, unions will need to push turnout
similar to 2008 levels, when nearly 3 million Wisconsinites
voted, if they have a chance to beat Walker, Lee said.  “Symbolism doesn’t count for bupkis in politics,” Lee
said. “For unions, it’s death or survival.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  