-- Madonna Opens $240 Million Tour With Peace Plea, Dancing Monks
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-06-01T07:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/madonna-opens-240-million-tour-with-peace-plea-dancing-monks.html
As red-cloaked monks swung a censer
to the accompaniment of bells and Hebrew prayers against the
backdrop of a crucifix, Madonna shouted “Tel Aviv, are you
ready?” and launched into “Girl Gone Wild.”  The crowd of about 33,000 roared back at  Ramat Gan  stadium.
Last night, the 53-year-old queen of pop started her 2012 MDNA
tour with a two-hour show that combined deafening techno-beats,
a dizzying video-projected mix of sexual, violent and religious
images, and a plea for Middle East peace.  The tour, which will play at least 65 cities around the
world, has already sold $240 million in tickets, according to
its promoter  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV)  That, along with
sponsorship deals and other ancillary income, will probably earn
Madonna about $500 million this year, the  Huffington Post   said .  “The show was provocative, sexy and I had a blast,” said
Noa Brumer, a 22-year Israeli army officer and Madonna fan.
“Musically a little disappointing: The songs didn’t really build
up as they should have. But you can see that she has special
feelings for  Israel .”  Tickets in Israel range from $45 for the cheapest seats to
a $620 “VIP package” that includes a meal and admission to a
private party.  “People spend $300 on crazy things all the time, things
like handbags,” Madonna  told  the Daily Beast in January,
defending her ticket prices. “So work all year, scrape the
money together, and come to my show, I’m worth it.”  Pop Circus  In terms of stagecraft, concert-goers got their money’s
worth. The show was so elaborately designed with continuous
video projections and scene changes, so tightly choreographed
with a succession of acrobatics, wire-walking and sexual poses,
it resembled a techno-pop  Cirque Du Soleil .  With extensive use of audio playback, including whole songs
when Madonna disappeared from stage for costume changes, it
wasn’t easy to know when one is actually hearing her live voice.  One of the more effective moments was one of the simplest,
when Madonna eschewed special-effects to deliver “Like a
Virgin” as a dirge-like waltz.  Madonna’s decision to play in Israel contrasts with other
musicians over the past two years who canceled performances
after protests by pro-Palestinian groups, including  Elvis Costello , Santana, Gil Scott-Heron and Cassandra Wilson.  That an Italian-American Catholic named for the mother of
Jesus would end up among the Jewish state’s biggest supporters
in the global pop elite is one of the stranger twists even in
the extraordinary career of Madonna Louise Ciccone.  Political Message  In mid-concert, she waded into Middle East politics.  “I chose to start my world tour in Israel for a very
specific and important reason,” she told the crowd. “If we can
all rise above our egos and our titles and the names of our
countries and our religions, and treat everyone around us with
respect, then we are on the road to peace.”  The singer drew scattered cheers, concluding with “If
there is peace in the  Middle East , there can be peace in the
whole world.”  Madonna’s remarks came after she held a private meeting the
day before with Israeli and Palestinian peace activists, and
provided them with 600 free tickets.  “Madonna said peace was the only solution and encouraged
us to pursue it,” Ron Pundak, head of the Israeli chapter of
the Peace NGO Forum, said in a telephone interview.  The peace message seemed incongruous coming in a concert in
which Madonna acted out the scenario of shooting a lover to
death during “Revolver” and “Gang Bang” before turning her
pistol on the audience to the sound of gunshots against a
projected backdrop of gushing blood. Such glaring contradictions
have been the meat-and-potatoes of her career.  Kabbalah Interest  The core of her connection with Israel is Madonna’s passion
for Kabbalah, a once-obscure branch of Jewish mysticism that has
drawn wider interest in recent years, including from non-Jews.  In a 1997 television  interview  Madonna said her own
attraction began with classes at the Los Angeles headquarters of
the Kabbalah Centre, a chain of learning outlets that dilutes
esoteric religious tenets into an easy-to-digest self-help
spiritual philosophy that has proved popular with celebrities
including  Ashton Kutcher  and  Demi Moore .  During her last visit to Israel in 2009, Madonna proclaimed
from the stage “I truly believe Israel is the energy center of
the world.” Her trip included a pilgrimage to the tomb of the
16th-century Kabbalah sage Rabbi Isaac Luria in the northern
town of Safed, and lighting ceremonial candles to welcome in the
Jewish Sabbath on Friday night in the home of Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  and his wife Sarah.  Dancer Lourdes  This trip, she restricted her movements largely to her
hotel suite or rehearsals in Ramat Gan, leaving local paparazzi
to scan the Tel Aviv beach front for sightings of Madonna’s
three children, including teenage daughter Lourdes who appears
as a dancer in her mother’s show.  Madonna was also accompanied by Rabbi Eitan Yardeni, her
personal spiritual tutor, who told Israel’s Channel 2 news that
the star should be credited with helping to popularize Kabbalah
throughout the world. That view is not shared by more
traditional kabbalists like Israel’s Rabbi Yitzhak Batzri, who
 criticized  Madonna during her last visit for engaging in studies
that he said should be limited only to those who undergo a full
Orthodox conversion to Judaism.  Muse highlights include:  Lewis Lapham  on  history , Zinta
Lundborg’s  New York   weekend .  (Calev Ben-David writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Tel Aviv  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 