-- Africa Nations Warned on Bond Risks as Europe Slumps
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-06-01T13:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/africa-nations-warned-on-bond-risks-as-europe-slumps.html
African nations that plan to sell a
record amount of Eurobonds in the next two years risk higher
debt costs as the European debt crisis worsens, threatening
economic stability, according to the  African Development Bank 
and investors.  Policy makers from  Africa  attending the AfDB’s annual
meeting in Arusha, Tanzania, this week were cautioned against
racking up debt in the face of a slowdown in Europe. AfDB
President  Donald Kaberuka  warned member nations to avoid
“hubris” because of recent discoveries of major oil, gas and
other commodity deposits.  Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda, which is set to become
Africa’s newest oil producer this year, may sell more than $800
million in Eurobonds in the next two years, marking the first
time the east African nations raise money in foreign debt
markets. Zambia, the continent’s largest producer of copper,
plans to sell its first global bond this year.  “Across Africa, save for a few outliers, there is much of
a ‘feel good factor’,” Kaberuka said yesterday. “Nonetheless,
today I want to draw a note of caution. This is no time for
hubris. It is rather a moment of sober reflection.”  Europe’s debt crisis is undermining economic growth and
trade in Africa at a time when governments have less fiscal room
to stimulate demand. Nations from  South Africa  to Rwanda to
 Nigeria  have already cut growth forecasts in the face of a
possible recession in Europe, Africa’s largest trading partner.  Growth Under Pressure  “The exuberance is slightly more than the reality,” Ravi
Bhatia, a sovereign credit analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , said in
an interview on May 31 in Arusha. “As a whole we are talking
about 5 percent growth for the continent and that is really not
enough to have a sustained and tangible impact on poverty
levels.”  East African nations are raising funds to help pay for
power, road and other infrastructure projects to help sustain
faster economic growth.  Rwanda, which earns most of its foreign currency from
tourism and coffee exports, plans to sell $300 million of
Eurobonds next year, Finance Minister John Rwangombwa said in an
interview on May 30 in Arusha. Uganda, where  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and
its partners have found 2.5 billion barrels of crude, plans to
sell its first dollar-denominated debt in the next two to three
years, Deputy Treasury Secretary Keith Muhakanizi said in an
interview on May 29.  Kenya Bond  “Market conditions at the moment are fairly volatile,”
 Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist at investment bank Exotix
Ltd., said in a May 31 phone interview from London. Governments
may postpone the bond sales until there are “more benign”
conditions.  Kenya, the largest economy in east Africa, will probably
sell a bond of a minimum of $500 million in about a year’s time
to help repay debt and finance infrastructure, Finance Minister
Robinson Githae said in an interview on May 30 in Arusha. He
declined to give further details of the bond.  Slower economic growth, a weaker currency and a wider
current account deficit are downside risks to a sale, Yvonne Mhango, an analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in Johannesburg, said
in an e-mail. The government on May 15 lowered its 2012 economic
growth forecast to between 3.5 percent and 4.5 percent, from a
previous projection of 5.2 percent.  While borrowing costs have fallen this year for African
nations, a worsening crisis in  Europe  threatens to drive costs
higher and reduce demand,  Carmen Altenkirch , a credit analyst at
 Fitch Ratings , said in an interview on May 28 in Arusha.  Bond Yields  Yields on Ghana’s $750 million Eurobonds due 2017 have
declined 55 basis points this year to 6.076 percent. Ghana has
the same sovereign  credit rating  as Rwanda of B at Standard &
Poor’s.  Nigeria, the continent’s biggest oil producer whose rating
matches Kenya and Uganda’s at S&P, sold $500 million of 6.75
percent Eurobonds in January 2011. The yield on the debt, which
matures in 2021, has fallen 32 basis points, or 0.32 percentage
point, to 5.881 percent this year.  Tanzania plans to get a credit rating and sell its first
Eurobond in 12 months, central bank Governor Benno Ndulu said in
an interview. The government has appointed  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as an
adviser, which told the country it should issue at least $500
million, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  