-- AIG Judge Says He’s Hesitant to Dismiss $25 Billion Claim
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-01T22:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/aig-judge-says-he-s-hesitant-to-dismiss-25-billion-claim.html
The judge presiding over a $25
billion lawsuit against the U.S. filed by Maurice “Hank”
Greenberg, the former  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  chief
executive officer, said he’s “hesitant” to throw out the case
without more information on the company’s 2008 bailout.  U.S. Claims Judge Thomas Wheeler made the comment today in
 Washington  during a hearing on a government request to dismiss
the case filed by Greenberg’s Starr International Co. Wheeler
said he didn’t know why Starr International was allegedly barred
from attending a 2008 U.S.-brokered meeting with a consortium of
banks in which private financing for AIG was discussed.  “I’m perhaps a little hesitant to throw them out without
knowing what happened,” Wheeler said near the end of the three-
hour hearing. “We don’t know first-hand what transpired there.
Aren’t they allowed to do some discovery to find out what went
on?”  Wheeler said he’d have a decision “in the near future.”  Starr International sued the government on Nov. 21, calling
the public assumption of 80 percent of AIG stock in September
2008 a violation of the constitutional rights of shareholders to
due process and equal protection of the law.  ‘Virtually Nothing’  Starr International, AIG’s largest shareholder at the time
of the bailout, alleges that while the U.S. got so-called
fairness opinions from banks on exchanging two groups of
preferred stock, it failed to get such an opinion in exchanging
a block of preferred stock for 562.9 million shares “for
virtually nothing,” according to the complaint.  AIG was added as a “nominal ” defendant in the case,
meaning the company would be bound by any judgment. AIG’s
lawyer, Joseph Allerhand of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP in  New
York , told Wheeler that the insurer would “weigh in” once the
judge decides whether the case will move forward.  Lawyers for Starr International Co. argued today that the
company has the right to seek compensation for itself and all
AIG shareholders for what it alleges was an illegal taking of
property by the government during the 2008 financial crisis.  “This was a taking of billions and billions of dollars of
AIG interest,”  David Boies , a lawyer for Starr International,
said. “The constitution says you have the right to recover what
was taken and that’s exactly the situation here.”  Boies said the government paid $500,000 for a stake in the
company that was worth $25 billion.  Liquidity Problems  According to the complaint, the day Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, the
government brokered talks among several banks. The meeting was
aimed at arranging private financing for a loan to address AIG’s
liquidity problems.  Starr International officials asked to attend the meeting
and were denied, according to its complaint.  The claims court handles cases against the federal
government for money, including claims that the U.S. took
private property for public use without just compensation in
violation of the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  Boies said once the government gained control of the
insurer, it used about $32.5 billion in AIG assets to offer so-
called “backdoor bailouts” to financial institutions.  “What you have here is the takeover of control, the
takeover of equity and then the use of company assets to fund a
public interest,” said Boies of Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP.  Taxpayers Paying  The  Justice Department  said in court papers that AIG agreed
to the bailout and Starr International shouldn’t be allowed in a
court case to “rewrite” the insurer’s rescue agreement and
make American taxpayers pay $25 billion more.  “AIG didn’t need to deal with the government if it didn’t
want to,” Brian Simkin, a lawyer for the Justice Department,
said today. “There’s no clear showing the government acted
contrary to the law.”  The government “saved it from bankruptcy of its own
making,” he said.  Simkin said the transactions that Starr International calls
“backdoor bailouts” were an effort to take bad assets off of
AIG’s books and put them on the Federal Reserve’s books.  “The idea of a backdoor bailout is ludicrous,” he said.
“It was designed to rescue AIG.”  On Nov. 21, Starr also sued the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New
York, saying it breached its duty to AIG shareholders by loaning
$85 billion at 14.5 percent interest while offering better terms
to banks. AIG almost collapsed after bets tied to the housing
market soured, and the bailout was revised at least four times
before reaching $182 billion.  John Todor, a Justice Department lawyer, said the
government has been selling AIG stock and its interest in the
company has dropped to 61 percent interest.  The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 1:11-cv-00779,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  