-- AIG Assigns Argentina Staff to Aid Athens as Crisis Grows
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-01T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/aig-assigns-argentina-staff-to-aid-athens-as-crisis-grows.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG)  has
assigned staff from  Argentina  to advise their counterparts in
Athens as the bailed-out insurer prepares for a possible Greek
exit from the euro.  “Our Argentina team that has been successful before,
during and after their currency crisis has been working with our
team in Athens,”  Peter Hancock , chief executive officer of the
Chartis property-casualty unit, said yesterday at an investor
conference in New York. “We’ve been as ready as we can.”  Financial firms, including New York-based AIG, Bank of
America Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co. say they’re preparing for an
escalation of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis amid concern that
Greece will exit the euro, with the common currency at its
lowest against the  U.S. dollar  since June 2010. Argentina
defaulted on a record $95 billion of debt in 2001 and later
abandoned a decade-long 1-to-1 peso peg to the greenback.  “The team in Argentina has been through a number of
eruptions and has had to deal with situations of extreme
uncertainty and capital flight that would be not unlike what AIG
will be dealing with” if Greece leaves the euro, said  Clark Troy , a consultant to insurers who’s based in  Chapel Hill ,  North
Carolina . AIG is “calling attention to the fact that they have
been through this before,” he said.  AIG’s “global footprint enables us to share knowledge and
lessons learned across countries and lines of business,” said
Jim Ankner, company spokesman.  ‘Flight to Quality’  The crisis may help AIG add customers as some businesses
choose the insurer over European competitors in a “flight to
quality,” Hancock said during the conference sponsored by
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “I don’t take great joy in that,” he said. “The damage
to growth in Europe and global growth of a continued crisis in
the  euro zone  is just bad for demand in general.”  AIG hired Hancock in 2010 to oversee risk and reassigned 
him last year to run Chartis after the unit disclosed a $4.2
billion charge because of inadequate reserves.  The insurer, once the world’s largest, benefited from the
humility that came with getting a $182.3 billion U.S. bailout
during the financial crisis, Hancock said.  “The crisis had a silver lining,” he said. “It punctured
the hubris that happens in large companies that are leaders in
their industry, where people think they have all the answers,
and it made people open to new ways of doing things.”  Hancock has been increasing AIG’s focus on  emerging markets 
and cutting back in businesses that require the company to hold
large amounts of capital as he seeks to improve returns.  “At some point we oversaturated certain markets, and so my
direction to the team is very much to recalibrate our objectives
from volume to value,” he said.  AIG has  advanced  26 percent this year to close yesterday at
$29.18 in  New York , the top performance in the 22-company
Standard & Poor’s 500 Insurance Index, which gained 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  