-- Taiwan Dollar Completes Worst Week Since September; Bonds Rally
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-06-01T08:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/taiwan-dollar-set-for-worst-week-since-september-bonds-rally.html
Taiwan’s dollar had its biggest
weekly loss in eight months and  government bonds  rose as signs
of a slowdown in  Asia ’s largest economy heightened concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis is cooling global growth.  The currency touched a four-month low as data showed
manufacturing in China, the island’s biggest export market,
expanded last month at the slowest pace this year. Treasury
yields reached record lows as investors favored dollar-
denominated assets as a refuge from Europe’s financial crisis.  “China’s PMI adds to evidence that Europe’s debt crisis is
bringing down Asia’s economy,” said George Pu, a bond trader at
Sinopac Securities Corp. in Taipei. “Taiwan’s yields could go
down even more if Treasury yields continue to hit record lows.”  Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.9 percent this week to NT$29.931
against its U.S. counterpart, the weakest level since Jan. 30,
according to Taipei Forex Inc. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings traders use to price options,
rose 25 basis points this week and slipped three basis points
today to 6 percent.  China ’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 50.4 in May from
53.3 in April. Global funds reduced holdings of local stocks by
$3.9 billion in May, exchange data show, as reports showed the
island’s industrial production dropped for a second month in
April and the jobless rate increased.  The yield on the government’s 1 percent bonds due January
2017 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this week
to 0.930 percent, according to Gretai Securities Market. The
yield declined one basis point today, touching 0.929 percent
earlier, the lowest level since Feb. 7.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady during the
five-day period at 0.509 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the  Taiwan  Interbank Money Center. It
declined one basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  