-- Bales Charged With Steroid Use Before Afghan Killings
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-06-02T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/alleged-afghan-shooter-bales-charged-with-steroid-use-1-.html
The U.S. Army charged Staff Sergeant
Robert Bales with steroid and alcohol abuse as the service filed
additional charges against the alleged killer of Afghan
civilians.  The new charges include two counts of “wrongfully
possessing and using” steroids and one of “wrongfully
consuming alcohol while deployed,” according to a statement
yesterday by the Army. The amended charges also reduced the
number of alleged murder victims to 16 from 17.  Bales is being held in the military prison at Fort
Leavenworth,  Kansas , awaiting trial for the March shootings that
roiled U.S.-Afghan relations. An attorney for the solider
indicated his defense may turn in part on whether he used
steroids, and who may have supplied them.  “We are interested to learn about the alleged steroid use
-- in particular the dosage and alleged frequency of use,” Emma
Scanlan, a Seattle-based attorney, said in an e-mail after the
Army’s announcement. “Witnesses have indicated that my client
got steroids from the special forces team he was stationed
with.”  “It will be interesting to see what kind of pressure was
placed on conventional forces placed with elite special forces
teams,” she said.  ‘Sanity Board’  Bales, a married father of two based at Joint Base Lewis-
McChord in Washington state, served three tours in  Iraq  before
his Dec. 3 deployment to  Afghanistan .  He has been accused of gunning down Afghan civilians in two
villages in southern Afghanistan before turning himself in.  If Bales’ mental condition is in question, the military
will form a “sanity board” to conduct a mental evaluation and
determine whether he’s fit to stand trial.  Bales suffered a head injury in Iraq from a vehicle
rollover accident, though he was later deemed fit for
deployment.  The charges against him now include 16 counts of
premeditated murder, six counts of attempted premeditated
murder, seven counts of assault, two counts of wrongfully
possessing and using steroids, and one count of wrongfully
consuming alcohol while deployed, according to the Army
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  