-- Ally, Nissan Lead Companies Selling $13.3 Billion of ABS in May
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-06-01T15:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/ally-nissan-lead-companies-selling-13-3-billion-of-abs-in-may.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  and Nissan Motor
Co. led companies selling about $13.3 billion in bonds tied to
U.S. household borrowing in May, compared with a 12-month
average of $14.4 billion, as auto sales climb.  Offerings tied to vehicle purchases accounted for $5.2
billion in asset-backed issuance, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Ally sold $1.3 billion in bonds linked to auto loans
last week. Nissan sold $1.25 billion of similar securities on
May 12, the data show.  Companies are issuing asset-backed securities linked to  car
loans  and leases with automobile sales headed for the best
showing since 2007. Purchases at  Ford Motor Co. (F)  increased 13
percent in May, compared with the same period in 2011, the
Dearborn, Michigan-based company said in a statement today.  Ford, in a bid to diversify its  funding  sources, will
convert $2.5 billion in asset-backed securities to senior
unsecured debt next week after Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings raised the company’s debt ranking to investment
grade.  U.S. car and light-truck sales this year may reach 14.3
million, according to estimates from 14 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. That would be the best full year since 16.1 million
in 2007.  Top-ranked debt backed by auto loans is yielding 61 basis
points more than Treasuries, up from 59 basis points on April
30, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. The
securities returned 0.06 percent in May. That compares with 0.33
percent for bonds tied to credit-card payments and 0.58 percent
for investment-grade corporate bonds, index data show.  Ally, Nissan  Ally paid 17 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate
on a top-ranked portion of its sale maturing in 2.4 years,
Bloomberg data show. Nissan paid 47 basis points more than the
one-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, on AAA debt
maturing in three years.  Libor, the rate at which banks say they can borrow in
dollars from each other, acts as a benchmark for about $360
trillion of financial instruments worldwide.  Spreads on consumer asset-backed securities have been
stable even as the European debt crisis roils markets, Wells
Fargo & Co. analysts said in a report yesterday.  “Our expectation is for various segments of consumer ABS
to outperform in the event of increased market turmoil related
to the situation in  Europe  or other macroeconomic events,”
wrote the analysts led by John McElravey, who is based in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  