-- Argentina Won’t Repeat 2001 Crisis, Top Fernandez Aide Says
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-01T19:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/argentina-doesn-t-plan-to-pesify-economy-kicillof-says.html
A top aide to Argentine President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said the country isn’t heading
for a repeat of its 2001 financial crisis and that there are no
plans to turn dollar-denominated contracts and loans into pesos.  “This isn’t 2001, which was fueled by banks and the
media,” Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof, the mastermind
of Fernandez’s seizure in April of Spanish-owned oil producer
 YPF SA (YPFD) , told reporters in Buenos Aires today. “This isn’t going
to happen.”  Kicillof, 40, was commenting on a report in today’s
Cronista newspaper that the government was planning to
“pesify” the economy by converting existing dollar-denominated
loans and contracts into the national currency. There are no
plans to introduce multiple exchange rates, he said.  South America ’s second-biggest  economy  defaulted on $95
billion in bonds in late 2001 and shortly after abandoned a
decade-old currency peg that fixed the peso at one per dollar.
The peso lost as much as 75 percent of its value the following
year, while the government forced banks to convert dollar
deposits and loans into pesos.  Since her re-election in October, Fernandez tightened
controls on the foreign exchange market and forced companies to
repatriate money held abroad in a bid to stem capital outflows
and preserve central bank  reserves , which she uses to pay debt
with the government shut out of foreign credit markets.  Dearth of Dollars  The restrictions, which include the need for the tax agency
to approve all purchases of foreign currencies, have led to a
widening gap between the official and unregulated peso exchange
rates. After rising 35 percent this year, the dollar in the
unregulated market now costs 6.34 pesos, a record 42 percent
more than the official rate of 4.47 pesos.  Difficulties in buying dollars have led Argentines to bring
court cases against the government, saying the tax agency
doesn’t have the authority to forbid currency purchases. One
plaintiff was a 59-year-old grandfather who was refused
permission to buy $10 that he planned to give to his two
grandsons.  Cabinet Chief Juan Manuel Abal Medina on May 30 told
Congress that Argentines are “obsessed” with dollars and that
the government is seeking to “de-dollarize” the economy.  “It’s a cultural problem,” Abal Medina said. “It’s very
important that Argentines be more normal and use dollars only
for the trade exchange as happens in other places.”  The president herself is among those who prefer dollars. At
Los Sauces Casa Patagonica hotel, which Fernandez owns in the
southern Patagonian region where she used to live, rates are
quoted in dollars, according to its  website . The hotel offers a
three-night honeymoon package at $1,100 plus tax.  Yesterday Senator Anibal Fernandez, a former cabinet chief,
said that he owns $24,000 and bought them “because I felt like
it.”  Speaking to Radio Continental, he said Argentines are free
to buy dollars “if they can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  