-- Asian Stocks Cap Longest Loss Streak in Year on Europe
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2012-06-01T23:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/asian-stocks-cap-longest-loss-streak-in-year-on-europe.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a fifth week,
the regional index’s longest streak of weekly losses in a year,
as  Spain ’s borrowing costs soared and amid further signs that
 China ’s economic slowdown is deepening, dimming the outlook for
companies dependent on global demand.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell to levels last seen in
December, with Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX)  recording a ninth week of
decline, the longest such run since 1975. HSBC Holdings Plc,
Europe’s biggest lender, fell 3 percent.  China Railway
Construction Corp. (1186)  dropped more than 7 percent as China’s
industrial production expanded at a slower rate and the country
ruled out stimulus measures on a scale similar to 2008.  “Investors are still not convinced about the debt crisis
in Europe and that’s being reflected in higher bond yields in
Spain and Italy,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of Asian
multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management ( Asia ) Ltd.,
which oversees about $8 billion. Europe is “the most
significant risk from a global investor view point. Over the
past 12 months, the Western world has been trying to find holes
in the China growth story.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent to 111.38 this
week. The gauge dropped 10 percent in May, the most since
October 2008, as economic reports showed the economies of China
and the U.S. slowing while the debt crisis that began in  Greece 
spreads to larger countries in Europe.  The losses erased $4.5 trillion in global equity value last
month, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That dragged the
 value  of shares on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index to 11.4 times
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with 12.2 times for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies and 9.8 times for the Stoxx Europe 600.  Topix Losses  Japan’s Topix Index declined 1.8 percent as it fell for a
ninth week, its longest losing streak since September 1975, as
Europe’s crisis crimped the outlook for exporters and sent the
yen to its highest level against the euro since 2000. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 1.6 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.9 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi index increased 0.6 percent. Indonesia’s Jakarta
 Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slumped 2.6 percent as coal miner PT Bumi
Resources plunged 20 percent on the reduced outlook for fuel
demand and the prospect of quotas on production.  Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index slipped 0.8 percent
and Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks shares on China’s
biggest stock market, increased 1.7 percent amid speculation
that slowing manufacturing activity and lower  home prices  give
the government room for additional measures to support the
economy.  Europe Declines  Companies that do business in Europe declined. Canon Inc.,
the Japanese camera maker that counts Europe as its largest
market, dropped 5.6 percent to 3,050 yen in  Tokyo . HSBC fell 3
percent to HK$60.85 in Hong Kong.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , the
port operator that gets about 55 percent of revenue from Europe
3.8 percent to HK$64.  China has no plan to introduce stimulus measures on the
scale deployed during the global financial crisis to counter
this year’s economic slowdown, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported. The government has cut banks’  reserve ratios  three
times since November and vowed to fast-track infrastructure
projects to boost growth.  No Monetary Stimulus  “The Chinese government will continue to cut the reserve
ratio but I don’t think they will implement any monetary
stimulus,” Cedric Ma, Senior Investment Strategist at Convoy
Asset Management Ltd. “There is no emergency right now.”  China Railway Construction Corp., a builder of train lines
and other infrastructure, dropped 7.3 percent to HK$5.86. BYD
Co., a maker of electric cars that’s partly owned by  Warren
Buffett , dropped 3.1 percent to HK$15.70.  PetroChina Co., the country’s biggest listed company,
slipped 3.9 percent to HK$9.78 as oil entered a  bear market 
after falling more than 20 percent from its high for the year.  Materials and energy companies were among the industries
with the biggest declines on the Asia-Pacific gauge this week.  Bumi Resources dropped 20 percent to 1,410 rupiah in
Jakarta.  JX Holdings Inc. (5020) , a Japanese petroleum company, dropped
6.3 percent to 375 yen in Tokyo, its lowest level since at least
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Gentle in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  