-- Treasuries Surge as Stocks Fall After U.S. Jobs Report
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-01T20:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/asian-stocks-oil-slump-on-china-manufacturing-dollar-advances.html
Treasuries rallied, driving 10-year
yields below 1.50 percent for the first time, while the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average   erased  its 2012 gain after U.S.
employers created the fewest jobs in a year and reports signaled
manufacturing growth was slowing. Commodities slumped.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries dropped 10 basis points to
1.46 percent and slid as low as 1.4387 percent. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  sank 2.5 percent, its biggest drop since
November, to a four-month low of 1,278.04. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index slumped 1.9 percent. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
slipped to the lowest level since October as oil plunged 3.8
percent to an eight-month low of $83.23 a barrel.  Germany’s two-
year note  yield turned negative during the day for the first
time ever. Gold and silver rallied.  Concern about the world’s largest economy deepened after
U.S. payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, after a revised
77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated,
the Labor Department said. The median estimate called for a
150,000 increase in May. The jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent.
Other reports showed manufacturing grew less than estimated in
the U.S. and China and contracted for a tenth month in the euro
region.  “The  bond market  has reacted to every rainstorm as if it’s
a hurricane,”  David Kelly , chief market strategist at JPMorgan
Funds, told Bloomberg Television. “What’s happened in markets
over the last few years is valuations have gotten more and more
extreme. In fact I don’t think that there’s been a more extreme
day in the relative valuations of stocks and bonds in the last
50 years.”  Treasury Rally  Treasuries last month had their highest returns since
August, returning 1.8 percent, reflecting the declining
stability of the 17-member euro currency amid a worsening
sovereign debt crisis, according to indexes compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of
shares lost 8.9 percent including dividends, the biggest monthly
decline since September. The euro declined 6.6 percent versus
the dollar in May, also the most since September.  Thirty-year Treasury bond yields declined 12 basis points
to 2.52 percent today and  fell  to 2.5089 percent earlier, the
lowest in  Federal Reserve  records beginning in 1953. Five-year
and seven-year note yields also slid to record lows today.  Valuation measures  show Treasuries are at the most
expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, reached negative 0.98 percent, the most
expensive level ever. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  ‘Unemployment Crisis’  The slide in U.S. stocks halted today as the S&P 500
approached 1,277.14. That level would mark a so-called
correction, or 10 percent drop from the index’s four-year peak
reached on April 2. The S&P 500 dipped as low as 1,277.25 today
and closed below its  average  from the past 200 days for the
first time this year.  The  S&P 500  is trading for less than 13 times its
companies’ reported earnings, the lowest since November, and has
been stuck below its five-decade  average multiple  of 16.4 for
more than two years. Losses in stocks accelerated this year
after the April 6 employment report from the Labor Department
showed the slowest  job creation  in five months. Today’s report
showed employers added the fewest workers in a year, bolstering
concern that the job-market recovery is stalling.  U.S. `Vulnerable'  “The weak jobs report confirms that the U.S. is vulnerable
to a European situation that is going from bad to worse,” said
Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., the largest manager of bond funds.
“The report’s details speak to an unemployment crisis that is
getting more stubbornly embedded in the structure of the
economy. Looking forward, the employment situation will be
further challenged by an ongoing synchronized global slowing.”  A manufacturing index released today from the  Institute for
Supply Management  fell to 53.5 after reaching a 10-month high of
54.8 in April. Readings greater than 50 signal growth. The
median projection of economists called for a decrease to 53.8 in
May.  The  Dow average  slumped 274.88 points, or 2.2 percent, to
12,118.57, below its level of 12,217.56 at the end of 2011.  Dow Leaders  Hewlett-Packard Co., Bank of America Corp. and American
Express Co. dropped at least 4.3 percent to lead losses in all
30 stocks in the Dow. Wynn Resorts Ltd., MGM Resorts
International and Las Vegas Sands Corp. slumped at least 4.3
percent as Macau casino gambling revenue grew at the slowest
pace since July 2009. Facebook Inc. slid 6.4 percent to $27.72,
erasing yesterday’s 5 percent rally and sliding to the lowest
price since the social networking site went public two weeks
ago.  The U.S. jobs data extended an earlier global slump in
stocks triggered after  China  led a slowdown in manufacturing
across  Asia . China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 50.4 in
May from 53.3 in April, China’s statistics bureau and logistics
federation said today in Beijing. Economists projected 52,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
Measures for India, South Korea and  Taiwan  also declined.  “As if clear evidence of an emerging market slowdown and
Europe’s woes were not enough to contend with, the market will
now have to digest one of the nastier non-farm payroll reports
we have seen in recent months,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of
Marketfield Asset Management in New York, which oversees more
than $1.9 billion, wrote in an e-mail to clients.  Gold Shares  Gold producers in the U.S. and Canada jumped as the
weakening job growth fueled speculation the Federal Reserve will
take further steps to spur growth, boosting the appeal of the
precious metal as an inflation hedge. Newmont Mining Corp., the
largest U.S. gold producer, rallied 6.7 percent. Canada’s
 S&P/TSX Gold Index (STGOLD)  jumped 7.4 percent, the most since September
2009, as  all 40  of its stocks advanced. Gold for August delivery
rose as much as 4.3 percent to $1,632 an ounce.  After today’s jobs report, the Fed is more likely to
provide added stimulus when its current effort winds down,
according to Morgan Stanley. The probability of more central
bank policy action is 80 percent, up from 50 percent, the firm
said.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  lost 1.9 percent today to close
at the lowest level since Dec. 19. Spain’s IBEX 35 Index
extended its year-to-date decline to 29 percent and closed at
the lowest level in nine years. Italy’s FTSE MIB Index lost 1
percent to a three-year low.  Yen Gains  The yen rose against 12 of 16 peers as investors sought the
perceived safety of the currency. The euro added 0.5 percent
versus the yen after earlier falling to its lowest level in more
than 11 years versus the Japanese currency as euro-bloc
unemployment surged to the highest on record.  The yen rose to
its strongest in almost four months against the dollar as the
premium investors get for investing in  U.S. debt  over Japanese
securities fell to a record.  The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, slipped 0.2 percent to 82.868 after reaching the highest
level since August 2010 yesterday. Wheat, natural gas, cotton
and oil led losses in 17 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P
GSCI Index as the commodity gauge extended its year-to-date loss
to 9.9 percent.  ECB Speculation  Spanish and Italian  government bonds  advanced,
outperforming benchmark German bunds, on speculation the
 European Central Bank  may purchase the securities to stem an
increase in borrowing costs. Italian 10-year bond yields dropped
16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 5.74 percent. The
yield on similar-maturity Spanish securities slid three basis
points to 6.53 percent.  “I imagine there is speculation that the ECB may be forced
to move given how much yields have rocketed,” said  John Davies ,
a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in London. “But if we
were really getting strong speculation that the ECB was
intending to step in I think we would be down 30 or 40 basis
points.”  An ECB spokesman in Frankfurt declined to comment when
reached by phone today.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slumped 1.4 percent as
benchmark gauges in India, Taiwan, Brazil, Argentina, Colombia
and Mexico fell more than 1.5 percent to lead declines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  