-- Astros Hold Top MLB Draft Pick, 20 Years After Passing on Jeter
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/astros-eye-top-mlb-draft-pick-20-years-after-passing-on-jeter.html
The  Houston Astros  have plenty of
options with the top pick in the Major League Baseball draft,
their first No. 1 overall selection since 1992, when they took
Phil Nevin over a high school shortstop named  Derek Jeter .  While Nevin hit 208 home runs and made one All-Star
appearance over 12 major league seasons with seven franchises,
he played in only 18 games for the Astros. Jeter, drafted sixth
overall in 1992 by the Yankees, has won five World Series titles
and made 12 All-Star teams over 18 seasons in New York.  The Astros’ choice two decades ago demonstrates the
uncertain science that is the MLB draft. Paul Shuey, B.J.
Wallace, Jeffrey Hammonds and Chad Mottola were also selected
ahead of Jeter that year.  “We’ve seen so many players that look like can’t-miss guys
and then they either can’t do anything at the professional level
or they don’t turn out to be nearly what we thought,” Scout.com
national baseball analyst Frankie Piliere said in a telephone
interview.  When the three-day, 40-round draft begins June 4, there’s
no Bryce Harper or Stephen Strasburg-type prospect regarded as
the clear-cut No. 1 pick for the Astros, who are seeking to
improve a club that went an MLB-worst 56-106 in 2011. Strasburg
and Harper were the consensus top picks in 2009 and 2010 for the
 Washington Nationals .  Among the Astros’ candidates for the top pick is a group of
right-handed college pitchers: Mark Appel of  Stanford
University , Kevin Gausman of Louisiana State and Kyle Zimmer of
the University of San Francisco.  Other options at No. 1 include Georgia high school
outfielder Bryon Buxton, University of Florida catcher Mike
Zunino and shortstop Carlos Correa from  Puerto Rico .  Other Top Picks  The  Minnesota Twins  have the second pick, followed by the
 Seattle Mariners ,  Baltimore Orioles  and  Kansas City Royals . The
New York Mets pick 12th, while the Yankees are at No. 30.  Astros rookie general manager Jeff Luhnow told reporters
his franchise has a unique opportunity. It’s also one he hopes
to have for the last time, as the team with the sport’s worst
record gets the top pick the following season.  “When you have a chance to get the best amateur player in
baseball, you’ve got to capitalize on it,” Luhnow said.  Harper, a 19-year-old outfielder, was the No. 1 pick for
the Nationals in 2010, one year after Strasburg, a 23-year-old
pitcher, was taken by  Washington  with the top selection. Both
have already had an impact in the majors, helping the Nationals
to a 29-21 start and first place in the NL East division after
seven straight non-winning seasons.  “People got a little spoiled by that, but that’s pretty
rare,” Scout.com’s Piliere said. “Strasburg, I don’t think
anyone has seen a college pitcher like him.”  Draft Since 1965  Since the first MLB draft in 1965, two of the players taken
with the No. 1 pick have won a Rookie of the Year award: Bob
Horner and Darryl Strawberry. None of the first overall picks
has made the Baseball Hall of Fame, though players such as Ken Griffey Jr. and  Chipper Jones  aren’t yet eligible.  MLB.com’s latest mock draft has Appel, a 20-year-old
junior, projected as the top pick for Houston. A semifinalist
for the Golden Spikes award as college baseball’s best player,
Appel has a 9-1 record with a 2.37 earned run average in 14
starts for Stanford this season. The 6-foot-5, 215-pounder has
116 strikeouts and 24 walks in 110 innings.  Gausman, 19, is a possible No. 1 pick two years after being
drafted by the  Los Angeles Dodgers  in the sixth round. He’s put
on 30 pounds in two college seasons at LSU and the 6-foot-4,
195-pounder went 10-1 with a 2.84 ERA and 125 strikeouts in 107
2/3 innings as a sophomore this year.  Maturing in College  “It’s been great to grow as a person, mature,” Gausman
told MLB.com. “I can’t imagine having been in the minors after
high school.”  Zimmer, 20, is a converted third baseman who can hit 99
miles per hour (159 kilometers per hour) with his fastball. He’s
recorded a 2.59 earned run average at  San Francisco  this season,
with 96 strikeouts and 15 walks in 83 1/3 innings.  While Strasburg agreed to an amateur-record deal in 2009
that gave him $15 million in guaranteed money, the Astros’ draft
budget has already been set, as MLB has established bonus
numbers for picks in the first 10 rounds.  The Astros’ bonus pool for their 11 picks over those 10
rounds is $11.7 million, including a $7.2 million bonus for the
top pick, MLB.com said. The commissioner’s office will hand down
financial penalties to teams that exceed the bonus pool.  Luhnow said the organization is excited to have the top
pick -- two decades after the selection of Nevin -- and
maintained that whatever direction the Astros decide to go won’t
be as important as their overall draft.  “It’s really a portfolio,” Luhnow said. “You have to
have enough hits each year to keep the organization strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  