-- Atlantic City Penalized as Christie Pushes Gambling: Muni Credit
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/atlantic-city-penalized-as-christie-pushes-gambling-muni-credit.html
Governor  Chris Christie ’s “ New
Jersey  Comeback,” already challenged by revenue trailing his
forecasts, is riding on a revival of Atlantic City, the East
Coast gambling center under siege from competitors in
Pennsylvania and New York.  Christie, a 49-year-old Republican, projected taxes and
fees from casinos will jump 16 percent in the fiscal year that
begins July 1. The boost would help balance his $32 billion
state budget, which promises residents a 10 percent income-tax
cut over three years.  Atlantic City, the second-largest U.S. gaming center, has
seen tax collections drop while its debt costs have soared 43
percent since the start of 2011 as neighboring states expanded
gambling. Revenue from the state’s 12 casinos fell 10 percent in
April, extending a five-year slump. Yet Christie has said the
$2.4 billion Revel resort, which opened in April as the city’s
first new casino in nine years, will draw more tourists.  “This has been for my company, and I think for many, the
single-most painful market that we’ve experienced in this
country,” Gary Loveman, president of  Caesars Entertainment
Corp. (CZR) , said during a May industry conference at Revel. “There
simply is too much supply in Atlantic City and there is too
little revenue to support what’s in place here today.”  Economic Plan  Christie, who faces re-election next year, has traveled the
state to promote a recovery he has said will allow for both
increased spending and tax cuts. He has made turning around
Atlantic City a centerpiece of his plans to revitalize New
Jersey’s economy. The state’s jobless rate was  9.1 percent  in
April, a percentage point above the national average.  Atlantic City’s casinos generated $3.3 billion of revenue
last year, down 37 percent from the peak in 2006.  Standard &
Poor’s  cut its rating on the municipality’s general obligations
in April to A-, seventh-highest, from A, citing concern about a
reliance on gaming and pending property-tax appeals by casinos.  The company also cited risks from the city’s depressed
income levels and elevated  unemployment rate , which was 12.4
percent in April for the area.  Investors are demanding a larger yield penalty on the
city’s bonds. Securities due in February 2020 traded this week
at an average yield as high as 3.24 percent, or 1.77 percentage
points above a Bloomberg Valuation  index  of similar-maturity
general obligations rated AAA. At their sale in January 2011,
the city’s bonds yielded 1.24 points more than a like-maturity
 benchmark . Top-rated rated munis have earned 2.6 percent this
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Decaying Town  The city was a bustling resort until the 1960s, when it
became riddled with poverty, crime and corruption. The state
approved casino gambling in 1976 and limited it to the city to
boost its ailing finances. The first casino, Resorts
International, opened in 1978. Gambling revenue rose every year
until 2007, when the 18-month recession began.  U.S. casinos’ gambling revenue rose 3 percent to $35.6
billion in 2011 as  Las Vegas  shook off its own slump and more
capacity came online in states such as  New York , according to a
survey by the American Gaming Association.  Consumer spending  on
gambling rose 2.9 percent to $10.7 billion last year in  Nevada ,
and fell 7 percent in Atlantic City to $3.3 billion.  State Role  Christie has expanded casino marketing, eased regulations
and created a tourism district around the resorts to give the
state a greater role in policing and development. He gave the
Revel Entertainment Group LLC resort a $261 million tax break to
help restart construction.  At the heart of his bet is whether New Jersey’s gambling
houses can attract new visitors and reclaim a portion of the
gamblers the city once enjoyed when it held an East Coast
monopoly. Some gamblers have migrated to new casinos in
 Pennsylvania ,  Delaware  and New York.  Christie and Revel Chief Executive Officer Kevin DeSanctis
have said the resort will bring in new business with top-notch
dining, amenities and spas.  “I don’t believe that Atlantic City’s economic pie is
finite,” Christie told reporters on May 24 as he walked the
city’s boardwalk. “I believe it’s infinite and if we continue
to bring attractions here that people want to see, more people
will come.”  Andrew Zarnett, a gaming analyst at Deutsche Bank
Securities in New York, disagreed. He said he expects two thirds
of Revel’s revenue to come from customers of other city venues.  ‘Cannibalized’ Customers  “Everybody’s a loser, because when you add supply to a
market that’s not growing, everybody gets cannibalized,” he
said at last month’s conference.  The resort earned $13.4 million in gambling revenue in its
first month, compared with the $47 million that the Borgata made
in its debut in the city in 2003, Moody’s Investors Service said
in a report.  “Since casinos represent 86 percent of the city’s taxable
base, their financial health dictates that of the city,”
Moody’s said.  State Senator Ray Lesniak, a Democrat from Elizabeth
sponsoring a bill that would allow  Atlantic City  casinos to take
bets online, said the decline will persist unless New Jersey
adds a new source of gambling income. Christie’s reliance on
higher casino-tax revenue to balance his budget is reckless,
Lesniak said.  “From the get-go his plan to revitalize Atlantic City has
been a failure and the revenue has continued to decline,”
Lesniak said in a telephone interview. “The governor is going
to have to wake up to reality.”  After a preview starting in April, Revel held a Memorial
Day weekend grand opening featuring sold-out performances by
Beyonce. Christie, saying he wanted to “put his money where his
mouth is,” stayed at Revel with his family and saw a show.  “Revel’s opening comes at a very fortuitous time,”
Christie said on the boardwalk. “As we see our economy recover,
we’re going to see that rising tide lift all boats here in
Atlantic City.”  Following are pending deals:  PUERTO RICO PUBLIC BUILDINGS AUTHORITY is set to sell $500
million of revenue bonds as soon as next week to refund debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. (Added June 1)  SUFFOLK COUNTY, New York, home of the Hamptons beach
communities, plans to offer about $60 million in general-
obligation bonds as soon as June 6, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The proceeds will be used for roads, parks and buildings,
according to the offering document. Moody’s rates the debt A1,
fifth-highest. The securities will be issued via competitive
sale. (Added June 1)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  