-- Australian Law Allows UN CO2 Use Through 2020: Negotiator
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-06-01T15:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/australian-law-allows-un-co2-use-through-2020-negotiator.html
Australia  can accept United Nations
emission offsets in its planned carbon market through 2020 and
potentially beyond because it’s already signed up to the 1997
 Kyoto Protocol , said one of the nation’s climate negotiators.  “We’re a party to the Kyoto Protocol, no matter what
happens with the second commitment period,” said Robert Owen-
Jones, assistant secretary of multilateral negotiations at the
Australian government’s climate change department in Canberra.
The potential extension of Kyoto targets beyond 2012 and rules
governing the creation of offset credits were separate articles
of the agreement, he said today in an interview at Carbon Expo
in Cologne,  Germany .  Australia’s demand for offset credits in the five years
through 2020 may be about 350 million metric tons, according to
a forecast by Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London . UN
Certified Emission Reduction credits for 2013 dropped to a
record 3.63 euros ($4.51) a ton on May 30 on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London on expectations of flagging demand and
rising supply. They traded at 3.67 euros at 3:21 p.m. today.  “Even if Australia does not sign up to a second commitment
period of the Kyoto Protocol, we expect it continue to purchase
CERs out to 2020,” Andrea Du Rietz, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in  Stockholm .  The UN expects Australia to decide this year whether it
will join an extension of the protocol planned for at least five
years starting 2013,  Christiana Figueres , executive secretary of
the UN Framework Convention on  Climate Change , said May 30 at
the conference.  “The world needs to know if Australia is in,” she told
reporters. A possible second phase of the Kyoto protocol will
start next year, potentially including the European Union.  Timing Undecided  Australia may decide this year or afterwards, Owen-Jones
said today.  “It’s a serious obligation,” he said. “It’s for
government and cabinet, certainly not for me. We will be in
Kyoto, whatever happens.” He declined to comment on the
government’s legal advice, saying it was privileged.  Australia was waiting for clarity on at least two issues
before deciding to participate on the Kyoto target extension,
Owen-Jones said. One was whether the period would be five or
eight years. The other was more certainty about what happens to
the surplus Assigned Amount Units from the first period, the
five years starting 2008. The UN handed out to nations in the
first period an AAU for each ton of carbon dioxide equivalent in
their greenhouse gas targets.  Australia was “deeply embedded” in negotiations for a
broader climate pact that will cover all nations starting around
2020, Owen-Jones said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  