-- Banco do Brasil’s Shares Sink Below Liquidation Value
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-06-01T14:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/banco-do-brasil-s-shares-sink-below-liquidation-value.html
Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  is trading below
its liquidation value for the  first time  in almost nine years
after Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s demand for lower
borrowing costs sparked concern profit growth will stall.  Federally controlled Banco do Brasil fell 16 percent this
year through yesterday in Sao Paulo trading, shrinking the
Brasilia-based company’s  market value  to 57.3 billion reais ($28
billion), or about 3.8 percent below the bank’s book value of
equity, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The last time the
figure fell below book value, a gauge of what shareholders would
receive if the bank were liquidated, was in August 2003.  Rousseff is turning up pressure on state-owned lenders to
cut what she called unacceptable consumer borrowing rates after
economic growth stalled in the first quarter. The threat lower
rates pose to earnings comes as rising loan defaults and
stricter regulatory requirements boost concern the company may
need to raise capital.  “The pressure on state-owned banks to reduce loan spreads
and increase credit may not come at a good moment as delinquency
rates are high,”  Mario Pierry , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG
in Sao Paulo, said in an interview. “The risk of a reduction in
returns is big in an environment of growing capital needs.”  An official at Banco do Brasil declined to comment and
asked not to be named in keeping with company policy. A
representative for Rousseff also declined to comment.  Rate Announcements  Banco do Brasil said today it’s cutting  mortgage rates  by
as much as 21 percent effective June 4. Yesterday the bank
reduced other consumer borrowing costs following the central
bank’s decision to lower its benchmark rate.  The nation’s two biggest private lenders by market
capitalization, Sao Paulo-based  Itau (ITUB4)  Unibanco Holding SA and
Osasco-based  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , still trade above book value
even after following Banco do Brasil in cutting some borrowing
costs for consumers.  Itau trades at 1.75 times book value of equity and
Bradesco’s price-to-book ratio is 1.95, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Banco Santander Brasil SA, the third-biggest
bank, trades at 0.97 times book value, excluding 15.7 billion
reais in goodwill related to its Banco ABN Amro acquisition.
Santander shares fell this week after the Valor Economico
newspaper damped speculation the company’s Spanish parent would
sell a major stake in the unit. A Santander official declined to
comment.  BTG Pactual  Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11) , the Sao Paulo-based lender that went
public last month, trades at 2.33 times book value even after
the shares sank last month to as low as 24.5 reais, below the
31.25-real initial offering price on April 24.  “Investors bought the idea that BTG profits will grow much
more than its peers on the developed markets,” Ricardo Almeida,
a finance professor at the Insper business school in  Sao Paulo ,
said in an interview. “The bank has a regional focus in
countries that are still growing like  Chile ,  Peru ,  Colombia ,
 Mexico  and Brazil.”  Banco do Brasil’s valuations are among the worst for the
country’s biggest banks because the state interferes too much in
the industry, Almeida said.  The lender’s purchase of a 49.99 percent stake in Banco
Votorantim SA in 2009 is also raising questions about the
company’s need for more capital, according to Deutsche Bank’s
Pierry and Gustavo Schroden, an analyst at BES Securities Brasil
in Sao Paulo.  ‘Bigger Risk’  “Investors are perceiving a bigger risk in Banco do Brasil
because of doubts regarding the quality of Banco Votorantim’s
credit portfolio,” Schroden said.  Votorantim lost about 600 million reais in each of the past
two quarters because of delinquent auto loans, Schroden said.
The bank’s core capital ratio, a gauge of leverage that measures
 Tier 1 capital  in relation to total risk-weighted assets, is 8.7
percent, which Schroden called low.  A Votorantim official declined to comment.  Even with concern about  credit quality  and capital needs,
16 of 24 analysts who follow Banco do Brasil  recommend  investors
buy the shares.  “Banco do Brasil is a solid company with strong
fundamentals and its shares are suffering because of
circumstantial events like the  European debt crisis  and a lot of
government interference,” said  Pedro Galdi , equity strategist
at brokerage firm SLW Corretora in Sao Paulo. He predicted the
share price would rise when the economy rebounds.  Bank Earnings  Banco do Brasil’s  earnings  were unchanged last year at 11.7
billion reais after rising 15 percent in both 2009 and 2010.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimate profit may drop 2
percent this year, the first decline since 2007.  Brazil ’s economy expanded  2.7 percent  last year, the
second-worst performance since 2003. It grew  0.2 percent  in the
first quarter compared with the previous three months, weaker
than the estimates of all but one of the 50 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The nation’s default rate on consumer loans climbed
to 7.6 percent in January and February, the highest since
December 2009.  New accounting rules from the Basel 3 agreement may further
reduce Banco do Brasil’s capital just as the government steps up
pressure on the bank to boost lending, according to Pierry. More
than a third of the bank’s total capital is deferred tax assets,
which can be used to reduce future income tax expenses. Basel 3
will restrict banks’ ability to count such assets toward
capital.  “If the Brazilian central bank implements the new rules
according to the international schedule, Banco do Brasil would
need more capital injections soon,” Pierry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  