-- Banks’ Dollar Funding Costs Rise to 8-Week High as Economy Slows
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-06-01T12:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/banks-dollar-funding-costs-increase-to-two-week-high-in-europe.html
The cost for European banks to borrow
in dollars rose to the highest in more than a month after data
showed Chinese manufacturing slowed and European output shrank.  The three-month cross-currency  basis swap , the rate banks
pay to convert euro interest payments into dollars, was 56 basis
points below the euro interbank offered rate at 12:46 p.m. in
London from minus 50 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the most expensive level since April 10.  As  Europe ’s two-year debt crisis threatens to engulf  Spain 
and spread abroad by undermining demand and investor confidence,
signs of a renewed international slowdown are mounting. A gauge
of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro zone fell to a three-year
low of 45.1 in May, indicating a 10th month of contraction,
while unemployment reached 11 percent, the highest on record.  “We have seen further evidence of a weakening global
economy, notably in Chinese and European manufacturing data,”
said Chris Clark, an interest-rate strategist at ICAP Plc in
London. “Euro-dollar basis prices continue to imply a
tightening in dollar funding constraints for the  euro zone ’s
financial sector.”  The one-year basis swap was little changed at 68 basis
points below Euribor. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Short-term bank funding rates exceeded longer-term costs in
the market for borrowing and lending European  government bonds ,
the so-called repo market. The difference between the one-day
euro repurchase agreement and three-month repo rates was little
changed at 3.7 basis points, near the  widest  in three months,
European Banking Federation data show.  No Strain  “There is little evidence of real strain in the market
which is actually in the process of lowering the volume of
dollars it sources through the  European Central Bank ’s dollar
swap facility,” said Clark.  Two banks bid for $500 million in seven-day loans from the
ECB on May 30 at a cost of 66 basis points, compared with six
banks that got $2.9 billion in loans of the same duration at 63
basis points on March 28, according to the central bank’s data.
The  Federal Reserve ’s swap lines through the central bank offer
Europe’s lenders seven-day and three-month loans at low  interest
rates .  Prices in the forward market for three-month Euribor
relative to overnight indexed swaps -- known as the FRA/OIS
spread -- was 32.5 basis points from 32 yesterday. An increase
signals banks are more reluctant to lend.  The Euribor/OIS spread was 40 basis points from 39
yesterday.  Overnight Deposits  Lenders cut  overnight deposits  at the Frankfurt-based ECB
yesterday, placing 769 billion euros ($949 billion) from 770
billion euros the day before.  Three-month Euribor, the rate banks say they pay for loans
over that period in euros, fell to 0.665 percent from 0.668
percent the day before, while one-week Euribor was unchanged at
0.317 percent.  The  London  interbank offered rate, or Libor, for three-
month dollar loans was unchanged at 0.467 percent. The three-
month dollar FRA/OIS spread was 47 basis points from 44.5
yesterday.  Three-month Euribor USD, a gauge of dollar funding costs
from the Brussels-based EBF, rose to 0.943 percent from 0.930
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  