-- Basel’s Ingves Warns Against Relying on Ratings for Risk Models
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-06-01T10:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/basel-s-ingves-warns-against-relying-on-ratings-for-risk-models.html
Investors shouldn’t only look at
credit ratings when assessing risk and will in future need to
rely more on their own analysis, said  Stefan Ingves , the head of
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  “When it comes to how one looks at rating agencies,”
financial market participants “should at least not rely solely
on external ratings without making their own considerations or
judgments at all,” Ingves, who is also the governor of Sweden’s
central bank, said in response to questions in  Stockholm  today.  Rating companies have come under scrutiny since failing to
identify some of the imbalances that led to the global financial
crisis. Denmark, which holds the rotating European Union
presidency, said May 21 it won backing in the 27-member bloc to
curtail the influence of rating companies and pledged to push
for more competition in the industry.  Denmark  also wants to
allow issuers and investors better access to suing rating
companies should they fail in their job.  “If one looks back one can say that, for various reasons”
rating companies “turned out to play a somewhat too big of a
role,” Ingves said. “But it’s not entirely simple to find
something that’s just about right if one looks into the future
and therefore rating agencies won’t disappear.”  Shrugged Off  Investors in Sweden’s biggest banks shrugged off downgrades
last month by Moody’s Investors Service, sending bond and share
prices higher. Moody’s last week lowered Sweden’s  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) 
and  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  to Aa3, and Norway’s DNB Bank ASA
to A1, all single-level downgrades. Credit grades of  SEB AB (SEBA)  and
Swedbank AB were affirmed while Landshypotek AB was cut two
steps to Baa2. All ratings carry stable outlooks, Moody’s said.  Part of the problem is that the credit ratings industry is
dominated by too few companies, Danish Business Minister Ole Sohn said on May 21. Raters themselves need to be better
regulated and conflicts of interest removed, he said then.  According to Ingves, “those who make decisions in the
world of banking, in the financial sector, will have to do a
bigger share of the work” in assessing risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  