-- BCE Is Leading Group to Buy Q9 Networks, Globe and Mail Reports
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-06-01T21:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/bce-is-leading-group-to-buy-q9-networks-globe-and-mail-reports.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Canada ’s largest
telecommunications operator, is leading a group that’s close to
acquiring Web-services company Q9 Networks Inc. for at least C$1
billion ($960 million), the Globe and Mail  reported .  Bidding on the company, which runs 11 data centers in
Canada, closed last week and a deal could be announced as soon
as today, the newspaper said, citing unidentified sources. The
group is expected to include the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan 
and a U.S. private-equity firm, the Globe and Mail said.  The purchase would continue a buying spree for BCE, which
has announced plans to acquire two TV companies and a stake in
the owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs hockey team. The company is
wagering that smartphone customers will increase spending on
BCE’s sports and entertainment programming.  Mark Langton, a spokesman for Montreal-based BCE, declined
to comment. Kevin Spikes, a Q9 spokesman, didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  Ontario Teachers’ is Canada’s third-biggest retirement fund
manager, with C$117 billion of assets as of Dec. 31.  Deborah Allan , a spokeswoman for the Toronto-based fund, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  BCE’s last three major acquisitions were valued at a total
of $7.6 billion, including debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its most recent deal was for Astral Media Inc. for
C$3 billion in March.  Abry Partners  Q9 helps businesses run their computing operations, working
with hundreds of customers in a range of industries. The company
agreed to be acquired by private-equity firm Abry Partners LLC
in 2008 in a deal that valued Q9 at about $361 million.  Abry also is exploring a sale for Atlantic Broadband Inc.,
a cable company that it owns with Oak Hill  Capital Partners ,
people familiar with the matter said this week. That deal, which
is being managed by Credit Suisse Group AG, could be worth about
$1.4 billion, one of the people said.  Royce Yudkoff, a co-founder of Boston-based Abry, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment on the Q9 deal.  Q9 was founded in 1995 as Myna Communications, an  Internet
service provider  and Web-hosting company. The Toronto-based
company, run by Chief Executive Officer Osama Arafat, changed
its name to Q9 Networks in 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  