-- Beach House Rules ‘Dream Pop’ With Eerie ‘Bloom’: Music
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/beach-house-rules-dream-pop-with-eerie-bloom-music.html
Fans without tickets lined up
hopefully outside the sold-out  Bowery Ballroom  on May 15th. The
hot Baltimore duo Beach House had quickly filled the intimate
venue.  Lead singer and keyboardist Victoria Legrand and guitarist
Alex Scally, current champions of the “dream pop” sound, were
making the final stop of a two-week tour celebrating the release
of their fourth record, “Bloom.”  The new tunes stick with what has been working so well,
building on the formula of their 2006 self-titled debut.  Joined by drummer Daniel Franz, they kicked off with the
new album’s “Wild.” Lit by a white spot, Legrand offered her
ethereal voice until a seated Scally cut through the song’s slow
burning with rippling guitar.  Legrand’s repetitive synth notes opened “‘Walk in the
Park.” A track from their 2010 release, “Teen Dream,” the
song was minimal with just a steady drum beat, shakers and a
drifty guitar scale.  Again mining “Teen Dream,” they delivered its stand-out
“Norway” with a punch. Now on his feet, Scally rang out
echoing guitar notes while purple lights shone on Legrand as she
delivered shimmering vocals in this tempo-shifting, cat-and-
mouse number.  Music Box  Then the prickly keyboards of “Bloom’s” “Lazuli” evoked
an enchanted music box. This is the eerie yet bright world Beach
House conjures so well, with Legrand’s voice hanging over
Scally’s carpet of plucked strings.  “Gila,” from 2008’s “Devotion,” added to the intensity.
The see-sawing new number “The Hours” combined a heavy dose of
reverb with shifts from choppy guitar chords to swaying smooth
listening -- a balancing act the two do well.  The beauty and power of “Bloom” again came through with
the closer, “Myth,” the album’s opening track and first
single. It ended with a powerful chorus and an explosion of
echoing guitar.  For the encore, Legrand changed her dark blazer to a
rainbow-colored blouse, which lent itself to the play of lights.  The slow, numbing “Turtle Island” started the encore, and
then gave way to Scally’s juggling guitar notes on “10 Mile
Stereo.” As intense as the music was this evening, its most
chilling moments came with “Bloom’s” closing number,
“Irene.”  ‘Strange Paradise’  Under blue lights, Scally thrashed, Franz pounded and
Legrand soared higher and higher as she repeated the line “It’s
a strange paradise” over and over -- and then left it on a loop
while the three quietly made their getaway.  Beach House is in  Europe  through mid-June and then returns
to the U.S. in July for a national tour. Legrand and Scally have
already sold out the meadowy space of  Central Park SummerStage 
on July 23rd.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in June. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets:  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on books and  Greg
Evans  on movies.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 