-- ECB Must Print Euros or Italy May Say ‘Ciao:’ Berlusconi
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2012-06-01T13:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/berlusconi-says-ecb-must-print-euros-or-italy-may-say-ciao-1-.html
Former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  said
Italy should say “ciao, euro” if the  European Central Bank 
doesn’t start printing money to tackle the debt crisis and
Germany should quit the single currency if it won’t back a
bolder role for ECB.  “The economic crisis can’t be solved” in Italy,
Berlusconi said in comments  posted  on his party’s website today.
He called on Prime Minister  Mario Monti  to “change his
political line” and lobby European leaders to back a money-
printing campaign by the Frankfurt-based ECB. If the central
bank doesn’t become a “lender of last resort,” Italy should
say “ciao, euro,” the former premier said.  The media tycoon-turned-politician became the latest
European leaders to step up pressure on German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and the ECB to permit a more aggressive response to the
region’s debt crisis. Monti yesterday called on Merkel to drop
her opposition to allowing the euro region’s rescue mechanism to
lend directly to banks.  The 17-nation euro area “has a significant risk of
breaking up” unless policy makers revamp the bloc’s fiscal and
economic ties, Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said
today in a speech in Helsinki. “We’re either headed for a
deterioration of the euro area or a gradual strengthening of the
European Union.”  ‘Our Currency’  Berlusconi, 75, who resigned as premier in November as
Italian borrowing costs surged amid a worsening debt crisis,
said Italy should remain in the European Union even if it exits
the euro. He added that another of his proposals was that the
“ Bank of Italy  prints euros or our own currency.”  “It’s a crazy idea of mine,” he said, without specifying
if he meant reviving the lira.  On May 25 Berlusconi, who heads the party with the most
seats in the Rome-based parliament and whose support is crucial
for Monti’s government, called for an overhaul of the country’s
constitution to strengthen the powers of the president. He also
said he would seek the office if his party requested him to.  -- Editors:  Andrew Davis ,  Jeffrey Donovan   To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net 
Jeffrey Donovan at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  