-- BofA, AmEx Leads Slump of Lenders as Job Growth Stalls
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-06-01T21:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/bofa-amex-leads-slump-of-lenders-as-job-growth-stalls.html
Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. and  Bank of America
Corp.  led a  slump  in financial stocks after a surprise increase
in the U.S. jobless rate stoked fears of a stalling economy.  Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. home lender, declined 5.9
percent to close at $30.16 in New York, the most since October.
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, the second-
largest U.S. lender by assets, fell 4.5 percent to $7.02, while
 American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, slid 4.3 percent to $53.43.  Lenders are under pressure from a U.S. Labor Department
report that payrolls expanded by 69,000 last month, less than
the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, and
the jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent. The data amplified
investor concern that Europe’s debt crisis will be a drag on the
 U.S. economy , and that new banking regulations will pinch
revenue.  “If we are headed into a double-dip recession, does  credit
quality  worsen again?” said  Nancy Bush , an analyst and
contributing editor at SNL Financial, a bank-research firm in
Charlottesville, Virginia. “Everybody has a rosy scenario about
bank earnings over the next couple of years, and that could get
seriously interrupted.”  Insurers also fell as 30-year bond yields plunged to record
lows. Bailed-out insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
dropped 6.8 percent to $27.21.  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) , Canada’s
third-largest insurance company, fell 5.5 percent to C$20.14 in
Toronto, the biggest decline since October. Falling interest
rates reduce investment income while increasing costs from
obligations to clients who bought guaranteed investment
products.  Every firm in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  declined, and
the benchmark fell 4.9 percent, the biggest drop in almost seven
months. Huntington Bancshares Inc., the Columbus, Ohio-based
lender, fell 6.6 percent, the worst in the index. McLean,
Virgina-based  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the bank reliant on
credit-card lending, slid 5.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  