-- BP Will Pursue Sale of Shares in Russian Venture TNK-BP
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-06-01T20:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/bp-says-will-pursue-a-sale-of-interest-in-russian-venture-tnk-bp.html
BP Plc (BP/)  will pursue a sale of its
stake in Russia’s third-largest oil producer, unwinding a nine-
year investment that provides about a quarter of the U.K.
company’s crude output.  A  TNK-BP (TNBP)  sale, which analysts said could raise at least $30
billion, would be the biggest by Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley following the U.S. oil spill in 2010 and dismantle BP’s
landmark venture, the largest foreign investment in Russia’s oil
industry. While the 50-50 venture has paid billions for BP, it
also brought conflict with the Kremlin and billionaire partners.  “BP should exit and reinvest in more profitable areas with
less political risk,” said Iain Reid, an analyst at Jefferies
Group Inc. in  London . “The joint venture has been dogged by
political controversy since its inception and the constant
skirmishing in  Russia  means that there is now very little, if
any value in BP’s share price for the business.”  BP rose in London trading as investors welcomed a sale that
could fund projects in areas offering more growth, such as
deepwater exploration and oil and gas shale. The Alfa-Access-
Renova group, representing the billionaire partners, made a
preliminary proposal to buy BP’s stake about a month ago, said
AAR’s CEO  Stan Polovets . The only other likely buyers are
Russia’s state oil and gas companies, including the nation’s
largest oil producer, OAO Rosneft, according to Jefferies.  Rosneft View  “We have a new situation developing in the market,”
Rosneft CEO  Igor Sechin  told reporters today in Berlin. “We
will need to study all the information and decide after that.”  Neither Rosneft, nor the state unit that owns it, had
considered making a bid, said Sechin, a former deputy to
President  Vladimir Putin .  David Nicholas, a BP spokesman in London, declined to
identify potential bidders. The process may take several months,
he said.  BP shares rose 1.8 percent to close at 402 pence in London,
after earlier posting their biggest intraday increase since
November.  TNK-BP’s traded unit sank 10 percent to 70 rubles in
Moscow, the lowest since it started trading on the Micex index
in December 2010, valuing the company at about $31 billion. The
valuation doesn’t include foreign assets in Venezuela, Brazil
and  Vietnam , which cost more than $3 billion.  The slump in TNK-BP’s share price may benefit the potential
buyer, Sechin said.  Against Policy  A BP exit from Russia would run counter to the government’s
policy of encouraging foreign investment in oil to keep the
country’s spot as the world’s largest producer. Putin has
overseen deals with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  and
 Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  in the past year.  He has limited overseas partners to minority stakes in
large energy projects. During a 2008 battle between the TNK-BP
shareholders, Putin, then prime minister, said he’d warned them
that a 50-50 structure would lead to “constant friction.”  The potential sale is a “large negative for TNK-BP itself,
BP and the Russian investment climate as a whole,”  Alexander Nazarov , an analyst at Gazprombank, said by e-mail. “BP’s share
in TNK-BP was the largest foreign direct investment in Russia
for years. International perception could form that BP was
finally kicked out of Russia.”  Fridman’s Exit  The future of TNK-BP was cast into doubt earlier this week
when one of the billionaires,  Mikhail Fridman , quit as CEO. The
board hasn’t met this year because shareholders can’t agree on a
third independent director.  It’s the latest flare-up in a long-fractious relationship.
In 2008, Dudley, who was then CEO of TNK-BP, was forced to step
down and left Russia after a dispute over company strategy.  AAR lost trust in BP after the London-based producer sought
a share swap and an Arctic exploration alliance with Rosneft
last year, Fridman said in an interview with newspaper
Kommersant. AAR challenged the deal in arbitration, citing a
violation of the TNK-BP shareholder agreement.  In an attempt to overcome that challenge, BP and Rosneft
offered to buy out AAR last year for $32 billion. The
billionaires rejected the bid, and the BP-Rosneft alliance
collapsed. TNK-BP’s management has considered seeking damages.  Company Dividends  Even with shareholder conflict, TNK-BP has been a
profitable investment for BP since former CEO  John Browne  forged
the venture in 2003. BP’s 2011 annual report showed TNK-BP had
returned $19 billion in dividends since the initial investment
of $8 billion. It produced 2.04 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in the first quarter, according to a results
presentation.  Foreign investors should look at how much money BP earned
from the joint venture, Dmitry Peskov, a Putin spokesman, told
reporters in Paris today.  “Companies come and leave,” said Peskov. “Attractive
assets stay.”  Potential bids from state-owned companies will depend on
their budget and development strategies, Peskov said. “This is
an exclusively corporate issue.”  Rustam Kazharov, a spokesman for Rosneft, said he didn’t
have information about any expression of interest in BP’s stake,
as did  Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman for state-run  OAO Gazprom. (GAZP)   Alexey Artemnenko, a spokesman for Surgutneftegas, the
Russian oil producer with the biggest cash pile, declined to
comment.  “BP may have decided that the dividends, although very
good, are no longer worth the management headache and loss of
opportunities that partnership with Rosneft, or one of the other
big Russian companies, represents,” said Julian Lee, a senior
analyst at the London-based Centre for Global Energy Studies.
“I certainly don’t think it means BP wants to leave Russia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 