-- Brazil’s Tombini Proposes New Post to Improve Transparency
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-06-01T01:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/brazil-s-tombini-proposes-new-post-to-improve-transparency-1-.html
Brazil central bank created a post on
its board to improve transparency and communications two weeks
after President Alexandre Tombini said it’s increasingly
important for central banks to provide “forward guidance” to
the market.  Tombini recommended that President  Dilma Rousseff  approve
Luiz Edson Feltrim, currently executive-secretary, as the
institution’s special affairs director, according to an e-mailed
statement from the central bank today. In a speech on May 10 in
 Rio de Janeiro , Tombini said transparency is key for the central
bank given the “exceptionally complex moment for the global
economy.”  “There is an ongoing trend in the world for more
transparency at central banks,”  Roberto Padovani , chief
economist at Votorantim Ctvm Ltda, said in a phone interview
today. “Communication is becoming an important tool for
monetary policy.”  It’s the first time Tombini has named a director since
February 2011, when he appointed Altamir Lopes as director of
administration and Sidnei Marques as director for liquidation
and surveillance of farm credit operations.  Since the start of 2011, the central bank has surprised the
market on three occasions by reducing the benchmark Selic rate
more than expected.  The central bank’s new department will be responsible for
“strengthening the relationship with citizens and social
communication tools,” the central bank said on its website
today.  Policy makers led by bank President Alexandre Tombini voted
Unanimously to lower the Selic rate by a half-point to 8.5
percent on May 30, as forecast by 61 of 70 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Policy makers, in a statement, said that inflation
risks are “limited” and that “fragility” abroad is having a
“disinflationary” impact in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helder Marinho in  Sao Paulo  at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  