-- Brazil’s Real, Rate Futures Yields Fall on Slow Economic Growth
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-06-01T21:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/brazil-s-real-rate-futures-yields-fall-on-slow-economic-growth.html
Brazil ’s real fell to a one-week low
and yields on interest-rate futures contracts dropped after
reports showed the nation’s economic growth was slower than
forecast and U.S. unemployment unexpectedly increased.  Traders are projecting that central bank President
Alexandre Tombini will reduce the target lending rate to as low
as 7.75 percent by the end of August, the futures yields
indicate. The real fell for a third straight month in May, its
longest losing streak since February 2009.  “The economy is stuck,” Italo Lombardi, a Latin America
economist at Standard Chartered Bank, said by phone from  New
York . “The GDP data reinforce the trend of the central bank to
cut rates.”  The real declined 0.9 percent to 2.0401 per  U.S. dollar 
after touching 2.0447, the weakest level since May 24. It fell
2.6 percent this week and 6.5 percent in May. Yields on the
interest-rate futures contract due in January 2014 fell 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.23 percent, extending
their weekly decrease to 29 basis points.  Brazil’s  economy  expanded 0.2 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months, compared with the 0.5 percent
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Gross
domestic product grew 0.8 percent from a year earlier, falling
short of the 1.3 percent median projection.  The worsening global outlook and speculation that Brazil’s
central bank will make deeper cuts in borrowing costs helped
drive the real’s depreciation, according to Lombardi.  ‘Slowdown in China’  “We had a wave of  risk aversion  abroad, above all related
to  China ,” Lombardi said. “If this trend of a slowdown in
China becomes clearer, this could affect exports and have a
negative impact on flows, not just commercial, but financial
flows.”   China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 50.4 in May,
the National Bureau of Statistics and the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said. The reading compares with the
median estimate of 52 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, the fewest in a
year, Labor Department figures showed. The median estimate was
for a 150,000 advance. The jobless rate increased to 8.2 percent
from 8.1 percent.  The real rallied 1.8 percent last week as the central bank
auctioned currency swaps to curb its drop. The swap sales were a
reversal from April’s policy of stepped-up dollar purchases
aimed at weakening the currency to help exporters. The central
bank bought $7.2 billion in the  spot market  in April, the most
since purchases of $8.4 billion in March 2011.  Lower Borrowing Costs  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini cut the target
lending rate by a half-percentage point to a  record low  8.5
percent this week, citing in a statement “fragility” abroad
that is having a “disinflationary” effect on Latin America’s
biggest economy.  Growth will accelerate to a 4 percent to 4.5 percent pace
in the second half of the year, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
told reporters. The economy will grow faster in the second
quarter than it did in the first.  Weaker-than-expected GDP as well as a drop in economic
activity reported last month indicates “the country could grow
less than 3 percent in 2012,” Enestor  dos Santos , senior Brazil
economist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in  Madrid , wrote
in a note to clients today.  “In this environment, the announcement of more measures to
support growth should not be seen with surprise,” he wrote. Dos
Santos said his previous estimate of 3.3 percent growth in 2012
may be too optimistic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  