-- Brazil’s Arabica Coffee Discount Widens as Harvest Gathers Pace
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-01T11:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/brazil-s-arabica-coffee-discount-widens-as-harvest-gathers-pace.html
Buyers of arabica coffee in  Brazil ,
the world’s biggest producer, are getting a bigger discount for
their beans, with harvesting having started in many of the main
growing areas, according to Flavour Coffee.  Fine cup beans for shipment in July and August were at a
discount of 12 cents a pound to the price on the ICE Futures
U.S. exchange in  New York , the Rio de Janeiro-based broker said
in a report e-mailed yesterday. That compares with a discount of
9 cents a pound a week earlier.  Buyers of good cup quality coffee for July and August
shipment were getting a discount of 17 cents a pound to the
exchange price, up from 15 cents a pound last week, according to
the report. Fine cup beans are usually more expensive because of
their taste profile.  “Harvesting in arabica plantations has begun in Zona da
Mata,  Sao Paulo  and Parana and parts of south of Minas,” the
broker said in the report.  Minas Gerais  is Brazil’s biggest
arabica-producing state, followed by Sao Paulo.  Brazil’s production will be a record 50.4 million bags of
coffee in the 2012-13 season, according to the government’s crop
forecasting agency known as Conab. Arabica coffee has fallen 30
percent in New York so far this year as traders sold the beans
before the start of the harvest in Brazil.  Rains forecast in growing regions next week may interrupt
harvesting in some areas, the broker said. The wetter weather
may also affect the quality of the coffee already picked if
farmers don’t protect beans from rainfall, according to the
report.  Robusta Premium  Buyers of robusta coffee from Brazil, the world second-
biggest grower of the variety, are paying a premium of 3 cents a
pound ($66 a metric ton) to the price on the NYSE Liffe exchange
in  London  for June and July shipments, unchanged from last week,
data from the broker show.  Exports of the variety, used in instant coffee and
espresso, will be “hardly above” 100,000 bags in May, down
from 350,000 bags in the same period last year. Total coffee
shipments for the month will be slightly above 2 million bags,
the broker estimated. A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132
pounds).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 