-- Buffett ‘Puzzled’ Over New Orleans Paper’s Cutbacks
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-01T21:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/buffett-puzzled-over-new-orleans-paper-s-cutbacks.html
Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is expanding in media with the purchase of 63
newspapers, said he’s surprised the Times-Picayune of  New
Orleans  will cut its publication schedule to three days a week.  “It seems to me that three days a week is simply
unsustainable over the long term,” Buffett wrote in a  letter  to
musician Evan Christopher that was posted today on the NolaVie
website. “I’m puzzled as to why the economics don’t work on a
seven-day basis.”  Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive officer, has said that
newspapers focused on local communities can be profitable, while
the model of offering free news online is unsustainable. The
Times-Picayune  said last week  it would publish three days a week
beginning in the fall and cut staff to focus on digital news.  Buffett’s letter was in response to Christopher’s  request 
that the billionaire meet with residents who want the newspaper,
owned by the Newhouse family’s Advance Publications Inc., to
continue daily printing.  “I have no insight as to whether the Newhouse family would
sell the Times-Pic to a local group,” Buffett wrote in the
letter, which was confirmed by  Carrie Kizer , his assistant.
“They do not have a history of selling anything. That’s
something a member of the community should explore. Let me know
if you learn more.”  A telephone call to New York-based Advance Publications
seeking comment wasn’t immediately returned.  Berkshire agreed May 17 to buy 63 daily and weekly
newspapers from  Media General Inc. (MEG) , including the Richmond
Times-Dispatch of Virginia, for $142 million. Berkshire is the
largest shareholder of the Washington Post Co. and last year
purchased the Omaha World-Herald in Buffett’s Nebraska hometown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  