-- California Law Said Unlikely to Avert Stockton Bankruptcy
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/california-law-said-unlikely-to-avert-stockton-bankruptcy.html
A California law in its first test at
forestalling municipal bankruptcies is unlikely to prevent
Stockton from becoming the largest U.S. city to seek protection
from creditors, according to officials of two employee unions.  The agricultural center of 290,000 has been in talks on its
debts with the unions and others even as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
seized control of a downtown building that Stockton bought with
$40.8 million in bonds for a new city hall. The city missed a
payment of $197,280 in April, according to a regulatory  filing .  The law that took effect this year requires cities to
pursue mediation or declare a fiscal emergency before seeking
bankruptcy court protection. Two of the biggest U.S. municipal
bankruptcies have been in California: Orange County, in 1994,
and Vallejo, in 2008. Stockton’s City Council is to vote June 5
on authorizing a bankruptcy filing if the talks fail.  “I don’t see this as a bargaining tactic by the city,”
Joseph Rose, the lawyer for the 385-member  Stockton City
Employees’ Association , said by telephone yesterday. “I do see
bankruptcy as an inevitable fact of life in this process. It
doesn’t have to do with tactical considerations by the city or
anyone else.”  Stockton faces a $26 million deficit in the fiscal year
that begins July 1. Negotiations with creditors are scheduled to
end June 25, days before the deadline for reaching a balanced
budget.  Bond Default  To conserve cash, the city defaulted this year on $2
million in bond payments on three downtown parking garages and
the building designated as the new  city hall . As a consequence,
Wells Fargo took control of all four properties. Spokeswoman
Elise Wilkinson didn’t respond to a phone call and an e-mail
message yesterday seeking comment on the bank’s plans.  Standard & Poor’s yesterday lowered its underlying rating
three levels to BB+, the first noninvestment level, from BBB+
on the Stockton Public Financing Authority’s 2005 senior-lien
water revenue bonds and 2010 variable-rate water revenue bonds.  The farming and port city about 80 miles (130 kilometers)
east of  San Francisco  is the center of a metropolitan area with
a 15.5 percent  unemployment  rate in April. The U.S. Labor
said today the national rate was 8.2 percent in May, up from
8.1 percent the previous month.  Communities and states across the U.S. face soaring costs
for pensions and retiree health benefits even as revenue from
sales and property taxes was depressed by the longest recession
since the 1930s.  Shift in Responsibilities  The problem is especially acute in  California , where total
assessed property values fell 4.5 percent to $4.51 trillion last
year from 2009, according to state controller  data . At the same
time, Governor  Jerry Brown  and lawmakers have shifted
responsibilities such as the incarceration of certain prisoners
from the state to local governments.  Stockton already has cut its workforce, imposed unpaid
furlough days on employees and increased employee contributions
for pensions and health care. That probably won’t be enough to
avoid bankruptcy, the head of the city’s firefighter union said
yesterday.  “This is real,” said Dave Macedo, president of the 173-
member Stockton Professional Firefighters Local 456. “The city,
outside of labor, has some serious obligations to bondholders
and the banks.  ‘‘They’re going to roll the dice, more than likely go to
bankruptcy,’’ he said by telephone. ‘‘There don’t seem to be
many other options.’’  A city spokeswoman, Connie Cochran, said the council vote
on empowering the city manager to seek  bankruptcy protection  is
meant only to keep an option open as the city races against a
deadline to adopt next year’s budget.  ‘‘We’re on a tight timeline,” she said by telephone. “We
have to have a budget by July 1. We have to be prepared for
contingencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  