-- Canada Growth in 1Q Stagnates as Consumer Spending Slows
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-06-01T14:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/canada-growth-in-1q-stagnates-as-consumer-spending-slows.html
Canada ’s  economic growth rate 
stagnated in the January-March period as consumer spending
increased at the slowest pace in three years, raising the
chances of lower  interest rates  by the end of 2012.  Gross domestic product grew at a 1.9 percent annualized
pace in the first quarter, matching the revised rate of the
prior three months and the median forecast of 27 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. The economy grew 0.1 percent on a  monthly 
basis in March, Ottawa-based Statistics Canada said today, less
than the median economist forecast of 0.3 percent.  Investors raised bets on a  Bank of Canada  interest-rate cut
by year-end, as the slowest U.S. job gain in a year also
threatened future growth. Governor  Mark Carney  said in April
that first-quarter growth would be 2.5 percent and that an
interest-rate increase “may become necessary.”  “Growth in Canada was pretty soft in the first half of the
year, certainly quite a bit softer than the Bank of Canada was
expecting,” said  Robert Kavcic , an economist in Toronto at  Bank
of Montreal. (BMO)  “Given the swirling headwinds in Europe and the
fact the U.S. economy has clearly slowed, I certainly wouldn’t
expect any more hawkish rhetoric from the bank.”  Canada’s dollar and bond yields dropped today after the
U.S. reported a 69,000 May job gain that suggests a stalling
labor-market recovery. The currency depreciated 0.5 percent to
C$1.0379 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 9:45 a.m. in Toronto. One
Canadian dollar buys 96.35 cents.  Rate Cuts  Swaps trading today shows investors have fully priced in a
25-basis-point rate cut by year-end, with about a 47 percent
chance it will decline to 0.75 percent versus about a 15 percent
chance it will remain 1 percent. The 10-year government bond
yield fell as low as 1.64 percent, a record, from yesterday’s
1.74 percent.  Today’s report on first-quarter output is the last major
indicator before the bank’s June 5 interest-rate decision. The
key  policy rate  has been 1 percent since September 2010, the
longest unchanged period since the 1950s.  Consumer spending  growth slowed to a 0.9 percent annualized
pace in the first quarter from 2.8 percent at the end of last
year. Total domestic demand growth slowed to 1.3 percent from
1.6 percent. Both measures rose at the slowest pace since 2009.  Cautious Consumers  Chief executives of retailers from Edmonton, Alberta-based
furniture chain The  Brick Ltd. (BRK)  to home-improvement chain  RONA
Inc. (RON)  say consumers are cautious.  “It appears that consumer uncertainty will continue in the
near term,” Violet Konkle, Chief Executive Officer at The
Bricks, said on a May 8 earnings call.  Carney and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  have been urging
consumers to be careful with debts for more than a year. Low
interest rates have fed a housing boom and Carney has said that
record consumer debt  burdens  are the biggest domestic economic
risk. Housing investment grew for a fifth straight time in the
first quarter,  Statistics Canada  said today.  The personal savings rate fell to 2.9 percent in the first
quarter, down from a peak of 6.8 percent in the second quarter
of 2010 and the lowest since 2007, Statistics Canada said.  Business Investment  Business investment rose for the ninth straight time in the
January-March period, posting a 4.9 percent gain. Company
spending on inventories also added to growth, with accumulation
quickening to C$9.52 billion ($9.17 billion) from C$5.19 billion
in the fourth quarter.  Export growth slowed to 2.5 percent in the first quarter
from 7.2 percent, while import growth accelerated to 4.4 percent
from 2.3 percent.  The Canadian dollar traded close to parity with the U.S.
dollar throughout the first quarter, and Carney has said its
persistent strength is a challenge to business competitiveness.  The  U.S. economy  grew 1.9 percent in the first quarter, the
Commerce Department said yesterday.  Economists forecast Canadian growth won’t accelerate much
later this year, predicting a pace of 2.3 percent in the fourth
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  