-- Canada First-Quarter Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-06-01T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/canada-first-quarter-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of
Canada’s National Economic and Financial Accounts for
the first quarter as released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product (GDP) rose 0.5% in the first
quarter, the same pace as in the previous quarter. Business
investment contributed the most to first-quarter GDP growth.
Final domestic demand grew 0.3%. On a monthly basis, real GDP by
industry edged up 0.1% in March.  As was the case throughout 2011, business investment
continued to fuel growth. Business investment in plant and
equipment advanced 1.2%, the ninth consecutive quarterly
increase. Housing investment expanded 2.9%, well above the
previous quarter’s pace of 0.8%. Non-farm business inventories
increased in the first quarter.  Consumer spending on goods and services, another main
contributor to GDP growth in 2011, slowed to 0.2% in the first
quarter of 2012, after a 0.7% gain in the previous quarter.  In the first quarter, final domestic demand advanced 0.3%.
Growth in final domestic demand has been slowing since the first
quarter of 2011. Average quarterly growth in final domestic
demand was 0.5% in 2011, following 1.1% in 2010.  While exports have been increasing since the second quarter
of 2011, they remain below the level reached in the third
quarter of 2008. Exports grew 0.6% in the first quarter of 2012,
after gaining 1.7% in the previous quarter.  Imports rose 1.1% in the first quarter, almost double the
pace of the fourth quarter of 2011.  The output of  service industries  grew 0.5%, while goods
production was unchanged. Wholesale trade and construction were
the main contributors to overall growth. Manufacturing, the
finance and insurance sector, professional services, and health
care services also grew, while mining and utilities recorded
notable decreases.  Wholesale trade advanced 2.0% on the strength of motor
vehicles and parts. Construction increased 1.2%, with gains in
residential building construction and in engineering and repair
work. Oil and gas extraction edged up 0.1% in the first quarter,
as increased crude petroleum production was mostly offset by a
decrease in natural gas extraction. Support activities for
mining and oil and gas extraction fell 8.2%, as a result of
declines in drilling and rigging services. Mining excluding oil
and gas extraction decreased, mainly as a result of lower output
at potash and at copper, nickel, lead and zinc mines. Utilities
declined 1.4%, as unseasonably warm weather contributed to lower
demand for electricity and natural gas.  Expressed at an annualized rate, real GDP expanded 1.9% in
the first quarter, matching the rate of the previous quarter. By
comparison, real GDP in the United States also grew 1.9% in the
first quarter.  Business investment in plant and equipment continues to expand  Overall business investment in plant and equipment rose
1.2% in the first quarter. Investment in engineering projects
advanced 1.5% and investment in buildings expanded 1.1%.
Furthermore, business investment in machinery and equipment grew
1.0%, following two consecutive quarters of decline. This
increase was led by business purchases of automobiles (+8.9%),
agricultural machinery (+7.0%), and other machinery and
equipment (+4.3%). In contrast, there were declines in
investment in computers and other  office equipment  (-7.0%) and
in other transportation equipment (-3.1%).  Housing demand strengthens  Housing investment grew 2.9% in the first quarter, the
fifth consecutive gain. New housing construction increased 3.7%
after declining in the previous quarter. Renovation activity
(+1.7%) was also up, as were ownership transfer costs related to
housing resale activity (+3.6%).  Business inventories continue to increase  Businesses increased inventories by $9.4 billion in the
first quarter, $4 billion more than in the previous quarter.
Wholesale and retail trade inventories accounted for two-thirds
of the gain.  Imports increase once again  Imports rose 1.1% in the first quarter, after increasing
0.6% in the previous quarter. Most major categories of imported
goods increased, especially automotive products (+9.2%). Imports
of services grew 2.1%, after a 1.3% increase in the previous
quarter.  Demand for exports softens  Exports of goods and services grew 0.6% in the first
quarter, although the pace of growth slowed from the preceding
two quarters. Exports of goods advanced 0.8%, with energy
products (+5.9%) contributing the most to the increase. A 4.0%
decline in transportation services contributed to the 0.3%
decrease in exports of services.  Consumer spending slows  Consumer spending  on goods and services edged up 0.2% in
the first quarter, slowing from the previous quarter’s pace of
0.7%. Purchases of semi-durable goods (+1.1%) and services
(+0.7%) both increased. These increases were partially offset by
reductions in purchases of durable (-0.1%) and non-durable goods
(-1.0%).  Purchases of clothing, footwear and accessories increased
2.3%, the seventh consecutive quarterly increase.  Spending on furniture, carpets and other floor coverings
advanced 2.4%, following two successive quarterly declines.  In contrast, spending on transportation and communication
decreased 0.3% in the first quarter. A 1.2% increase in
purchased transportation was offset by declines in outlays on
fuel and lubricants (-2.1%) as well as on motor vehicle repairs
and parts (-0.4%).  Economy-wide income expands  Nominal GDP increased 0.6% in the first quarter. Corporate
profits fell 2.6% following 4% or more growth in the two
previous quarters. Declines in earnings of non-financial
corporations were partially offset by increased earnings of
financial institutions in the first quarter.  Labour income rose 0.7%, slower than the previous quarter’s
pace of 1.1%. Growth of wages in goods-producing industries
slowed to 0.9% from 2.3% in the previous quarter.  The personal saving rate moved down to 2.9% in the first
quarter, and has been on a downward trend since the second
quarter of 2010, when it was 6.8%. This was the first time the
personal saving rate has been below 3% since 2007.  However, the national saving rate was 7.3%, higher than the
6.5% average quarterly growth recorded throughout 2011.
Government revenues were up 2.0% in the quarter, outpacing
government outlays, which rose 0.4%. Corporate saving was also
up, as corporate outlays were reduced.  Canada ’s real gross domestic income, a measure of
purchasing power, increased 0.3% in the first quarter. Canada’s
terms of trade, which measure export prices relative to import
prices, declined 0.6%.  The price of goods and services produced in Canada edged up
0.2%. Both export prices (-1.6%) and import prices (-1.0%) fell.  The price of final domestic demand increased 0.3%, compared
with a 0.8% increase in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Financial flow accounts: Demand for funds up  Total funds raised by domestic non-financial sectors
increased to $179 billion (seasonally adjusted at annual rates)
in the first quarter, up from $122 billion in the previous
quarter. Increased financing in the non-financial private
corporations’ sector and higher borrowing in other levels of
government led the demand for funds.  The financing activity of non-financial private
corporations expanded in the first quarter, reversing the
previous quarter’s decline. Equity and short-term paper issues
were the main instruments of finance in the quarter.  Borrowing by other levels of government increased in the
quarter, led by provincial government bond issues. Retirements
of federal government short-term paper moderated the increase in
overall  government borrowing .  Household borrowing (in the form of mortgages,  consumer
credit  and loans) was lower in the quarter, marking three
straight quarters of decline. Consumer credit and mortgage
borrowing fell 3.2% in the first quarter.  Financial institutions increased their bond and short-term
paper holdings, while decreasing their holdings of foreign
investments.  Gross domestic product by industry, March 2012  Real gross domestic product edged up 0.1% in March after
declining 0.2% in February. The output of service industries
grew 0.2%, while goods production declined 0.1%. There were
increases in manufacturing, construction, wholesale and retail
trade, and accommodation and food services. Declines were
recorded in oil and gas extraction, the public sector (education,
health, and public administration combined), utilities, and the
finance and insurance sector.  Manufacturing output increased 0.9% in March after a 0.8%
decline in February. The production of durable goods was up 1.0%,
notably in the manufacturing of transportation equipment,
fabricated metal products and machinery. Non-durable goods
production (+0.8%) also rose.  Oil and gas extraction declined 2.4%, with decreases in
both crude petroleum and natural gas. Crude petroleum output was
particularly affected by maintenance and production difficulties.
Mining excluding oil and gas extraction rose 1.8% in March, as
output at potash and nickel mines increased following temporary
closures in February. This increase outweighed decreases at coal
mines in March.  The public sector decreased 0.2% in March as a result of a
decline in education services and, to a lesser extent, public
administration. Walkouts by some CEGEP and university students
in  Quebec  led to a reduction in the volume of output of
education services. Health services edged up.  Wholesale trade (+0.7%) increased for a fourth consecutive
month, on the strength of wholesaling of motor vehicles and
parts, and petroleum products. Retail trade increased 0.6%,
mainly as a result of increases at clothing and clothing
accessories stores and at general merchandise stores (including
department stores).  Construction rose 0.8%, with all major components
(residential and non-residential buildings, engineering and
repair work) increasing. The output of real estate agents and
brokers grew 1.8% on increased activity in the resale home
market.  Utilities decreased 0.9% as the demand for both electricity
and natural gas continued to decline partly because of unusually
warm weather.  The finance and insurance sector decreased 0.1%, as
declines in banks and other credit intermediaries outweighed
gains at insurance carriers and security brokerages.  Note to readers  The historical revision to the Canadian National Accounts
is scheduled for release beginning in October 2012. A schedule
of releases ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/hr2012 -
rh2012/csna_schedule-scnc_horaire-eng.htm) has been posted on
the National economic accounts ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea -
cen/index-eng.htm) website. Additional information will be
posted as it becomes available.  For more information, contact the information officer
( csna-info-scnc@statcan.gc.ca ).  Percentage changes for expenditure-based and industry-based
statistics (such as personal expenditures, investment, exports,
imports and output) are calculated from volume measures that are
adjusted for price variations. Percentage changes for income-
based and flow-of-funds statistics (such as labour income,
corporate profits, mortgage borrowing and total funds raised)
are calculated from nominal values; that is, they are not
adjusted for price variations.  There are four ways of expressing growth rates for gross
domestic product (GDP) and other time series found in this
release.  1. Unless otherwise stated, the growth rates of all
quarterly data in this article represent the percentage change
in the series from one quarter to the next, such as from the
fourth quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2012.  2. Quarterly growth can be expressed at an annual rate by
using a compound growth formula, similar to the way in which a
monthly  interest rate  can be expressed at an annual rate.
Expressing growth at an annual rate facilitates comparisons with
official GDP statistics from the  United States . Both the
quarterly growth rate and the annualized quarterly growth rate
should be interpreted as an indication of the latest trend in
GDP.  3. The year-over-year growth rate is the percentage change
in GDP from a given quarter in one year to the same quarter one
year later, such as from the first quarter of 2011 to the first
quarter of 2012.  4. The growth rates of all monthly data in this article
represent the percentage change in the series from one month to
the next, such as from February to March 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  