-- Canada Growth Probably Stalled, Allowing Carney to Pause
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-06-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/canada-growth-probably-stalled-allowing-carney-to-pause.html
Canadian growth probably stagnated at
the start of the year as consumers restrained their spending,
giving Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney more reason to
further delay raising interest rates.  Statistics Canada will report  the economy grew  at a 1.9
percent annual pace in the January-March period, little changed
from 1.8 percent in the prior quarter and less than Carney’s
forecast of 2.5 percent growth, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 25 economists. Domestic demand
probably increased at a 1.2 percent rate, the slowest since the
recession that ended in 2009, according to Bank of  Montreal .  “Tentative consumers and cautious businesses are keeping
growth restrained,” said  Benjamin Reitzes , an economist at the
Toronto-based lender. With  government spending  also expected to
be weak, the central bank will probably “take a bit more of a
cautious tone” in its June 5 interest-rate announcement.  The Bank of Canada said in April that a rate increase “may
become necessary” amid consumer-led domestic growth and
improved prospects for  Europe . Investors, who initially
increased bets for an interest-rate increase by the end of the
year, are now predicting a cut as elections in  Greece  this month
raise the prospect the nation might exit the euro.  Today’s report on first-quarter output is the last major
indicator before the bank’s interest-rate decision. The key
 policy rate  has been 1 percent since September 2010, the longest
unchanged period since the 1950s.  “The  Bank of Canada  will be limited by weaker domestic
demand and financial-market contagion risks stemming from an
unresolved European debt crisis,” Bricklin Dwyer, an economist
at BNP Paribas in New York, said in an e-mail. “These factors
will probably push their June 5 statement in a more dovish
direction compared with April.”  Growth Forecast  The central bank forecast in April consumption and housing
would account for two-thirds of Canada’s 2.4 percent economic
growth this year. Since then, Statistics Canada reported  retail
sales  fell 0.2 percent in February, following a 0.2 percent
January gain that trailed forecasts. Chief executives of
retailers such as Edmonton, Alberta-based furniture seller The
Brick Ltd. and home-improvement chain RONA Inc. say shoppers are
cautious.  “It appears that consumer uncertainty will continue in the
near term,” Violet Konkle, Chief Executive Officer at The
Brick, said on a May 8 earnings call.  Carney and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  have been urging
consumers to be careful with debt for over a year. Low  interest
rates  have fed a housing boom, and Carney has said that record
consumer debt  burdens  are the biggest domestic economic risk.  Consumer Confidence  Consumer confidence  has also been held back by concerns
about  job security , with the Conference Board saying May 25 that
its question about whether Canadians expect more or fewer jobs
in their community has generated a negative balance of opinion
for almost a year.  Flaherty’s March 29 budget contained plans to fire 12,000
government workers as the majority Conservative government tries
to eliminate a C$23.5 billion ($22.8 billion)  budget deficit  by
the fiscal year beginning April 2015.  While  consumer spending  has been weaker than forecast,
foreign trade has shown surprising strength. Canada reported
five  straight  monthly surpluses in merchandise trade through
March, the longest string since the last recession.  Statistics
Canada  reported yesterday a deficit in the country’s first-
quarter current account, the broadest measure of trade, that was
smaller than economists forecast.  Challenge to Competitiveness  The Canadian dollar traded close to parity with the  U.S.
dollar  throughout the first quarter, and Carney has said its
persistent strength is a challenge to business competitiveness.
Still, demand from outside the country may mean that trade may
add to first-quarter growth, according to Krishen Rangasamy,
senior economist at National Bank Financial in Montreal.  “We are expecting a more-than-decent print for first
quarter export growth” based on the last monthly trade figures,
he said.  Canadian National Railway Co., the country’s biggest rail
carrier, boosted its full-year forecast April 23 after posting
higher first-quarter profit than analysts projected. The company
is benefiting as coal shipments for overseas steelmakers,
metals, minerals and consumer goods advance.  Canadian stocks lagged behind their U.S. counterparts
during the quarter. The Canadian Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite
Index rose 1.5 percent in the period, behind the 10.3 percent
gain in the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Canadian
 government bonds  were better performers, losing 0.75 percent in
the quarter, while U.S. Treasuries fell 1.29 percent.  Growth Forecast  Economists forecast Canadian growth won’t accelerate much
later this year, predicting a pace of 2.3 percent in the fourth
quarter.  While the demand that pushed the country’s April housing
starts to the highest since 2007 may be sustained, other parts
of  Canada ’s economy will probably fade.  “Domestic demand is likely to remain soft through much of
this year as consumer credit growth softens and investment
decisions are put off until Europe-related uncertainties
subside,” Rangasamy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  