-- Cantor Plans to Enter Shrinking Shadow Banking
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-06-01T15:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/cantor-plans-to-enter-shrinking-shadow-banking.html
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, the bond broker
run by  Howard Lutnick , is jumping into a part of the shadow
banking system that shrank 73 percent in five years.  The firm is arranging a fund that aims to issue as much as
$20 billion of commercial paper to help finance banks, the first
of its kind to be rated this year by Moody’s Investors Service
or  Standard & Poor’s . The borrowing will be backed by
arrangements that allow “major global banks” to shift assets
of any type into the pool as collateral, with the promise of
repurchasing them or covering losses.  Cantor is betting demand will return to a  market  that is
extending declines started during the U.S. housing crisis in
2007, when it peaked at $1.2 trillion. Outstanding asset-backed
commercial paper in the U.S. fell 15 percent the past year to
$323.6 billion as investors avoided debt of European lenders
amid the region’s fiscal crisis and regulators debate rules to
stem risks from financial markets, Federal Reserve data show.  Investors “have the appetite for more product, but the
banks, because of regulatory uncertainty with respect to ABCP,
are waiting on getting back into the market,” said Philip
Galgano, head of S&P’s asset-backed commercial paper ratings.  Financial activities less regulated than traditional
lending, known as  shadow banking , have been shrinking as
regulators seek to restrict the risks banks can take with their
money and to retain greater stakes in assets that are packaged
and sold off to investors.  Shadow Shrinks  A Deloitte LLP index that tracks transactions from  money
market funds  and repurchase agreements to  mortgage-backed
securities  and asset-backed commercial paper had declined to
$9.53 trillion at the end of 2011, more than 50 percent below
its peak in 2008, the accounting firm in New York said May 29.  Regulations are fueling some ABCP funds, with banks such as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc setting up conduits to use
on their own to convert repurchase-agreement, or repo, borrowing
into commercial paper. New York-based Cantor’s fund, known as
Institutional Secured Funding, will be open to multiple banks.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose for a third day,
with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbing by 2.5 basis points to a mid-price of
125.8 basis points as of 11:54 a.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index has increased from 117.4
at the end of last week.  Bondholder Protection  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, rose 1.9 basis points to 37.2 basis points
as of 11:55 a.m. in New York. That’s the highest level on an
intra-day basis since May 23 for the gauge, which widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of  BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3)  are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
51 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:56 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The company sold $500
million of 5.875 percent, 10-year notes yesterday.  Cantor Transformation  Cantor, which has been working to transform itself into a
full-service investment bank, is building its asset-management,
sales and trading businesses as an accelerating number of firms
exit fixed-income. It is one of 21 primary dealers authorized to
trade U.S. government securities with the Fed.  The firm’s asset-backed commercial paper program, which
will be available only to banks with top short-term ratings from
S&P and Moody’s, seeks to sell U.S. and euro-denominated notes
that generally come due within 397 days, Cantor said in a May 23
statement.  The program “enables us to provide our clients around the
world with access to securities and receivable financing,
underscoring our commitment to continually serve their needs
across the fixed income spectrum,” Chief Executive Officer
Shawn P. Matthews said in the statement.  S&P, which rates 121 asset-backed commercial paper programs
globally, has withdrawn more than 200 ratings on such funds
since the beginning of 2008. It has ratings outstanding on 65
programs in the U.S.  Volcker Rule  The decline in outstanding U.S. asset-backed commercial
paper resumed late last year after growth of about $35 billion
in the nine months through August to $394 billion, Fed data
show. The market shriveled through 2009 after losses on issuers
known as structured investment vehicles that lacked support from
banks and changes in accounting rules that forced lenders to
bring many of the programs onto their balance sheets.  Regulatory changes also are fueling the declines. The so-
called Volcker rule, which seeks to limit the risks banks can
take with their own money, may also may restrict use of the
commercial-paper funds known as conduits, said  Alex Roever ,
JPMorgan’s head of short-term fixed-income strategy. Rules being
written to force banks to retain stakes in securitizations may
also affect the market.  The market’s decline last year was driven largely by money-
market funds backing off of debt tied to European banks.  “You had some institutional investors calling up money
managers and saying, ‘I’m reducing my allocation to your fund if
you have this type exposure,’” said Garret Sloan, a money-
market analyst in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina  at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC .  Reserve Fund  While regulations are squeezing certain types of
commercial-paper vehicles, another set of rules are driving the
push by Cantor and banks to start funds linked to repo
agreements.  In a repo arrangement, a lender sends cash to a borrower in
return for collateral such as Treasuries or mortgage bonds,
which the borrower agrees to repurchase as soon as the next day.
Interest and credit protection for the lender is built into how
much cash gets extended and returned.  Tapping money-market funds for such borrowing became more
difficult as a result of  rule changes  created in 2010 that limit
the investors’ holdings of illiquid assets maturing in more than
seven days to 5 percent, down from 10 percent.  Those rules changed after the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund “broke the buck” in September 2008 when Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. debt dragged it down to 97 cents per share,
sending investors fleeting the money-market industry at the
height of the financial crisis.  Lengthened Terms  Turning the repo into commercial paper before selling it
broadens the types of buyers and makes it easier to trade. Banks
also need to find financing with longer maturities amid changing
regulations pending under international rules known as the Basel
III accord, Roever said.  With repo-backed conduits, banks “can push the maturity of
that paper away from overnight to something longer, like one or
two months,” he said.  JPMorgan in October created its Collateralized Commercial
Paper Co. LLC, which is used only by the company and has about
$3 billion of notes outstanding, said John Kodweis, head of
short-term credit origination at its investment bank.  “We developed this as one of many financing options,” he
said in a telephone interview. “It’s really intended to
lengthen the term of our non-traditional repo book in a
transparent and straightforward way.”  Market Survivors  The assets being placed in the conduit remain on the bank’s
balance sheet under accounting rules, as they would with repo
agreements with other counterparties, and buyers of the
commercial paper see a full list of what they are and at what
prices they’re held, he said. Eligible securities include
equities, U.S. corporate bonds and convertibles, Fitch said in
an October report.  Guggenheim Partners LLC’s Liberty Hampshire, which runs
funds similar to Cantor’s, is among survivors in the market, and
a new company called 20 Gates Management LLC has since entered
the business.  Felipe Ucros, a spokesman for Liberty Hampshire, declined
to comment, as did  Mark Lane , a spokesman for Barclays, whose
Barclays CCP Funding LLC issuance is set up to represent a
direct liability of the bank.  Banks looking to transform repo agreements into commercial
paper may want to use to joint funds because of “scale,” said
Hans Bald, CEO of 20 Gates, which helps banks run conduits and
last year assumed management of Mountcliff Funding LLC, a
vehicle set up by Hudson Castle that’s similar to Cantor’s.  “There is an enormous reward in the market by running a
large vehicle,” said Bald, whose New York-based firm also
offers banks advice on liquidity. With money-market funds
limited by the percentage of a commercial-paper program they can
hold at any time, “you’re absolutely dead in the water, or at
least in a whole different category, if you’re under $2 billion
or $3 billion,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  