-- Car Dealers Seek Break From Handing Out Insurance Guide
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-06-01T16:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/car-dealers-seek-break-from-handing-out-insurance-guide.html
U.S. auto dealers such as  Autonation
Inc. (AN)  and  Group 1 Automotive Inc. (GPI)  want Congress to end a federal
mandate to distribute a rarely requested booklet on car
insurance costs, calling it an example of regulatory overreach.  Since 1972, dealerships selling new cars have been required
to circulate the pamphlet, produced by auto-safety regulators,
under the threat of a $1,000 fine. The catch: Consumers don’t
ask for the information, according to a National Automobile
Dealers Association poll that found 96 percent of its members
didn’t remember the booklet being requested by customers.  “I have been selling cars the entire time this law has
been enforced, and I cannot recall, nor can any member of my
staff recall, any customer ever asking for this booklet,” Jack
Fitzgerald, owner of Kensington, Maryland-based Fitzgerald Auto
Mall, said in testimony at a hearing today in  Washington .  A House Energy and Commerce subcommittee looked at the
requirement during today’s hearing, which included the testimony
from Fitzgerald as well as from a consumer group that helped
push for the mandate’s creation four decades ago. The panel is
considering a bill, which could be wrapped into a broader
surface transportation measure, that would repeal the
requirement that auto dealers distribute the data.  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
spends about $70,000 a year to produce the report, Lynda Tran,
an agency spokeswoman, said.  Photocopying Material  NHTSA, which regulates auto safety and fuel economy,
gathers data from an insurance industry group and provides the
reports to auto dealers, which are responsible for photocopying
the material should it be requested by customers.  “We’re happy to continue providing it, but if it is no
longer provided, it is available to the public through us,”
said Russ Rader, a spokesman for the Insurance Institute for
Highway Safety, which includes the Highway Loss Data Institute
that supplies the data. “We already collect the data and we
already publish it.”  Fitzgerald, speaking on behalf of approximately 18,000 U.S.
auto dealers, said the requirement adds an unnecessary burden to
NHTSA and car sellers.  “NHTSA has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to
produce and mail a booklet practically no one ever asks for that
contains information generally unhelpful to new car shoppers,”
he said in his prepared testimony.  Joan Claybrook , president emeritus of the advocacy group
 Public Citizen , said that consumers don’t request the booklet
because they don’t know it exists.  “This consumer information requirement has suffered from a
veritable conspiracy of silence,” Claybrook, a former NHTSA
administrator, said in her testimony. “Neither dealers nor
NHTSA make any effort to inform consumers about its existence or
usefulness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  