-- CFTC Files MF Global Creditor Claim to Pursue Customer Funds
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-06-01T19:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/cftc-files-mf-global-creditor-claim-to-pursue-customer-funds-1-.html
One of  MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ) ’s
investigators, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
filed a claim to pursue restitution for customers, the agency
said today.  The CFTC, a panel established to regulate commodities
exchanges and futures trading, took the measure to “preserve
all possible options for recovering funds for the benefit of
commodity customers,” according to a statement today. It said
the claim won’t give it priority over MF Global customers who
have filed their own claims.  The agency, which has a rule that customer funds are
required to be segregated, has been investigating the
brokerage’s failure, along with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  and other parties.  MF Global Holdings, run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
co-chairman  Jon Corzine  until his Nov. 4 resignation, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy in October after a $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of Europe’s most
indebted nations led to margin calls. Its Chapter 11 filing
listed assets of $41 billion and debt of $39.7 billion.  Its operating unit, MF Global Inc., is liquidating under
the Securities Investor Protection Act to repay customers, while
the holding company is unwinding in bankruptcy to repay
creditors. Both proceedings operate under their own trustees.  In prior progress reports on their own investigations, the
two trustees have disputed whether certain assets belong to
customers or creditors, and customers were estimated to be out
$1.6 billion as of the last report by James Giddens, the trustee
for the operating unit.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
 v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  