-- CGI Passes RIM as Investors Back European Bet
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-06-01T20:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/cgi-passes-rim-as-investors-back-european-bet-corporate-canada.html
CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A) ’s $2.6 billion bid for
 Logica Plc (LOG)  catapulted it past  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  to become
 Canada ’s most valuable technology company as investors embraced
its bet on  Europe .  “Multiples of European companies have been dropping, the
dollar has strengthened against the pound and financing
conditions are attractive,” CGI Chairman Serge Godin said
yesterday in an interview in Montreal. He founded the company in
1976 before handing over the top job to Chief Executive Officer
Michael Roach in 2006. “The stars were aligned.”  Over the past decade the two men have spent at least $6
billion buying more than 20 companies, gaining scale to compete
with the likes of International Business Machines Corp. in
selling automation services. The cash offer, partially funded by
Canada’s second-largest pension fund manager, is a wager that
Logica’s clients such as  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and tire maker
 Michelin & Cie (ML)  will invest in technology services to boost
efficiency as Europe struggles to recover.  Investors applauded the deal yesterday, lifting CGI’s  stock 
14 percent to a 12-year high in Toronto before it fell 2.4
percent to C$23.37 at 4 p.m. today. Yesterday’s gain  vault ed it
past struggling BlackBerry maker RIM in terms of market value.
CGI is worth C$6 billion ($5.8 billion). After falling more than
90 percent from its mid-2008 high, RIM is worth C$5.6 billion.
CGI has more than doubled over that same period.  European Opportunity  RIM’s  stock  fell 7.1 percent on May 30 after the Waterloo,
Ontario-based company said it expects an operating loss for this
quarter, plans to cut “significant” jobs as sales of its aging
lineup of BlackBerry phones slump and is considering strategic
options, including a possible sale.  Of 18 analysts who track CGI, 13 rate it a buy, four a hold
and one a sell. By contrast RIM has just four buys, 30 holds and
14 sells.  CGI joins other North American investors finding
opportunity in Europe even amid concerns that Greece’s possible
exit from the  euro zone  could throw the currency union into
turmoil.  “Whatever happens to the euro has no bearing on how we
view Europe,” Godin said. “Global companies are still going to
do business there, governments are still going to function.”  Laval, Quebec-based Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc., North
America’s largest convenience store operator, is spending about
$2.6 billion to buy  Statoil Fuel & Retail ASA (SFR) , which runs gas-
station stores across Scandinavia and Eastern Europe.  Carlos
Slim , the world’s richest man, last month said he would invest
$3.4 billion to lift his stake in Dutch wireless carrier Royal
 KPN NV (KPN)  through his company  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, counting on
bargain valuations.  Slim Right  “Carlos Slim is right when he says now is a good time to
invest in Europe,” Godin said. “ Information technology  is an
essential service. Whether you’re a government transforming your
social programs or a company launching a new product,
information technology is always going to be there to support
what you are trying to achieve.”  The company’s acquisitions over the last five years have
been well timed and executed, said Keith Farrant, who manages
about C$800 million including CGI shares for Claret Asset
Management in Montreal.  “They’re going in when people are fearing so they’re
getting a pretty good price,” Farrant said. “If they were to
expand in Europe, it’s probably a good time to do it now. If you
waited until everything is rosy, you’d be paying much higher
premium.”  The acquisition of Logica, if successful, would transform
Montreal-based CGI, lifting its number of employees to 72,000
worldwide from 31,000 and more than doubling sales to C$10.4
billion. That still leaves it a fraction the size of Armonk, New
York-based  IBM (IBM) , which last year generated revenue of $106.9
billion and has about 433,000 employees.  CGI first took a serious look at its U.K. counterpart in
2007, Godin said in the interview. Talks accelerated in the past
six months culminating in yesterday’s announcement.  Counterbid Possible  Logica investors will get 105 pence per share, almost 60
percent more than the previous day’s closing price, CGI said in
a statement. Logica shares yesterday jumped 69 percent to 110.9
pence. Analysts including Canaccord Financial’s Bo Nordberg said
it could attract a counterbid of 120 pence from the likes of  Cap
Gemini SA (CAP)  and IBM.  Spokesmen for  Cap Gemini  and IBM declined to comment.  Godin said he doesn’t expect a counterbid because any other
bidder would probably have to fire “thousands” of workers,
whereas Logica and CGI are complementary. He and Roach stressed
yesterday there is little geographic overlap between the two
businesses.  Logica, which gets about 90 percent of revenue from Europe,
has sought to speed up restructuring efforts in its Dutch and
Belgian businesses as clients deferred spending. CGI earned 91
percent of revenue last year from the U.S., Canada and  India .  Caisse Funding  “With us, the integration of the two companies is going to
be much easier,” he said.  The purchase will be funded by the issuance of C$1 billion
worth of subscription receipts exchangeable for new shares in
CGI to Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, and debt funding
of C$2 billion from a group of Canadian banks, CGI said.
 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ,  National Bank of Canada  and
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  are the underwriters on the purchase, CGI
said.  Godin, who said he’s done 71 acquisitions in his time as
CEO and chairman of CGI, sounds like he’s not done yet. While he
said the company will spend as much as 18 months integrating
Logica, CGI will then take a closer look at expanding in  Asia ,
using Logica’s footprint there.  “Already, within Logica there are operations in the Asia
Pacific region with a nice critical mass,” he said.  “In terms of doing a larger acquisition to become truly
global with an important presence in Asia, that’s going to take
three or four years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  