-- Charlize Theron Steals ‘Snow White’; ‘Pink’ Scam: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/charlize-theron-steals-snow-white-pink-scam-movies.html
“Snow White and the Huntsman”  is
the year’s second cinematic spin on the classic fairy tale, and
it should put the fairest of them all to rest for a good long
time.  Packed with special effects and more grim determination
than  HBO (TWX) ’s  “Game of Thrones,”  this visually elaborate,
overlong retelling seems intent on reclaiming gloom for the
Brothers Grimm after the recent campfest “Mirror, Mirror.”  Kristen Stewart , Hollywood’s reigning princess of dour,
plays Snow White with the same mopey attitude she brings to the
 “Twilight”  saga.  Granted, director Rupert Sanders demands little else, aside
from some athletic sprinting through battlements and haunted
forests. Making his own leap to features from flashy
commercials, Sanders strings together the film’s magic-heavy set
pieces with shaky-cam swordfights and high-falutin’ posturing.  With its slithering Dark Forest creatures, elaborate
costumes (by Colleen Atwood, Oscar-worthy) and ugly-cute little
fairies perched atop bunnies, “Huntsman” certainly looks
lovely. Dominic Watkins’s production design even lends art-
directed beauty to a muddy, plague-ready peasant village.  What “Huntsman” isn’t, though, is ravishing. It’s bereft
of the emotional sweep that could lift the storytelling to the
grand heights of Greig Fraser’s cinematography.  Monster Mom  Only  Charlize Theron  equals the digital wizardry. She plays
Ravenna, the wicked, raven-cloaked queen who kills the king on
their honeymoon bed, locks Snow in a tower and awaits the day
she can eat the kid’s heart.  Theron plays this monster straight up, no camp. She bellows
in anger, aches for youth and beauty and literally sucks the
life out of village damsels to stave off centuries of wrinkles.  Chris Hemsworth, struggling with a Scottish burr, plays the
Huntsman, a drunken, sharpshooting lout ordered to do Ravenna’s
dirty work. He ends up falling for Snow, as does an exiled
prince (Sam Claflin), a giant, moss-covered troll, and enough
woodland fauna to crowd an ark.  Not to mention dwarves. Eight (seven, soon enough) in this
telling, each played by a proper, full-size British actor (Bob Hoskins, Ray Winstone and Toby Jones, among them) digitally
shrunk to Hobbit size. They’re a serious bunch, mostly.  We have to take Snow’s worthiness on faith. Stewart, as
usual, is a void -- dreary, weepy and listless. Her late-
arriving Joan of Arc moment is no more credible than a vampire’s
eternal love.  “Snow White and the Huntsman,” from  Universal Pictures ,
is playing across the U.S. Rating: **  ‘Pink Ribbons’  Author Barbara Ehrenreich saw her first pink teddy bear
while undergoing a particularly grueling mammogram. She was not
charmed.  “I am not six years old,” Ehrenreich says  in “Pink
Ribbons, Inc.,”  a fire-breathing documentary about the
commercialization of the  breast cancer  awareness movement.  Based on the book by Samantha King, “Ribbons” decries not
only the movement’s “tyranny of cheerfulness,” as King calls
it, but corporate exploitation and image-mongering that director
Lea Pool paints as little more than a pink, pretty cover-up.  The documentary cites grim statistics. In 1940, women had a
1-in-22 chance of developing breast cancer, significantly lower
than today’s 1-in-8. Mortality rates and treatments have not
changed significantly over the years, the film notes.  No Good  So, have the billions of charity dollars raised by
companies like  Revlon (REV) ,  Avon (AVP) ,  Estee Lauder (EL) , KFC and  Ford (F)  done any
good?  “Pink Ribbons” answers yes -- for the companies.  Corporate-sponsored walks, pink merchandise and feel-good
fundraising campaigns bathe sponsors in an eleemosynary glow
while doing little, Pool asserts, to find a cure.  The film suggests that the very companies leading the walks
against cancer are contributing to its proliferation, from
cosmetics companies that use carcinogenic ingredients to Ford’s
polluting pink Mustangs.  While “Ribbons” includes responses from its targets (most
prominently Avon,  Estee Lauder  and Susan G. Komen For a Cure,
the pink movement’s leading organization), the film’s
undisguised take-away is its portrait of a once-grassroots
movement co-opted and commercialized.  “Pink Ribbons, Inc.,” from First Run Features, is playing
in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Greg Evans at  gregevans@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 