-- Chelsea Agrees to $58 Million Fee for Hulk: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-01T07:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/chelsea-agrees-to-58-million-fee-for-hulk-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Hulk Fee Agreed  Chelsea agreed to pay 38 million pounds ($58.4 million) for
Porto striker Hulk and the Brazilian will join the Blues subject
to a medical test, the  Guardian reported .  Chelsea negotiated the price down from Porto’s initial
minimum fee of 40 million pounds and his personal terms aren’t
expected to stall the deal, the Guardian added.  Rodgers Raid  Brendan Rodgers , who is set to be named as Liverpool
manager today, may take Swansea midfielder  Scott Sinclair  and
center-back Ashley Williams with him to Anfield, the  Daily
Mirror said .  Rodgers could also poach Icelandic midfielder Gylfi
Sigurdsson, whose transfer to Swansea from  Germany ’s Hoffenheim
hasn’t been completed, the Mirror added.  Pass-and-Move Player  Swansea midfielder  Joe Allen  is also being lined up for a
move to Liverpool because he’s the type of player Rodgers needs
to implement his “pass-and-move” playing style at the Reds,
the  Daily Mail reported .  The 22-year-old Allen, who has three years left on his
contract, would cost Liverpool 10 million pounds, the Mail
added.  Norwich Targets Lennon  Norwich City is readying a move for Celtic manager Neil Lennon to replace Paul Lambert, who is set to move to  Aston
Villa , the  Sun reported .  Lennon, a former Northern Ireland midfielder, worked with
Norwich Chief Executive Officer David McNally at Celtic and
would consider a move to the Canaries, the newspaper added.  Holt to Follow?  Lambert’s appointment as Villa manager is set to be
confirmed in the next 24 hours and he may be followed to the
Midlands club by Norwich’s top scorer  Grant Holt , the Mail
reported.  Lambert will make Holt his top transfer target at Villa,
whose owner  Randy Lerner  has set aside as much as 15 million
pounds for off-season signings, the newspaper added.  Berbatov’s Way Out  Bayer Leverkusen  will take Manchester United striker
Dimitar Berbatov if the Premier League club lets him go for a
cut-price fee, the  Daily Express reported .  United wants to recoup some of the club-record 30 million
pounds it paid Tottenham Hotspur for Berbatov four years ago and
will listen to offers of 4 million pounds, the Express added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  