-- Chesapeake Oil Well Is Biggest Gusher in Company History
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-06-01T20:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/chesapeake-makes-significant-discovery-in-anadarko-basin.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  said it
drilled the largest oil gusher in the company’s 23-year history
at a “significant” discovery in the Anadarko Basin of  Texas 
and  Oklahoma .  The Thurman Horn 406H well in the Hogshooter formation
produced 5,400 barrels of crude a day during its first eight
days of operation, Chesapeake said today in a statement. The
output was more than twice that of some of the best performing
wells in the Eagle Ford shale of south Texas, which Chesapeake
counts as its most valuable holding, said  Michael Kelly , an
analyst at Global Hunter Securities LLC in Houston.  “It’s pretty massive,” Kelly said in a telephone
interview. “In the Eagle Ford or the Bakken shale, you’d be
ecstatic if you got initial production anywhere close to 2,000
barrels a day, so this is really remarkable.”  The discovery will accelerate the second-largest U.S.
natural-gas supplier’s shift to more profitable crude
production, Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  said in the
statement.  Chesapeake shares  have dropped 28 percent this year
as gas prices hit a 10-year low and probes began of McClendon’s
personal finances. Gas comprises more than 80 percent of the
Oklahoma City-based company’s output.  Chesapeake is seeking to sell $20.5 billion in assets by
the end of 2013 to fill a cash-flow shortfall. The Hogshooter
wells aren’t among the assets for sale, Jim Gipson, a Chesapeake
spokesman, said today in a separate e-mailed statement.  Hogshooter Drilling  The shares  fell  7.8 percent to $15.58 at the close in  New
York  as natural-gas futures dropped to a four-week low, capping
the largest weekly decline since January.  The Thurman Horn 406H well, which reaches a depth of 10,000
feet (3,000 meters), also pumped 4.6 million cubic feet of gas
and 1,200 barrels of natural gas liquids daily.  “It’s the best oil well in the history of the company,”
Gipson said.  Apache Corp. (APA)  drilled two wells in the Hogshooter formation
in 2010 that produced more than 2,000 barrels of oil a day. The
wells were 15 miles (24 kilometers) apart, indicating there
might be “meaningful potential” across a wide area, the
company said at the time.  Chesapeake has 65 more Hogshooter sites identified for
drilling in the next few years. Rig costs and other drilling
expenses are already factored into the  capital budget , so no
increase in total spending will be required, the company said.  Variable Results  The next step for Chesapeake is to prove it can achieve
similarly high rates of production at other sites in the
formation, said Manuj Nikhanj, head of energy research at
 Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG)  in Calgary. Other explorers
such as  Forest Oil Corp. (FST)  have drilled promising wells at
Hogshooter only to get disappointing outcomes nearby, he said.  Chesapeake’s Hogshooter results “are impressive to say the
least,” Nikhanj said in an e-mailed statement. “The usual
caveats around this region are that the well results are highly
variable from one location to the next so repeatability is
questionable.”  A second Chesapeake well in the Hogshooter formation, known
as Meek 41 9H, had average daily production of 1,300 barrels of
oil, 365 barrels of liquids and 1.4 million cubic feet of gas
during its first 27 days of operation, the company said. Two
additional wells in the formation are awaiting completion.  The Hogshooter formation sits atop the company’s existing
holdings in the Granite Wash formation, according to the
statement. Chesapeake owns 88 percent stakes in the four
Hogshooter wells and 30,000 acres of leaseholds.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is the largest U.S. gas producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  