-- Chevron Fires Ogilvy as Lobbyist Over Ecuadorean Dispute
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/chevron-fires-ogilvy-as-lobbyist-over-ecuadorean-dispute.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  fired Ogilvy Government
Relations as its U.S. lobbyist after a person affiliated with
the firm spoke to a group advocating for residents of the
Ecuadorean rainforest in a multibillion legal fight with the
oil company, a person familiar with the matter said.  On May 9, Felipe Benitez of Ogilvy’s public relations
branch gave a presentation to San Francisco-based  Amazon Watch 
on “strategic communications for environmental defense and
protection on human rights,” according to that group’s website.  Lloyd Avram, a spokesman for Chevron, which was Ogilvy’s
third-largest lobbying client last year, said the company
discovered a serious conflict recently. He declined to comment
about the nature of the issue or the date Chevron ended its
relationship with Ogilvy.  Another person, speaking on the condition of anonymity due
to the sensitivity of the matter, said the conflict concerned
Benitez and his talk to Amazon Watch, which advocates on behalf
of indigenous tribes in the Amazon basin and has called damage
from oil drilling in  Ecuador  “Chevron’s Chernobyl.”  “Chevron discovered a material conflict of interest with
Ogilvy,” Avram said in an e-mailed statement. “It could not be
resolved and made our relationship with them untenable. Under
the terms of our agreement, we terminated the relationship.”  Ogilvy Revenue  Ogilvy received $600,000 from Chevron in 2011 to lobby on
energy, environmental, tax and financial policies in the U.S.,
according to federal lobbying records, making the oil company
its third-biggest client by revenues, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics, which tracks political and lobbying
spending.  Ogilvy, the sixth-largest U.S. lobbying firm by revenue,
according to the center, had represented Chevron since at least
2004, public records show. Ogilvy’s various units are owned by
 WPP Plc (WPP) , a communications company based in Dublin.  Avram declined to comment on Chevron’s plans to replace
Ogilvy.  While Chevron, based in  San Ramon ,  California , doesn’t
operate in Ecuador, it has become embroiled in a lengthy legal
fight over the alleged disposal of toxic wastewater from drilling
operations by Texaco Inc., which used to operate in the country
and was acquired by Chevron in 2001.  Previous Work  Previously, Benitez worked for Fenton Communications, and
had helped Ecuador improve its global image, according to his
page on Linked In, a social networking website.  “Chevron informed  Ogilvy & Mather  of its decision to end
its relationship with Ogilvy Government Relations because of a
perceived conflict with Ogilvy PR,” Rachel Ufer, a spokeswoman
for Ogilvy public relations, said in an e-mailed statement,
referring to the parent company. “As this is primarily a
personnel matter, we are unable to provide further detail.”  Amazon Watch didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  Chevron is fighting an $18 billion judgment from an
Ecuadorean court finding the company was responsible for damage.
The company argues that Texaco performed all the environmental
remediation under the terms of its contract with Ecuador.  It has accused the plaintiffs’ lawyers and Ecuadorean
officials of fraud and misconduct in the case.  Ecuadoreans filed a lawsuit yesterday in the Superior Court
in Ontario targeting Chevron assets in  Canada  as a way to begin
collecting on the judgment, because the  oil company  has few
assets in Ecuador.  In  Washington , Chevron spent more than $9.5 million on
lobbying last year and keeps a team of outside firms to lobby on
a variety of issues.  More than 70 companies and trade groups paid Ogilvy
Government Relations more than $20 million to lobby on their
behalf in 2011, according to the Center for Responsive Politics,
which is based in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  