-- China Manufacturing Slowdown Boosts Chances of Stimulus
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-01T08:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/china-manufacturing-grows-at-weakest-pace-since-december.html
China  led a slowdown in manufacturing
across Asia that adds to risks for the global economy as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis roils markets and drags down
confidence.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 50.4 in May from
53.3 in April, China’s statistics bureau and logistics
federation said today in Beijing. A second gauge for China also
declined, along with measures for  India ,  South Korea  and  Taiwan .  In China, the reports signal a deepening economic slowdown,
raising chances Premier  Wen Jiabao  will take more-aggressive
steps to sustain expansion after he pledged a sharper focus on
stabilizing growth. The government’s stimulus response may be as
much as 2 trillion yuan ($314 billion), half the size of the
package in 2008, Credit Suisse Group AG said this week.  “This set of data is very bad,” said Dong Tao, a Hong
Kong-based economist with Credit Suisse. “China now needs some
highly symbolic policy moves,” he said, adding that interest-
rate cuts are becoming more likely.  China’s PMI reading compared with the 52 median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists. A separate gauge from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed a seventh straight
contraction for Chinese manufacturing, the longest since the
global financial crisis.  India’s PMI was 54.8 in May from 54.9 in April, HSBC and
Markit said.  India Outlook  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index of stocks fell 1.1 percent as
of 5:08 p.m. in  Tokyo . The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index
rose 0.1 percent, extending gains of about 8 percent this 
year on speculation the government will accelerate measures 
to boost the economy.  For India, “the outlook for growth in the short term is
very bad,” Tirthankar Patnaik, a Mumbai-based strategist at
Religare Capital Markets Ltd., said before the report.
“Industrial growth is slowing down and investments are not
taking place.”  India’s gross domestic product increased 5.3 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the least since 2003, the
government said yesterday. Inflation accelerated to 7.23 percent
in April, the fastest pace among the largest emerging economies.  China’s inflation may have cooled to 3.2 percent in May
from 3.4 percent in April, leaving more room for stimulus
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts.  Weaker Currency  For China, the policy implication from the manufacturing
data “is simply more easing,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Societe Generale SA.  Liu Li-Gang, head of Greater China economics at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said in a Bloomberg
Television interview that China needs to consider cutting
 interest rates , especially the benchmark lending rate, to lower
borrowing costs for companies.  China has allowed the yuan to weaken against the dollar
this year after appreciating 4.7 percent in 2011. The currency
was at 6.3717 after dropping yesterday to the lowest close since
December.  The official purchasing managers’ gauge is based on
responses from managers at 820 companies. A reading above 50
indicates expansion. The index usually has a seasonal decline in
May, with the reading decreasing by an average 2.7 points from
April during 2005 to 2011,  Lu Zhengwei , Shanghai-based chief
economist at Industrial Bank Co., said before the release.  A sub-index of output had the lowest reading since November
and a gauge of new orders showed a contraction for the first
time in five months. The PMI was 45.2 for small companies, 51.1
for large businesses and 50.8 for medium-sized companies,
indicating small enterprises are bearing the brunt of China’s
slowdown.  Final Reading  The  purchasing managers ’ index from HSBC and Markit had a
final reading of 48.4, compared with April’s 49.3 and the May
preliminary reading of 48.7. The HSBC index covers more than 420
companies and is weighted toward smaller businesses.  Separately today, a report showed China’s home prices fell
to a 16-month low in May as officials pledged to keep property
curbs that have sapped buyer demand, according to SouFun
Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest real estate website owner.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, South Korea’s exports
declined for a third month in May, falling a less-than-forecast
0.4 percent from a year earlier.  Capital spending  by  Japan ’s
companies excluding software rose 3.5 percent from a year
earlier, compared with the median estimate for a 0.1 percent
decline in a Bloomberg News survey.  U.K. Factories  In  Europe , a report may show U.K. manufacturing contracted
in May. A gauge of factory output probably fell to 49.7 from
50.5 in April, according to the median estimate of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The euro-area jobless rate rose to
11 percent in April, according to the median forecast of
economists ahead of a report today.  U.S. job growth probably picked up in May after the weakest
gain in six months, and the  unemployment rate  held at a three-
year low. Payrolls climbed by 150,000 workers after a 115,000
increase in April, while joblessness was unchanged at 8.1
percent, according to median economist estimates.  China is grappling with fallout from Europe’s worsening
debt turmoil, which threatens to curb exports further should
 Greece  abandon the euro. The slowdown in overseas sales may
affect whether Moody’s Investors Service raises the nation’s
sovereign debt rating,  Tom Byrne , a senior vice president, said
May 28.  The  economy  may grow 7.9 percent this quarter from a year
earlier in a sixth quarterly deceleration, based on the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey last month. Full-year expansion
is forecast at 8.2 percent, which would be the lowest since
1999.  Growth Pledge  Wen and the State Council, or Cabinet, pledged last month
to focus more on stabilizing growth after trade, industrial
production and lending in April were lower than economists
forecast. Authorities have since indicated they are approving
more capital spending and bond sales, with the government last
week permitting the 134 billion  yuan  construction of two steel
factories after a two-year delay.  The  People’s Bank of China  on May 12 cut banks’ reserve-
requirement ratio by 50 basis points for the third time in six
months to boost liquidity and spur lending. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg last month forecast further reductions in the ratio
this year. China has left benchmark interest rates unchanged
since July and last lowered rates in December 2008.  The official Xinhua News Agency said in a May 29 article
that the Chinese government has no intention to roll out a 2008-
scale stimulus to seek high economic growth. “Current efforts
for stabilizing growth will not repeat the old way of three
years ago,” Xinhua said.  Stainless Steel  China’s stainless steel demand this year may grow at the
slowest pace since 2001 and exports may be capped by sluggish
demand overseas, Lu Ping, assistant general manager of Baosteel
Stainless Steel Co., said May 24.  The nation’s zinc smelters will probably cut output more as
current prices are below production costs amid high commercial
inventories, Wang Jianjun, head of the operation management
department at Hunan Nonferrous Metals Holding Group Co. said May
25.  “The pace of the sharp fall is a little bit surprising,”
Victor Chu, chairman of Hong Kong-based First Eastern Investment
Group, said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
“The good thing is the writing has been on the wall for some
time. The policy makers at the top of the Chinese government are
introducing more stimulus measures right now to put more
liquidity back in the market.”  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore ,
Zhou Xin in Beijing and Zeb Eckert in Hong Kong. Editors: Scott
Lanman, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  