-- China Home Prices Fall in More Than Half Cities Tracked
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-01T03:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/china-home-prices-fall-in-more-than-half-cities-tracked.html
China’s  home prices  fell to a 16-
month low in May as officials pledged to keep property curbs
that have sapped buyer demand, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
the nation’s biggest real estate website owner.  Home prices declined 0.3 percent from April to 8,684  yuan 
($1,364) per square meter (10.76 square feet), SouFun said in an
e-mailed statement today, based on its survey of 100 cities in
the country. That’s the lowest since January 2011 and the ninth
month-on-month drop, the longest stretch since it started
compiling the data in July 2010.  The Housing Ministry said last month China will steadfastly
continue curbs on the housing market and won’t flip-flop on its
policies,  Shanghai  Securities Journal reported. This followed a
pledge by the State Council, or Cabinet, in April to stick with
existing property controls implemented over the past two years,
where the government tightened down payments and mortgages, and
imposed restrictions on the number of homes families can buy.  “The external economic environment is deteriorating and it
is impacting  China ’s property market,” said Simon Lo, Hong
Kong-based executive director of research for  Asia  at realtor
Colliers International. “The Chinese government probably
realizes this and we’re expecting them to slowly relaxing the
curbs in the second half.”  Housing values dropped in 73 of the cities while 26 posted
gains, with one reporting no changes in residential prices,
SouFun said. Prices in the 10 biggest cities that include
Beijing and Shanghai retreated 0.5 percent from April, and
values dropped 3.2 percent from a year earlier, SouFun said.  While the government maintained its housing curbs, it
helped eased funding by lenders. The central bank lowered the
amount of cash that banks must set aside as reserves three times
since November to boost liquidity and spur loan growth.  Banks in Beijing started offering mortgages to first-home
buyers at or below the central bank’s benchmark rate in February,
according to Bacic & 5i5j Group, Beijing’s second-biggest real
estate brokerage.  --Kelvin Wong and Jacob Gu. Editors: Linus Chua, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Gu in Shanghai at 
 jgu3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  