-- China Manufacturing Expands Less Than Forecast in May
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-01T01:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/china-manufacturing-expands-less-than-forecast-in-may.html
China’s manufacturing grew less than
forecast in May, a government report showed, increasing the odds
the government will boost stimulus to counter a deceleration in
the world’s second-biggest economy.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index expanded at a slower pace
for the first time in six months, falling to 50.4 from 53.3 in
April, China’s statistics bureau and logistics federation said
in a statement today in Beijing. It’s the weakest reading since
December and compares with the 52.0 median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 27 economists. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  The report signals a deepening economic slowdown, raising
chances Premier  Wen Jiabao  will take more-aggressive steps to
sustain expansion after he pledged a sharper focus on
stabilizing growth. The government’s stimulus response may be as
high as 2 trillion yuan ($315 billion), half the size of 2008’s
package, Credit Suisse Group AG said this week.  “The economy is probably cooling faster than originally
expected,” Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist at  Barclays
Capital  who formerly worked for the  World Bank , said before the
release. “The only effective way to stabilize growth quickly is
through investment.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks extended losses,
dropping 1 percent as of 10:05 a.m. in  Tokyo .  Economic growth may be below 8 percent this quarter and the
possibility of a cut in the benchmark lending rate has risen,
Chang said. Credit Suisse said expansion may slow to 7 percent
in the three months through June 30.  Stocks Forecast  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index has climbed about 8
percent this year on speculation the government will accelerate
measures to boost the economy. The gauge is poised to gain 15
percent by the end of 2012 from May 30 as slowing inflation
allows authorities to loosen monetary policy and banks to lend
more to companies, according to Beijing Gao Hua Securities Co.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s partner in  China .  China has allowed the yuan to weaken against the dollar
this year after appreciating 4.7 percent in 2011. The currency
fell 0.2 percent yesterday to 6.3690, the lowest close since
December.  The federation’s index is based on responses from managers
at 820 companies. The gauge usually has a seasonal decline in
May, with the reading decreasing by an average 2.7 points from
April during 2005 to 2011,  Lu Zhengwei , Shanghai-based chief
economist at Industrial Bank Co., said before the release.  Final Reading  A separate purchasing managers’ index indicated that
manufacturing may have contracted for a seventh month in May,
according to a May 24 preliminary report on the gauge from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The final reading of the
survey, which covers more than 420 companies and is weighted
more toward smaller businesses, is due later today.  China is grappling with fallout from  Europe ’s worsening
debt turmoil, which threatens to curb exports further should
 Greece  abandon the euro. The slowdown in overseas sales may
affect whether Moody’s Investors Service raises the nation’s
sovereign debt rating,  Tom Byrne , a senior vice president, said
May 28.  The  economy  may grow 7.9 percent this quarter from a year
earlier in a sixth quarterly deceleration, based on the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey last month.  Full-year expansion is forecast at 8.2 percent, which would
be the lowest since 1999.  Standard & Poor’s  said in a report
dated May 29 that it sees a “fairly slim chance” of a so-
called hard landing this year where growth would slow to 5
percent, although expansion is “undoubtedly slowing.”  Growth Pledge  Wen and the State Council, or Cabinet, pledged last month
to focus more on stabilizing growth after trade, industrial
production and lending in April were lower than economists
forecast. Authorities have since indicated they are approving
more capital spending and bond sales, with the government last
week permitting the 134 billion  yuan  construction of two steel
factories after a two-year delay.  The  People’s Bank of China  on May 12 cut banks’ reserve-
requirement ratio by 50 basis points for the third time in six
months to boost liquidity and spur lending. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg last month forecast further reductions in the ratio
this year.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore  and
Zhou Xin in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  