-- China’s Swap Rate Falls to 18-Month Low as Manufacturing Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-01T08:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/china-rate-swaps-slump-to-18-month-low-as-economic-growth-slows.html
China’s  interest-rate swaps  fell to
an 18-month low on speculation the central bank will cut
 interest rates  after a government-backed survey showed
manufacturing grew less than forecast in May.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell for the first time in
six months, dropping to 50.4 from 53.3 in April, the statistics
bureau and logistics federation said today. The median forecast
of 27 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a reading of 52.
China cut the amount of cash that banks must set aside as
reserves in May for the third time in six months.  “Downside growth pressure is increasing and is likely to
drag regional growth lower, keeping downside pressure on
swaps,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in
 Hong Kong , wrote in a report after the data release. “This data
will no doubt strengthen market call for easing both in terms of
reserve-ratio and benchmark lending-rate cuts.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell one basis
point to 2.44 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It dropped 11 basis points this week
and touched 2.38 percent today, the lowest level since November
2010.  The central bank drained 57 billion  yuan  ($9 billion) of
capital from the financial system this week, a third weekly
withdrawal, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Policy Outlook  The central bank will lower the reserve ratio two more
times this year and keep the benchmark lending rate unchanged,
according to  Societe Generale . Before the next round of easing,
the seven-day repurchase rate may trade between 2.5 percent and
3.25 percent, Chong said in an interview.  The seven-day  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, rose 21 basis points to 2.38 percent, according to
a weighted average rate compiled by the National Interbank
Funding Center. It fell 12 basis points in the week.  The yield on the 3.41 percent government bonds due March
2019 dropped one basis point today and rose three basis points
this week to 3.13 percent, according to the Interbank Funding
Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in  Shanghai  at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  