-- Clemens Photo Defense Fails With Doctors Who Know Steroid Abuse
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z ,   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-01T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/clemens-photo-defense-fails-with-doctors-who-know-steroid-abuse.html
Roger Clemens attorney  Rusty Hardin 
displayed four photos to the jury during the former All-Star
baseball player’s perjury trial, each showing him pitching for a
different team over 24 years.  They were evidence Clemens didn’t get bigger during his
time in  Major League Baseball , Hardin said, suggesting they help
prove his client never took performance-enhancing drugs.  That’s not the way it works, said Gary Wadler, a former
chair of the World Anti-Doping Agency’s prohibited list
committee. While performance-enhancing drugs can build lean body
mass and strength, photo evidence is meaningless in determining
whether someone was using them, Wadler said by telephone.  “You can’t look at someone and say ‘Aha! They are on
steroids,’” said Wadler, director of concierge medicine at
North Shore LIJ Health System in Manhasset, New York. “A
picture tells you nothing at all. Hitting a cycle (of use),
coming off, those are all factors in how someone appears.”  Hardin, 70, displayed the photos to the jury during his
opening statement April 24. They included images of Clemens
while he was playing for the  Boston Red Sox ,  Toronto Blue Jays ,
 New York Yankees  and  Houston Astros .  “These pictures show this man’s body, other than the aging
process, doesn’t outwardly change,” Hardin said.  J.P. Hyatt, associate professor at Georgetown University’s
Department of Human Science, who researches skeletal muscle
plasticity, muscle growth and loss, said photos taken over years
would be much more likely to show the natural aging process than
any changes produced by performance-enhancing drugs.  Natural Changes  “You really have to look in a concentrated period of
time” to make Hardin’s point, Hyatt said. “If you see these
changes in a month or six weeks, when they go from skinny guy to
massive dude, you might question what’s going on. Over the
course of years, though, some of this happens naturally.”  Yesterday, U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  said that if
Hardin wants to talk about changes in a person's size due to
steroid use, he would need to call expert witnesses. The issue
came up during questioning of defense witness Phil Garner, a
former player who managed the Astros when Clemens played for
them.  Legal experts are divided on how the jury in U.S. District
Court in Washington will interpret the photos.  The argument that Clemens never got physically larger, and
therefore he didn’t take the drugs, is a derivative of the O.J.
Simpson defense that since a glove found at the murder scene
didn’t fit Simpson, he must be innocent, said Philip Anthony,
chief executive officer of  DecisionQuest,  a juror consulting
firm in  Los Angeles , by telephone.  “I think it’s a dangerous strategy,” Anthony said,
pointing to the possibility that showing the photos in isolation
without complete context might lead jurors to wonder about the
body size of other players who used performance enhancers.
“It’s fraught with danger because the jury may perceive that
defense as an attempt to get out on a loophole.”  Visual Evidence  Bernie Grimm, a criminal defense lawyer at  Cozen O’Connor 
in Washington, said he likes the move. He said jurors respond
more to visual evidence than spoken testimony. If Clemens was
his client and the judge allowed it, he’d go a step further and
have the ballplayer strip down to a bathing suit for the jury.  “Here’s my guy, you examine him and you decide,” would be
the defense then, he said in a telephone interview.  Clemens is charged with lying to Congress about using
anabolic steroids, which are tied to acne, breast enlargement
and thinning hair; as well as human growth hormone, which
doesn’t in and of itself affect muscle size, Hyatt said.  Wadler said performance-enhancing drugs can speed recovery
times and increase bulk, strength and aggression.  Size Changes  St.  Louis Cardinals  hitting coach Mark McGwire, an admitted
steroid user who once held baseball’s single-season home run
record, is noticeably smaller than he was in his playing days.
 Barry Bonds  is appealing a conviction last year for obstructing
justice in giving an evasive response to a federal grand jury in
2003 about whether he ever received a steroid injection from his
trainer.  “ Roger Clemens  has always been a barrel-chested guy,”
Hyatt said. “Look at the Red Sox in the late 1980s, he was
always a large guy. You just don’t know, with age, did he pack
on the pounds naturally or did he take something? Even within
the scientific literature, it’s not clear cut as to what these
things are doing to the muscle.”  Known for his intense conditioning regimen -- running,
weightlifting, even exercising his hand muscles in a bucket of
dry rice -- on his off days, Clemens pitched until he was 44
years old. He left the game after the 2007 season with a 354-184
record, a 3.12 earned run average and 4,672 strikeouts, a total
that ranks third in major-league history behind  Nolan Ryan  and
Randy Johnson.  Cy Young  He went 18-4 with Houston and won the Cy Young Award as his
league’s best pitcher the season he turned 42. The next year he
led the league with a 1.87 ERA.  Clemens’s reputation already has been ruined by the taint
of the accusations, according to the Dallas-based Marketing Arm,
which compiles the Davie Brown Index that measures celebrity
status in the U.S.  Clemens’s appeal to consumers ranks 2,409th, equivalent to
that of former college basketball coach Bobby Knight, who once
threw a chair in rage across a court during a game, and actor
 Mel Gibson , who had an anti-Semitic tirade during a 2006 drunk-
driving arrest.  As for the level of trust consumers place in him, Clemens
ranks 2,456th, similar to  Pete Rose , baseball’s career hits
leader who is banned from the sport for his connection to
gambling.  Damage Done  “Regardless of what the verdict is, the damage has been
done,” Darin David, an account director for the Marketing Arm,
said in a telephone interview. “I can’t even imagine a scenario
where we would recommend somebody like Clemens to one of our
clients.”  Clemens helped the  University of Texas  win the 1983 College
World Series and was selected by the Boston  Red Sox  in the first
round of that year’s draft.  He broke into the majors in 1984, had a 16-9 record during
his first two seasons and then won the  American League  Cy Young
at the age of 23 in 1986, when he went 24-4 with a 2.48 ERA and
set a record by striking out 20 batters in a single game.  He was  dominant  before baseball’s so-called steroid era,
logging a 1.93 ERA during the 1990 season for Boston, when he
also had his third 20-win season. Steroids were banned by
baseball in 1991, though the sport didn’t implement leaguewide
testing for performance-enhancing drugs until 2003.  Boston Statistics  In his final four seasons in  Boston , from 1993-96, Clemens
went 40-39, twice posting an ERA over 4.00. The next two years,
playing for the Blue Jays, he led the American League in both
wins, going 41-13, and ERA.  For now, Clemens’s defense team is hoping his physical
image helps convince the jury of his innocence, and that would
be a good first step toward rehabilitating his public image.  “It reaches people,” said Marcellus McRae, a former
federal prosecutor now at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Los
Angeles. “If a guy is using steroids wouldn’t you expect to see
something? It’s not about perfection, it’s about reasonable
doubt.”  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 