-- Clinton Warns Russia Stance Pushes Syria Into Civil War
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-06-01T02:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/clinton-warns-russia-stance-pushes-syria-into-civil-war.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  rejected Russia’s claim that it’s a stabilizing
influence on Syria and said that, by protecting the Assad
regime, it’s speeding the country’s slide into civil war.  With the Houla massacre of women and children provoking
international revulsion, Clinton’s criticism of Russian policy
displayed the tensions between the Obama administration and the
Russian government, led by newly elected President  Vladimir Putin .  “The Russians keep telling us they want to do everything
they can to avoid a civil war because they believe that the
violence would be catastrophic,” Clinton said in remarks to
students in Denmark yesterday. Noting Russia’s claims to be a
stabilizing influence, Clinton said, “I reject that. I think
they are, in effect, propping up the regime at a time when we
should be working on a political transition.”  Clinton’s comments came as Putin is set to discuss  Syria  in
visits today with the leaders of France and Germany, who have
expressed views similar to Clinton’s. In Geneva, the UN Human
Rights Council plans to discuss today the “deteriorating”
situation in Syria, including the Houla killings. The council’s
special session -- its fourth on Syria -- is being held at the
request of Qatar,  Turkey , the U.S., Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait ,
Denmark and the European Union, which have sided with the Syrian
opposition movement.  Russia has protected Syria from censure in the  United
Nations Security Council , provided the regime with arms and
criticized this week’s decision by the U.S. and allies to expel
Syrian diplomats after the slaughter of 108 people, the majority
women and children, in and around the town of Houla.  Russia Needed  Even as Syria causes growing friction between Moscow and
Washington, Clinton and officials in President  Barack Obama ’s
administration said they will be working to persuade  Russia  to
take a more constructive role.  “We could come into greater disagreement because of Syria
going forward,” said William Pomeranz, deputy director of a
Russian program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars in Washington, “but I think the U.S. has decided it
really can’t solve the problem without Russia.”  While Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and opposition
forces last month agreed to a six-point peace plan brokered by
UN envoy  Kofi Annan  and the deployment of 300 UN cease-fire
monitors, violence in the 14-month-old conflict has continued,
killing more than 10,000, according to UN estimates. Local
Coordination Committees of Syria, an activist group, said 50
more died yesterday, according to its website.  Civil War  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon echoed Clinton’s warning
yesterday in Istanbul, saying the violence in Houla could lead
to a full-scale civil war, according to the  Associated Press .  “The massacre of civilians of the sort seen last weekend
could plunge Syria into a catastrophic civil war -- a civil war
from which the country would never recover,” Ban said. “I
demand that the government of Syria act on its commitments under
the Annan peace plan.”  The Syrian government unveiled the conclusions of its
official inquiry into the Houla killings yesterday, blaming them
on “armed terrorist groups.” The state-run SANA newswire said
 the report  found that these groups “liquidated the victims in
the process of an attack on the law-enforcement members who
hadn’t entered the area where the massacre occurred, adding that
most of the bodies are of terrorists who were killed in the
clash with the law-enforcement members.”  That report has no credibility in Washington and European
capitals, where government officials have blamed the atrocities
on gangs of pro-government thugs, known as the shabiha.  ‘Appalling Massacre’  The UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights
said in a May 29 report based on witness and survivor accounts
that most of the victims in Houla died in their homes and entire
families were killed together, shot at close range. The
“appalling massacre” began on May 26 and continued through the
weekend, it said.  In  Denmark , Clinton said she would be speaking to Russian
officials in the coming days to “see if we can’t get a way
forward.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  gave reporters a glimpse
of the argument the U.S. will use. “We simply do not believe it
is in Russia’s interests, let alone in Syria’s interests, for
the Assad regime to continue to be propped up and therefore to
allow it to continue to brutalize its own people,” Carney told
reporters yesterday.  Some Obama administration officials have been reluctant to
press Putin aggressively on Syria, arguing that Russian support
to ensure that Iran doesn’t develop nuclear weapons and for
NATO’s northern supply -- and withdrawal -- routes for allied
troops in  Afghanistan  are more important.  Russian Ties  Moreover, said three administration officials involved in
Syria policy, it isn’t wise to press for Assad’s ouster with
little idea of who or what might replace him. The officials
spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized
to discuss the matter publicly.  Russia has deep ties to Syria that are shaping its efforts
to protect the Assad regime from international censure or
intervention, said Pomeranz of the Wilson Center.  “They’ve had a long-standing relationship with Syria over
decades, Syria has been a major weapons customer, it’s the one
place in the  Middle East  where Russia has a port,” Pomeranz,
deputy director of the center’s Kennan Institute, which focuses
on U.S.-Russia relations, said in an interview. “It’s really
Russia’s last strategic asset in the region.”  Further Sanctions  The U.K. is considering further sanctions against Syria,
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s office said yesterday after a
meeting of the National Security Council.  The European Union is not considering military action,
 Michael Mann , spokesman for EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , told reporters yesterday in Brussels. “Military options
are not on the table,” he said. “All our actions must be in
line with international decisions.”  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , who is traveling to
 Asia  for meetings, said he doesn’t envision a U.S. military
intervention in Syria without the support of a UN Security
Council resolution, the AP reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott in Washington at  at
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  