-- Cocoa Shipments From Indonesia’s Sulawesi Drop on Local Demand
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-06-01T09:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/cocoa-shipments-from-indonesia-s-sulawesi-drop-on-local-demand.html
Cocoa-bean exports from  Indonesia ’s
Sulawesi island, the main growing region in the world’s third-
largest producer, fell 6.3 percent last month as rising demand
from local grinders reduced supplies.  Shipments from South and Central Sulawesi provinces fell to
7,412 metric tons in May from 7,912 tons a month earlier,
according to data released by the Indonesia Cocoa Association
today. Sales were 15,099 tons in May last year.  Reduced Indonesian exports may stem a 30 percent decline in
futures in New York in the past year. The chocolate ingredient
is used by companies including  Hershey Co. (HSY)  and  Nestle SA. (NESN)   “With the current export duty, it is more profitable to
sell to local grinders than exports,” Dakhri Sanusi, secretary
general of the cocoa association, said by phone from Bone, South
Sulawesi. “Production is also not so good, because the plants
are old and farmers don’t take good care.”  Indonesia will keep, for the eight straight months, the tax
on cocoa-bean exports in June unchanged at 5 percent, Deddy Saleh, director general of foreign trade at the trade ministry,
said yesterday. The base price to calculate the levy will be
raised to $2,006 a ton from $1,941 in May, he said.  Exports in the first five months of the year dropped 47
percent to 26,238 tons, the association said. The island of
Sulawesi supplies about 75 percent of production and exports.  Cocoa for July delivery fell as much as 1.3 percent to
$2,051 a ton on the ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  