-- Colorado State Increases Forecast for Atlantic Storms
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-01T15:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/colorado-state-increases-forecast-for-atlantic-storms.html
Colorado State University researchers
raised their expectations for this year’s Atlantic hurricane
season to 13 named storms, just above average.  Five of those storms may become hurricanes and two may
develop into major systems, said the team, which pioneered long-
range hurricane forecasting 29 years ago. Its April prediction
for 10 storms, four of them hurricanes and two of them major,
was increased because an El Nino pattern that would limit
Atlantic storms hasn’t shown signs of forming yet.  “We have had a lot of uncertainty this season, it is a
really, really tough call,”  Phil Klotzbach , lead author of the
study, said by telephone. “I know it sounds like a cop-out but
that’s kind of where we’re at. The real challenge with this year
is that we are really uncertain about El Nino.”  The season, which officially began today and runs through
Nov. 30, is closely watched because the storms are a threat to
oil and natural gas interests in the  Gulf of Mexico  and
agriculture in the U.S. South. The Gulf accounts for 29 percent
of U.S. oil output and 40 percent of refining capacity, while
 Florida  is the second-largest citrus producer behind  Brazil .  Klotzbach said the two storms the Atlantic has already
produced in 2012, Alberto and Beryl, aren’t an indication of how
active the rest of the season will be.  El Nino  El Nino , a warming of the  Pacific Ocean , is expected to
form later this year. However, Klotzbach said indications that
would “seal the deal” are missing.  “It is certainly not a done deal,” Klotzbach said. “If
we didn’t get one, I wouldn’t say I would be shocked. The next
few weeks are going to be critical to push it one way or the
other.”  Water temperatures in the Pacific can influence Atlantic
wind shear, when winds at upper and lower levels in the
atmosphere move at different speeds or directions. Tropical
systems can have their tops torn off or tipped to one side by
shear, robbing them of strength and organization.  If El Nino doesn’t form, the number of storms may be
higher, Klotzbach said.  The Atlantic itself is cooler than last year, which may
limit the number of storms because tropical systems build on
warm ocean water. The most active part of the six-month season
is from about Aug. 20 to Oct. 20.  Early Storms  According to the  Colorado State report , some years with
pre-season storms have gone on to be active, while others
haven’t. Klotzbach said the two storms that formed so far were
close to the U.S. and grew out of weather fronts. Neither formed
deep in the Atlantic the way storms will later in the season, he
said.  “Early storm activity doesn’t give you much of a signal,”
Klotzbach said.  A storm gets a name when its top sustained winds reach 39
miles (63 kilometers) per hour. It becomes a hurricane with 74-
mph winds and a major system, Category 3 or higher on the
Saffir-Simpson scale, when its sustained winds grow to 111 mph.  The 30-year average in the Atlantic is for 12 named storms,
six of them hurricanes and three of them major systems,
according to the  National Hurricane Center  in Miami.  Last week, the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  predicted nine to 15 named storms would form,
with four to eight growing into hurricanes and as many as three
becoming major systems.  Colorado State last year predicted 16 storms, with nine
becoming hurricanes. In 2011, like 2010, 19 storms formed in the
Atlantic, which tied for the third-most active season in records
going back to 1851. The mark for most storms in a single six-
month season is 28 in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  