-- Commodity Revenues at Banks Decline as Volatility Drops
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-06-01T11:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/commodity-revenues-at-largest-banks-drop-as-volatility-declines.html
Revenues generated by the 10 largest
banks’ commodity units slumped 33 percent in the first quarter
as volatility declined, clients reduced trading and gas supplies
climbed, according to Coalition, a London research company.  Revenues fell to a combined $2 billion from $3 billion a
year earlier, Coalition said in a report. Overall revenues at
the banks, including from equities, origination and advisory,
declined to $51 billion from $53 billion, Coalition said.  The drop in commodity revenues reflects the challenge banks
face driving income from energy and metals.  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar said in April that
lower volatility had reduced opportunities in the quarter. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Gauge of raw materials rose 6.8
percent in the smallest quarterly move since 2010.  “Poor performance in energy, and particularly gas, which
was impacted by an abundance of supply, contributed to the
decline,” Coalition said in the report. The firm, founded in
2002, bases its analysis on company announcements, its own
research and information from people in the market, it said.  Coalition tracks  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Goldman Sachs,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Morgan Stanley,  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)  Spokespeople for the 10
companies declined to comment on the report’s findings.  Biggest Loser  Natural gas in New York was the biggest loser on the S&P
GSCI in the quarter, plunging 29 percent in its worst
performance since 2010. Surging production from shale formations
has increased U.S. supply. Most-active futures touched a 10-year
intraday low of $1.902 per million British thermal units on
April 19, and were at $2.356 at 12:05 p.m. in London.  “Weaker forecasts for global economic growth, and thus
demand for energy, and weaker client activity coupled with a
significant increase in supply of natural gas” translated into
lower so-called spreads and commodity revenues at the banks in
the quarter, Coalition said in response to questions. “Global
 commodities markets  were less volatile.”  Revenue from commodities accounted for 6.3 percent of $32
billion that the 10 banks generated from their fixed income,
currency and commodity, or FICC, divisions, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on data in the report. The combined
performance of the FICC divisions was unchanged in the first
quarter compared to the year-earlier period.  U.S. banks typically don’t disclose commodities-trading
revenue, instead combining the business with fixed-income and
currency trading in a single line. The Coalition report excluded
so-called dedicated proprietary trading and principal
investments in its analysis, according to the methodology.  ‘Fewer Opportunities’  Goldman’s FICC revenue was $3.46 billion in the first
quarter compared with $4.33 billion a year earlier, the bank
said in April. “Commodity results reflected lower volatility
levels, which drove fewer opportunities during the quarter,”
Viniar said during a conference call with analysts that month.  JPMorgan’s revenue  from FICC fell 11 percent to $4.66
billion from a year earlier, while  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s first-
quarter FICC revenue was $2.59 billion, 34 percent higher than a
year earlier. Bank of America reported FICC revenue of $4.1
billion compared with $3.7 billion a year earlier.  Marketed U.S. gas production may climb 4.4 percent this
year from a record 66.22 billion cubic feet a day in 2011, the
 Department of Energy  said May 8 in its Short-Term Energy
Outlook. U.S. gas stockpiles rose 77 billion cubic feet to 2.744
trillion in the week ended May 18, the department said May 24.  To contact the reporter on this story
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  