-- Construction Spending in U.S. Rose in April for a Second Month
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-rose-in-april-for-a-second-month.html
Construction  spending  in the U.S. rose
in April for a second month, helped by a surge in housing.  The 0.3 percent gain followed a matching increase in March
that was revised higher than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The  median 
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
0.4 percent rise.  Cheaper properties and low borrowing costs are lifting
orders at homebuilders like  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , a sign the
industry that helped trigger the recession is improving. At the
same time, foreclosures remain a restraint on housing, and
commercial construction is unlikely to pick up until growth
accelerates.  “There’s a modest uptick in demand” for homes, Michael Gapen, a senior U.S. economist at Barclays Plc in  New York , said
before the report. “The housing recovery should broaden out this
year. We’re coming off the bottom.”  Estimates from 49 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a drop of 0.3 percent to a gain of 1.5 percent, following an
initially reported 0.1 percent increase for March.  Construction spending increased 6.3 percent in the 12 months
ended in April, before adjusting for seasonal variations.  Private construction spending rose 1.2 percent in April from
the prior month.  Homebuilding Outlays  Homebuilding outlays jumped 2.8 percent, the highest since
October, including a 3.7 percent increase in home improvement.
Private non-residential projects spending declined by 0.2
percent.  Spending on public construction fell 1.4 percent in April
from the prior month. Federal construction spending dropped 5
percent while state and local fell 1 percent.  Housing demand is improving. Purchases of new houses climbed
3.3 percent in April, while those of existing homes rose 3.4
percent, figures showed last month.  Construction is getting a lift from higher sales. Housing
starts rose 2.6 percent to a 717,000 annual rate in April,
according to Commerce Department figures released on May 16.  Toll Brothers is among the builders reporting growth in
orders. Second-quarter profit at the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based
company exceeded analysts’ estimates as orders surged 47 percent
from a year earlier.  “We are feeling better than we have at any time in the past
five years,” Chairman Robert Toll said on a May 23 earnings
call. “We would like to say we’re back, but we need a little
more confirmation. Nonetheless, it sure feels good compared to
the desert we’ve just crossed.”  Borrowing Costs  Borrowing costs remain attractive. The average rate on a 30-
year fixed mortgage fell to an all-time low of 3.75 percent in
the week ended May 31, according to Freddie Mac data going back
to 1971.  Construction funded by government agencies is likely to stay
under pressure. Communities and states across the nation face
soaring costs for pensions and retiree health benefits as sales
and property-tax revenue have fallen from the longest recession
since the 1930s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  