-- Consumer Spending, Incomes in U.S. Increased in April
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-01T13:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/consumer-spending-incomes-in-u-s-increased-in-april.html
U.S. consumer spending rose in April,
a sign that households are supporting the economy as the labor
market seeks to gain momentum.  Purchases increased 0.3 percent after a revised 0.2 percent
gain the prior month, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median estimate of 78 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 0.3 percent increase in so-called
nominal sales. Incomes rose 0.2 percent, less than forecast.  Households have managed to stretch their budgets to propel
growth in the U.S., with consumer spending making up 70 percent
of the economy. At the same time, households may have trouble
sustaining the pace of spending in the future until a stronger
labor market leads to bigger income gains.  “Income growth isn’t sufficient enough to really prop up
spending,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc.
in  New York , who correctly forecast the gain in purchases.
“Match this with the weak payrolls data and this really
suggests that spending is going to continue to lose momentum amid
a soft and fragile economy.”  In a separate report the Labor Department said today
American employers in May added the smallest number of workers in
a year and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly increased as job-
seekers re-entered the workforce. Payrolls climbed by 69,000 last
month, less than the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey, the Labor Department said. The jobless rate rose to
8.2 percent from 8.1 percent, while hours worked declined.  Stock Futures  Stock futures  fell after the reports. The contract on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 2 percent to 1,283.70 at 8:40
a.m. in New York. The benchmark Treasury 10-year note yield fell
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 1.47 percent at
8:35 a.m. New York time.  Projections for spending ranged from gains of 0.1 percent to
0.5 percent. The Commerce Department revised the March spending
figure from a previously reported 0.3 percent increase.  Incomes increased in April after a 0.4 percent gain the
prior month. Economists forecast incomes would rise 0.3 percent,
according to the Bloomberg survey. Wages and salaries rose 0.2
percent in April after 0.3 percent a month earlier.  Adjusting  consumer spending  for inflation, which renders the
figure used to calculate gross domestic product, it rose 0.3
percent.  Seasonal Events  Seasonal events may have pulled some sales into the previous
month. The average temperature in March was the warmest on record
in the U.S., and Easter fell on April 8 compared with April 24
the year before.  Inflation-adjusted spending on durable goods, including
automobiles, increased 0.8 percent in April after a 1.2 percent
decline the previous month. Outlays for non-durable goods, which
include gasoline, rose 0.2 percent in April.  Households stepped up their purchases last quarter to
bolster the expansion. Their spending grew at a 2.7 percent
annual rate, the most since the final three months of 2010,
according to data from the Commerce Department.  To maintain spending at last quarter’s pace, Americans
dipped into more of their savings. The savings rate dropped to
3.6 percent, the lowest level since the last three months of
2007, from 4.2 percent in the fourth quarter.  Today’s income report showed the April savings rate dropped
to 3.4 percent from 3.5 percent.  Cooling inflation could also help take pressure off
Americans’ wallets. A measure of prices tied to consumer spending
was unchanged in April. Excluding food and energy, prices
increased 0.1 percent.  Overall Economy  “The overall economy is still our customers’ main
concern,”  Bill Simon , the U.S. chief executive officer of Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. said during a May 17 during earnings call. “In
particular, they remain concerned about  job security  or the
availability of jobs, followed by gas and energy prices and
rising food costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  