-- Construction Bank’s Hong Kong Unit to Double Yuan Assets by 2014
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-06-01T07:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/construction-bank-s-hong-kong-unit-to-double-yuan-assets-by-2014.html
China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ’s Hong
Kong unit plans to double its yuan-denominated assets to a fifth
of its total as the country promotes its currency for
international trade and investment.  China Construction Bank (Asia) Corp. , which held the
equivalent of HK$135 billion ($17.4 billion) in total assets
last year, aims to reach the yuan goal in one to two years,
Miranda Kwok, chief executive officer of CCB (Asia), said in an
interview on May 30. Construction Bank is the nation’s second-
biggest lender.  “As yuan internationalization progresses further with less
restriction and more flexibility, this will create more room for
Hong Kong banks to grow their business,” Kwok said.  China   started  using its currency overseas in 2004 and has
gradually opened investing channels for  yuan  held offshore,
spurring trade financing and yuan lending in the city.  Yuan
trade settlement  handled by Hong Kong lenders jumped at least
four fold last year to 1.91 trillion yuan from a year earlier,
according to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  The People’s Bank of China in October allowed foreign
direct investment with yuan raised offshore, creating corporate
demand for yuan loans in Hong Kong where borrowing costs are
lower than in China. Funds are then used for mainland investment.
Lending in the currency surged 16 fold to 30.8 billion yuan in
the city last year from 2010, monetary authority data showed.  “The size of yuan loans is currently not comparable to
loans in other currencies, but its growth will certainly be the
highest on the back of policy support,” Kwok said. “The fact
that the yuan  lending interest rate  in Hong Kong is lower than
in China will help bolster lending business in the city.”  Retail Expansion  CCB ( Asia )’s outstanding yuan loans surged 73 percent to
6.18 billion yuan at the end of last year from 2010 and total
yuan assets stood at HK$12.63 billion at the end of the year,
according to its annual report. The unit’s yuan trade settlement
jumped almost seven fold in 2011 from a year earlier, Kwok said.  The unit is also marketing to retail clients to boost  yuan
deposits . The bank, which has 41 branches in Hong Kong and eight
locations in  Macau , plans to expand its network in the cities by
about a third to as many as 65 branches in the next five years,
Kwok said. The bank will open two new branches in  Hong Kong  this
year, she added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  