-- Wheat Extends Weekly Loss as Rains Around World May Boost Crops
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-06-01T14:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/corn-pares-weekly-decline-as-dry-weather-in-u-s-threatens-crops.html
Wheat slid, heading for the biggest
weekly loss in four weeks, on speculation global supplies will
be ample as rains ease dry conditions from  Russia  to Kansas.  Parts of western Ukraine may receive more than an inch (2.5
centimeters) of rain today, while storms during the weekend
bring about 0.3 inch daily to western areas of Russia,
AccuWeather Inc. said. Wheat prices on the Chicago Board of
Trade have tumbled about 12 percent from an eight-month high on
May 21 on concern that dry weather would hurt crops.  “So far, it doesn’t look like there will be a massive
reduction in wheat supply,” Muktadir Ur Rahman, an economist at
London-based researcher Capital Economics Ltd., said by
telephone. “Russia had a decent amount of rain in some of the
important areas last week, and I think they have a little more
coming from this week onward.”  Wheat futures for July delivery slipped 0.5 percent to
$6.405 a bushel in  Chicago , heading for a 5.9 percent drop this
week, the biggest decline for a most-active contract since May
4. In Paris, November-delivery milling wheat fell 0.8 percent to
209.75 euros ($259.15) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe. The contract
is down 4.1 percent from an 11-month high on May 21.  Lower wheat prices may ease pressure on global food costs,
which have climbed 1.5 percent this year, according to the
 United Nations . Wheat dropped 1.6 percent in May, while the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities tumbled 13
percent on growing concern about slowdown in  Europe .  World Production  World wheat production may total 671 million tons in the
marketing year that begins July 1, down 3.5 percent from a
record 695 million a year earlier, the London-based
International Grains Council said May 24. Output in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest exporter, may total 59 million tons, up from
54.4 million a year earlier, the group said.  About 9 percent of the U.S. winter wheat crop had been
harvested as of May 27, ahead of the previous five-year average
pace of only 1 percent, as warm, dry weather accelerated crop
development. Areas of the U.S. southern Great Plains, the
biggest winter-wheat producing region, may see thundershowers
daily today through June 3, Telvent DTN said.  “Harvest is going to continue to pressure wheat down,”
 Tom Leffler , the owner of Leffler Commodities LLC in Augusta,
Kansas, said by telephone. “Farmers are finding very good
yields out there. In fact I’m having a difficult time finding
farmers who will complain about their wheat. This crop was
sitting in better shape in some places and the dry weather
couldn’t hurt it enough.”  Corn Futures  Corn futures for July delivery rose 1.2 percent to $5.62 a
bushel in Chicago. Prices are set to drop 2.9 percent this week.  Cheaper corn costs may mean livestock producers favor the
grain over wheat in feed, said Chris Gadd, an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. Chicago corn reached a discount of $1.215 a
bushel to  Kansas  City Board of Trade wheat on May 25. Hard, red
winter wheat for July delivery was unchanged today at $6.65 a
bushel in  Kansas City .  “The corn-wheat spread has been expanding over Russian
crop concerns,” Gadd said by telephone from  London . “This
suggests less wheat will be used in the feed ration than
originally expected.”  Soybeans for July delivery fell 0.2 percent to $13.38 a
bushel, set for a 3.2 percent decline this week on the CBOT.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  