-- CP Rail Restarts Freight Network After Law Ends Strike
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-06-01T20:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/cp-rail-workers-return-to-jobs-as-strike-law-passes.html
Canadian Pacific  Railway Ltd.
restarted its freight network in Canada today after Parliament
passed a bill ending a weeklong Teamsters strike that snarled
industry supply chains and seaport traffic.  Work on the Canadian freight lines of the Calgary-based
railroad resumed about 7 a.m. New York time,  Ed Greenberg , a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail. The legislation sends all
unresolved issues between Canadian Pacific and the union to
binding arbitration, giving them 90 days to settle on a new
contract or face one drafted by an arbitrator.  “We are very pleased to see them working again,” said
 Richard Phillips , executive director of the Grain Growers of
Canada, which represents grain and oilseed producers. About 1.6
million tons of grain were backed up as a result of the strike,
he said.  It will take “a couple of months” for the shippers to
work through that backlog, he said in a telephone interview.
“The bigger concern is the longer-term damage it does to our
reputation as a reliable supplier.”  The Forest Products Association of  Canada , which represents
wood, pulp and paper producers, said it anticipates a shortage
of railcar supply for member companies in seven to 10 days as
shippers work through backlogs.  “Even in good times, it’s difficult to get enough cars to
service all the requirements of our member companies,” said
Isabelle Des Chênes, a spokeswoman for the group. “So there is
concern now that this will manifest itself, have a multiplier
effect as CP works to get everything going again.”  Share Performance  Canadian Pacific  fell  3.1 percent to C$73.70 at the close
in Toronto as the broader S&P Toronto Stock Exchange Composite
Index declined. The shares have dropped 1.6 percent since the
labor action began.  The strike by the Teamsters Canada Rail Conference, which
represents more than 4,000 engineers, conductors and rail-
traffic controllers, will curb Canadian Pacific’s quarterly
earnings and probably benefited its larger competitor,  Canadian
National Railway Co. (CNR) ,  Fadi Chamoun , a BMO Capital Markets
analyst in Toronto, said yesterday.  “The strike could potentially impact about $13 million in
revenues per day and nearly 100,000 carloads for the quarter,”
Chamoun wrote in a note to clients. “The volumes lost by CP
Rail would have partially shifted” to  Canadian National , said
Chamoun, who rates the stock as market perform.  The Teamsters contract talks with the company  stalled over
points  including pension payments and fatigue rules.  Operating Expenses  The railroad sought to cut costs after contributing C$1.9
billion ($1.84 billion) to its retirement programs in the past
three years to reduce funding shortfalls, while union members
resisted what they said was a 40 percent cut in pension
benefits.  The pensions helped push Canadian Pacific’s operating
ratio, or operating expenses as a percentage of sales, above
those of its peers. Those costs were criticized by activist
investor  William Ackman  during a months-long proxy fight that
led to the departure of CEO  Fred Green  and five other board
members on May 17.  Ackman said this week that the permanent CEO selected to
succeed Green would “sit down at the table” to craft a new
contract with the Teamsters union. Ackman told CNBC on May 29
that  Hunter Harrison , his choice to run Canadian Pacific, has
always taken a direct approach to negotiations, talking
personally with workers.  ‘Negotiating Dynamics’  Harrison, 67, previously ran Canadian National and has
targeted an operating ratio of 65 percent in 2015 if he’s
selected for the top job at Canadian Pacific. The railroad’s
operating expenses were 80.1 percent of sales in the most recent
quarter.  “It’s very interesting negotiating dynamics,” said  Lee Klaskow , an analyst with Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New
Jersey . An improved ratio of operating expenses to revenue “is
not just going to come through better operating the network more
efficiently, it’s going to be cutting costs.”  While employees want to improve the company’s
profitability, too, they don’t want to “give up something to
get there,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ; 