-- Credit Suisse-Led Banks Take 19% of YPF on Loan Default
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-06-01T20:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/credit-suisse-led-banks-take-19-of-ypf-on-loan-defaulf.html
Credit Suisse AG (CSGN)  and five other banks
will take over 19 percent of Argentine oil producer  YPF SA (YPF)  after
the Petersen Group defaulted on a $1 billion loan that used the
stake for collateral.  The group of lenders, which includes  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc (GS)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , has met with government officials to
discuss the stake seizure, a Petersen official, who can’t be
named under corporate policy, said in a telephone interview from
Buenos Aires today. Petersen won’t send representatives to a YPF
shareholders’  meeting  on June 4 after missing a $400 million
payment to the banks last month, the official said.  Petersen, owned by Argentina’s billionaire Eskenazi family,
was using YPF  dividends  of as much as 90 percent of profit to
meet obligations before the government opposed the payments to
shareholders last year and seized control of the oil producer
this year. President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ordered the
takeover on April 16, seizing a 51 percent stake from Spain’s
 Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   Taking over the shares owned by Petersen entitles the banks
to participate in the June 4 meeting where shareholders will
vote on a new board. The Eskenazis operated the company before
Fernandez appointed Planning Minister Julio De Vido and Deputy
Economy Minister Axel Kicillof to oversee management. On May 4,
she named Miguel Galuccio, a former executive at  Schlumberger
Ltd. (SLB) , as general manager.  David Walker , a Credit Suisse spokesman in New York,
declined to comment in an e-mailed response to questions.  Stake Warning  Credit Suisse sent Petersen a warning about the group of
banks’ right to take the stake last month after the Argentine
company missed a payment due May 15, according to a YPF filing
to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission two days later.  Petersen borrowed $601 million from Credit Suisse, $175
million from BNP, $150 million from Itau BBA and $100 million
from Goldman Sachs in 2008 to purchase a 15 percent stake in
YPF, according to regulatory filings. It took a second loan in
2011 from Credit Suisse, Itau,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , BNP and  Standard
Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd. to help finance the purchase of another 10
percent in YPF.  Repsol, which also loaned Petersen funds on both occasions,
said yesterday it has notified Petersen it will take control of
6 percent of YPF given as a guarantee following the default.
That would bring Repsol’s current holdings to 12 percent.  YPF’s American depositary receipts fell 1.2 percent to
close at $12.64 in New York. Before today, they declined 63
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  