-- Dell Negotiations to Buy Quest Software Said to Collapse
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/dell-negotiations-to-buy-quest-software-are-said-to-break-down.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s negotiations to buy  Quest
Software Inc. (QSFT)  broke down and the companies are no longer in
talks, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Dell had been close to a deal for Quest, said a person last
week who declined to be identified because the discussions were
private. The companies could choose to resume discussions.  Quest, which agreed in March to be bought by private-equity
firm Insight Venture Partners for about $2 billion, has said it
received other offers. The company makes software to help
businesses manage databases and servers, as well as back up
information and recover lost data. Before yesterday, the stock
had surged 34 percent this year amid speculation that another
buyer would top Insight’s $23-a-share bid.  “There’s a multitude of reasons why they could break down,
and it could have just got to the point of bidding where Dell
didn’t want to play anymore,” said Brian Freed, an analyst at
Wunderlich Securities in Denver who has a buy rating on Quest.
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  or other private equity firms might still
consider bids, and Quest could sell for as much as $26 a share,
he said.  Quest, with a market value of about $2 billion, also helps
customers monitor the performance of applications that run
businesses. The stock lost 5 percent to $23.74 at the close in
New York yesterday. Dell shares fell 2.1 percent to $12.07.  ‘Superior Proposal’  Representatives from Insight and Microsoft couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment, while spokesmen for Dell and
Quest declined to comment.  Quest said on March 9 that it agreed to be taken private by
Insight. Two months later, the  Aliso Viejo , California-based
company said it received several other offers during a so-called
“go-shop” period that are “reasonably expected to lead to a
superior proposal.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has said Quest is worth about $28 a
share, based on the software provider’s sales and cash flow, and
could attract bids from  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,
Dell or private-equity firms.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is advising Quest on its strategic options.  Bloomberg News was first to report on May 24 that Dell was
in advanced discussions to acquire Quest.  Reuters reported the breakdown in talks earlier yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  