-- Denmark’s Bernstein Rules Out More Support for Banks
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-06-01T09:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/denmark-s-bernstein-rules-out-more-support-for-banks.html
Denmark’s central bank won’t provide
extra liquidity support to the country’s lenders amid signs that
flagging demand, not the financial industry, is holding back
economic growth, Governor Nils Bernstein said.  “As the situation looks now, we don’t have any plans to
take any initiatives,” Bernstein said. “It’s first and
foremost a problem of demand.”  The central bank expanded its collateral base last year and
in March offered its first ever three-year loans to support a
bank industry struggling to emerge from a burst real estate
bubble. Moody’s Investors Service this week downgraded nine
Danish lenders, including  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and Nykredit A/S, and
warned that declining house prices are hurting asset quality.  Five  banks  have collapsed since last year, and the
Financial Supervisory Authority says more failures may follow as
it tells lenders to adhere to stricter write-down rules.
Industry groups have warned the development risks choking access
to credit as banks trim their balance sheets to comply with the
more rigorous standards.  “Our experience is that well-run businesses can get the
loans they need,” Bernstein said. “Not so well-run companies
may face bigger hurdles,” he said.  Danske Bank A/S declined to its lowest in more than a week
in Copenhagen trading, falling 1.5 percent to 78.40 kroner.
Jyske Bank A/S and Sydbank A/S, Denmark’s second- and third-
largest listed lenders, lost 1.3 percent and 1.2 percent,
respectively.  ‘Healthy Projects’  Lending to companies fell an annual 8 percent in April,
while loans rose close to 2 percent on the month, according to
central bank figures released May 29. The annual decline slowed
from 10 percent in March.  “For small companies, it depends on their business model
and whether they can present healthy projects to their banks,”
Bernstein said. “There are some that may have difficulties
getting loans.”  His bank has planned a second offering of three-year loans
for September after lenders borrowed 19 billion kroner from the
facility in March.  Danish lawmakers agreed in March to provide at least 36
billion kroner ($6 billion) in loans and guarantees to
businesses through state agencies as part of the country’s fifth
bank rescue package since 2008.  Crisis Lessons  As government support measures continue, stricter
regulatory requirements are appropriate, Bernstein said.  “It’s sensible that the FSA tightens up, based on the
experiences they’ve harvested from the financial crisis,” he
said. “It’s natural that the banks react. There should be an
exchange of opinions. But we don’t have any reservations about
the policies that the FSA is carrying out.”  Denmark emerged from a recession in the first quarter, the
country’s statistics agency said yesterday. Gross domestic
product expanded 0.3 percent in the three months through March,
after contracting in the third and fourth quarters. Denmark’s
gross unemployment rate was unchanged in April at 6.2 percent,
the agency said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 