-- Detroit Leaders Escape to Resort With Crisis as Uninvited Guest
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/detroit-leaders-escape-to-resort-with-crisis-as-uninvited-guest.html
Detroit’s business and political
leaders gathered at a Mackinac Island resort this week to revel
in the return of an  IndyCar  race, a new  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM) 
store in the city and a job surge downtown that’s made leased
parking spaces scarce.  Less thrilling to the 1,500 people at the annual policy
conference of the Detroit Regional Chamber at the 125-year-old
Grand Hotel -- and less discussed -- was the lingering financial
crisis in Michigan’s largest city. Two months after a state
takeover was averted, a new nine-member oversight board still
lacks three members that the City Council is supposed to
appoint.  “It’s appalling,” said L. Brooks Patterson, the chief
executive of suburban Oakland County. “They think if they
ignore it, it will go away, that’s been their attitude all
along. We’re at a crisis point here.”  While strong auto sales drive Michigan’s resurgence,
 Detroit ’s governance is a lingering headache that has some
wondering whether a state takeover -- or bankruptcy -- is
inevitable. A takeover would trigger turmoil in a mostly black
city with a history of conflict with the predominantly white
state government. Bankruptcy might hurt both the image and bond
ratings of a region that’s home to the U.S. auto industry.  Necessary Steps  “I am 1,000 percent confident that the problems the city
faces can be managed,” said Conrad Mallett Jr., a member of the
state review team that in March recommended intervention to
solve a $265 million deficit and deal with long-term debt
topping $12 billion. “What I am not confident in is the current
executive leadership is going to take the steps necessary, in
cooperation with the state, to confront those problems.”  Mallett, executive vice president of the Detroit Medical
Center, said he was taken aback that Mayor Dave Bing let the
city’s top attorney challenge the legality of the agreement that
Bing approved.  Naomi Patton, the mayor’s spokeswoman, said yesterday that
the city’s corporation counsel, Krystal Crittendon, acted on her
own authority under Detroit’s charter.  Bing, 68, said yesterday that he and the council are
starting to get control of spending. He said he was surprised
when he took office in May 2009 by the depth of Detroit’s
financial abyss.  “People are waiting for change right now,” the mayor said
during a panel discussion. “We’re going to be able to do things
much faster than we were in the first couple of years.”  Better Atmosphere  Statewide, the economy is improving.  Michigan ’s  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3 percent in
April after peaking at 14.2 percent in August 2009 during the
longest recession since the 1930s. That compared with an 8.1
percent  national rate .  The state was second only to to  North Dakota  in economic
recovery from the fourth quarter of 2010 to the fourth quarter
of 2011, according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States.  Still, Detroit’s persistent urban struggles were an
undercurrent at the conference 280 miles (about 450 kilometers)
north of the city on an island that bans motorized vehicles in
favor of bicycles and horse-drawn carriages.  At a forum on how Detroit can overcome its decades of
economic decline, former Washington D.C. Mayor Anthony Williams
said the council’s delay in appointing oversight board members
was “ridiculous.”  Councilman Gary Brown said May 30 that the remaining three
board members may be appointed next week. The panel must concur
with the mayor and council before Detroit’s budget can be
approved.  Emptying Out  Bing, who has 18 months left in his term, said he and the
City Council have agreed on a plan that reduces spending by $250
million in the fiscal year that begins July 1, and will cut
about 750 jobs in addition to 1,800 that will be eliminated by
June 30.  The mayor said he’ll work under an agreement with the state
that calls for eliminating the city’s deficit in five years.  Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  pledged to a conference
audience that he’d help Detroit, where 40 percent of
streetlights don’t work, vacant lots are weed-choked and one-
quarter of the population left since 2000.  The city’s agreement, which averted Snyder’s appointing an
emergency manager, sets up a possible confrontation with
municipal employee unions. In February, they agreed to
concessions, and now must renegotiate what may be deeper cuts in
pay and benefits.  Safe, Stable  The key to fixing Detroit is for the unions to cooperate in
reducing pension liabilities too large for a shrinking
workforce, said former Mayor Dennis Archer.  Archer said businesses are committed to Detroit, as evident
in the new Whole Foods store and the planned relocation there of
employees by  Quicken Loans Inc.  and other companies. Young
people will move to the city if it’s stable and safe, Archer
said.  David Zilko, 49, vice chairman of Garden Fresh Gourmet
based in Ferndale -- it makes Garden Fresh salsa -- said Detroit
faces a catastrophe without federal assistance and additional
entrepreneurial growth such as urban farms. He said more
immigration would fill emptied neighborhoods.  “It really depends on whether we have the political will
and capability to do that,” Zilko said in an interview at the
conference.  Changing Image  Angel Gambino, who lives in downtown Detroit, is co-founder
of Nonopoly, a commercial-property developer. She said Detroit’s
image is changing.  “People are curious,” Gambino said. “They’ll say things
like, ’Oh, I’ve heard that there’s a really big, organic arts
scene there.’ Or, ’I heard that the electronic music scene is
really happening there right now,’ or they hear property is so
cheap that people are coming in and doing really interesting
things.’”  Gambino, 40, said the city needs bold changes, such as
eliminating property or sales taxes. And she voiced what’s
become a perennial theme at the annual conference:  “We need to diversify the economy a heck of a lot more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Mackinac Island, Michigan at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  