-- Dewey Creditors Represented By Legal Recruiter, Car Service
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-01T14:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/dewey-creditors-represented-by-legal-recruiter-car-service-1-.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s unsecured
creditors will be represented by individuals from a legal
recruiting and placement firm, a car service company and an
equipment leasing company, according to a list of the three
committee members appointed by the U.S. Trustee.  Tracy Hope Davis, who oversees bankruptcies in the New York
region, listed HireCounsel, Inta Boro Acres Inc. and Fidelity
National Capital Inc. in a notice of the appointments filed in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan  yesterday. The defunct  law
firm  will also have a four-person committee of former partners,
including two whose addresses are care of Duane Morris,
according to a separate filing.  Dewey’s Memorial Day bankruptcy filing indicated it might
not be able to pay all of its secured debts, which it must do
before giving anything to unsecured creditors. The firm
disclosed $225 million of secured loans from banks and
bondholders, to be paid mostly by collecting $255 million of
bills to clients. Analysts value those bills at as little as 40
cents on the dollar.  Topping a list of Dewey’s unsecured creditors is the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., claiming $80 million for
underfunded pensions. Second is Dewey’s landlord, Paramount
Group, claiming $3.8 million for property taxes and May rent,
followed by  Thomson Reuters , owed $2.4 million for legal
research. Former Dewey partners, including those with an
estimated $100 million of guarantees, may rank equal to, or
below trade creditors under bankruptcy law.  “Dewey is essentially a zero asset bankruptcy for the
unsecureds,” said Ed Reeser, a former managing partner for the
Los Angeles office of Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP, who’s
now a consultant. “There is nothing there for them to get.
There is going to be terrible pain worked on many good people.”  Trade Paper  Vendor claims against Dewey, also known as trade paper,
were recently quoted at 5 cents to 8 cents on the dollar, said
 Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading at CRT
Capital Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt
including Dewey’s. The category includes a unit of ABM
Industries, which provided janitorial services at Dewey’s
offices at 1301 Avenue of the Americas in  New York , and sued the
firm for about $300,000 in unpaid bills.  Dewey’s secured bonds, which were privately placed and
trade sparsely, were quoted at 45 cents to 55 cents on the
dollar earlier this month, CRT said.  Dewey unwound fast this year as at least 250 of its 304
partners quit to join rivals. Now it faces a long fight to
collect money for secured lenders led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Dewey had more than 1,300 attorneys in 12 countries after
the 2007 merger of Dewey Ballantine LLP and LeBoeuf, Lamb,
Greene & McRae LLP, making it the biggest bankruptcy in its
business. It now has 150 employees in the U.S. to wind it down
and pay creditors.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  