-- Dish Network Wins $65 Million Judgment Against Sonicview
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2012-06-01T05:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/dish-network-wins-65-million-judgment-against-sonicview-usa.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
biggest U.S. satellite-television provider, won a $65 million
summary judgment against Sonicview USA Inc., which was found
liable for selling receivers that allowed for pirating of Dish
programming.  U.S. District Judge James Lorenz in  San Diego  also ordered
Duane Bernard, an authorized Sonicview dealer, and his brother
Courtney to pay Dish $984,800 for distributing almost 5,000
Sonicview products capable of pirating the programming.  The $65 million judgment against Sonicview is a fifth of
the $325 million Dish had sought for violations of the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act which allows damages of $1,000 for each
device sold. At least 307,401 Sonicview receivers and 17,500
hubs were distributed, Lorenz wrote in his decision yesterday.
Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , won a $215 million judgment
last year against Viewtech Inc. and its founder Jung Kwak.  “Given that Jung Kwak -- the purported ‘father’ of piracy-
receiver distribution for the Sonicview defendants -- was
assessed $200 per violation in statutory damages, this court
does the same,” Lorenz wrote.  Sonicview, based in Oceanside,  California , sold receivers
and accessories that were designed to circumvent Dish’s security
measures encrypting its programming, according to Lorenz’s
ruling.  Security Measures  Sonicview had argued that the receivers were designed and
made in  South Korea  by Vicxon Corp. and it had no role in that
process. The company also argued that the receivers and hubs are
incapable of circumventing the security measures with only the
factory-installed firmware.  A website owned by Courtney Bernard said the receivers can
get premium channels such as  Dish Network ’s with third-party
software, “which we do not provide or condone,” according to
Lorenz’s ruling.  The judge also ordered Sonicview to destroy all the
receivers and hubs in its possession.  Sonicview officials didn’t immediately respond to a request
for comment left on voice-mail after regular business hours in
California.  The case is Dish Network LLC v. Sonicview USA Inc. 09-cv-
1553. U.S. District Court, Southern District of California. (San
Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  