-- Yen Gains as U.S. Jobs Disappoint, Treasury Yields Fall to Lows
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-06-01T21:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/dollar-yen-strengthen-on-safety-demand-as-u-s-job-growth-slows.html
The yen rose against most of its
major counterparts after the U.S. added the least jobs in a year
last month, adding to concern global growth is stagnating.  The euro gained from a two-year low versus the dollar amid
speculation its decline was too quick as Spanish bond yields
fell for a second day.  Japan ’s currency rose to its strongest in
almost four months against the dollar as the premium investors
get for investing in  U.S. debt  over Japanese securities fell to
a record.  “We have an expression on the trading floor that things
can always get worse, and in this case they can’t,” said
 Michael Woolfolk , a managing director and senior currency
strategist in New York at  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
world’s largest custodial bank. “We’ve hit a soft patch in U.S.
economic activity. The  U.S. dollar  and Japanese yen have proved
the preferred safe-haven currencies and the U.S. dollar is
undoubtedly overbought.”  The yen rose 0.4 percent to 78.02 per dollar at 5 p.m. in
 New York  after adding as much as 0.8 percent. It fell 0.2
percent 97.01 versus the euro after gaining as much as 1.3
percent. The euro added 0.6 percent to $1.2434.  Futures traders increased net bets against the euro versus
the dollar to a record high for a third week. So-called net
shorts rose by 8,054 to 203,415 contracts in the period ended
May 29, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed today.  Euro Gains  The euro rose against all its major counterparts as the 14-
day  relative strength index  for the euro versus the dollar was
below the 30 level, which signals an asset’s price may have
fallen too quickly, for a ninth day, the longest streak since
2008.  “The market has gone quite far on this short-risk trade,
so it’s running out of gas,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of
Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New
York. “You’ve had a classic squeeze day. Now we’ve gotten to
the point where growth is weak and could actually force the Fed
into quantitative easing.”  The shared currency was also supported as 10-year Spanish
yields fell three basis points to 6.53 percent. It is the first
back-to-back daily gains for the benchmark note since May 4.  Credit Suisse lowered its three-month euro outlook to $1.19
from $1.25 and the 12-month forecast to $1.21 from $1.28, Peter Von Maydell, the London-based head of foreign-exchange strategy
wrote to clients today.  “We have revised our FX forecasts to reflect further
expected safe-haven flows into U.S. dollar assets over the next
three months, particularly out of  Europe  and out of currencies
linked to commodity prices and global growth expectations,” he
wrote.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index  fell for the first time in eight days
after the May employment report spurred speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may enact more monetary easing, known as quantitative
easing, which may debase the currency.  The gauge, which tracks the greenback versus six major
trading partners, declined 0.3 percent to 82.797. It is weighted
57.6 percent to movements in the euro.  Payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, after a revised
77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated,
the Labor Department reported. The median estimate called for a
150,000 May advance. The jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from
8.1 percent, while hours worked declined.  The difference, or  spread , between the yield on 10-year
Treasury notes and that of similar-maturity Japanese debt fell
to the lowest level on record, according to Bloomberg data. The
gap reached 59 basis points, or 0.59 percentage point, the
narrowest since at least 1993 as the yield on the U.S. benchmark
fell to a record 1.4387 percent.  Global Growth  The dollar gained 0.8 percent this week against nine
developed-nation counterparts, according to the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has the biggest gain with
a 3.2 percent advance and the pound had the largest decline at
1.3 percent.  Canada ’s dollar sank to the lowest in more than six months
versus the greenback after the nation’s gross domestic product
grew 0.1 percent in March, Ottawa-based  Statistics Canada  said,
less than the median economist forecast of 0.3 percent.  The so-called loonie fell 0.8 percent to C$1.0410. It
earlier touched C$1.0443, the lowest since Nov. 28.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  exited a wager that the Canadian
dollar was going to rise against the euro after the loonie fell
to $C1.2908 yesterday, wrote  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at Westpac in New York.  Brazil ’s real fell to a one-week low after a report showed
the  economy  expanded 0.2 percent in the first quarter from the
previous three months, compared with the 0.5 percent median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The real declined as much as 1.3 percent to 2.0499 per U.S.
dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  