-- Dwarfs Chase Ginnie Midgets as Lenders Seek FHA Debt: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-06-01T13:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/dwarfs-chase-ginnie-midgets-as-lenders-seek-fha-debt-mortgages.html
Midgets are losing ground to dwarfs
in the mortgage bond market as borrowers lock in Federal Housing
Administration loans ahead of fee increases.  Midgets, the name used by traders to describe 15-year
mortgage securities guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, including FHA
loans, fell last month by a record relative to 15-year  Fannie
Mae  securities called dwarfs. The names refer to the loans’
maturities being shorter than more popular 30-year debt.  The midget market expanded in the past year because of the
growth of FHA-insured lending beyond first-time home buyers or
others with little cash or weak credit. Now, as the agency’s fee
increases erode the relative attractiveness of the 15-year loans
to borrowers who could qualify for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
mortgages, lenders have flooded the market with Ginnie Mae bonds
as the opportunity fades.  The temporary advantage offered by 15-year FHA loans “was
something that we were taking advantage of in a big way over the
last year or so,” said Bob Walters, chief economist at Detroit-
based Quicken Loans Inc., the eighth-largest home lender. “Much
of it is going to go away, and you’re seeing the tail end of all
those case numbers starting to fund through.”  As Ginnie Mae’s 3.5 percent 15-year bonds fell, the premium
over similar Fannie Mae debt shrunk in May to 1.3 cents on the
dollar from about 2 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Insurance Premiums  Borrowers with more  home equity  or bigger down payments
have been getting 15-year FHA mortgages in the past year partly
because financing backed by the agency with loan-to-value ratios
of less than 78 percent doesn’t  require  any annual insurance
premiums.  Homeowners that would otherwise pay as much as 1.25 percent
a year instead only pay FHA’s upfront fees. Lenders have been
able to cover those charges while still offering better rates
than on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans because of higher
Ginnie Mae bond prices, according to Equity Now Inc., Norcom
Mortgage and Quicken Loans. Premiums on midgets with 3.5 percent
coupons peaked at a record 2.3 cents on the dollar in October.  “Somewhere along the line, around March 2011, we did a 15-
year FHA loan and realized” that homeowners could get a better
deal than with Fannie Mae loans, said Matt Hackett, underwriting
manager at New York-based  Equity Now . “Then we did a ton of
them.”  Changing Math  That math is changing because of an increase in FHA’s
upfront charges to 1.75 percent, from 1 percent. Lenders have
six months to finish  loans  assigned case numbers before April 9
at the old premium levels. Equity Now is bringing to the
attention of consumers who have a case number, which lenders can
create for a pending application, “the advantageous position
that they’re in,” said Hackett.  The FHA, which insures mortgages for refinancing and home
purchases, has been raising premiums to bolster its finances and
avoid a taxpayer bailout. The agency yesterday disputed a
report that foreclosure starts on its loans spiked from March
to April, while saying it does expect an increase after a $25
billion settlement that resolved legal disputes between
officials and mortgage servicers over faulty foreclosures.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  have been sustained by almost
$190 billion in aid since being seized in 2008. The three
entities, along with other U.S.-backed programs, account for
about 90 percent of new mortgages.  Fifteen-year loans carry higher monthly payments than 30-
year debt, making them rare among FHA borrowers. Regulatory data
on mortgage-bond trading this month through last week signals
increased supply.  TBA Market  Daily volumes for Ginnie Mae 15-year securities with
coupons of 3.5 percent or less averaged $180.5 million in the
so-called specified pool market, or 10.9 percent of the total
for Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 15-year debt. That
compares with $90 million, or 6.2 percent, from mid-May 2011,
when the data began being collected under the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority’s Trade Compliance and Reporting Engine.  In the so-called To Be Announced market, where forward
contracts can be filled with bonds matching a range of
characteristics, trading of the Ginnie Mae debt jumped to $1
billion, compared with a total of $5.3 billion over the period.  Outstanding midgets total about $45 billion, compared with
the $5.4 trillion market for U.S.-backed mortgage securities.
Ginnie Mae bonds often trade at higher prices than Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac securities, partly because they carry explicit
government guarantees and have lower capital charges for banks.  Midgets were due for a correction because the premiums were
too large, said  Scott Simon , mortgage head at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s largest bond fund.  ‘Insanely High’  “We simply did not understand why banks would buy them
where they were trading,” Simon said. “We thought they were
insanely high.”  He wouldn’t say if  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco is
buying the bonds, which he said now trade at a “reasonable
level.”  The fall may offer an opportunity to investors, according
to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  analysts including Satish Mansukhani in
New York.  “This decline in payups leaves midgets as one of the few
sectors offering the yields that prevailed prior to the onset of
the current rally,” the New York-based analysts wrote in a May
18 report.  One negative is the underlying loans, especially debt
originated in 2011, have prepaid faster than similar Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac mortgages when new-loan rates generally appear
to offer similar refinancing incentives to borrowers, the Bank
of America analysts said.  Price Advantage  The difference is tied partly to FHA mortgages carrying
even lower rates because of Ginnie Mae’s price advantage, and
with the smaller gap going forward “converging rates will
result in narrowing prepayment differentials,” the analysts
said.  Rates on new  15-year mortgages  fell to a record low 3.33
percent last week, down from last year’s high of 4.65 percent,
according to Mortgage Bankers Association data. Fifteen-year FHA
loans aren’t separately tracked.  Prepayments damage investors who buy bonds for more than
face value by returning their cash at par and curbing interest
payments. The 3.5 percent Ginnie Mae 15-year securities trade at
almost 107 cents on the dollar, Bloomberg data show.  The relative price drop arose with the  Federal Reserve 
failing to buy 15-year Ginnie Mae securities even as the central
bank reinvests in the mortgage-bond market with proceeds from
past purchases under a program begun in October. The Fed is
acquiring 15-year Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac securities.  Knowing Options  Ginnie Mae is monitoring the decline, though isn’t
concerned at this point, said Ted Tozer, president of the U.S.-
owned corporation. “The market has ebbs and flows, and the
market usually reaches equilibrium points over time,” he said.  Lenders aren’t necessarily losing their ability to find
situations where 15-year FHA loans are cheaper than similar
Fannie Mae debt, said Jim Morin, vice president of retail
lending at Avon Connecticut-based  Norcom Mortgage . Those can
include homes with more than one unit or borrowers with lower
credit scores who face Fannie Mae price adjustments, he said.  “It’s just about sometimes thinking outside the box and
borrowers knowing about their options,” Morin said. At the same
time not all consumers easily embrace FHA debt because “for
some people, it’s like a dirty word when you start bringing up
FHA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  