-- Dynegy Bankruptcy Settlement With Creditors Approved
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-01T19:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/dynegy-bankruptcy-settlement-with-creditors-approved.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN) ’s bankruptcy settlement
with bondholders, a deal that will hand ownership of the power
producer to creditors, was approved by a judge.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Cecelia Morris in Poughkeepsie,  New
York , approved the settlement at a hearing today after
dissenting debtholders dropped their opposition and agreed to
back the agreement. Dynegy rose 9.5 percent to 53 cents at 3:24
p.m. in New York.  “I do know it was a lot of hard work,” said Morris, who
commended the company and creditors on the deal. “I do know it
was very contentious.”  Approval of the settlement moves Houston-based Dynegy
closer to completing the bankruptcy restructuring of its Dynegy
Holdings LLC unit. Dynegy put the subsidiary and other units
into bankruptcy last year after reaching a deal with bondholders
on a debt restructuring plan.  Dynegy Chief Executive Officer Robert Flexon said in a
statement that the court’s approval of the settlement
“establishes the foundation” for the remainder of the
restructuring. The company plans to complete the bankruptcy in
the fall.  ‘Continued Support’  “We are pleased that all major creditor groups are now a
part of the settlement agreement and look forward to their
continued support,” he said.  Under the agreement, Dynegy and Dynegy Holdings will be
combined, and unsecured creditors of the holdings unit,
including holders of about $3.4 billion in senior notes, will
receive 99 percent of the equity of the combined entity,
according to the company. The remaining 1 percent plus warrants
will go to Dynegy’s parent.  The deal was reached after a court-ordered investigation
found that Dynegy moved assets away from creditors for the
benefit of shareholders ahead of the bankruptcy filing. The
probe found the transfer of coal-fired plants to the parent
company was a so-called fraudulent transfer designed to hinder
and delay creditors.  Creditors backing the deal include Franklin Advisers Inc.,
 Oaktree Capital Management (OAK)  and Avenue Capital Group, according
to court filings. Holders of junior debt had initially opposed
the settlement and then agreed to support it.  The case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-38111,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  