-- LME Said to Get Assurance From Bidders to Keep U.K. Base
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-06-01T10:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/lme-said-to-get-bidders-assurances-to-keep-trading-floor.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE)  and
 Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. pledged to keep the London
Metal Exchange and its trading floor in the U.K. capital in
their separate takeover proposals to the LME’s board, said two
people with direct knowledge of the bids.  The LME’s board met yesterday to review the offers, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the details
are still confidential. ICE, the second-largest U.S. futures
market, and Hong Kong Exchanges, the world’s second-biggest
exchange by market value, are the remaining contenders for the
LME, which handles more than 80 percent of global trade in
industrial metals futures. A possible takeover was announced
last September when the LME said it had received “several
expressions of interest.”  Both bidders are willing to keep the LME’s headquarters in
 London , its own board, its system of establishing metals prices
and network of warehouses, said the two people, who declined to
be identified because the information isn’t public.  Scott Sapp, a spokesman for the Hong Kong bourse, Brookly
McLaughlin, an ICE spokeswoman in  Chicago , and Miriam Heywood, a
spokeswoman for the LME, declined to comment.  Hong Kong Exchanges would build a clearinghouse in London
for the LME and the Atlanta-based ICE would move clearing of
metals contracts onto ICE Clear Europe, the people said.  LME Profits  The LME handled a record $15.4 trillion in contracts last
year when profit declined 19 percent to 7.68 million pounds
($11.8 million) on investments in a clearinghouse and updating
electronic trading. The LME will sell for more than its
valuation of about $1.3 billion, according to Equity Research
Desk, an adviser to hedge funds in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  The 135-year-old exchange operates London’s last open-
outcry transactions through a 6-meter-wide (20-foot) ring in
which traders from 12 entitled companies shout out orders. It
also transacts metals by phone and electronically.  The exchange is considered a so-called terminal market
because trading may result in a physical delivery of metals.
Contracts can be settled on a daily, weekly or monthly basis in
contrast to a monthly settlement of contracts on other futures
exchanges. The LME Index of six industrial metals has dropped
2.7 percent this year after falling 22 percent last year.  Some LME shareholders are also getting access to details on
the offers, two people who declined to be identified said.  “It’s a package deal, and we’ll have to assess any
proposal on its merits,” said Jonathan Whitehead, the global
head of  commodities markets  at Societe Generale SA, which owns
300,000 shares in the LME. “We have a business that has been
built around the structure of the exchange. The value of the
shares is immaterial compared to the potential impact on our and
their business.”  Hong Kong Promise  Hong Kong has told the LME that it can help the bourse
expand in China, one person with direct knowledge of the matter
said. The LME licenses more than 600 warehouses for metal in
locations including the U.S.,  Netherlands ,  Singapore  and  Italy .
It wants to expand the network into China, the world’s largest
consumer of metals, LME Chief Executive Officer  Martin Abbott 
said May 4.  Hong Kong Exchanges’ bid may beat ICE’s because it could
help LME get warehouses approved in  China , said Harsh Wardhan
Modi, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in a report yesterday.  JPMorgan is the LME’s biggest shareholder, with almost an
11 percent stake, according to information on the LME’s website.
Patrick Burton, a spokesman for JPMorgan in London, said Modi’s
comments don’t reflect JPMorgan’s view as a shareholder.  More Acquisitions  The LME would be the 12th acquisition for the Atlanta-based
exchange in the past 10 years and the first overseas takeover
for the Hong Kong Exchanges. ICE bought the International
Petroleum Exchange, home of Brent crude oil futures, in 2001 and
the  New York  Board of Trade in 2007 for $1.79 billion, gaining
contracts in coffee, cocoa and sugar.  Trading on Nybot doubled since the acquisition and trading
on ICE Futures  Europe , formerly IPE, rose more than sixfold
between 2005 and 2011. ICE Futures Europe and Nybot have their
own  boards .  “ICE is a natural candidate from a strategic position,”
said Alex Kramm, an analyst at UBS AG in New York. “ICE has a
history of doing deals that are a little bit more outside of the
box. They have never shied away of doing complex transactions.”  Any bid would have to be approved by more than 50 percent
of shareholders, with the owners of at least 75 percent of
shares backing the move. The exchange is owned by more than 60
of its 94 members. There are 12.9 million shares which confer
ownership and voting rights. JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and family-owned trading firm Metdist Ltd. have the biggest
stakes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  