-- Ecuador Seeks Renewed U.S. Trade Accord Amid Iran Negotiations
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/ecuador-seeks-renewed-u-s-trade-accord-amid-iran-negotiations.html
Ecuador  is seeking U.S. renewal of
trade benefits even as it increases its ties with Iran, the
Latin American country’s ambassador to the U.S. said.  “We are in a new phase of our relationship” with the U.S.,
Ambassador Nathalie Cely said in an interview yesterday at
Ecuador’s Embassy in Washington.  Diplomatic ties between the U.S. and Ecuador are fragile
following a diplomatic spat last year in which ambassadors from
both countries were expelled. Cely assumed her post in
Washington on Jan. 18, and Adam Namm, the U.S. ambassador to
Ecuador, arrived in Quito May 30.  Ecuador wants the  U.S. Congress  to renew the Andean Trade
Promotion and Drug Eradication Act, which expires next year. The
country’s relations with Iran have made this task difficult with
“some areas of the Congress,” Cely said.  Some U.S. lawmakers have a “black and white view” in
which “you’re either with the  United States  or against the
United States,” she said. “I don’t think that view is current
for  Latin America . There are a lot of grays.”  Cely is hoping to know by January “at the latest” whether
renewal has support in Congress.  The Andean trade preferences legislation, first established
in 1991 to reduce narcotics production in the Andes region, has
created about 300,000 jobs in Ecuador and should be renewed for a
minimum of three or four years, according to Cely.  U.S. Relations  If it were not extended, at least 40,000 jobs in sectors
including cut-flowers and broccoli production would immediately
be at risk, Cely said.  The act “does not expire until July 2013, so Members will
continue to analyze the situation. Many Members and the
Administration have pointed to continuing strong concerns about
Ecuador over the years, which is the sole beneficiary of the
program now that we have a free trade agreement with  Colombia ,”
Sarah Swinehart, spokeswoman for Republicans on the House Ways &
Means Committee, said by e-mail.  Relations between the U.S. and Ecuador were strained last
year following a diplomatic spat in which Correa expelled the
U.S. ambassador to Quito, Heather Hodges, over allegations she
made in a classified diplomatic cable that he knowingly
appointed a corrupt police chief.  The two nations have also sparred over Correa’s attempts to
imprison journalists for publishing remarks he found offensive.
Last month, President  Barack Obama  named Ecuador as an example
of nations that have implemented measures restricting free speech.  Iran  Relations between Ecuador and Iran have strengthened since
President  Rafael Correa , an ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , took power in 2007.  Correa hosted Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in
January, and in a meeting May 30 in  Quito , told Vice President
for International Affairs Ali Saeedlou to “make yourself at
home.”  Ecuador, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’
smallest member, said May 23 it plans to buy about $400 million
of fuel from Iran to cover a shortfall in the South American
country, even as the U.S. seeks to isolate the Persian nation
over speculation it’s seeking to develop a nuclear weapon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  