-- Mubarak Begins Prison Life Amid Protests Over Acquittals
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-06-03T09:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/egyptian-court-to-issue-mubarak-case-verdict-before-vote.html
Former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  began his first full day of a life sentence today, as
youth groups who helped push him from power rallied against a
verdict they said showed his regime remained intact.  The 84-year-old Mubarak and his longtime security chief
Habib el-Adli were convicted yesterday of failing to stop the
death of some of the roughly 850 protesters killed during the
January 2011 uprising. Six senior police officials were
acquitted -- a finding that brought thousands into the streets
to protest a verdict they said could pave the way for Mubarak’s
acquittal on appeal.  Youth groups, whose members flooded Cairo’s  Tahrir Square ,
vowed an open protest until authorities agree to scrap the final
round of presidential elections and set up a temporary ruling
council. The demands injected fresh uncertainty into Egypt’s
already rocky transition to democracy just two weeks ahead of
the vote, which pits the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi
against Ahmed Shafik, Mubarak’s last premier. Egyptian
expatriates began to cast their votes today.  “Tensions are running high and the people are preparing
for a new revolutionary wave against the old regime and its
symbols who are still there, like Shafik,” said  Ahmed Maher ,
one of the founders of the April 6 youth group movement that
participated in the uprising.  Tahrir Protests  The crowd that had built up to around 10,000 overnight
thinned out early today. The health ministry said a total of 79
people had been wounded in the protests in Cairo and elsewhere,
the majority of them in Tahrir, the official Middle East News
Agency reported.  Billed as the “trial of the century” in the Egyptian
media, Mubarak’s case was described by some of the families of
those killed in the uprising as a test of the new Egypt -- a
chance for justice, they argued, that was rare under the deposed
president. Months of hearings and postponements eroded
confidence that this could be achieved.  Mubarak is the only Arab leader to appear in court before
his people as a result of the so-called Arab Spring uprising.  Both presidential candidates reacted to the ruling. Mursi
vowed that he would convene an investigative panel to bring to
justice all who participated in killing the protesters. Shafik,
in a statement by his campaign, said the ruling showed that “no
one in  Egypt  was above accountability.” The trial served as a
lesson to any presidential successor, he said.  Shafik Opposition  Shafik’s advancement to the runoffs has enraged many youth
protesters and Islamists who see him as a close Mubarak ally
seeking to reinvent his former boss’s regime -- claims he has
repeatedly denied.  The timing of the ruling, between the first round of the
elections held on May 23 and 24 and the runoff on June 16 and
17, helped stoke the skepticism and frustration with which the
ruling was met, Hani Sabra, a Middle East analyst with the
Eurasia Group in  New York , said by phone.  “It’s very difficult, if you look at the timing of the
events, to imagine that this is largely a legal proceeding
that’s divorced from political reality,” he said.  The  Muslim Brotherhood  said in a statement that the
officers’ acquittal “sends a message to them and to others to
continue their aggression on citizens.”  “This verdict means that only the head of the regime and
of the  interior ministry  have fallen. The rest of the regime
remains,” said the Brotherhood, whose political arm controls
almost 50 percent of the seats in parliament’s lower house.  `Bleak Darkness'  In court, Judge Ahmed Refaat prefaced the verdict by
comments that offered a clear indication that Mubarak, who had
faced a possible death sentence, would not be cleared.  Under Mubarak, Egypt fell behind “the most backward
countries in the Third World,” the judge said. “God wiped out
the night, and allowed daylight to prevail.”  Last year’s uprising ended “30 years of bleak, bleak
darkness,” Refaat said, later arguing that prosecutors had
failed to provide sufficient evidence of culpability in the
killings.  Egypt’s  EGX 30 stock index  fell 2.4 percent today, to the
lowest in almost two months. The unrest stemming from the
upcoming election has added to concerns about an economy that
has struggled to recover since Mubarak’s ouster in February last
year. Egypt has spent about 60 percent of its  international
reserves  in the period, as the central bank sought to shore up
the Egyptian pound. Political bickering has also delayed a $3.2
billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund .  Investment Sentiment  “We believe that such unrest will weigh heavily on
investment sentiment and increase selling pressure,”  Mona
Mansour , economist at investment bank CI Capital, wrote in a
research note today.  The acquittal of Mubarak and his two sons, businessman Alaa
and one-time heir apparent Gamal, of corruption charges helped
spark a fist-fight in the court yesterday as lawyers for the
victims’ families chanted that the judiciary must be
“cleansed.” Mubarak’s sons remain imprisoned on new charges of
market manipulation that were announced last week.  While thousands descended on Tahrir, clashes broke out in
front of the police academy where the trial was being held. The
facility, which once bore Mubarak’s name, was ringed by riot
police and armored personnel carriers as part of a sweeping
security plan that included a 5,000-strong security detail.  ‘Health Crisis’  Mubarak was taken from the court by helicopter to Cairo’s
notorious Tora prison. Egyptian media reported that the former
president, who had been held at a military hospital throughout
the trial, suffered a “health crisis” and refused to leave the
helicopter for over two hours. The independent Al Shorouk
newspaper said he fainted several times and had to be revived,
while the state-run  Al-Ahram  reported he was eventually taken to
the prison hospital’s intensive care unit to stabilize him. He
was also denied visits by his family.  “It’s so unfair for the six others, the heads of evil, to
be acquitted,” Azeeza Mohamed, who said her son was killed
during the revolt, said by phone. “It is God who will avenge
our children in the afterlife, and I pray that he takes revenge
for them in this world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  