-- Telkom Needs Urgent Turn-Around Plan, South Africa Says
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-06-01T17:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/telkom-needs-urgent-turn-around-plan-south-africa-says.html
Telkom South Africa Ltd. (TKG)  needs an
urgent turn-around strategy to fulfill the country’s objective
of rolling out broadband infrastructure to all citizens in the
next seven years, according to the government.  The cabinet has asked Communications Minister Dina Pule to
advise it about all the options that are available to  Africa ’s
largest fixed-line phone company in three months, government
spokesman Jimmy Manyi said in an e-mailed statement today.  Telkom’s proposed sale of a 20 percent stake to  KT Corp. (030200)  of
 South Korea  will not go ahead as the government decided not to
support it, the company said in a statement today. The
government and Telkom will work on options for the company, said
Manyi.  South Africa ’s government owns 39.8 percent of Telkom’s
shares while the Public Investment Corp., which invests state
employees’ pensions, holds 10.9 percent of the Pretoria-based
company’s stock.  “Telkom is a key and strategic asset in the rollout of
this telecommunications infrastructure and in the effort to
improve the skills of our citizens,” Manyi said in the
statement.  KT, South Korea’s biggest phone and Internet provider,
offered on May 8 to pay 25.60 rand a share, or about 2.68
billion rand ($311 million), for the stake, 29 percent below an
Oct. 14 offer of 36.06 rand a share.  Business Decisions  The government’s rejection of the deal shows it is unable
to make tough business decisions, the opposition  Democratic
Alliance , the second-biggest party in the nation’s parliament,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The government should sell its
shares in Telkom to those who understand the need for sound
business decisions in the interest of economic, rather than
electoral, success,” said Marian Shinn, a DA member of
parliament.  Telkom “desperately” needs an investment injection to
revitalize the company so it can play a productive role, Shinn
said.  Labor union Solidarity said it has taken a strong stand
against the decision to oppose the transaction. “It boggles the
mind that government, who proposed the transaction to Telkom,
has now rejected it, especially in view of the fact that current
government policy is supposed to focus on  job creation ,” said
union official Marius Croucamp in an e-mailed statement.  The deal’s failure may mean Telkom will have to cut costs
as it lacks capital, which would possibly lead to thousands of
employees being retrenched, said the labor union.  Telkom will speak with the communications minister to
discuss the decision and “seek to obtain clarity on the context
of the decision given that KT, and the transaction, were
introduced to Telkom by the government,” Pynee Chetty, a Telkom
spokesman, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  