-- Telkom Drops to Lowest in Eight Years: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-06-01T15:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/telkom-drops-to-lowest-in-eight-years-johannesburg-mover.html
Telkom South Africa Ltd. (TKG)  slid to the
lowest in more than eight years after saying the government
won’t support a plan to sell a stake in the continent’s biggest
fixed-line phone company to South Korea’s  KT Corp. (030200)   Shares in the Pretoria-based company dropped for a third
day, falling 8.3 percent to 21 rand at the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg, the lowest since October 2003.  Communications Minister Dina Pule told Telkom yesterday the
cabinet decided not to back the sale of a 20 percent holding to
KT, the company said in a statement today. The government is
Telkom’s largest owner with 39.8 percent of the stock, and
state-controlled pension fund Public Investment Corp. holds 10.9
percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  KT,  South Korea ’s biggest phone and Internet provider,
offered on May 8 to pay 25.60 rand a share, or about 2.68
billion rand ($310 million), for the stake, 29 percent below an
Oct. 14 offer of 36.06 rand a share. Kim Yoon Jeong, a spokesman
for the Seongnam-based company, declined to comment.  Telkom will speak with the communications minister to
discuss the decision and “seek to obtain clarity on the context
of the decision given that KT, and the transaction, were
introduced to Telkom by the government,” Pynee Chetty, a Telkom
spokesman, said by e-mail. The nation’s government said its
decision not to support the transaction took into account the
role  Africa ’s biggest telecommunications company will play in
increasing access to services.  ‘Strategic Asset’  “Telkom is a key and strategic asset in the rollout of
this telecommunications infrastructure,” the Cabinet said in an
e-mailed statement today. The “government recognizes the need
for Telkom to implement an urgent turn-around strategy. New
options will be considered by both Telkom and government in this
regard.” It asked the Communications Minister to report on the
possible options within three months.  The government considered the commercial value and the
strategic nature of the transaction before deciding to oppose
it, Collins Chabane, a minister in the presidency, said at a
media briefing earlier in  Pretoria  today.  “We encourage investments, including those in state
companies, when the opportunity presents itself,” Chabane said,
declining further comment and referring questions to Telkom.  The company’s shares dropped as much 6.6 percent yesterday
and 38.4 million shares changed hands, the highest one-day
volume since June 2004. The daily  average  traded in the past 12
months is 1.6 million shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The share movements ahead of the government’s announcement
today  will be reviewed by  JSE Ltd. (JSE) , Shaun Davies, the bourse’s
director of market regulation, said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  “The JSE surveillance division is reviewing the trading in
Telkom shares ahead of the announcement and if we conclude that
the trading requires further investigation, we will refer the
matter to the Financial Services Board’s Directorate of Market
Abuse,” said Davies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  