-- U.S. Employers Add 69,000 Jobs, Fewer Than Forecast
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-06-01T20:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/employment-in-u-s-increased-69-000-in-may.html
The American jobs engine sputtered in
May as employers added the fewest workers in a year and the
unemployment rate rose, dealing a blow to President  Barack Obama ’s re-election prospects and raising the odds the  Federal
Reserve  will step in to boost growth.  Payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, after a revised
77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated,
Labor Department figures showed today in Washington. The median
projection called for a 150,000 May advance. The jobless rate
rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  “The picture is getting more worrisome,” said Bruce Kasman, chief economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York,
which lowered its 2012 growth forecast to 2.1 percent from 2.3
percent after the jobs report. “The U.S. economy is going to be
somewhat softer over the next couple of quarters.”  Stocks tumbled, erasing the 2012 advance in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , and Treasury yields fell as the data
reinforced concern that global growth is heading for a third
mid-year lull. Other reports today showed manufacturing output
shrank in Europe and slowed in  China , the world’s second-largest
economy.  The Dow slumped 2.2 percent to 12,118.57 at the close of
trading in  New York . The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury
note dropped to 1.46 percent, from 1.56 percent late yesterday,
after sliding to a record 1.4387 percent.  Manufacturing in Asia  A measure of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro fell to a
three-year low, while measures of the industry in China, India,
South Korea and  Taiwan  also weakened.  Other U.S. data today pointed to bright spots for the
economy as manufacturing maintained its expansion and consumers
stepped up spending.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of
manufacturing eased to 53.5 in May, in line with the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey, from April’s 54.8. Orders
climbed to the highest level since April 2011.  Household purchases increased 0.3 percent in April after a
revised 0.2 percent rise the prior month, according to figures
from the Commerce Department. The gain in spending matched the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Estimates of the 87 economists surveyed on payrolls ranged
from increases of 75,000 to 195,000 after a previously reported
115,000 rise in April. Revisions subtracted a total of 49,000
jobs to payrolls in March and April.  Longest Stretch  The  unemployment rate  was forecast to hold at 8.1 percent,
according to the survey median. Unemployment has exceeded 8
percent since February 2009, the longest such stretch since
monthly records began in 1948.  The number of people unemployed for 27 weeks or more rose
as a percentage of all jobless, to 42.8 percent from 41.3
percent. Among them is Dexter Favors, 57, an Air Force veteran
who lives in Atlanta.  “I have been searching relentlessly, and I can’t find
anything,” said Favors, who has been out of work for three
years, though his wife is employed. “It is kind of rough right
now because she is pulling the load.”  Favors, who worked last as a grocery store department
manager, said he has put out around 80 applications for work and
continues to search.  Byron Wilson, 41, of Marietta, Georgia, lost his job as a
sales manager almost two years ago. He said his $1,200 a month
in  unemployment benefits  will run out in September.  1994 Honda Civic  Wilson, who has an 11-year-old son, said he drives a 1994
Honda Civic with more than 300,000 miles on it and has cut out
purchases of clothing and “any entertainment.” He has been
using the time he’s been out of work to go back to Georgia
Perimeter College, where he is studying sports management.  Unemployment benefits have been “extremely important,” he
said. “It is definitely a critical time for me.”  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican nominee in the
November presidential election, seized on the jobs figures to
attack Obama.  “It is now clear to everyone that President Obama’s
policies have failed to achieve their goals and that the Obama
economy is crushing America’s middle class,” Romney said in a
statement.  The administration, seeking to blunt the political impact,
highlighted private payroll gains over the past 27 months while
promoting measures Obama has proposed to boost hiring.  ‘Fragile’ Economy  “We’ve known all along that this is a fragile world
economy, but we have been adding jobs,” Alan Krueger, chairman
of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said on
Bloomberg Television today. “We’d like to see more job growth
given the enormous hole that we face in terms of jobs in this
country.”  Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies, rose
82,000 in May after a revised gain of 87,000. They were
projected to rise by 164,000, the survey showed.  “The  U.S. economy  is recovering but at a stubbornly slow
pace,”  Carl Camden , president and chief executive officer at
staffing provider Kelly Services Inc., said on a May 9
conference call. “Weakening European economies have shaken
confidence here in the U.S. Business, consumers and investors
remain cautious.”  Factory  employment  increased by 12,000, less than the
survey forecast of a 15,000 increase. Among companies boosting
payrolls is General Motors Co., the world’s biggest automaker,
which said last month it will add 600 employees to a second
shift at an assembly plant in Lansing, Michigan, according to
the Detroit News.  Construction Cuts  Construction companies cut 28,000 jobs, the most in two
years, and retailers boosted payrolls by 2,300. Government
payrolls declined by 13,000. Employment at service providers
increased 84,000 in May.  Meaghan Flood, 22, just graduated from Middlebury College
in Middlebury, Vermont as an English and Chinese double major.
She will begin working for  Portland , Maine-based The Beacon
Group, a consulting company, on June 18.  “Every interview I went to, they told me how hard the job
market still is,” she said. “Even the people who want to hire
you were warning about the possibility that they wouldn’t be
able to.”  Today’s report increases the odds that Fed policy makers
led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will take further action to
stimulate the world’s largest economy when they next meet on
June 19-20. Operation Twist, a program to extend the maturities
of bonds on the Fed’s balance sheet, expires this month.  Prolonging Program  Eric Rosengren , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Boston , said in an interview before today’s report that the
central bank should prolong the program.  “That would have the impact of helping to reduce longer-
term interest rates without expanding our balance sheet,”
Rosengren said yesterday.  Other Fed policy makers may join him in supporting an
extension, said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo
Securities LLC in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  “My feeling is that because the slowdown in the economy
has been fairly rapid compared to what they expected, that
they’ll go ahead and extend Operation Twist,” he said.  Income growth also slowed, today’s report showed.
Americans’ average hourly earnings were 1.7 percent higher than
a year earlier, the smallest 12-month change since December
2010. At the same time, they worked 34.4 hours a week on
average, six minutes less than the month before.  Part-Time Workers  The so-called  underemployment rate  -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- increased to 14.8 percent
from 14.5 percent.  The participation rate, which indicates the share of
working-age people in the  labor force , rose to 63.8 percent from
63.6 percent.  Faster economic growth would help lay the groundwork for
more hiring.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.9 percent annual rate
from January through March, down from a 2.2 percent prior
estimate, reflecting smaller gains in inventories and bigger
government cutbacks, according to revised Commerce Department
figures released yesterday. The report also showed corporate
profits rose at the slowest pace in more than three years and
smaller wage gains at the end of 2011.  The pace of growth has been “disappointing” and “the
headwinds retarding recovery are well known,” Fed Bank of New
York President William C. Dudley said this week. He reiterated
that he expects growth of about 2.4 percent over the next four
quarters and said Europe’s sovereign debt crisis poses a
downside risk to the outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  