-- EPA’s Jackson Skips Congress Hearing on Arch Coal’s Mine Permit
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-06-01T15:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/epa-s-jackson-skips-congress-hearing-on-arch-coal-s-mine-permit.html
Lisa Jackson , administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, turned down a request from
lawmakers to testify about the agency’s decision to withdraw
 Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) ’s permit for a mountaintop mine in  West Virginia .  The EPA told the committee that given the short notice for
the hearing, Jackson wouldn’t be available to discuss the
agency’s action on Arch’s Spruce Mine No. 1, Alisha Johnson, an
agency spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail. The hearing by the
House Natural Resources panel was announced last week, and
Jackson was listed as invited to attend.  “We have heard a lot about openness and transparency from
this administration,” Representative Doc Hastings, a Washington
Republican and chairman of the committee, said at the hearing.
“It’s very disappointing” that Jackson and officials from two
agencies didn’t agree to testify, he said.  Jackson spoke today at the World Science Festival in  New
York  on a panel about pioneers in science, according to her
public schedule.  Arch won a permit in 2007 during the  Bush administration  to
fill streams and valleys with debris from the Spruce No. 1 mine
site in Logan County. The EPA under President  Barack Obama 
revoked that permit. A federal court ruled against the
administration’s retroactive action this year, a decision that
has been appealed.  Other No-Shows  Officials from the  Army Corps  of Engineers and Office of
Surface Mining also declined to testify in response to an
invitation.  “Even if they are extremely busy, they could have sent
someone in their place,” Representative Doug Lamborn, a
Colorado Republican and chairman of the subcommittee on Energy
and Natural Resources, said at the hearing.  Lamborn had committee staff put the nameplates for Jackson
and the other officials at the witnesss table, and went through
the procedure of calling them to testify even after the
lawmakers knew they wouldn’t appear.  “This sideshow confirms that the officials had better
things to do than to appear at this political theater,” New
Jersey Democrat Rush Holt said at the hearing, referring to
Lamborn’s actions.  To mine coal from the Spruce No. 1 site, the company would
have dynamited more than 2,200 acres of mountains and forests
and buried six miles of streams with the debris, according to
the EPA.  “This case is about the rule of law and regulatory
certainty,” Karen Harbert, president of the Institute for 21st
Century Energy, an affiliate of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in
 Washington , testified today. “The outcome of this case will
signal whether America is open for business and safe for long-
term investment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  