-- Merkel Tells Putin Germany Doing Everything to End Euro Crisis
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-06-01T14:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/merkel-tells-putin-germany-doing-everything-to-end-euro-crisis.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  told Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  that  Germany  is “doing everything” to
ensure that the euro remains a stable currency and that the debt
crisis ends “as quickly as possible.”  Merkel, hosting Putin on his first foreign trip since he
returned to the presidency last month, sought to reassure the
Russian leader over the financial turmoil in  Europe  that has
driven the euro to a two-year low against the dollar and
prompted investors to pay for the security of benchmark German
bonds. German two-year yields fell below zero today.  Russia does more than 50 percent of its trade with European
Union countries, so “of course we are very much interested in
the euro zone becoming stable,” Putin told reporters at a joint
press conference with Merkel in Berlin today. Russia has “an
interest in the normal functioning of the European economy.”  Russia holds about 40 percent of its reserves in euros,
Putin said. “A significant part of them, and I mentioned this
to  Chancellor Merkel  today, are in German state bonds,” Putin
said. “It’s true that they don’t yield much, but we see them as
stable.”  Putin, who will travel on to Paris for talks with French
President  Francois Hollande  later today, declined to endorse
euro bonds, saying only that he could imagine them being used at
some point in the future “after stability and order is fully
guaranteed in the economy.”  Putin said the matter was not discussed in detail. “But
according to the logic of what Germany continues to do, I would
say that the German leadership doesn’t want problems in the euro
zone to keep coming back and back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  