-- Estonia’s Rating Affirmed by Fitch Amid Economic Recovery
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-06-01T14:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/estonia-s-rating-affirmed-by-fitch-amid-economic-recovery-1-.html
Estonia’s credit rating was affirmed
by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the Baltic country’s balanced
economic recovery since it adopted the euro almost 1 1/2 years
ago and its companies’ lower dependence on external financing.  The Baltic nation’s long-term foreign and local-currency
bond rating was kept at A+, the fifth-highest investment grade,
with a stable outlook, Fitch said today in an e-mailed statement
from London. The rating is on par with fellow euro-area member
Slovakia.  Estonia’s $19 billion economy may expand 1.7 percent this
year following the European Union’s fastest growth pace of 7.6
percent last year, the  Finance Ministry  forecast last month. The
newest euro-area member faces ebbing demand for its electronics
and metals exports in Sweden and Finland as Europe’s debt crisis
deepens.  The rating decision reflects “the country’s near seamless
transition to full membership of the  euro zone  starting on 1
January 2011, coupled with a more balanced economic recovery and
the continued deleveraging of the private sector,”  Paul Rawkins , a London-based senior director at the ratings company,
said in the statement. Still, “the economy continues to display
a high level of volatility, while the risk of contagion
associated with a potential Greek exit from the euro zone clouds
the near term outlook.”  Budget Surpluses  Estonia was the only euro-area member to report budget
surpluses for the last two years and had the lowest public debt
among the region’s 17 members in 2011 at 6 percent of gross
domestic product. Still, debt is expected to rise to 11 percent
by next year, mainly due to the nation’s contribution to
Europe’s temporary rescue mechanism. The  interest rate  on
government debt with the  World Bank  would rise to 4.9 percent by
2016 from 3.4 percent last year, the ministry said April 26.  The Cabinet plans a deficit of 2.6 percent of GDP this year
as it resumes contributions to a mandatory pension fund and
spends revenue from selling spare carbon-emissions quotas. Prime
Minister  Andrus Ansip ’s government in April postponed its target
for returning the budget to a surplus by a year to 2014, citing
Europe’s debt crisis.  While Estonia has no outstanding bonds, investors speculate
on its creditworthiness by trading credit-default swaps. Five-
year Estonian CDS closed 3 basis points lower yesterday at 120,
according to prices from data provider CMA. The third-riskiest
EU member three years ago, it’s now among the three safest in
the euro area behind  Finland  and Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  