-- European Union Said to Prepare Start of ESM for July 9
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-01T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/eu-said-to-prepare-start-of-permanent-bailout-fund-for-july-9.html
The European Union is targeting July
9 as the start date for its permanent euro-area rescue fund, the
500 billion-euro ($620 billion) European Stability Mechanism, an
EU official said.  Parliaments across the 17-nation currency union must ratify
the fund before it becomes available to counter the financial
crisis spawned in  Greece . Until it receives 90 percent of its
expected capital allotment, officials must turn to the temporary
European Financial Stability Facility, a 440 billion-euro fund
with 240 billion euros available.  The start date depends mainly on the outcome in Germany,
where lawmakers may vote as late as the first week of July.
Considering the national approvals required, euro officials hope
the July 9 target date will hold, said the official, who
declined to be named because the planning isn’t public.  The ESM is the centerpiece of  Europe ’s $1 trillion firewall
to stave off financial contagion from the debt crisis that has
wreaked havoc on markets and pushed Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland
to seek bailouts. The ESM represents the euro area’s capacity
for further aid programs, since the rest of the firewall is made
up of 300 billion euros already committed to the rescue effort.  The euro has dropped 6.8 percent against the dollar over
the past two months, nearing a two-year low yesterday as
investors grow concerned the currency area may splinter. The
euro closed at $1.2415 in Brussels yesterday, up from an earlier
low of $1.2288.  German Share  Germany  will contribute 27 percent of the ESM’s capital, so
if lawmakers there vote this month, the fund could be
operational by July 1. The ESM will share staff with the
existing EFSF in Luxembourg, where hiring and other preparations
are under way. Participating countries must hand over the first
installments of paid-in capital within 15 days of ESM
ratification.  Getting the ESM in place will be an important signal to
markets that the euro area continues to support the crisis-
fighting plan, said Michala Marcussen, global head of economics
at Paris-based Societe Generale SA. So far Portugal and  France 
have ratified the ESM, with parliaments across the euro area
slated to address the issue in coming weeks.  “It seems to be taking longer, but they are pushing,”
Marcussen said May 29. “There does seem to be a possibility
it’s delayed. It’s not a problem practically but it adds to
uncertainty revolving around the whole situation and that’s the
issue.”  -- With assistance from Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna, Brian Parkin
in Berlin and  Simon Kennedy  in  London . Editors: James Hertling,
 Jeffrey Donovan   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 