-- EU Will Seek Russian Action on Syria at Summit, Official Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-06-01T12:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/eu-will-seek-russian-action-on-syria-at-summit-official-says.html
The European Union will seek more
engagement from  Russia  in resolving the crisis in Syria during a
two-day bilateral summit in  St. Petersburg , an EU official said.  The situation in Syria, where the worst atrocity in the 15-
month uprising against President Bashar al-Assad left more than
100 people dead last week, will be the main topic during
foreign-policy discussions at the June 3-4 summit, said the
official, who declined to be named, citing policy.  The  United Nations  is deadlocked on how to stem the
violence, with Russia continuing to block attempts to impose
more economic pressure on a country slipping into civil war. The
way out of the current situation is to include Russia, the EU
official said.  The massacre in  Syria ’s Houla region, where children under
age 10 accounted for 49 of the 108 deaths, has sparked responses
such as the ejection of top Syrian diplomats from Western
capitals. The UN has 291 unarmed military observers and 89
civilian monitors to oversee a peace plan crafted by UN Special
Envoy  Kofi Annan .  While the EU strongly supports the Annan program, the bloc
needs to make sure Russia is using its leverage fully in
convincing the Assad regime to implement the peace plan,
according to the EU official.  The issue of Syria may be raised when Russian President
Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov meet with EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy , European Commission President Jose Barroso and EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  at a dinner
on June 3 to mark the start of the summit.  The foreign-policy agenda of the two-day meeting also
includes developments in Iran before the next round of talks
between world powers and the Persian Gulf nation on its nuclear
program scheduled to take place on June 18-19 in Moscow.  The EU and Russia also are set to discuss issues including
the economic situation, visas and mobility, aviation, financial
cooperation and energy, where the sticking point is the European
energy market liberalization package, criticized by Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  