-- European Stocks Post Weekly Retreat on Economic Concern
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-06-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/european-stocks-post-weekly-retreat-on-economic-concern.html
European stocks  declined for the
fourth week in five as weaker-than-estimated manufacturing
output in the U.S. and  China  plus record unemployment in the
euro area signaled that the global economy is slowing.  A gauge of  construction and materials  stocks tumbled after
China’s official Xinhua news agency said the country has no plan
to begin large-scale stimulus of the economy. Bankia SA, the
lender that Spain nationalized last month, plunged 35 percent as
it sought 19 billion euros ($23.5 billion) of state aid. Logica
Plc surged 67 percent as CGI Group Inc. agreed to buy the
computer-services provider.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  dropped 3.1 percent to 235.09
this past week as all 19 industry groups in the gauge slid more
than 1 percent. The benchmark measure has  plunged 14 percent
from this year’s high  on March 16 amid mounting concern  Greece 
will elect a government that refuses to cut spending and raise
taxes, forcing the country to leave the euro. The selloff has
left the gauge’s valuation at 9.7 times estimated earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are not only worried about  Europe ,” said
Henrik Drusebjerg, a senior strategist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $230 billion. “They’re
concerned world growth is abating. The fronts are being formed
as the Greek election on June 17 is nearing and more and more
rumors go round that Spanish banks will need a massive
recapitalization.  U.S. Manufacturing Slows  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index fell to 53.5 in May from 54.8 in April. The  median
forecast of 82 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg News had
predicted the gauge would drop to 53.8.  A measure of factory production in China, the world’s
second-largest economy, also slipped. The Chinese Purchasing
Managers’ Index retreated to 50.4 in May from 53.3 in April, the
nation’s statistics bureau and logistics federation said. That
compared with the  median estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists for a reading of 52. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  A separate gauge of manufacturing output from HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics showed a seventh straight contraction,
the longest since the global financial crisis.  A gauge of  manufacturing output  for the 17-nation euro area
contracted for a 10th month in May. London-based Markit
Economics’ PMI declined to 45.1 from 45.9 the previous month.
The reading for May was the lowest since June 2009.  Record Unemployment  The Stoxx 600  tumbled 1.9 percent on June 1  as a report
showed euro-area unemployment climbed to the highest on record
as companies from  Spain  to  Italy  to cut jobs.  The  jobless rate  rose to 11 percent in April and March, the
European Union’s statistics office said. That was the highest
since the data series started in 1995. The March figure was
revised higher to 11 percent from 10.9 percent.  The U.S. Labor Department’s monthly payrolls release showed
that employers added 69,000 in May, fewer than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Payrolls
climbed a revised 77,000 in April, a smaller number than
initially estimated. The report also showed that the  jobless
rate  in the world’s biggest economy increased to 8.2 percent
last month from 8.1 percent.  ‘‘The data flow has been disappointing,” said Graham Bishop, an equity strategist at Exane BNP Paribas in  London .
“The relevant thing to look for now is the likelihood of a
policy response, rather than the growth outlook, which we know
is disappointing.”  National benchmark indexes retreated in every western-
European market this week except Greece. Spain’s IBEX 35 Index
tumbled 7.3 percent. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slid 1.7 percent,
 France ’s CAC 40 slipped 3.2 percent and  Germany ’s DAX Index
slumped 4.6 percent.  Saint-Gobain Retreats  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA  plummeted 8.4 percent, its biggest
weekly retreat in 2012. FLSmidth & Co. A/S, the Danish supplier
of mining equipment, declined 7 percent. Acciona SA, the Spanish
infrastructure developer, sank 9.9 percent.  “The Chinese government’s intention is very clear: it will
not roll out another massive stimulus plan to seek high economic
growth,” the Xinhua news agency said in the seventh paragraph
of a Chinese-language article on economic policy on May 29.
“The current efforts for stabilizing growth will not repeat the
old way of three years ago.”  Bankia tumbled 33 percent this week. Banco Popular Espanol
SA retreated 12 percent and Bankinter SA dropped 18 percent
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the credit ratings of both lenders
and Bankia to junk on May 25, after the close of European
markets. The rating company cited Spain’s weakening economy.  Spain’s Lenders  Data showed a net 66 billion euros of capital left Spain in
March. The country’s economy Minister, Luis De Guindos, said the
balance-of-payments figures, which showed an outflow of 97
billion euros in the first quarter, didn’t reflect “capital
flight,” and underlined how Spanish banks were struggling to
roll over funding on money markets.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the  world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars , dropped 5.1 percent and Daimler AG retreated 6.7
percent as a gauge of automakers sank 4.7 percent.  ThyssenKrupp AG,  Germany’s largest steelmaker , declined 9.2
percent after Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  said it
would be unrealistic to expect the steelmaker’s Americas unit to
post an operating profit next fiscal year, Euro am Sonntag
reported.  Logica jumped 67 percent after Montreal-based CGI announced
it had reached an agreement to buy the U.K. computer-services
provider in a 1.7 billion-pound ($2.6 billion) cash transaction,
offering a premium of 59.8 percent to its closing price on May
30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  