-- Euro-Area Manufacturing Contracted for 10th Month in May
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-06-01T09:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/euro-area-manufacturing-output-contracted-for-10th-month-in-may.html
Euro-area  manufacturing  contracted
for a 10th month in May as the economy struggled to regain
strength amid the deepening debt crisis.  A gauge of  manufacturing  in the 17-nation euro area fell to
45.1 from 45.9 in April, London-based Markit Economics said
today. That’s the lowest since mid-2009. It had previously
reported the May output indicator at 45. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  European companies are curbing spending and hiring with the
worsening fiscal crisis clouding the economic outlook. Euro-area
 economic confidence  fell more than economists had forecast last
month, with a gauge of sentiment among manufacturers dropping to
the lowest in more than two years. Unemployment was at a record
of 11 percent in April, data showed today.  Today’s PMI report “is hugely disappointing and reinforces
belief that the euro zone is headed for renewed, clear
contraction in the second quarter,” said  Howard Archer , chief
European economist at IHS Global Insight in London.
“Manufacturers are currently finding life difficult.”  The euro fell against the dollar for a fourth day, trading
at $1.2318 at 11:03 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.4 percent.  European Contraction  The single currency has slumped close to a two-year low
this week as investors grew more concerned about the debt crisis
after inconclusive elections in Greece raised the specter of a
breakup. In Spain, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  signaled the
nation’s debt sustainability may be in danger as borrowing costs
edged closer to the 7 percent level that forced Greece,  Portugal 
and Ireland to seek external aid.  The European Commission said last month that the euro-area
economy  may shrink  0.3 percent this year, with countries from
 Spain  to the Netherlands in recession. In  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, gross domestic product may rise 0.7 percent,
the Brussels-based commission projected.  U.K. manufacturing contracted last month at the fastest
pace since the depths of the financial crisis in 2009. A gauge
of factory output dropped to 45.9 from 50.2 in April, Markit
said.  China, Japan  In  China , manufacturing grew at the weakest pace since
December, with the purchasing managers’ index falling to 50.4 in
May from 53.3 in the previous month, China’s statistics bureau
and logistics federation said in Beijing today. A separate gauge
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit showed a seventh straight
contraction.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, South Korea’s exports
declined for a third month in May, falling a less-than-forecast
0.4 percent from a year earlier.  The  European Central Bank  will release its latest economic
projections for this year and next when council members meet in
 Frankfurt  on June 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  