-- Euro Shorts Reach Record as Spain, Greece Concern Damp Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-06-01T20:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/euro-shorts-reach-record-as-spain-greece-concern-damp-demand.html
Futures traders boosted bets that the
euro will depreciate against the dollar to a record high as
concern increased that  Spain ’s banking crisis will worsen and
Greece may exit the 17-nation currency union.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased wagers on
a euro drop for a fourth straight week in the five days ended
May 29, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed today.
The surge came during a week in which Greece’s anti-bailout
political party gained in the polls and as Spanish leaders
debated how to recapitalize Bankia group.  “Positions are getting more extended,” said Brian Kim, a
currency strategist in  Stamford , Connecticut, at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “It’s not just because of the crisis, but
also data getting weak and expectations that the ECB could ease
in the second half of the year.”  The difference in the number of wagers on a decline in the
shared currency compared with those on a gain, known as  net
shorts , was 203,415, the most since the euro’s inception in
1999. It was the third consecutive weekly record.  The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.2427 at 4:47 p.m. in  New
York  and fell as low as $1.2288, a level not seen since July
2010. It dropped to 95.60 yen, the lowest since November 2000.  Spanish  10-year bond  yields surged to 6.7 percent May 30, a
level last reached in November. The Bankia group, a Spanish
lender nationalized last month, will seek 19 billion euros
($23.8 billion) of government funds as it provisions against
real-estate and non-property loans, according to a regulatory
filing.  Greece Election  The nation earlier this week backtracked on a plan to use
government debt instead of cash to bailout BFA-Bankia, the
nation’s third-largest lender, as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
struggles to shore up the nation’s lenders without overburdening
public finances.  A Greek poll on May 24 showed the Syriza party, which is
opposed to implementing the country’s international rescue
program, with 27.2 percent support ahead of June 17 elections. A
poll today showed  New Democracy , the largest pro-bailout party,
leading the Syriza party with 22.7 percent support against
Syriza’s 22 percent. Greek parties failed to form a coalition
government following an inconclusive May 6 election.  The  European Central Bank  meets June 6. It has left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 1 percent since cutting
rates twice by 25 basis points each time in November and
December last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  