-- Euro Area Is Running Significant Risk of Breakup: Rehn
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-06-01T11:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/euro-area-is-running-significant-risk-of-breakup-rehn-says-2-.html
The 17-nation euro area is in real
danger of disintegrating unless policy makers revamp the bloc’s
fiscal and economic ties, Economic and Monetary Commissioner
Olli Rehn said.  “The way things are going and under the current
structures, the euro area has a significant risk of breaking
up,” Rehn said in a speech at a European Commission event in
Helsinki. “We’re either headed for a deterioration of the euro
area or a gradual strengthening of the European Union.”  A divergence in the sovereign yields of euro countries
shows bets against the integrity of the 17-member currency bloc
are growing. German two-year yields fell below zero for the
first time this week while the yield on similar-maturity Spanish
notes rose 11.8 basis points to 5.11 percent today.  A yield below zero means investors will receive less in
repayments through maturity than the amount they paid to buy the
debt.  Spain ’s 10-year yield exceeded 6.5 percent for a third day,
approaching levels at which Greece, Ireland and Portugal sought
bailouts after being shut out from market funding. The euro has
dropped 7.3 percent against the dollar over the past two months,
nearing a two-year low this week, as investors grow more
concerned Europe’s currency area will fracture.  The monetary union “has extremely tough decisions ahead
and it’s important to face the truth,” Rehn said. “We must
continue measures to balance public finances at the same time as
we need structural reforms and actions that boost growth.”  Unpopular Measures  Austerity measures are proving unpopular and choking growth
in countries working to reduce deficits, including Greece, Spain
and  Portugal . The monetary union’s economy will shrink 0.3
percent this year before returning to 1 percent growth in 2013,
the European Commission said last month.  Euro-area unemployment reached 11 percent in April and
March, the highest on record, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. Spain, whose government is
struggling to contain a banking crisis, had the bloc’s highest
unemployment rate at 24.3 percent, up from 24.1 percent in
March, today’s report showed.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that the euro is “unsustainable unless further steps are being
undertaken.”  June Summit  EU leaders will next consider how to manage the currency
zone and assess the situation in  Greece  at a Brussels summit
starting on June 28. Greek voters return to the polls on June 17
after the May 6 election left the country without a government.  Of the euro area’s members,  Finland ,  Germany , Luxembourg
and the Netherlands have the AAA credit rating. The other
countries in the monetary union are  Austria ,  Belgium , Cyprus,
 Estonia , France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Portugal,
Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.  Spain’s actions on balancing its public finances have been
“significant” and the country may get a one-year extension on
bringing its  budget deficit  in line with the EU’s 3 percent of
gross domestic product rule, Rehn said today, reiterating
comments he made yesterday.  “If Spain is able to fix the finances of its autonomous
areas, we’re ready to propose a one-year extension” of the
deadline for correcting the excessive deficit, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  