-- Euro-Area Unemployment Reaches Record 11%, Led by Spain
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-06-01T09:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/euro-area-unemployment-reaches-record-11-led-by-spain-italy.html
Euro-area  unemployment  reached the
highest on record as a deepening economic slump and budget cuts
prompted companies from Spain to  Italy  to reduce their
workforces.  The jobless rate in the 17-nation euro zone was at 11
percent in April and March, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. That’s the highest since the
data series started in 1995. The March figure was revised higher
to 11 percent from 10.9 percent estimated earlier.  Europe’s companies are under pressure to lower costs to
protect earnings as the worsening fiscal crisis erodes exports
and  consumer spending . Euro-area economic confidence dropped
more than economists forecast last month and manufacturing
output contracted.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said on May 30 that it
may cut as many as 1,000 jobs at LSG Sky Chefs, the world’s
largest inflight caterer, in a bid to lower costs through 2014.  “The labor-market recession in the  euro zone  continues to
spread and deepen,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING
Bank in Amsterdam. “We currently see the jobless rate peaking
at or slightly above 11.5 percent, under the assumption that the
euro-zone economy starts to emerge from its double-dip recession
later this year.”  The euro was lower against the dollar for a fourth day,
trading at $1.2327 at 10:35 a.m. in London, down 0.3 percent on
the day.  Greece, Spain  In the euro area, 17.4 million people were unemployed in
April, up 110,000 from the previous month, today’s report
showed. In the year-earlier month, the jobless rate fell in 11
EU countries and increased in 15 with Ireland reporting an
unchanged rate. Greece had an increase to 21.7 percent from 15.2
percent in the year through February, according to today’s
report, which didn’t include more recent Greek data.  Spain , whose government is struggling to contain a banking
crisis, had the bloc’s highest unemployment rate at 24.3
percent, up from 24.1 percent in March, today’s report showed.
In  France , the jobless rate rose to 10.2 percent from 10.1
percent, while Italy reported the same increase. Portugal’s rate
reached 15.2 percent, up from 15.1 percent.  Adding to signs of a  deepening slump , European economic
confidence dropped more than economists forecast in May and
manufacturing output contracted for a 10th straight month. In
 Germany , business sentiment fell more than economists had
forecast in May, posting the steepest decline since August.  Reorganizing Operations  Companies from Lufthansa to  Carrefour SA (CA)  and  Peugeot SA (UG)  are
reorganizing operations to counter lagging growth as the economy
at home and across the euro area slows.  Merck KGaA (MRK) , the German
maker of the Erbitux cancer drug, on May 15 reported a drop in
first-quarter profit.  A gauge of euro-area manufacturing output dropped at the
steepest rate since June 2009, with a German indicator reaching
a 35-month low,  Markit Economics  in London said today. A gauge
of new export orders had the biggest decline since November,
with countries from Spain to Germany reporting weaker demand.  The situation is “deteriorating at an alarming rate,”
said  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit Economics in
London. “Euro-zone manufacturers reported a deepening downturn
in May, indicating that the damage to the real economy caused by
the region’s financial and political crises continues to spread
across the region.”  Latest Projections  The European Commission said on May 11 that the euro-zone
economy may shrink 0.3 percent this year, with countries from
the Netherlands to Italy and Greece in recession. The  European
Central Bank , which will publish its latest projections when
council members meet on June 6, currently forecasts a
contraction of 0.1 percent in the euro area.  The euro has dropped 7.3 percent against the dollar over
the past two months to near a two-year low as investors grew
more concerned about a fracture of the currency area. Spain,
which nationalized its third-largest lender last month, is
trying to buttress its financial system even as borrowing costs
approach levels that forced Greece, Ireland and Portugal to ask
for external aid.  The ECB, which lowered its benchmark interest rate twice in
the fourth quarter to 1 percent, matching a record low, and
injected more than 1 trillion euros of liquidity into financial
markets to avert a credit crunch, has signaled that it is up to
governments to contain the turmoil. ECB President  Mario Draghi 
said yesterday that it’s “not our mandate” to “fill the
vacuum left by the lack of action by national governments.”  Interest Rates  “We doubt the ECB will be willing to cut  interest rates  at
their June 6 policy meeting and will prefer to see what happens
with the Greek elections” later this month, said  Howard Archer ,
chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . Still,
“pressure on the ECB to take interest rates below 1 percent
sooner rather than later is mounting from the current
deteriorating euro-zone economic environment.”  The April euro-area unemployment rate was in line with the
median forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  