-- Ex-Consol Executives Sued by SEC Over Insider Trading
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-06-01T21:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/ex-consol-energy-executives-sued-by-sec-over-insider-trading.html
Three former  Consol Energy Inc. (CNX) 
executives were sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for allegedly trading on inside information about the
company’s 2010 acquisition of a Dominion Resources Inc.
business.  Charles Mazur, 42, former director of corporate strategy,
James Poland, 52, former general manager of engineering, and
Joseph Cerenzia, 57, former director of public relations, were
named as defendants in a complaint filed today in federal court
in Pittsburgh alleging they bought or sold Consol  shares  just
days before the deal was made public.  Each man received documents or e-mails about Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania-based Consol’s acquisition of Dominion’s
Appalachian exploration and production business before the March
15, 2010, announcement, according to the SEC. Consol’s  shares 
dropped 10 percent that day.  Mazur made $47,355 trading in Consol options;  Poland  sold
shares and avoided $9,552 in losses; and Cerenzia sold shares
and avoided $7,518 in losses, the SEC alleged.  The agency is seeking unspecific civil fines and
disgorgement of trading profits or losses.  Consol paid $3.48 billion for Richmond, Virginia-based
Dominion’s gas exploration and production business in 2010 and
spent an additional $963 million to buy the 17 percent of
CNX Gas Corp. it didn’t already own.  G. Philip Rutledge, Mazur’s attorney, declined to comment
on the lawsuit. Michael Healey, an attorney for Poland, and Paul
Tershel, a lawyer for Cerenzia, didn’t immediately respond to
voice-mail messages left after business hours seeking comment.  The case is SEC v Mazur, 12-731, U.S. District Court,
Western District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  