-- Texas Should Raise Power Prices to Avoid Blackouts
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-06-01T15:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/texas-should-raise-power-prices-to-avoid-blackouts.html
Texas  regulators should triple peak
wholesale power prices to avert blackouts later this decade when
electricity demand is predicted to outstrip supply, according to
a report today by Brattle Group Inc.  The study, commissioned by the operator of Texas’ main
power grid, recommends that the state with the highest power-
consumption adjust its free-market framework to encourage
electricity producers to invest in new generation needed to keep
pace with economic growth.  Texas should increase peak wholesale rates from the current
price of $3,000 a megawatt hour to $9,000 a megawatt hour or a
similar amount, but only in times of “extreme scarcity,” when
the stability of the grid is at stake, Brattle said in a report
posted today on a website run by the Electric Reliability
Council of Texas.  “The Brattle Group’s report confirms that we are moving in
the right direction,” Donna Nelson, chairman of the Public
Utilities Commission of Texas, said in a statement today.  When power demand is building, yet hasn’t reached critical
levels, the report recommends raising prices to $500 a megawatt
hour. Brattle suggests the state adjusts pricing mechanisms so
that price spikes are tied to locations where demand is greatest
and avoiding pricing standards that may trigger unwarranted
increases.  Utilities regulators have proposed raising the maximum
price generators can charge during period of heaviest demand to
$4,500 a megawatt-hour as of Aug. 1, and tripling peak pricing
to $9,000 a megawatt hour by 2015.  Ercot, which serves 85 percent of the state’s load, said in
a May 22 report that without new sources of generation available
electricity will fall critically short of demand by 2014.  Power supplies may be tight this summer in Texas and
 Southern California  as insufficient reserves increase the risk
of rotating blackouts, the North American Electric Reliability
Corp. said in a May 30 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  