-- Texas May Triple Power Prices to Avert Summer Blackouts
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-06-01T19:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/texas-may-triple-power-prices-to-avert-summer-blackouts.html
Texas , the biggest electricity
consumer in the U.S., faces a shortage of power to fuel its
growing economy that may force the most extensive overhaul of
the state’s competitive market since deregulation in 2002.  Texas utility commissioners and grid operators are studying
whether to allow the nation’s highest peak wholesale power
prices to triple, part of a bid to encourage power-plant
construction and avoid blackouts as early as 2014.  Falling natural-gas prices exposed a flaw in deregulated
electricity markets for Texas and 12 other states that rely on
the competitive model. Wholesale power prices, tied to the cost
of gas, have fallen more than 30 percent since 2008, making
generators reluctant to invest billions in new plants that would
be subject to price swings and uncertain returns.  “This issue is what we call in the business the ‘missing
money problem,’” said  Shmuel Oren , an engineering professor at
the  University of California  in Berkeley, who helped advise
Texas on deregulating its market. “Prices of electricity are
not high enough to pay for the fuel and also cover the
investment in generation capacity. Business people are looking
at this and they’re deciding it is not a profitable business.”  In regulated markets, state officials determine  power
prices , shielding consumers from rate spikes while ensuring
utilities a certain level of profit for maintenance and
construction projects. A deregulated market like Texas follows a
competitive model, allowing supply and demand to set prices as
producers and sellers vie for customers.  Not Profitable  A deregulated market requires companies to be more
efficient to maximize profits while keeping prices competitive
enough to win customers. It also makes it harder for generators
to justify building new plants that may not be profitable for
many years.  Deregulated markets  New Jersey  and  Maryland  have offered
subsidies to power producers to jump-start new projects. PJM
Interconnection LLC, the coordinator of wholesale electricity
supplies in 13 states from  Virginia  to  Illinois , holds capacity
auctions to set prices for projected demand three years in
advance to assure generators enough revenue to help finance
building.  Texas so far is meeting growing demand with a market-driven
approach that uses  higher prices  to force consumers to conserve
and, in theory, spurs generators to finance new plants. Prices
are raised during times of peak demand, such as hot summer days,
so that generators can make more money to compensate for lower
prices the rest of the year.  Bills Rising  Energy Future Holdings Corp.,  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  and  Calpine
Corp. (CPN) , the state’s largest power generators, would benefit from
the higher prices. Critics say Texas is setting up consumers for
skyrocketing power bills without any assurances that plants will
actually be built.  In 2006, the Public Utility Commission of Texas raised its
cap on wholesale power prices to $3,000 a megawatt hour. The
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission , which doesn’t have
oversight of the state’s grid operator, caps pricing in other
parts of the country at $1,000 a megawatt hour.  Last year, power prices touched $3,000 a megawatt for a
total of 28.5 hours, mostly amid extreme weather conditions in
August and February, said Daniel Jones, vice president of
Potomac Economics Ltd. in Austin, Texas, the company that serves
as the state grid’s independent market monitor.  “It’s more than we had in prior years,” he said.  Tripling Prices  To attract new  power plants , state regulators have proposed
raising the maximum price Texas generators can charge during
periods of heaviest demand to $4,500 a megawatt-hour as of Aug.
1 and to $9,000 a megawatt hour by 2015.  Power shortages have become a greater concern in Texas as
the state’s economic growth outpaced the nation’s.  As soon as 2014, the amount of electricity available during
hours when demand is highest, such as a hot midsummer afternoon
when air conditioners are working hardest, may fall to a level
that makes Texas more vulnerable to widespread power
disruptions, according a May 22 report by the Electric
Reliability Council of Texas, the state’s grid operator.  The state will need to add about 20,000 megawatts of power-
plant capacity, the equivalent of 10 major coal or nuclear
stations, to keep up with demand over the next decade, Samuel Brothwell, an analyst for Bloomberg Industries, said in an April
27 report. Texas only has one major power project under
construction, a 1,000-megawatt coal plant, he said. Calpine is
planning to add 520 megawatts of gas-fired capacity by 2014.  EPA Rule  Generators may be forced to close some plants that can’t
meet new pollution limits from the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, Warren Lasher, director of system planning at ERCOT,
said on May 25.  The state has two choices: raise prices high enough that
generators will determine it’s safe to build, or change to a
model such as that used by PJM, which sets prices for needed
power years in advance, said Oren, the Berkeley professor.  He expects Texas to hew to its model of paying for power
only as its generated, which means the state will need to raise
prices.  Brattle Group Inc., in a report commissioned by Ercot, said
the state’s market structure was “only marginally riskier than
energy-and-capacity markets,” such as PJM.  ‘More Volatility’  Raising the price cap to $9,000 a megawatt-hour won’t be
sufficient to end the threat of rolling blackouts, according to
the report released today. Brattle Group said boosting the
maximum price would give the state a reserve margin of 10
percent above peak demand, less than the 13.75 percent reserve
margin federal regulators estimate ERCOT needs to avoid rolling
blackouts during extreme weather.  “If they want an energy-only market, they’re going to have
more volatility, understandably, and they may not get the
reserve margins they want,”  Paul Patterson , an analyst at
Glenrock Associates LLC in  New York , said in a phone interview
today. “They may have more reliability issues.”  Texas will review the Brattle Group report before deciding
on a course of action, including how high to raise prices, said
 Terry Hadley , a spokesman for the Public Utility Commission,
said.  NRG Energy, the second largest generator owner in Texas,
can’t attract financing to build in the state at current  price
levels , said John Ragan, president of the company’s  Gulf Coast 
region.  ‘Getting Close’  “The market signals we see do not support a return on an
investment that makes sense,” Ragan said in a telephone
interview. “We are getting close, but are not there right
now.”  The state’s fourth-largest retail electricity provider,  PNM
Resources Inc. (PNM) , based in  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico , decided to
jettison its competitive business in Texas after five years
because of the “volatility, uncertainty of energy prices,”
Charles Eldred, PNM’s chief financial officer, said in a May 23
interview at Bloomberg’s offices in New York.  Consumer advocates and lawmakers in Texas including State
Representative Sylvester Turner worry that home electricity
bills could soar, especially since the state hasn’t studied the
repercussions of higher wholesale power prices on end users,
said Turner, a Democrat.  “We need to be looking at all possibilities before we
start throwing money at generators,” said Geoffrey Gay, an
attorney who represents the Texas Coalition for Affordable
Power, a group of more than 150 cities that buys power for
government use.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  