-- Exxon Plans U.S. Ethylene Plant to Make Use of Cheap Gas
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-06-01T21:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/exxon-applies-for-permits-to-expand-plastics-production-in-texas.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S.
oil company, plans to build factories that produce ethylene and
plastics in  Texas , joining a growing group of competitors racing
to use U.S. natural gas to make chemicals.  A new plant at the company’s site in Baytown would produce
1.5 million metric tons of ethylene annually starting in 2016,
pending regulatory approvals, Irving, Texas-based Exxon said
today in an e-mailed statement. The gaseous chemical would be
used to make 1.3 million metric tons of polyethylene plastic at
two plants to be built in nearby Mont Belvieu, the company said.  The Houston-area plants would “significantly” increase
exports of plastics, Exxon said in the statement. Chevron
Phillips Chemical Co. is planning a $5 billion ethylene project
at its Baytown site and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  is also expanding to
use more gas-based raw materials that provide a cost advantage
over oil-based production in Europe and Asia.  “The proposed investment reflects Exxon Mobil’s continued
confidence in the natural-gas-driven revitalization of the U.S.
chemical industry,” the company said in the statement.  Gas prices in New York fell to a 10-year-low in April and
have pushed costs for U.S. chemical producers to the lowest
outside of the Middle East, Cynthia Werneth, an analyst at
 Standard & Poor’s , said on a conference call today.  Exxon’s Largest  The ethylene plant would be Exxon’s largest in the U.S. and
its first in the country since 1997. The company has two
ethylene plants in Baytown with capacities of 1 million tons and
1.2 million tons; a 800,000-ton capacity factory in Beaumont,
Texas; and 1-million-ton plant in  Baton Rouge ,  Louisiana ,
according to Exxon’s 2011 Financial & Operating Review.  The polyethylene plants would increase by 34 percent
Exxon’s U.S. output of the resin used to make products such as
food packaging and plastics bags, based on data in the company
 review . Globally, Exxon’s ethylene capacity would increase 17
percent and its polyethylene production would rise 18 percent.  The project would create 10,000 construction jobs and would
boost Exxon’s Baytown workforce of 6,500 by about 350, the
company said.  Margaret Ross , a company spokeswoman, declined to
say in a telephone interview how much the project would cost.  Exxon filed applications with Texas and U.S. environmental
regulators on May 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  