-- MF Global, Bloxham, Saab, Weavering Capital, Rangers: Bankruptcy
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-06-01T15:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/mf-global-bloxham-saab-weavering-capital-rangers-bankruptcy.html
A bid by  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s
brokerage unit bankruptcy trustee to recover about $700 million
in disputed assets will be determined in a  London  trial set for
April 2013, according to a statement today from his office.  “It is crucial that this intellectual dispute over how
property was or should have been handled be urgently resolved”
so customers can get the money they’re owed, James Giddens,
trustee for the liquidation of New York-based MF Global Inc.,
said in an e-mailed statement after a scheduling hearing.  Giddens sued KPMG LLP, the U.K. unit’s administrator, over
MF Global customer funds held in London, saying they should have
been protected and belong to American clients. KPMG said it
wasn’t customer money and should be treated as a creditors’
claim.  Legal disputes between those winding up MF Global’s British
and American entities have tied up about $1.1 billion of
clients’ and creditors’ money, which can’t be returned until
courts decide who controls the assets. MF Global Holdings filed
the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after getting
margin calls for its bets on European debt.  The trustee of MF Global’s parent company,  Louis Freeh , has
also filed a London lawsuit against KPMG seeking about $400
million from internal  repurchase agreements  used to move money
around the company. KPMG spokeswoman Sorrelle Cooper didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment on today’s hearing.  Ireland’s Bloxham Faces Liquidation as Irregularities Probed  Bloxham, the Irish securities firm, secured the appointment
of a provisional liquidator after it suspended operations amid a
probe by the country’s  central bank  into accounting
irregularities.  The company faces a capital shortfall of 5.3 million euros
($6.6 million), Bloxham’s lawyer, Bernard Dunleavy, said in a
Dublin court yesterday. The company’s liabilities exceed assets
by 13.9 million euros, he said. Judge Kevin Cross appointed
Kieran Wallace of  KPMG  as provisional liquidator.  Bloxham said in a May 28 statement that regulators are
investigating the “reporting and accounting of the firm’s
income, which was overstated over a number of years.”  No client funds are involved or at risk, the stockbroker
said. Tadhg Gunnell has been removed as the firm’s finance and
compliance partner, Patrick Dempsey, another partner at Bloxham,
said in an affidavit filed in court yesterday. Calls to
Gunnell’s home telephone numbers and an e-mail weren’t returned.  Youngman Said to Challenge China-Japan Group With Saab Offer  Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile has placed a fresh bid
to buy bankrupt  Saab Automobile  for about 4 billion kronor ($552
million), a person familiar with the situation said.  The Chinese carmaker is bidding for Saab against a group
led by Japanese investment firm Sun Investment and Hong Kong-
based National Modern Energy Holdings Ltd., which builds and
owns renewable energy power plants.  Saab filed for bankruptcy in December after running out of
cash.  General Motors Co. (GM)  sold the Trollhaettan, Sweden-based
company in February 2010 to the Dutch sports-carmaker  Spyker NV. (SWAN) 
Saab hasn’t made cars since last year, after an initial
production halt in March 2011.  Hu Ming, a spokesman for Jinhua, China-based Youngman
didn’t immediately respond to a call and text message seeking
comment. Hans Bergqvist, one of the bankruptcy administrators
trying to sell the carmaker, didn’t immediately respond to a
voice mail seeking comment.  Hedge Fund Founder, Ex-Employees Must Pay $450 Million for Fraud  Hedge fund Weavering Capital (UK) Ltd.’s administrators won
a lawsuit to recover money from its founder Magnus Peterson and
other former employees involved in sham derivative deals that
caused its collapse.  Peterson and nine others, including his wife and deputy
investment manager Edward Platt, must pay $450 million, Judge
Sonia Proudman said.  “All of these defendants might find themselves bankrupt in
the very near future” and the fund is unlikely to recover the
money, Weavering’s lawyer  Robert Anderson  said.  Weavering’s administrators at  MCR , a unit of  Duff & Phelps
Corp. (DUF) , sued Peterson and the former employees to recoup losses
caused when the fund collapsed in March 2009. Peterson told
investors he achieved returns of as much as 12 percent a year,
while he covered losses with fraudulent swap contracts,
administrators said at a London trial last year.  Proudman said Peterson had breached his duties and acted
deceitfully. Platt was negligent, but hadn’t committed fraud,
the judge ruled. Peterson’s wife breached her duties as a
director by approving the swap-trading strategy, Proudman said.  Rangers’ Creditors Will Recover Less Than 10%, Scotsman Reports  Rangers Football Club Plc’s unsecured creditors may recover
less than 10 percent of the 55 million pounds ($84 million) they
are owed, the Scotsman said, without saying where it got the
information.  If the proposals, due to be voted on at a June 14
creditors’ meeting, are accepted, the U.K. tax authority will
get back only about 2 million pounds of the 21.5 million pounds
in unpaid taxes, the Edinburgh-based newspaper said.  Administrators Duff & Phelps published proposals on May 29
to allow the club to come out of administration by mid-July, the
Scotsman said. The documents didn’t specify what proportion of
the cash owed that creditors could anticipate recovering, the
newspaper said.  The Creditors Voluntary Arrangement needs 75 percent
approval by value or 50 percent in value of the creditors voting
on the proposal, the Scotsman said.  Former U.K. Madoff Trustee Lawyer Gets Three-Year Sentence  A London lawyer who advised the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s assets was sentenced to three years in jail by a U.K.
court for fraudulently claiming 1.27 million pounds ($2 million)
in expenses from his  law firm ,  Hogan Lovells  LLP.  Christopher Grierson, a former partner at the firm who
advised on asset-tracing and fraud, admitted to making 57 fake
travel claims, the  Crown Prosecution Service  said in March.  “It was well planned, it was sophisticated. It was a
serious breach of trust,” Judge  John Price  said at a May 30
hearing in London. “But it is right to say that you have
suffered from mental illness.”  Price said Grierson would serve half of his sentence.
Grierson was fired from the law firm in May 2011 and
subsequently repaid the money to Hogan Lovells. Grierson’s
lawyer, Mark Ellison, asked the judge to take into account that
his client suffered from a long-standing mental illness.  Irving Picard , the U.S. bankruptcy court-appointed trustee
liquidating the accounts of Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, hired Grierson in 2009 to help recover Madoff
assets in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  