-- Fed Will Likely Weigh Rosengren’s Call for Stimulus
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-06-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/fed-will-likely-weigh-rosengren-s-call-for-stimulus.html
Some Federal Reserve policy makers
may join Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  in backing new
stimulus at a meeting this month after unemployment rose to 8.2
percent in May, economists said.  Rosengren said the Fed should further its full-employment
mandate and extend beyond June a program known as Operation
Twist, which lengthens the average duration of bonds on its
balance sheet. He spoke before a report yesterday showed the
U.S. added 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year, pushing the
yield on 10-year Treasury notes to a record low.  “The May report does significantly raise the odds of
further easing from the Fed,” said  Dean Maki , New York-based
chief U.S. economist at Barclays Plc and a former Fed economist.
“There will be a case made at the June meeting for easing.”  Rosengren’s stimulus call aligns with the view of Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans . Any job market setback is also a
chief concern of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said in April the
Fed may provide more accommodation should unemployment fail to
make “sufficient progress towards its longer-run normal
level.” Fed policy makers plan to meet June 19-20.  Yesterday’s report from the Labor Department “does change
the game, certainly in terms of Operation Twist,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . “Because the slowdown in the economy has been fairly
rapid compared to what they expected, they’ll go ahead and
extend Operation Twist.”  Stocks Slump  The yield  on the 10-year Treasury note closed at a record
low 1.45 percent yesterday, from 1.56 percent on May 31. The
yield fell to as low as 1.4387 percent. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index tumbled 2.5 percent to 1,278.04 in the steepest
retreat since November.  Rosengren said low interest rates are not a barrier to
further Fed action, and that more easing could help reduce the
borrowing costs for types of debt other than Treasuries,
including mortgages.  Paul Ashworth , chief U.S. economist for Capital Economics
in Toronto, said further Fed stimulus may spur stocks by
encouraging investors to seek higher-yielding assets.  “It’s not just about whether it’s going to drive Treasury
yields lower, it’s about whether it can provide a boost to other
riskier asset classes, including equities,” Ashworth said.  The central bank started Operation Twist in September to
reduce longer-term interest rates without expanding its balance
sheet. Under the program, the Fed sold $400 billion of  Treasury
securities  with maturities of three years or less and used the
proceeds to buy $400 billion of Treasuries with maturities of
six years or more.  Fed Leadership  The Fed’s leadership will probably detail its outlook next
week, with Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  scheduled to speak on
monetary policy in  Boston  on June 6 and Bernanke planning to
testify before Congress on the economy on June 7.  The Fed has two options should it decide to take further
action with its balance sheet, said  Stuart Hoffman , chief
economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh. It
could renew Operation Twist by selling more of its short-term
debt and buying more longer-term securities, or it could buy
more bonds in a third round of quantitative easing.  Rosengren said in a Bloomberg News interview that he
supports the option of extending Operation Twist at the Fed’s
June meeting. Another round of quantitative easing would be an
option if the Fed wanted to do something “more substantial,”
he said.  ‘Promote Growth’  “If you were looking for something that would promote
growth but didn’t have an impact on our balance sheet, then
certainly extending the maturity extension program would be a
viable way forward,” Rosengren said. Such a move “would be a
positive step that would provide some additional support to the
economy and hopefully promote somewhat more rapid growth
overall.”  Signs of weakness in the  U.S. economy , and the debt crisis
in Europe, also have increased the odds the Fed will ease
further,  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in New York, said in a note.  “The loss of momentum in the domestic economy and the
gathering global storm raise the likelihood of further policy
easing at the next meeting,” he said.  The economy has not had two consecutive months of jobs
growth under 100,000 since July and August of 2011, a period
that prompted the Fed to begin Operation Twist.  “It’s close to a game-changing report,” said  Capital
Economics ’ Ashworth. “We’re not quite at that level of
desperation as last summer, but we’re getting pretty close,
particularly when you think about the deterioration elsewhere in
the world.”  To help reduce unemployment and spur the economy, the Fed
cut its benchmark  interest rate  to near zero in December 2008
and purchased $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of
large-scale asset purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  