-- Ferrari GTO Becomes Most Expensive Car at $35 Million
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-06-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/ferrari-gto-becomes-most-expensive-car-at-35-million.html
A 1962 Ferrari 250 GTO made for race
driver Stirling Moss has become the world’s most expensive car,
selling in a private transaction last month for $35 million.  The distinctive apple-green Ferrari, one of 39 GTOs
produced from 1962 to 1964, is listed among May’s high-end sales
at  anamera.com , a website for classic car dealers. Two
specialist traders last night independently confirmed the
transaction and price to Bloomberg News.  The car was sold with the last two weeks by the Dutch-born
businessman Eric Heerema, owner of the Nyetimber vineyard in
Sussex, southern  England . The buyer is U.S.-based classic car
collector  Craig McCaw , the dealers said. Heerema was not
available for comment when Nyetimber was contacted by Bloomberg
News. McCaw was also unavailable for comment when his company
Eagle River Investments was telephoned.  “The market is very active at the moment,” said James
Cottingham, acquisition consultant for Ferrari dealer DK
Engineering, based in Hertfordshire, U.K. “A lot of new buyers
are expanding their collections and the baby-boomer generation
of collectors has reached an age when they’re not using their
cars as much as they used to. They want to sell.”  McCaw, who is based in the Seattle area, was the co-founder
of McCaw Cellular, which was acquired by AT&T for $11.5 billion
in 1993.  Big Tickets  There has been a flurry of big-ticket Ferrari sales through
private transactions during the last two months. The Ferrari 250
Testa Rossa in which the U.S. driver Phil Hill won the 1958 Le
Mans 24-Hour race was sold by the French collector Pierre
Bardinon for about $25 million, according to anamera.com.  A Ferrari 250 GTO bought by U.K. television and radio host
 Chris Evans  for about $18 million in 2010 has been sold for a
million-dollar price “in the high 20s,” dealers said.  “I’ve heard of eight Ferraris selling for a total of $135
million during the last eight weeks,”  John Collins  of the U.K.,
Ascot-based dealership  Talacrest Ltd . said in an interview.  “It’s difficult to find cars at the moment,” said Collins,
who was directly involved in five of these high-end sales. “The
Arabs have started buying because of Formula One and the Chinese
have now entered the market.”  The green GTO had been acquired by Heerema a decade ago for
about $8.5 million from the Japanese collector Yoshiho Matsuda,
who was also the previous owner of Evans’s Ferrari, dealers
said.  Talacrest Purchase  Matsuda acquired the ex-Moss racer in 1999 from Talacrest,
who bought the car for $3.5 million in 1996.  “I kept on looking at it in my showroom, thinking I paid
too much,” said Collins.  The 250 GTO, created in 1962 to compete at the  Le Mans  24-
Hour and other Grand-Touring car races, is regarded by
collectors as the most desirable of all classic Ferraris. Motor
Trend Classic magazine placed the 250 GTO first on a list of the
“Greatest Ferraris of all time” in 2010.  Heerema’s example, with a chassis numbered 3505, was made
by the Ferrari factory in 1962 for the U.K. racer Moss, whose
name is scrawled on the back of the right-hand driver’s seat.  The car was painted in the pale-green livery of Moss’s UDT-
Laystall race team. Moss suffered a career-ending crash at the
Goodwood circuit in Sussex on April 23, 1962, in a race just
prior to taking the wheel of his new Ferrari.  Le Mans  The car was raced by his fellow U.K. driver Innes Ireland
at the 1962 Le Mans, where it retired.  The record had been held by a 1936 Type 57SC Bugatti
Atlantic, bought by the California-based collector Peter Mullin
in another private transaction in 2010 for an undisclosed price
between $30 million and $34 million.  Mullin, when interviewed by Bloomberg News in February,
wouldn’t divulge the precise sum he paid for the Bugatti.  In January, a 1963 Ferrari 250 GTO numbered 5095 was sold
by the U.K.-based businessman Jon Hunt, former chief executive
of the Foxtons real-estate group, for about $32 million, dealers
with knowledge of the matter said.  Prices for classic Ferraris increased 4.82 percent in the
first quarter of 2012, according to data compiled by the London-
based Historic Automobile Group International ( HAGI ).  Ferrari SpA remains the top brand for both established
collectors and wealthy individuals looking to diversify their
investments. New buyers appreciate the security of a big
carmaker that still exists and private sales appeal to some
rather than the spotlight of public auctions.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include:  Lewis Lapham  on  history , Zinta
Lundborg’s  New York   weekend , Mark Beech’s London  weekend .  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 