-- Florida Voter Rules Assailed by Judge, Justice Department
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/florida-voter-rules-assailed-by-judge-justice-department.html
Florida ’s self-proclaimed effort to
battle voter fraud suffered dual setbacks four months before the
presidential election as portions of a registration law were
blocked and the Obama administration said a state effort to
remove non-citizens from the rolls “appears” to be illegal.  Portions of the statute severely restrict registration
drives and place “harsh and impractical” limits on groups that
conduct them, U.S. District Judge Robert Hinkle in Tallahassee
said in a May 31 ruling. He blocked requirements that voter-
drive groups turn over completed materials to the state within
48 hours or face possible $1,000 fines. The two-day window,
previously 10 days, makes no provision for mailing applications
and serves little, if any, purpose, Hinkle said.  Also on May 31, the Justice Department wrote Florida
Secretary of State Ken Detzner, warning that a state program to
identify ineligible voters may violate federal law, including
one aimed at reviewing voter limits in states such as Florida
with a history of racial discrimination. The U.S. told the state
to respond by June 6 whether it will cease the practice.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican who signed the
registration law and ordered the purge, has called both a way to
reduce election fraud. Florida Democratic Party Chairman Rod Smith countered that Republicans are using the rules to help
presumptive presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  beat President
 Barack Obama , a Democrat. The law was sponsored by Republicans
and passed both Republican-controlled houses of the legislature
by a 2 to 1 margin. With 29 electoral votes, Florida is the
biggest prize among states both campaigns view as competitive.  Registration Law  The voter law requires that groups give the names of every
officer or volunteer who solicits and collects applications.
Registration agents must sign a form that states it’s a felony,
subject to a five-year prison term, to submit applications that
include false information -- even if they don’t know or have any
reason to believe the information is false, Hinkle said in his
decision.  The form “is just wrong,” the judge said. “Requiring a
volunteer not only to sign such a statement, but to swear to it,
could have no purpose other than to discourage voluntary
participation in legitimate, indeed constitutionally protected,
activities.”  The League of Women Voters of Florida, which sued last year
to overturn provisions of the law, said many groups had stopped
registering voters because of the legislation.  “Laws that make it harder to participate in the public
process should be rejected,” Lee Rowland, an attorney for the
Brennan Center for Justice, which represented the group, said in
a May 31 conference call. She said she hoped the decision “will
help turn the tide” in a surge of restrictive state voting
laws.  Left Standing  Hinkle, who was appointed to the bench by President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat, let stand challenged provisions such as
those requiring groups provide information to the state in an
electronic format and allowing violations to trigger litigation
by the state.  “I am pleased that central parts of the voter registration
law have been upheld,” Scott said in a statement. The Florida
attorney general’s office is reviewing the ruling, Jenn Meale, a
spokeswoman for the office, said in an e-mail. The state may
appeal Hinkle’s ruling to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta.  Non-Eligible  The effort to purge non-citizens from Florida voter
registration lists began at Scott’s order. Using a driver’s
license database, state officials identified 2,700 non-citizens
who are on voter rolls but ineligible to vote. Those men and
women were given 30 days to prove citizenship before being
removed from the list.  About 58 percent of those singled out by the effort are
Hispanics, who account for about 13 percent of Florida’s active
registered voters, according to an analysis by the Miami Herald.  The state’s attempt to verify voter eligibility “appears”
to violate the 1965 Voting Rights Act and the 1993 National
Voter Registration Act, according to the Justice Department
letter from T. Christian Herren Jr., head of its voting section.  Under the Voting Rights Act, federal approval is required
for election law changes in five Florida counties because of
past racial discrimination. Such state regulations must be
submitted for review by a federal judge in  Washington  and the
U.S. attorney general under the Voting Rights Act.  Herren wrote that Florida must submit its new rules “for a
determination that they neither have the purpose nor will have
the effect of discriminating on account of race, color, or
membership in a language minority group.”  Removing Voters  The Voter Registration Act forbids removing voters from
rolls less than 90 days before a federal election. Florida held
its presidential primary Jan. 31 while primaries for all other
state and federal offices are scheduled for Aug. 14. As a
result, Herren stated, the blackout period has already begun.  Detzner said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that his
office will respond next week to the  Justice Department ’s
concerns.  “It is my duty to protect the right of all eligible voters
who are able to participate in the process,” Detzner said.
“The department will continue to act in a responsible and
cautious manner when presented with credible information about
potentially ineligible voters. No one that has the right to vote
has been denied the opportunity to cast a vote, and as the
secretary, it is my duty to ensure that remains the case.”  Then-Texas Governor  George W. Bush ’s 537-vote victory in
Florida, as determined by the U.S. Supreme Court, over Vice
President  Al Gore  in the 2000 presidential election won the
White House for Bush. Obama won Florida in 2008 over Republican
 John McCain  by 2.8 percentage points.  “The integrity of the election system is being challenged
by both ends of the political spectrum,”  Susan MacManus , a
University of South Florida political science professor who
studies voter demographics, said in an interview. “Florida is
going to be very close and both sides are worried about another
election being thrown into the courts.”  The case is League of Women Voters v. Browning, 11-628,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Florida (Tallahassee).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  