-- Forint Slumps Most This Year as Bonds Drop, Default Swaps Surge
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-06-01T13:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/forint-slumps-set-for-fourth-weekly-retreat-on-bailout-delays.html
Hungary ’s forint weakened the most in
almost six months,  government bonds  tumbled and credit-default
swaps jumped to the highest since January on concern aid talks
with the  International Monetary Fund  will be further delayed.  The forint declined as much as 2.1 percent, the most since
Dec. 8, and traded down 1.7 percent to 305.86 per euro by 1:41
p.m. in Budapest, set for a fourth week of losses. Bonds fell
for a fourth day, lifting benchmark 2022 yields 13 basis points
to 9 percent, the highest in more than a month.  Proposed amendments to the central bank law, designed to
end a row delaying the IMF talks, are not enough to restore the
Hungarian regulator’s independence, the  European Central Bank 
said yesterday. The European Union’s most indebted eastern
member should reject the EU’s economic-policy recommendations
for all member states and chart its own course for strengthening
its economy, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said yesterday.  “We believe that no negotiations will take place before
Hungary modifies the central bank law,” Societe Generale SA
analysts wrote in a report to clients today. Investors should
“remain short forint assets for now,” they said.  The yield  premium  investors demand to hold 10-year forint
bonds rather than German bunds surged 29 basis points, or 0.29
percentage point, today to 779, the most since Jan. 17. Default
swaps protecting Hungary’s debt for five years, which rise as
perceptions of creditworthiness worsen, climbed 11 basis points
to a four-month high of 623, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  European stocks declined as unemployment in the euro area,
the biggest buyer of Hungarian exports, jumped to a record high
and a Chinese purchasing managers’ index showed manufacturing
growth in the world’s second-largest economy slowed in May.  ’More Tremor’  Hungarian bonds were cut to sell from hold at  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI) , which cited possible delays in the
country’s IMF talks and risks of  Greece  quitting the euro in a
report today from Zoltan Torok, a Budapest-based analyst.  “The weeks ahead will be filled with more tremor as no
resolution is seen to come vis-à-vis the possibility of the
Greek exit scenario,” Torok wrote. “The local spice is added
by the government’s ambiguity towards the IMF,” undermining
“the market belief that Hungary would be able to sign the loan
agreement within three months,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  