-- Fourteen Programs Show CO2 Trade Taking Off: World Bank
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-06-01T15:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/fourteen-programs-show-co2-trade-taking-off-world-bank.html
(Corrects name of Chilean official in 14th paragraph.)  New carbon programs in at least 14
emerging nations from China to Costa Rica show emissions trading
may take off even as U.S. lawmakers focus on non-market-based
regulations for climate protection, a  World Bank  official said.  Seven countries including Mexico and Indonesia are
considering emissions-crediting systems, five mull domestic
carbon markets while India and  South Africa  are studying their
own plans, Xueman Wang, team leader for the bank’s Partnership
for Market Readiness program, said in an interview.  “ Brazil  and Chile are leaving all options on the table,”
she said May 30 at the Carbon Expo in Cologne, Germany.  Carbon trading rose 11 percent to $176 billion last year,
the World Bank said in its annual report on May 30. Besides the
European Union program, the world’s biggest by traded volume,
developed nations and their states have started or plan at least
eight greenhouse-gas markets from  California  to  Japan . EU and
United Nations carbon prices last month fell to records on
robust supply and muted demand.  Developing and emerging nations including  China , whose
populations make up more than three-quarters of the world’s 7
billion population, are seeking to protect the climate cost-
effectively, Wang said.  Emerging countries are choosing industries such as steel
and housing, where emission credits can encourage carbon cuts,
lowering the cost of climate protection, said  Wang.   “These countries know there is very little demand for the
time being,” she said. “Some want to fulfill a domestic
climate objective. It’s quite an exciting time.”  Their push is being fueled in part by about $80 million
under the bank’s readiness program known as PMR, which began in
2010. Japan this month decided to double its contribution to $15
million, Wang said.  ‘U.S. Intransigence’  Environmental and public health advocates pressed the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to regulate greenhouse-gas
emissions from existing power plants during a May 24 hearing on
a proposal to limit carbon dioxide from new fossil fuel-fired
units. Cap-and-trade legislation stalled in the  U.S. Senate 
after narrowly passing the  House of Representatives  in 2009.  “The U.S. intransigence has not stopped emerging economies
from valuing carbon in their own way,”  James Cameron , chairman
of  Bunge Ltd. (BG) ’s Climate Change Capital unit, said in an
interview May 30. Cameron helped negotiate the 1997  Kyoto
Protocol  on behalf small-island states.  The other nations considering crediting are Costa Rica,
Columbia, Morocco, Chile, Vietnam and Jordan, Wang said. Vietnam
is considering handing out credits for reductions in industries
including steel and solid waste and also to power users that
boost energy efficiency, she said. The nations are moving ahead
even as demand for the credits is unclear, she said.  South Korea, Ukraine, Brazil, Chile and China are
considering domestic carbon trading, Wang said. South Korea is
not part of the PMR.  Shielding Economy  Chile plans for a national carbon market were voluntary to
help shield its growing economy, an official at the nation’s
energy ministry said yesterday.  “We have made it a voluntary market,” Ignacio Fernandez,
a climate change official in the ministry, said at the
conference. “We are a growing economy. We have to consider our
commitment to make it sustainable.”  Chile  is working out ways it can link its national market
with international programs, he said.  China also wants to link its proposed domestic market with
others as it seeks to cut emissions, a government official said.  The country can set a cap on emissions in some regions
without curbing economic development, Shu Wang, deputy director
of the Climate Change Department at the National Development and
Reform Commission, yesterday told delegates.  EU emissions permits for December fell as much as 3 percent
today to 6.24 euros ($7.69) a metric ton, near a record low of
5.99 euros on April 4. UN carbon credits for 2012 lost as much
as 2.1 percent to 3.30 euros. They reached a record 3.27 euros
on April 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in Cologne,  Germany  via 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in Cologne, Germany via 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  