-- States Don’t Meet Global Fracking Guideline, Group Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-01T22:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/gas-producing-u-s-states-fall-short-on-fracking-standard.html
States that regulate production of
U.S. natural gas using hydraulic fracturing fail to meet
international standards developed to prevent the process from
damaging natural resources, the Environmental Defense Fund said.  “We’re just out of the starting gate on this,”  Eric Pooley , senior vice president of strategy and communication at
the organization, said today in an interview. “There are
regulations in place in many states, they’re not strong enough,
I don’t know of any state that has everything in place that’s
needed.”  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, uses chemically treated
water to free gas trapped in shale, and helped the U.S. overtake
 Russia  as the world’s largest producer while cutting prices 80
percent in the past four years. The Paris-based International
Energy Agency said policy makers and energy companies should
follow guidelines regarding chemical disclosure, well design and
waste-water disposal, to avoid local opposition to expanded
production.  Fracking now accounts for about 35 percent of U.S. natural-
gas production, up from about 1 percent in 2005 and 2006,  Carlos Pascual , the State Department special envoy and coordinator for
international energy affairs, said today.  Global gas extraction from unconventional resources, such
as shale formations, may more than triple through 2035, provided
that environmental concerns are resolved, according to the
International Energy Agency.  ‘Reputation, Destiny’  “The reputation and the destiny of the shale-gas industry
will not depend on the best practices,”  Fatih Birol , the chief
economist for the international agency, told reporters in
 Washington  today. “It will mainly depend on the worst ones,
because an incident, which can take place in any country, not
only in the  United States , such as water contamination, could
have serious consequences, overarching impact for the reputation
and the destiny of the shale-gas industry.”  About 26 states have been reviewing and revising their
fracking legislation over the past 12 months, as they learned
more about fracking, Amy Emmert, a policy adviser for
Washington-based energy-industry trade group, the  American
Petroleum Institute , said in an interview.  “State regulations are extremely effective,” she said.  The  International Energy Agency , which published rules on
May 29, said slow development of shale fields in nations such as
China and Australia, tied to water shortages and public
opposition, may add demand for liquefied natural gas shipped
from the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  