-- Geithner Adviser Says Options for GSE Reform Need Further Study
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-01T18:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/geithner-adviser-says-options-for-gse-reform-need-further-study.html
All options for overhauling the U.S.
system of housing finance pose challenges and need further
study, an adviser to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
today.  The Treasury Department has been working on a plan to
restructure housing finance and wind down  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie
Mac (FMCC) , the two taxpayer-owned mortgage finance companies, since
releasing a white paper in 2011.  The options in the Obama administration’s report ranged
from limited federal involvement to a system in which the
government would serve as a catastrophic insurer on certain
mortgages behind private investors.  “No matter how thoughtful any plan, the deeper you dig
beneath its top-line description, try to understand all of its
inter-related parts and ask second- and third-level questions,
one quickly realizes the challenges and complexities,” Michael Stegman, counselor to Geithner on housing issues, said in a
speech in  Washington .  Any proposal from the administration will include
government support for low-income homeowners and rental housing,
Stegman said.  Government support for housing finance should be
“transparent, explicit and limited,” Stegman said.  “Private
capital should be the primary source of mortgage funding and
bear the burden of credit losses.”  Stegman didn’t specify when Treasury would release a
housing finance plan. Previously, he and Geithner have said a
plan could come this spring.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been operating under U.S.
conservatorship since investments in risky loans pushed them to
the brink of insolvency in 2008. The two companies have relied
on almost $190 billion in taxpayer aid to stay afloat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  