-- German Stocks Fall as China Output Slows; BMW Declines
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-06-01T16:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/german-stocks-fall-as-china-output-slows-bmw-declines.html
German stocks declined for a third
day as manufacturing growth slowed in China, unemployment in the
single currency area reached a record and American employers in
May added the fewest workers in a year.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  dropped 3.9 percent after the
world’s largest luxury carmaker said Germany’s car market won’t
grow in 2012. Infineon Technologies AG slid 5.7 percent. MAN SE
jumped 2.2 percent after its parent company,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said
it was forging a truckmaking alliance.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 3.4 percent to 6,050.29 at the close
of trade in  Frankfurt . The benchmark gauge lost 7.4 percent in
May amid growing concern that  Greece  will be forced to leave the
euro area and Spanish banks will seek bailouts. The broader HDAX
Index also retreated 3.3 percent.  “The weak data from China is one of the main themes of the
moment,” said Mikkel Kirkegaard Petersen, a senior equity
specialist at Nordea Private Bank in Copenhagen. “Today’s
numbers have not made us more confident and investors are
selling because of this. The biggest part of the German car
industry’s growth comes from  China  and they will get hammered if
China growth recedes.”  China’s purchasing managers’ index expanded at the weakest
pace since December last month, falling to 50.4 from 53.3 in
April, the statistics bureau and logistics federation said today
in Beijing. This compares with the 52 median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 27 economists. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  A separate gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed a seventh straight contraction, the longest
since the global financial crisis.  Euro-Area Unemployment  Euro-area unemployment reached the highest on record as a
deepening economic slump and budget cuts prompted companies from
 Spain  to  Italy  to cut jobs. The jobless rate was at 11 percent
in April and March, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. That’s the highest since the data series
started in 1995 and in line with the median forecast of 28
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The March figure was revised
up to 11 percent from 10.9 percent.  Euro-region manufacturing output contracted for a 10th
month in May as the economy struggled to regain strength amid
the deepening debt crisis.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area fell to
45.1 from 45.9 in April, London-based Markit Economics said
today. That’s the lowest since mid-2009. It had previously
reported the May output indicator at 45. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  U.S. Hiring  Employers in the world’s biggest economy added the smallest
number of workers in a year in May and the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly increased as job-seekers re-entered the workforce,
further evidence that the labor-market recovery is stalling.  Payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, after a revised
77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated,
U.S. Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median estimate called for a 150,000 May advance. The jobless
rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent, while hours worked
declined.  Manufacturing in the U.S. grew at a slower pace in May as
factories tempered production and pared inventories in response
to weakness in the global economy.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to
53.5 after reaching a 10-month high of 54.8 in April, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group reported today. Readings greater than 50
signal growth. The median projection of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a decrease to 53.8 in May.  Carmakers Fall  BMW retreated 3.9 percent to 58.72 euros after it said
 Germany ’s car market won’t grow in 2012 following a jump in
2011. “Last year was an exceptionally positive year for us in
Germany,” said Karsten Engel, the carmaker’s head of sales and
marketing in Germany.  Volkswagen dropped 4.1 percent to 123.75 euros. Europe’s
largest carmaker will appoint a new trucks chief, add an
executive to oversee China and replace three members of Audi’s
board as part of a management shakeup to push forward with
growth plans, according to people familiar with the matter.  Daimler AG (DAI)  fell 5.1 percent to 35.52 euros after it was cut
from sell to buy at Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt by equity
analyst  Juergen Pieper .  Infineon (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest semiconductor maker,
declined 5.7 percent to 6.03 euros, its lowest price this year.  Deutsche Bank Drops  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  fell 4.2 percent to 27.15 euros. Germany’s
largest lender borrowed 9 billion euros ($11.1 billion) from the
 European Central Bank  through its Spanish and Italian units
after saying it took only “a small amount” in a second round
of emergency funding.  Deutsche Bank SA Espanola, the lender’s Spanish unit, took
5.5 billion euros and Deutsche Bank SpA, the Italian arm,
borrowed 3.5 billion euros in the ECB’s second longer-term
refinancing operation in February, according to annual reports
filed by the two divisions.  Deutsche Bank said it named a new 15-member executive
committee for its investment bank after Anshu Jain, the sole
head of the unit since 2010, moved up to become co-chief
executive officer with Germany head  Juergen Fitschen .  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, fell 2
percent to 1.31 euros.  MAN rose 2.2 percent to 79.07 euros after Volkswagen’s
decision to strengthen ties with the truckmaker and Scania.  “MAN has been driven up today by the news that VW will
make crucial decisions in the personnel for the integrated
commercial vehicle group,” said Helena Wuestenfeld, an analyst
at Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt.  Scania AB Chief Executive Officer Leif Oestling will join
Volkswagen’s management board to help coordinate synergies
between the truckmaking operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  