-- Global Growth Heads for Lull as Europe Output Shrinks
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-06-01T10:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/global-growth-heads-for-lull-as-europe-output-shrinks.html
The world economy is heading for its
third straight mid-year lull after manufacturing output shrank
in  Europe  and slowed in China, leaving the U.S. under pressure
to drive global growth.  A  gauge of manufacturing  in the 17-nation euro zone fell to
a three-year low of 45.1 in May, indicating a 10th month of
contraction, while unemployment reached 11 percent, the highest
on record. China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index dropped to 50.4
from 53.3, the weakest production growth since December.  Signs of a renewed international slowdown are mounting as
Europe’s two-year debt crisis threatens to engulf Spain and
spread abroad by undermining demand and investor confidence.
With  China’s economy  also decelerating, economists are looking
to the U.S. for growth. Data today is forecast to show hiring
picked up in May.  “Things are turning down again and the underlying state of
every economy is pretty ropey,” said  Rob Carnell , chief
international economist at ING Bank NV in  London . “The world
may avoid recession, but large chunks of it will remain in it.”  U.S. Treasuries advanced, extending their biggest weekly
gain this year, while the euro fell to a 23-month low of
$1.2313. European stocks declined, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP) 
down 1.2 percent at 236.79 at noon in Frankfurt, its lowest in
2012.  German Manufacturing  German manufacturing faded to its weakest since June 2009
as its PMI fell to 45.2 in May from 46.2 in April, the third
monthly contraction. France’s measure slid to 44.7 from 46.9 and
Spain’s declined to 42 from 43.5. By contrast,  Greece , the
epicenter of the debt crisis, saw its gauge rise to 43.1 from
40.7 and Italy’s rose to 44.8 from 43.8. A reading below 50
still signals contraction.  One result is rising joblessness. The euro area’s 11
percent  unemployment rate  in April and March is the highest
since the data series began in 1995.  Spain  had the bloc’s worst
rate at 24.3 percent in April.  Today’s reports underscore the risk that the European
economy is recession-bound as concern mounts that Greece could
quit the euro and Spain struggles to find 19 billion euros ($23
billion) to recapitalize Bankia group, the country’s third
biggest bank.  U.K. Slump  Europe’s troubles may spread internationally through trade
and financial ties. In the U.K., which is already in recession
and relies on the euro area to buy its exports, manufacturing
shrank for the first time this year in May. The U.K. PMI slumped
to 45.9, the weakest reading since May 2009, from 50.2.  Slowing global growth puts the onus on governments to find
ways to deliver stimulus even as budgets remain bloated. Central
bankers may also be forced to respond, with Morgan Stanley
economists saying this week that they expect easier monetary
policy from the  European Central Bank  and People’s Bank of China
as well as perhaps the  Federal Reserve .  Europe’s travails today led  Holger Schmieding , chief
economist at Berenberg Bank, to say the ECB may be forced to cut
its benchmark  interest rate  from 1 percent as soon as next week,
although he noted it may wait for the results of Greece’s June
17 election.  “If the Greek situation deteriorates after the elections
and causes significant contagion, the ECB would probably step up
its response considerably,” Schmieding said in a report.  Europe’s ‘Vacuum’  ECB President Mario Draghi yesterday said it wasn’t the
ECB’s duty to “fill the vacuum” left by the failure of
governments to deliver tighter budgets, and he joined with
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in calling for Germany to
give up its opposition to direct euro-area aid for ailing banks.  As Europe struggles, there is also concern about the speed
of  China ’s expansion, increasing the odds that Premier  Wen Jiabao  will boost stimulus in the world’s second-biggest
economy, which drove the global recovery from the 2008 financial
crisis.  The government’s stimulus response may be as much as 2
trillion  yuan  ($314 billion), half the size of the package in
2008, Credit Suisse Group AG said this week.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, South Korea’s exports
declined for a third month in May, falling 0.4 percent from a
year earlier. With  emerging markets  such as Brazil and Russia
losing steam too, economists are banking on the U.S. to serve as
an engine for the world.  U.S. Growth  Casting doubt on its ability to do so, reports showed
yesterday that the number of Americans applying for  unemployment
benefits  rose and companies hired fewer workers than forecast.
The government also revised down its estimate of growth in the
first quarter to 1.9 percent from 2.2 percent.  U.S. job growth nevertheless probably sped up in May and
unemployment may hold at a three-year low. Non-farm payrolls
climbed by 150,000 workers after a 115,000 increase in April,
while the jobless rate was unchanged at 8.1 percent, according
to median estimates in Bloomberg surveys of economists. A
measure of U.S. manufacturing produced by the Institute for
Supply Management Inc. is predicted to fall to 53.8 from a 10-
month high of 54.8.  “The weakness of the  euro zone  hits activity elsewhere
through trade and heightened risk aversion in the financial
sector,” said Keith Wade, chief economist at Schroders Plc in
London. “However, with the U.S. continuing to grow, albeit
weakly, and China avoiding a hard landing, the world economy is
not expected to drop back into recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  