-- GM Cutting Pension Obligations by $26 Billion on Buyouts
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/gm-chief-hopes-to-return-to-investment-grade-within-year.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S.
automaker, said it aims to cut its pension obligation by almost
a fifth by offering lump-sum payments to about 42,000 salaried
retirees and shifting plans to a  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  unit.  The moves, which follow Ford Motor Co.’s planned offer of
lump-sum buyouts, will eliminate about $26 billion from GM’s
pension obligations, which totaled $134 billion at the end of
last year. The offers are a first for Detroit-based GM, which
projects a second-half expense of $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion 
and a $200 million decrease in annual pension income.  “When you’re in the pension business in a big way, you’re
subject to enormous volatility from a number of uncontrollable
factors,” Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann told analysts on a
conference call yesterday. “This is about a fundamental  risk
reduction  to the enterprise, about lowering our cost of capital,
about increasing our financial flexibility.”  For the pension and insurance industry, GM’s move opens new
avenues of revenue as other companies may seek to offload their
retiree obligations. GM said it has the largest pension
obligation of any company. Negotiations on this deal began last
year, said Phil Waldeck, Prudential’s senior vice president for
pension and structured solutions.  “The size of the transaction alone makes it unique within
corporate America and the pension industry,” insurance broker
Aon Plc said in a  statement  on its website, which said no
annuity transaction has exceeded $1 billion since the 1980s.
“By contrast, GM is expected to annuitize a significant portion
of the $26 billion in this single transaction.”  Credit Shortfall  GM’s global pension plans were underfunded by $25.4 billion
at the end of 2011, up from $22.2 billion a year earlier,
according to federal filings. Analysts with  credit-rating 
companies Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have said
they will evaluate how GM addresses that shortfall as they
consider restoring an investment-grade credit rating.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service said the moves don’t
affect GM’s credit ratings. Fitch characterized them as a
positive.  The changes apply only to retired U.S. salaried employees,
not former union workers or retirees in other countries.  ‘Significant Issue’  “Pension has continued to be a significant issue for
General Motors,” Ammann said yesterday on a conference call
with reporters. “It’s important to us to mitigate the growth of
these obligations and in the case of today’s actions, to
actually reduce that obligation.”  GM will contribute $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion in cash to
the salaried pension plans. The cash will purchase the group
annuity contract from Prudential and add about $1 billion in
funding to the pension plans, Ammann said. The transaction will
be completed by the end of this year, he said.  “While the proposed action would have upfront and ongoing
costs, it should materially lower the automaker’s pension
benefit obligations and narrow its unfunded pension
obligations,”  Efraim Levy , equity analyst with S&P Capital IQ,
wrote in a note yesterday. Levy recommends buying the shares.  GM fell 0.9 percent to $22.01 yesterday in  New York . The
shares rose as much as 5.1 percent after the changes were
announced, reversing losses from  earlier in the day  when it
reported that U.S. vehicle sales rose less in May than analysts
had estimated. The shares have gained 8.6 percent this year.
Prudential shares fell 3.7 percent yesterday to $44.74. They
have declined 11 percent this year.  Ford Offers  Ford also is offering lump-sum pension payments to about
98,000 U.S. salaried retirees and former employees. The
voluntary program is aimed at lowering the company’s $74 billion
global pension liability, which was underfunded by $15.4 billion
at the end of last year. Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford (F)  hasn’t
said how much its program may reduce its pension obligation.  Ford fell 4.2 percent to $10.12 after its light-vehicle
sales increase in May beat estimates by 1 percentage point.  Assuming pension risk from employers may provide “a big
opportunity to deploy a lot of capital,” Prudential Vice
Chairman Mark Grier said at a May 22 presentation.  The life insurer, based in  Newark ,  New Jersey , is focusing
on retirement services in the U.S. and  Japan  after exiting its
real-estate relocation and commodities businesses.  “Since 2008, employers have been much more focused on
pension-risk management,” Byron Beebe, U.S. retirement
consulting market leader for the Aon Hewitt business, said in a
statement. “We expect a continuation of pension settlement and
de-risking activities.”  Seeking Innovation  Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, last year
sold protection to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. against the risk
that longer life spans could lead to larger-than-expected
pension obligations. The deal covers pension account values of
about $160 million at Goldman Sachs’s U.K.-based Rothesay Life,
Prudential said last year.  “Pension-plan sponsors are facing increasing regulatory
and financial challenges,” Charles Lowrey, chief operating
officer for Prudential in the U.S., said May 22. “And their
response is that they’re seeking innovative asset-management
solutions.”  Life insurers pay more in claims costs when death rates
rise. They find the pension business attractive because the risk
is the opposite, that clients will live longer than expected,
Lowrey said.  “Our core business is designing, building and selling
cars,” GM’s Ammann said. “Prudential’s core business is taking
pension risk and managing that. This is really a move for us to
further refocus on our core business and get out of a non-core
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  