-- Gokarn Says Slowing India Growth May Help Boost Rate-Cut Room
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-06-01T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/gokarn-says-slowing-india-growth-may-help-boost-rate-cut-room.html
The  Reserve Bank of India  may have
more room to cut  interest rates  after economic expansion slowed
and  oil prices  fell, even as inflation remains a risk, its
Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said.  “The factors that are, perhaps, providing some more room,
one is, growth has slowed down somewhat more than expected,”
Gokarn said in a speech in Kochi in southern India yesterday.
“Second, oil prices have come down somewhat more than expected.
Things are working on both sides. Inflation risks remain.”  India’s  economy  expanded at the weakest pace in nine years
last quarter, hurt by slower investment, persistent inflation
and the impact on exports of Europe’s debt crisis. The central
bank has previously signaled that price pressures from a plunge
in the rupee,  government spending  and energy costs may limit
scope to add to the first rate cut in April since 2009.  Gokarn’s “comments certainly open the door for possible
interest-rate cuts,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, Mumbai-
based chief economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership.
“But it is not clear if it will be immediate or over the course
of the year.”  The rupee strengthened 0.9 percent to 55.585 at the close
in Mumbai yesterday. The currency has declined about 19 percent
in the past 12 months. The BSE India Sensitive Index of stocks
fell 1.6 percent. The yield on the 8.79 percent note due
November 2021 was little changed at 8.37 percent.  Rupee Concern  The  Reserve Bank  is looking at all options to steady the
rupee and doesn’t rule out selling dollars to  oil companies  to
help stabilize the currency, Gokarn told reporters before his
speech.  Brent crude , the benchmark for almost all of India’s
imports, has fallen about 14 percent in the past year.  It would be “naive” to think that interest-rate actions
alone can revive economic expansion, Gokarn also said. It’s
necessary to address concerns about the fiscal deficit,
infrastructure and regulatory constraints, he said.  On the debt crisis in Europe, Gokarn said one of the risks
for India is that capital inflows my dry up if Greece exits the
17-nation euro area.  Indian manufacturing growth slowed in May, a private survey
showed yesterday, adding to signs of weakening demand. A
purchasing managers’ index was at 54.8 from 54.9 in April, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an e-mailed statement.
A number above 50 indicates growth.  A similar manufacturing gauge for  China  from HSBC and
Markit signaled a contraction for a seventh straight month, the
longest such stretch since the global financial crisis, another
report showed.  Growth Slowdown  India ’s  gross domestic product  increased 5.3 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the least since 2003, the
government said two days ago. Inflation accelerated to 7.23
percent in April, the fastest pace among the largest emerging
economies.  The Reserve Bank of India lowered its benchmark  repurchase
rate  in April after increasing it by a record 3.75 percentage
points from mid-March 2010 to October last year to try and
contain jumps in the cost of living.  The central bank forecasts the economy will recover in the
fiscal year through March 2013, posting growth of 7.3 percent.  The government expects that the steps it is taking to
bolster economic expansion will improve  market sentiment ,
Finance Secretary R.S. Gujral told reporters after a briefing in
 New Delhi  yesterday. He didn’t specify the measures.  The decline in the rupee is a concern, Commerce Minister
 Anand Sharma  said at the briefing. He added India’s goals are to
increase exports by 20 percent this fiscal year and to achieve
$500 billion of overseas sales by 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  