-- Google to Charge Retailers for Product-Search Placements
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-06-01T13:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/google-says-retailers-have-to-pay-for-product-search-placement.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , in a bid to boost
revenue, is overhauling its online product-search service to
include only items from merchants that pay to be included in
search results.  The company is moving to a paid model by the fall and will
call the new search tool Google Shopping, Sameer Samat, a Google
vice president, wrote in a  blog post  yesterday. Ads from the
service will appear on Google.com’s main search engine and be
labeled as “sponsored,” he wrote.  “Having a commercial relationship with merchants will
encourage them to keep their product information fresh and up to
date,” Samat wrote. “Higher quality data -- whether it’s
accurate prices, the latest offers or product availability --
should mean better shopping results for users, which in turn
should create higher quality traffic for merchants.”  Google, under Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page , is
seeking to increase ad revenue by doing away with a service that
now drives traffic to a company website for free. Retailers
spent $7.1 billion on online ads last year, more than any other
industry, an increase of 29.1 percent from 2010, according to
the  Interactive Advertising Bureau . The move marks a shift for a
company that once eschewed requiring payment for inclusion in
search, said  Danny Sullivan , a Web-search analyst.  “Eight years ago, Google viewed paid inclusion in general
as some type of evil the company should avoid,” Sullivan  wrote 
on his searchengineland.com blog. “What’s happening with Google
Shopping is classic, textbook paid inclusion.”  No Payments  Web users can search for products on the current version of
Google Product Search by typing the name of a product into the
Google.com search bar and clicking on a “Shopping” link to the
left. The results page displays items from online stores that
have given Google a data feed of their merchandise using a free
tool. It lets users rank a product by different criteria, such
as price and stores where it can be bought.  Google offers free applications for its Android smartphones
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone that let users photograph a barcode to
get price comparisons from online and local shops. A
representative of  Mountain View , California-based Google didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment about the future of
those programs.  In its 2004 initial public offering letter, Google said the
company wouldn’t accept payment for including specific search
results.  “Our search results are the best we know how to produce,”
Google co-founders Page and  Sergey Brin  wrote in their letter to
prospective investors. “They are unbiased and objective, and we
do not accept payment for them or for inclusion or more frequent
updating.”  Google fell 1.6 percent to $571.52 at 9:43 a.m. in  New
York . The stock had dropped 10 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  