-- Google Warns China Users on Searches That May Break Connection
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-01T07:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/google-warns-china-users-on-searches-that-may-break-connection.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which withdrew its
search engine from China in 2010 during a spat over censorship,
is notifying users in the country if they type words or phrases
that may disrupt connections to its sites.  Google searches from China have been “inconsistent and
unreliable” for “the past couple years,” Google said in a
statement posted on its website yesterday. The company found no
problems with its systems and concluded the interruptions were
related to searches for particular terms, it said.  Web content in China is censored by the government to
filter sites that contain pornography, gambling and content
critical of the ruling Communist Party. Google said in January
2010 it wouldn’t self-censor content for Chinese services, so it
shuttered its local search page and redirected users to a Hong
Kong site.  Users of Google in  China  that search for such topics as the
1989 protests in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square or Tibet
independence get error messages, including “This webpage is not
available” and “The connection was reset.”  Google reviewed 350,000 of the most popular search terms in
China and identified “disruptive queries,” the company said in
yesterday’s statement, which didn’t provide a full list of those
words and phrases. Taj Meadows, a spokesman for the  Mountain
View , California-based company, declined to comment beyond the
statement.  “Many of the terms triggering error messages are simple
everyday Chinese characters, which can have different meanings
in different contexts,” the company said in the statement.  The company cited two examples: the Chinese character
“jiang,” which means “river,” and the character for
“zhou,” meaning “week.” Google offered no explanation,
though Jiang is the surname of former President  Jiang Zemin  and
Zhou is the surname of  Zhou Yongkang , China’s top internal
security official.  Searches for some terms trigger a drop-down box saying they
“may temporarily break your connection to Google. This
interruption is outside Google’s control.”  Users then have the choice to edit the terms or continue
the original search.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  