-- Greek Euro Exit Risks Uncontrollable Contagion, SocGen Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-06-01T09:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/greek-euro-exit-risks-uncontrollable-contagion-socgen-says.html
A Greek exit from the euro risks
sparking uncontrollable contagion that may exhaust official
funding sources, according to Societe Generale SA analysts.  Greece  leaving the euro may lead markets to question the
future of the currency shared by 17 nations, the bank said in a
report today. Direct costs may reach 360 billion euros ($444
billion) or 3.8 percent of euro-area gross domestic product, the
report showed.  “Although the direct costs of a Greek exit may be
manageable, the reality is that such an event would demonstrate
to financial markets that the single currency was not
’irrevocable,’” the report said. “The contagion from a Greek
exit may therefore prove difficult to contain in an environment
where both banks and sovereigns are already facing significant
funding difficulties.”  “It is not hard to envisage a situation where the
available official sources of funding are quickly exhausted,”
according to the report, whose contributors include London-based
economists James Nixon and Michala Marcussen and more than a
dozen strategists.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that without more aggressive action by policy makers the euro
“is being shown now to be unsustainable unless further steps
are being undertaken.” World stock markets lost about $4
trillion last month as the turmoil in  Europe  deepened following
inconclusive Greek elections and the threat of  Spain ’s finances
being overwhelmed by its banking crisis.  ‘Wave of Contagion’  An exit “would undoubtedly unleash a wave of contagion
transmitted through three main channels: potential deposit
flight in other European countries, a significant increase in
bank funding costs and the introduction of permanent currency
risk premium into sovereign bond spreads,” the report said.
“All of the euro area’s existing firewalls would have to be
employed to stem the contagion which would probably see the need
for the ECB to reopen its securities markets program and
potentially conduct another LTRO” -- longer-term refinancing
operation.  SocGen said also the ECB may insist on full use of the
available resources of the European Stability Mechanism, the
euro region’s permanent bailout fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  