-- Greek Shipper Plans China Cruises After Making $1 Billion
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-06-01T06:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/greek-shipper-plans-china-cruises-after-making-1-billion.html
Victor Restis, a Greek ship owner who
says he made $1 billion selling dry-bulk vessels before their
price crashed, plans to expand into the Chinese cruise market in
a bet on growth in the Asian nation’s tourism industry.  A joint venture with the government of the south coast
province of Hainan intends to purchase new and second-hand
cruise ships to meet rising demand for leisure travel as Chinese
employees earning more and working less seek vacations, said
Restis, whose companies control 200 ships.  “They need to provide leisure stories for the Chinese;
it’s the sign of a matured society, the more leisure time a
country has,” Restis said in an interview at his Athens office
on May 28. “We’ve moved a cruise ship there and are looking at
what will be the next step of the expansion. It’s a huge
market.”  The ship owner, with investments spanning banks, media and
tourism, is diversifying after making $1 billion selling vessels
during a three-year boom that ended by 2009, he said. The
 largest ships  that carry iron ore and coal have slumped 78
percent in value in the past four years, according to data from
the Baltic Exchange, a London-based provider of shipping rates
on international maritime routes.  “Today it seems good, at the time we were regretting it
because the market was going higher and higher,” Restis said of
the 45 vessel sales. They included the sale of a dry-bulk ship
for $130 million in May 2008, which is now worth $15 million, he
said.  Energy Interests  The venture with Hainan may include new vessels that can
each accommodate 2,000 passengers, Restis said, adding that his
partners studied how Miami’s cruise industry developed. Most of
the world’s new cruise ships are being built in  Europe  cost
between $500 million and almost $1 billion, according to data
from  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  Restis said he’s also expanding his offshore energy
interests through  Golden Energy Offshore AS  in  Norway , purchased
in 2010. “We are looking at drill ships as well, the offshore
sector is something that is very exciting.”  Restis is also one of the two largest shareholders in
 SwissMarine Services S.A ., a freight trading company with
offices in Geneva that earned $1.3 billion and carried 69
million tons of cargo in 2010, according to its website. Restis’
stake is between 35 percent and 40 percent, he said. He is the
largest shareholder in  Seanergy Maritime Holdings Corp. (SHIP) , which
has a fleet of 20 bulk carriers and lost $198 million in 2011
after impairment losses of $202 million.  Fresh Orders  Restis operates from an office overlooking the
Mediterranean on a coastal road in the Athens suburb of
Elliniko. He said he wants the Restis group’s tanker and dry-
bulk shipping companies, including  Enterprise Shipping & Trading
S.A ., to be capable of withstanding 12 months of no income,
while stressing that he doesn’t expect that to happen. The
collapse in dry-bulk earnings may last until 2017 as prices of
new ships at 20-year lows are prompting fresh orders, extending
an oversupply, he said.  “The boom-and-bust cycle is a typical situation of the
last 50 years in the shipping industry,” said Restis. “People
make money, they get greedy and they reinvest although they know
that the next competitor will do exactly the same.”  A glut of Capesize vessels has cut their daily earnings by
98 percent to $5,036 a day compared with a peak of $233,988 in
June 2008, according to data from the  Baltic Exchange . The  price 
of five-year-old Capesize ships, the largest dry-bulk vessels,
plunged to $34 million from a record $153.8 million in 2008, its
data show.  ‘Tempting’ to Buy  Any rebound in earnings is at least three years away,
according to Restis.  “It’s very tempting to buy ships but we have to be
patient,” he said, referring to second-hand vessels. Still,
“once the market turns around then psychology turns and it’s
very difficult to beat asset appreciations where there will be
hundreds of potential buyers queuing up to purchase the asset.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  