-- Gross Says Avoid Europe Until Private Solution: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-01T14:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/gross-says-avoid-europe-until-private-solution-tom-keene-1-.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said investors should avoid Europe until credit
begins flowing again from the private sector as government
solutions aren’t enough to stem the region’s debt crisis.  “We would suggest at Pimco avoiding the entire euro zone
until they can come up with some type of solution which involves
the private sector,” Gross, manager of the world’s biggest bond
fund, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Tom Keene. “What does the private sector mean? It means
those institutions outside of euro land. It does mean Pimco, it
does mean China, it does mean those private institutions that
are willing to take a chance again in terms of credit. Until you
bring them back then no solution is really going to be
possible.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has been besieged this week
by critics for letting the euro crisis smolder, with the leaders
of  Italy  and the  European Central Bank  demanding bolder steps to
stabilize the 17-nation economy. Italian Prime Minister  Mario
Monti  and ECB President  Mario Draghi  pushed Germany to give up
its opposition to direct euro-area aid for struggling banks.  Yields on Treasuries may continue to decline beyond record
lows even though the securities are overvalued because the U.S.
remains the world’s refuge from turmoil, Gross said.  Market Turmoil  U.S. government debt  rallied today, pushing 30-year bond
yields to a record low, after the economy added fewer jobs in
May than economists forecast, indicating the worsening European
sovereign-debt crisis may restrain U.S. growth. Treasury 10-year
note yields tumbled to record lows for a third day, falling to
as low as 1.44 percent.  Yields reflect the “very weak economic outlook,” that
central banks may seek more monetary easing and “a huge flight
quality,” Pimco Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian, said
during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”
with Betty Liu.  “When people see this and are surprised by it, the natural
human movement is to go to where there is safety,” El-Erian
said. “You take the prices of these assets to ridiculous levels
and that’s what we’re seeing today.”  Financial markets offered a snapshot of  Europe ’s stresses
after more than two years of crisis, with the euro close to its
weakest in two years against the dollar. German two-year note
yields fell below zero today as investors paid for shelter from
the market mayhem afflicting Italy and Spain.  Favored Sovereigns  Investors should favor debt of nations such as the U.S.,
Mexico and Brazil, and emphasize intermediate maturities over
the next few years, Gross said in his monthly investment outlook
posted yesterday on the Newport Beach, California-based
company’s  website . Equity investors should seek companies that
produce stable  cash flow  and that are exposed to high growth
markets.  Public-sector solutions to resolve the Europe’s debt crisis
from institutions such as the International Monetary  Fund (PTTRX)  and
the ECB are “merely bodies exchanging cards in a game of old
maid,” Gross said.  “Sooner or later someone will go out of the game, perhaps
Greece, and the maid will be exposed,” he said.  Greece, which failed to form a government when a party
opposed to the nation’s international bailout won more seats
than forecast, has set an election this month that’s shaping up
as a ballot on whether the country should remain in the euro.  “It’s increasingly inevitable that Greece will exit” the
euro, El-Erian reiterated during the televised interview.  “The only question is how disorderly is it?” El-Erian
said. “Europe hasn’t been to put the firewalls and most
importantly hasn’t been able to break the link between weak
banks and weak sovereigns.”  The $259 billion Total Return Fund run by Gross beat 99
percent of its competitors this year with a 5.27 percent return.
Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , managed
$1.35 trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  