-- Groupon Falls as Lockup Ends, Allowing Insider Sales
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-06-01T22:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/groupon-falls-as-lockup-ends-allowing-insider-sales.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the largest daily
coupon website, declined the most in a month as a lockup period
expired, permitting insiders to sell shares.  Groupon dropped 8.9 percent to $9.69 at the close in New
York. It touched as low as $9.53, the biggest intraday decline
since April 30.  The coupon site is attempting to rebuild investor
confidence after  shares  fell by half since the November initial
public offering, among the worst market debuts for a Web company
since the dot-com crash. Groupon’s stock has been battered by
earnings restatements and the departure of Starbucks Corp. Chief
Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  from the board, said Jeffrey Houston, an analyst at Barrington Research Associates in
 Chicago .  “All the negative headlines, the market overhang, it’s
just kind of coming to fruition,” Houston said in an interview.  Groupon generates revenue by selling discounts -- known as
Groupons -- from businesses such as restaurants and nail salons.
It shares coupon proceeds with merchants.  The company in March reported a “material weakness” in
its financial controls and said fourth-quarter results were
worse than previously stated because of higher refunds to
merchants. That followed a restatement of 2010 results in
September because Groupon had counted the total amount of its
daily-deal sales as revenue, including fees paid to merchants.  Groupon appointed Daniel Henry, finance chief of American
Express Co., to its board on April 26 to replace Schultz, who
stepped down.  The lockup expires today, Chicago-based Groupon said in a
regulatory filing last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  