-- Gupta, Rajaratnam Aspired to Start $2 Billion Fund, Kumar Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/gupta-rajaratnam-discussed-starting-fund-kumar-testifies-1-.html
Anil Kumar, a former McKinsey & Co.
partner, testified against his former mentor,  Rajat Gupta ,
describing how he teamed up with Galleon Group LLC co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam in 2006 to try to raise $2 billion for an
investment fund.  Kumar, who pleaded guilty to a participating in an insider-
trading scheme with Rajaratnam, was called yesterday as a
government witness at Gupta’s federal court trial in Manhattan.
Prosecutors asked Kumar to explain to jurors the nature and
history of various business ventures Gupta and Rajaratnam were
part of and in which he served as an adviser.  Kumar, 53, said Gupta approached him in 2006 saying he
wanted to start an investment fund after his scheduled
retirement from McKinsey in 2007. Kumar said Gupta sought out
Rajaratnam, who was Kumar’s classmate at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, because of his expertise as a
prominent hedge fund manager.  Gupta “wanted to create the best  asset management company 
in Asia, as good as the ones in America, but this would be
focused on India,” Kumar said. “He wanted it to be widely
based.”  Gupta, who ran McKinsey from 1994 to 2003 and later served
as a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director, is on trial for leaking
tips to Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,
where he was also a director. He is charged with one count of
conspiracy and five counts of  securities fraud , which carry a
maximum 20-year prison sentence.  ‘Wise Man’  Kumar said he began working closely with Gupta in 1997 when
the two co-founded a business school in  India . He said he later
introduced Gupta to Rajaratnam after the fund manager made an
anonymous donation of $1 million to the school.  Gupta suggested that Rajaratnam, a prominent South Asian
born in  Sri Lanka , would be an obvious person to contact about
the new venture, Kumar said.  “They both had a joint aspiration to raise about $2
billion for the fund,” Kumar said of Gupta and Rajaratnam.  Gupta told Kumar the role he’d play in the new venture
would be “as a sponsor, a wise man, a strategy person, a raiser
of funds, those kinds of things,” Kumar told jurors.  Gupta and Rajaratnam planned to have one unit dedicated to
making private equity investments and another that would operate
as a hedge fund focusing on South  Asia , Kumar said. The fund
that Gupta and Rajaratnam opened as Taj Capital was later re-
named New Silk Route LLC, Kumar said.  ‘High Testosterone’  Kumar said Rajaratnam told him he wanted to expand Galleon
from a fund that had $7.2 billion in assets under management in
2007 to as much as $10 billion. Eventually just $1 billion in
capital was raised for New Silk Route, an amount that displeased
Rajaratnam, Kumar said.  Kumar said he participated in many meetings in which Gupta
and Rajaratnam discussed the fund at Galleon’s offices located
in Midtown Manhattan. New Silk Route eventually occupied space
in an adjacent office on the same floor, he said. Rajaratnam’s
office was next to a group of about a dozen traders who worked
for him, Kumar said.  “It was very noisy offices, filled with people who were
generally shouting and screaming and pretty high testosterone,”
he testified.  Kumar, who was arrested on the same day as Rajaratnam in
October 2009, pleaded guilty in January 2010 and hasn’t been
sentenced. He is scheduled to return to court June 4 and
continue his testimony, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff told
jurors.  $84 Million  In other testimony yesterday, prosecutors called Heather
Webster, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. private banker, who was Gupta’s
personal banker for 10 years.  She testified that Gupta had a personal net worth of
$84 million, $38.5 million in a trust and $11 million in cash in
April 2008. Rajaratnam, in a letter to JPMorgan in August 2008,
stated that Gupta had an investment of $16.4 million in another
fund called Voyager Capital.  The defense has argued that Gupta lost his entire
investment with Rajaratnam and even considered filing a lawsuit
against the  fund manager .  Rajaratnam and Gupta are the biggest figures caught in a
nationwide  insider-trading  probe. Rajaratnam is serving an 11-
year prison sentence after being convicted last year of insider
trading.  Former Galleon trader Franz Tudor, who cooperated with the 
U.S. government's investigation, was sentenced yesterday to 
three years' probation for conspiracy and securities fraud.  Tudor, who pleaded guilty in October 2009, helped the 
government win a guilty plea from former Diamondback Capital 
portfolio manager Anthony Scolaro and aided in the prosecution 
of others charged with trading on illegal tips, including former 
Galleon trader Zvi Goffer, according to the U.S.   The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  