-- Mike Nichols Remembers Papa, Praises Miller: Interview
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-06-01T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/mike-nichols-remembers-papa-praises-miller-interview.html
Mike Nichols  is up for a ninth Tony
award next week for his quietly devastating revival of “Death
of a Salesman.”  I met with the director a few nights ago at Bar Centrale, a
Broadway watering hole. We spent the evening over drinks sharing
stories about our fathers, who were no less present for being
long dead.  Some tidal force kept the conversation ebbing between
longing memory and sharp reality. To that extent, the shadow of
playwright  Arthur Miller  loomed over our conversation.  For “Salesman” is, above all, the story of Willy Loman
(played with shattering sensitivity by Philip Seymour Hoffman),
a husband and father whose vivid happy memories cannot blot out
his failures of achievement and, more important, of character.  Nichols’s father, a doctor, emigrated from  Russia  to
 Germany , where Michael Igor Pechkowsky was born in November,
1931.  “My father died when I was very young,” Nichols said. He
was wearing a dark bomber jacket and in the subdued light his
usually lively face seemed a bit drawn and melancholy.  Sakhalin Island  The family had traveled from Sakhalin Island, beyond
Siberia, to Berlin.  His father had to learn German and retake his medical
exams, and then do the same thing in New York when, through a
fortuitous quirk of the Hitler-Stalin pact, they were afforded a
chance to escape that German Jews were denied.  “There was no time to be a good father,” Nichols
recalled. “There was no time for anything. We got an apartment
in the West ’70s, opposite the Pythian Temple. I was sent to
boarding school because I was difficult. Then he got leukemia
and he died.”  Happier memories crept in to the conversation: In  New York ,
as in Berlin, his father’s patients included the rich and
famous.  “I had a picture of me and  Pola Negri  on the running board
of her Rolls Royce, and I had a Teddy bear that was bigger than
myself,” he said. “In New York it was  Horowitz  and all the big
Russians. And  Sol Hurok  and Mrs. Hurok, who was a hypochondriac,
they were his prime patients. That’s how we went to ‘One Touch
of Venus’ and the ballet.  Sol Hurok  “After my father died, I would see Sol Hurok in the
Russian Tea Room and he always said the same thing: ‘D’joor
veery funny. But d’joor fodder vez funnier.’ He was like working
for him after he was gone!”  Nichols was funny indeed, first making his mark in the
1950s as the male half of the comedy duo Nichols and (Elaine) May. But his career soon took a different turn.  No other director of his time has moved so fluidly between
Broadway and Hollywood, nor been as celebrated.  He won an Oscar for  “The Graduate”  (1967) but his
lacerating film of  Edward Albee ’s  “Who’s Afraid of Virginia
Woolf?”  came earlier and  “Carnal Knowledge,”  Jules Feiffer’s
scorching vision of the war between the sexes, came after.  Before all of those, he had begun directing on Broadway
when  Neil Simon ’s producer chose him to stage “Barefoot in the
Park” and then “The Odd Couple.”  Nichols’s memorable productions include plays by David Rabe
(“Hurlyburly”) and Tom Stoppard (“The Real Thing”), as well as
the musical “Spamalot.” On a lark, he produced “Annie,” one of
the most popular, not to say lucrative, musicals of all time.  And now “Salesman,” Miller’s pitch black mirror image of
Simon’s comedies.  Nichols’s production hews close to the original, staged in
1949 by Elia Kazan. The revival uses the same skeletal Jo
Mielziner set and composer Alex North’s haunting music.  Willy’s Failures  I mention that it’s the first production I’ve seen in which
Willy, a philanderer and rule-breaker, is so clearly as much the
victim of his own failure of character as he is of the
unattainable American dream.  Nichols didn’t see much difference.  “There’s nothing in the American dream about character,”
he said. “It’s a serious flaw. One of the sadder things in that
particular version of the American dream is that it expects
nothing from the individual except making it. And not getting
caught.”  Tocqueville Said  He cited Alexis de Tocqueville, still awed by the 19th-
century Frenchman’s prescience on the subject.  “As one digs deeper into the national character of the
Americans,” Tocqueville wrote in “Democracy in America,” “one
sees that they have sought the value of everything in this world
only in the answer to this single question: How much money will
it bring in?”  “How did he know that?” Nichols asked.  The legacies of our own fathers and Miller’s Loman began,
not unexpectedly, to merge as the evening wore on. Nichols sees
the pressures of making financially as having grown only more
poisonous since “Salesman” opened.  “There’s so much more in the play than any of us knew,”
Nichols said, adding that “the world has turned sharply further
in that direction.” I got the sense that he is still
discovering truths in Miller.  All the more reason, then, to listen carefully to this acid
drama. Forgiveness, Nichols agreed, is essential to moving on as
men in the shadows of our flawed fathers. It was true for
Benjamin Braddock’s graduate and it is true for Willy Loman’s
struggling sons, Biff and Happy.  As for his own father, he confided something classically
Mike Nichols, at once sad and deeply funny.  “I sort of had to go get him and start imaginary
conversations with him,” he said.  “We’re doing very well!”  “Death of a Salesman” runs through tomorrow at the
Barrymore Theatre, 243 W. 47th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com .  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on books and  Greg
Evans  on movies.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 