-- Illinois Hospitals Escape Taxes With Big Dose of Lobbying
-- B y   B o b   K a z e l
-- 2012-06-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/illinois-hospitals-escape-taxes-with-big-dose-of-lobbying.html
The  Illinois  Hospital Association
took no chances as state lawmakers debated in recent weeks
whether nonprofit hospitals should pay property taxes. It
unleashed a self-described  media blitz .  “My baby is sick -- anyone help, please!” screamed an
actress portraying a mother in radio ads aired in Chicago and 41
other markets starting in early May. A baby wailed, an ambulance
siren blared and a voiceover asked what the terrified parent
would do if no hospital were around.  The blitz worked. The Illinois General Assembly this week
handed hospitals a long-sought victory: a sweeping legislative
antidote to a recent state  Supreme Court  decision that
threatened to slap many hospitals with potentially millions of
dollars in tax liabilities just as they say they’re struggling
to survive.  The victory in Illinois is significant because the state
had become the most dramatic example of courts and regulators
challenging the tax-exempt status of nonprofit hospitals.
They’re doing so as local governments hunt for revenue to help
plug budget gaps in a sputtering economy.  The Legislature preserved nonprofit hospitals’ tax-exempt
status while  expanding  the official definition of the charity
care they must provide to qualify for that exemption. Instead of
just counting what they spend covering the bills of patients who
can’t pay, hospitals could include such things as preventive-
care community outreach and a portion of the costs of medical
research, professional training and psychiatric care.  Quinn Signature  The office of Governor  Pat Quinn  has said he will sign the
bill. Quinn, a Democrat, had earlier ordered his revenue
department to reconsider the tax-exempt status of several
hospitals. Under the legislation, hospitals must annually show
that they would pay the same or less in property taxes than they
donate to the community as charity.  Community and consumer advocacy groups are reeling from the
Illinois vote, which they said will remove hospitals’ motivation
to increase free care for the poor.  “They kowtowed to the IHA,” said Diane Limas, a
spokeswoman for the Albany Park Neighborhood Council, a citizens
organization on Chicago’s north side. “I don’t understand the
horse trading that goes on in Springfield. But it’s clear that
the legislators don’t know what happens when a patient is
smacked with a $100,000 hospital bill and is already struggling
to make ends meet.”  Online Petition  The association, representing about 200 hospitals and
health systems, urged Illinoisans to write to state officials.
By this week, the IHA reported, more than 12,000 people had
signed an online petition. The group created templates for
member hospitals to customize anti-tax e-mails to legislators
and letters to local newspaper editors. And it suggested members
provide kiosks or special computers for workers to send notes
condemning property taxes for hospitals and Quinn’s proposed
$2.7 billion in reductions to projected Medicaid payments.  The governor had previously ordered his revenue department
to review hospitals’ tax-exempt status. He is expected to sign
the legislation, though, because it includes a $1-a-pack boost
in the cigarette tax that will help rescue the state’s Medicaid
program by raising about $350 million a year.  Some consumer groups said the outcome -- approved on a
largely party-line vote by the Democratic-controlled Legislature
-- reflected the money spent by the hospital association on
advertising and campaign contributions.  Political Contributions  For 2011 and the first quarter of 2012, the association
contributed about $397,000 to state office holders, candidates
and the state  Democratic Party , according to the Illinois
Campaign for Political Reform, a watchdog group. That included
$143,000 to legislative leaders of both parties and $198,000 to
other lawmakers in the General Assembly.  “They completely out-resourced us as patient advocates,”
said Janna Stansell, senior policy analyst at the Health &
Medicine Policy Research Group, an Illinois nonprofit agency
that pushes for health-care equality.  The legislation followed an Illinois Supreme Court decision
in 2010 that ruled tax exemptions can be handed out to hospitals
solely if their property is used for narrowly defined
“charitable purposes” -- essentially free or reduced-rate care
to the poor. In that case, the court ruled that Provena Covenant
Medical Center in Urbana failed to merit an exemption because
just 302 of Provena’s 110,000 patients had received such care in
2002.  In August, the state revenue department denied the tax
exemptions of three other hospitals on similar grounds. Quinn
later suspended the granting of exemptions and asked lawmakers
to spell out what counts as charity.  Hospitals Pleased  “I think we got what we were aiming for, which is clear
criteria,” Danny Chun, the hospital association’s spokesman,
said in a telephone interview. The group had argued that some
hospitals might reduce services, or even close, if they had to
pay property taxes.  Patient groups such as the Fair Care Coalition generally
had supported requiring hospitals to pay 6 percent of their
revenues toward public benefits as a threshold to avoid taxes.
Eighty percent of that would have had to be discounted or free
care to the indigent.  The Legislature approved one concession to patients: a
measure requiring urban hospitals to give medically necessary
care without charge to patients whose incomes are less than 200
percent of the federal poverty level. Rural hospitals would have
to pay the bill for basic care of those below 125 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Kazel in  Chicago  at 
 Fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 Fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  