-- Indonesian Coffee Premium Declines 60% as Bean Sales Increase
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-01T14:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/indonesian-coffee-premium-declines-60-as-bean-sales-increase.html
The premium buyers have to pay for
coffee from  Indonesia , the third-largest grower of the robusta
variety, fell 60 percent over the past week as sales picked up,
according to Volcafe, a unit of ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.  Indonesian beans for shipment in June and July were at a
premium of $20 a metric ton to the price on the NYSE Liffe
exchange in London, the Winterthur, Switzerland-based trader
said in a report e-mailed today. That compares with $50 last
week, its data showed.  “Differentials have eased slightly recently and selling
activities have picked up,” Volcafe said, adding that “good
volume” of export business was concluded. A differential is a
discount or a premium paid for physical coffee in relation to
the futures price.  Bean arrivals at ports for export from Indonesia were about
8,000 tons this week, unchanged from last week and up from 6,000
tons to 6,500 tons in the week ended May 18, Volcafe said.  “Prices remained under pressure due to good arrivals but
mainly due to weaker dollar/rupiah,” according to the trader.  In  Vietnam , the biggest robusta producer, beans for June
and July shipment were at the same price as on NYSE Liffe, up
from a discount of $10 a ton last week, the trader said.
Remaining stockpiles from the 2011-12 crop that started in
October were approximately 4.8 million bags stored in warehouses
in  Ho Chi Minh City , according to the report.  “It remains difficult to buy,” the trader said.
“Domestic market activities are very quiet,” with hardly any
coffee being offered for sale, it added.  Bean exports from Vietnam last month were 2.8 million bags,
a million bags more than a year earlier, Volcafe estimated.  In  India ,  Asia ’s third-largest coffee grower, differentials
remained high as the crop had come to an end. “Any robusta
coffee left is either committed or looked after by either
domestic or exporter market,” Volcafe said.  Robusta coffee for July delivery fell 2.1 percent to $2,135
a ton by 3:29 p.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 