-- Lions May Name Coach for Australia Tour as Late as September
-- B y   S t a n   J a m e s   a n d   P a t r i c k   B o e h l e r
-- 2012-06-01T06:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/lions-may-name-coach-for-australia-tour-as-late-as-september.html
The British and Irish Lions may name
their head coach for next year’s tour of  Australia  as late as
September as talks continue with front-runner Warren Gatland and
the Welsh Rugby Union, tour manager Andy Irvine said.  The Lions postponed an appointment last month after
Gatland, who led Wales to the 2011  World Cup  semifinals, broke
both heels in a fall. Negotiations are continuing and it may
only happen in August or September, Irvine, a former Lions and
 Scotland  full-back, told reporters in Hong Kong today.  “A lot will depend on the extent of Gatland’s injuries,”
he said. “We’re hopeful that he’ll be fit.”  The Lions, a combination of players from the  England ,
Ireland, Scotland and Wales national squads, will face the
Barbarians in Hong Kong on June 1, 2013, in their first visit to
the city as rugby union tries to expand into Asia. Local or
other Asian players may be invited into the Barbarians squad if
they meet the standard, Lions manager and former  Wales  forward
Derek Quinnell said.  While the Lions and the  Barbarians  will strive to play
entertaining rugby, the Hong Kong match will be taken as
seriously as the three Test matches against Australia as players
compete for starting places against the Wallabies, said Lions
Chairman Gerald Davies.  Hong Kong stages the premier competition on the
International Rugby Board’s  seven-a-side  world series circuit
each year and twice hosted Bledisloe Cup matches between
Australia and New Zealand, in 2008 and 2010.  No Exhibition  “It’s not an exhibition match, we won’t be taking any
prisoners,” said Irvine, a three-time Lions tourist in the
1970s and 80s. “It’s vital that we get off to a good start.”  The Lions, who typically tour every four years for Test
series in Australia,  New Zealand  and  South Africa , may look
beyond their traditional opponents as they try to boost their
brand and the sport’s growth. They have been in talks with
 Argentina  and will consider other destinations after their 2017
visit to New Zealand, Irvine said.  Former Australian captain John Eales, who led the Wallabies
to a 2-1 series win against the Lions in 2001, said that facing
them is the next-best thing to playing at the World Cup in a
rugby career.  While the Hong Kong match will provide the Lions with good
preparation for the matches in Australia, the Australian players
will have just been through a “tough” Super Rugby competition
and won’t have had any warm-up Tests, Eales said. That will give
the Lions a “distinct” advantage, he added.  “We’ll be going in cold,” said Eales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stanley James in  Hong Kong  at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Boehler in Hong Kong at 
 pboehler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  