-- Lira Strengthens First Time in Three Days on Tighter Policy
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-06-01T14:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/lira-strengthens-first-time-in-three-days-on-tighter-policy.html
The lira strengthened for the first
time in three days, faring better than all the other emerging-
and developed-country currencies except  India , as the Turkish
central bank continued to refrain from lending at its lowest
policy rate for a second day.  The currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 1.8616 per dollar
at 4:58 p.m. in Istanbul, the second-best among 31 major
developing and developed market currencies. The lira has risen
1.6 percent against the dollar this year, the biggest gain after
the Colombian peso among emerging-market currencies.  Turkey’s central bank withheld lending at its lowest annual
funding rate of 5.75 percent for a second day, offering 5
billion liras ($2.7 billion) in one-week  repurchase agreements 
at 10.86 percent. It did not provide liquidity at the minimum
rate all of last week. Governor Erdem Basci has forecast
inflation will fall to 6.5 percent by the end of this year from
11.1 percent in April, the highest in 3 1/2 years. Turkey’s
April trade deficit beat estimates as the gap narrowed to $6.6
billion in April, contracting for a sixth month.  “The lira is one of the best performers year-to-date
despite the large current-account deficit and the poor risk
environment almost fully due to the central bank’s high interest
rate policy,” Arko Sen, chief debt and currency strategist for
emerging  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa at Bank of America Corp.
in  London , said in e-mailed comments.  Repo Auction  The central bank lent 4 billion liras ($2.1 billion)
yesterday at 10.85 percent in its daily repo auction. It varies
the policy rate daily between 5.75 percent and 11.5 percent
within the so-called interest rate corridor which was introduced
in October to defend the currency and curtail inflation.  Falling oil prices and rising exports signaled the current-
account deficit may fall this year from $77 billion last year, a
record high and the second-biggest gap in nominal terms after
the U.S. Oil traded near the lowest close in seven months,
heading for the longest weekly losing streak in 5 1/2 years.
 Turkey ’s exports rose 7.3 percent to $11.8 billion in May from a
year earlier, BloombergHT television reported, citing data
announced by the Turkish Exporters Assembly in southern Antalya
province today.  Exports  “We think that a 10 percent year-on-year increase in
January-May 2012 when EU is in debt crisis and when EUR
depreciated significantly against USD in year-on-year terms is
still a success,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at BGC Partners
in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note referring to exports.  The  yield  on two-year debt dropped 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 9.35 percent, the lowest since May 3.  The central bank also provided 5 billion liras in its one-
month repo auction it holds once a week on Friday against bids
for 11.1 billion liras.  The  total foreign-exchange reserve  in Turkey has fallen
from $85.9 billion in October -- when Basci introduced a
flexible interest rates policy -- to $78.6 billion on May 25.
Part of the reduction is down to the central bank selling
dollars last year to boost the lira, which fell 18 percent in
2011.  The central bank is introducing a new mechanism to reduce
the need for intervention in the foreign exchange markets, Basci
said. It will gradually raise the amount of lira reserves banks
may deposit in dollars to 60 percent from 40 percent, enabling
lenders to deposit or withdraw foreign currency as per their
requirements, the governor said in a speech in Ankara May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  