-- Iran Clean-Up Won’t Hamper IAEA’s Bomb Hunt at Parchin
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-06-01T10:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/iran-clean-up-won-t-hamper-iaea-s-bomb-hunt-at-parchin.html
Iran ’s clean-up of a site allegedly
used for nuclear-weapons experiments won’t obstruct United
Nations atomic inspectors’ ability to carry out a probe,
according to current and former officials.  Satellite photos published last month by a Washington-based
research institute showed razed structures and streams of water
running out of a building at the Parchin military complex
thought to house a test-blast chamber. The UN International
Atomic Energy Agency reported in November that the Persian Gulf
nation used the facility for atomic-bomb tests.  “There very likely were experiments there related to
nuclear weapons” and the IAEA “may be able to disprove Iran’s
cover story,” Mark Fitzpatrick, a former U.S. diplomat who now
runs the International Institute for Strategic Studies’ nuclear
disarmament program, said by phone yesterday. “Even if the IAEA
goes there and doesn’t find anything incriminating, they want to
pull on the threads of Iran’s story and see what unravels.”  Parchin, 30 kilometers (18 miles) southwest of Tehran, is
the military base where IAEA inspectors said they have
“credible” evidence showing Iran built a container inside of
which scientists studied blast patterns useful for assembling a
nuclear weapon. Iran says the evidence given to the IAEA was
falsified by intelligence agencies.  Access to the site has topped the Vienna-based agency’s
agenda in recent negotiating rounds with Iranian authorities.
IAEA inspectors are concerned that Iran is covering up atomic
work and making the detection of nuclear particles more
difficult, senior international officials said May 25 on
condition of anonymity because of the topic’s sensitivity.  Focus Questioned  The IAEA’s decision to focus on Parchin to the exclusion of
other people and places in Iran has stirred debate among former
nuclear non-proliferation officials.  IAEA investigators should zero in on Iran’s Physics
Research Center instead of Parchin,  Olli Heinonen , the IAEA’s
former top inspector in Iran, said in a  May 9 analysis  he co-
wrote with  David Albright , another ex-inspector and director of
the Institute for Science and International Security.
Fitzpatrick wrote a report called “ The Parchin Trap ” in March.  The clean-up at Parchin began after the IAEA published its
suspicions in November, a senior Western official said on the
condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to comment
publicly. No activity had been observed around the site for
years before satellite photos showed water and rubble strewn
around the locality.  Contamination Concerns  “Uranium contamination inside the building and equipment
may be dispersed over a large area,” said  Robert Kelley , who
led the IAEA’s nuclear inspections in  Iraq  before the 2003 war.
“If Iran washes down all this equipment and allows the water to
run across the parking lot into a ditch, then all the uranium
will end up concentrated.”  While Kelley isn’t convinced that the IAEA’s Parchin
intelligence is credible, inspectors will find atomic particles
if the Iranians did experiment with nuclear material at the
site,  he wrote  in an analysis for the Stockholm International
Peace Research Institute.  The IAEA and Iran were expected to sign an agreement
“quite soon” to broaden inspectors’ access to suspected
nuclear sites, including Parchin, Director General Yukiya Amano
said May 22 after he returned from Tehran.  Skepticism that the deal will be signed in the near future
is growing, according to the senior Western official.  Iran backed off earlier statements that a trip to Parchin
could be arranged when Fereidoun Abbasi, head of the Islamic
republic’s Atomic Energy Organization,  said  on May 27 that
the IAEA hadn’t convinced him of the need to visit.  “No documents or reason has been presented to us,” he
said, according to state-run Fars news agency. “The agency is
interested in visiting Parchin due to pressure from countries
that want the agency to investigate the issue.”  The IAEA’s 35-member board of governors convenes its
quarterly meeting next week in the Austrian capital, where Amano
is expected to update diplomats on the status of the accord.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  