-- Iran Group Must Get Ruling on Terrorist Label, Court Says
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-01T20:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/iran-group-must-get-ruling-on-terrorist-label-court-says.html
The  People’s Mojahedin Organization
of Iran , designated a terrorist group, must be told within four
months by the U.S. State Department whether the label will be
removed or an appeals court will order the change itself.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  today said the
department ignored a congressional mandate that requests for
delisting be answered within 180 days, noting the People’s
Mojahedin’s petition was filed almost four years ago. Unless
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton rules within four months, the
court will order the group’s delisting itself, the judges said.  “The specificity and relative brevity of the 180-day
deadline manifests Congress’s intent that the secretary act
promptly on a revocation petition and delist the organization if
the criteria for the listing no longer exist,” the judges said
in the decision. “The Secretary’s 20-month failure to act
plainly frustrates the congressional intent and cuts strongly in
favor of granting” the request by the People’s Mojahedin.  The debate over lifting the group’s designation as a
terrorist organization comes as the U.S. and other powers are
trying to negotiate an end to  Iran ’s suspected nuclear weapons
program, and likely would be viewed as a hostile act by the
Iranian government, said an administration official who spoke on
the condition of anonymity to discuss a sensitive issue.  Useful Intelligence  Nevertheless, the official said, members of the group, known
by its Farsi acronym MEK, have provided useful intelligence on
the Iranian nuclear program to  Israel , the U.S., and the
 International Atomic Energy Agency . A number of former senior
U.S. officials, including former  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
Director  Louis Freeh  and ex-Attorney General Michael Mukasey,
are campaigning to remove its terrorist designation.  The People’s Mojahedin said in its 2008 petition that
although it engaged in terrorist actions in the past, it had
ended its military campaign against the Iranian regime,
renounced violence, surrendered its arms to U.S. forces in Iraq
and shared intelligence with the U.S. regarding  Iran’s nuclear
program , according to the ruling.  On Jan. 7, 2009, then Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice 
denied the petition. The court granted the People’s Mojahedin’s
request for a review of that decision on July 16, 2010, saying
that “due process protections” hadn’t been followed.  ‘Slow Going’  “Since our July 2010 remand, the Secretary’s progress has
been -- to say the least -- slow going,” the three-judge panel
wrote. By failing to make a final decision, the Secretary is
able to maintain the People’s Mojahedin status as a terrorist
group, while preventing them from seeking judicial review,
leaving the group “stuck in administrative limbo,” the court
said.  “We are in receipt of the D.C. Circuit’s June 1 opinion,
and we are currently reviewing it,” the state department said
in a statement. Officials are continuing to review the group’s
designation as a foreign terrorist organization, according to
the statement.  Maryam Rajavi, the wife of a founder of the People’s
Mojahedin Organization and the leader of the National Council of
Resistance of Iran, a coalition of Iranian exile groups,
welcomed the ruling in a statement as a “triumph of justice
over machination and appeasement.”  Iranian Lever  Rajavi urged Clinton to move quickly to carry out the
court’s order, saying the terrorist designation “continues to
be a lever in the hands of the Iranian regime and the Iraqi
government to suppress the residents of Camps Ashraf and
Liberty,” Iranian refugee camps in  Iraq .  The People’s Mojahedin was formed in 1965 to resist the
Iranian Shah. After the Shah’s fall, MEK broke with the
revolutionary Islamic government and engaged in armed action
against the regime from Iraq. The group says it disarmed in
2003.  The Council of the European Union removed the MEK from its
terrorist list on January 26, 2009, and the U.S. may follow suit
if MEK members abandon their refuge at Camp Ashraf peacefully
and disperse to other countries. If they remain there, some
officials fear, Iraq’s Shiite-dominated government, which has
close ties to Iran and killed 11 Iranians in a 2009 raid on the
camp, might mount an all-out assault on the camp and its
inhabitants.  The case is In Re: People’s Mojahedin Organization, 12-
1118,  U.S. Court of Appeals ,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net . 