-- History Offers an Ugly Precedent for a Greek Euro Exit
-- B y   S e a n   V a n a t t a
-- 2012-06-01T19:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/history-offers-ugly-precedent-for-greek-euro-exit.html
Looking over the precipice of
national default and an untimely exit from the international
monetary system, the Greek leader issued a somber warning to
 Europe ’s economic leaders: “Bear in mind that if you leave the
small states without assistance, a black future awaits Europe.”  Delivered by Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos on April
15, 1932, less than two weeks before his nation would suspend
loan repayments and exit the gold standard, the prescient remark
and the trials that followed offer urgent lessons for the
current Greek crisis.  Before the euro bound the continent’s disparate economies
into one monetary system, European governments relied on the
gold standard to direct international monetary flows. This
promised stability, but also required the vigorous coordination
of each country’s central-bank policy. The turmoil of World War
I disrupted the international order, pushing  Greece  and the rest
of Europe off the standard, a blow from which the monetary
system would never fully recover.  Modern State  Nevertheless, in the absence of alternatives, gold remained
the standard for much of the rest of the developed world, and
Greece made the drachma convertible to gold in 1928 under the
leadership of Venizelos’s Liberal Party. A centerpiece of the
government’s reform agenda, the return to gold, combined with
vigorous economic development and large-scale public works,
promised to turn Greece into a “synchronon kratos,” or modern
state. Further, re-gilding the drachma offered pride to a Greek
nation that had recently suffered prolonged inflation and
political turmoil.  This triumphant return was not only desired from within
Greece, but imposed from without. Venizelos’s project was
largely dependent on foreign financing, both in the form of
government loans and direct foreign investment. The drachma’s
convertibility was thus also meant to appease investors. So too
was the regime’s simultaneous creation of the Bank of Greece,
the country’s first true central bank, which replaced the
privately owned National Bank of Greece as the issuer of the
drachma.  The Great Depression, though, came at an inopportune time
for the fledgling Greek financial system. When the world economy
began to decline in 1929, Greek exports dwindled, creating an
acute imbalance -- more foreign currency left Greece through the
purchase of imports than came in through the sale of exports,
draining the currency reserves of the Bank of Greece. This
situation was exacerbated by the country’s foreign debts, which
also had to be repaid in foreign currencies, such as the U.K.
pound and the French franc. As effectively gold equivalents,
these monies undergirded the drachma; as they left Greece, each
successive loan payment made defending the currency more
difficult.  To make matters worse, the country’s commercial banks began
speculating against the drachma. Led by the recently displaced
National Bank of Greece, these institutions purchased Greek
national bonds, securities denominated in pounds and francs, on
foreign exchanges -- securities that would be worth more if the
drachma was devalued.  Spreading Contagion  Yet while Greece’s development had been financed by foreign
borrowing, the government could hardly be accused of profligacy.
As Greece’s exchange crisis increased during the late 1920s and
into 1931, Venizelos’s government still managed a  budget
surplus , and relative to other nations the Greek economy
suffered less from the global depression. Nevertheless, as
economists such as  Barry Eichengreen  have conclusively shown,
the gold standard, like the euro in recent years, spread
economic contagion.  The Venizelos government searched for a solution. In the
first salvo of the “battle for the drachma,” the Greek
parliament considered a regulatory package aimed at
strengthening the Bank of Greece’s control over the country’s
commercial-banking sector. But the National Bank of Greece and
its allies intervened, so weakening the bill as to make it
virtually ineffectual.  As the crisis deepened, the government sought international
assistance, turning next to the Europe-dominated League of
Nations Finance Committee. The fight for the drachma was quickly
draining Greece’s financial resources, and the government’s 1931
surplus flipped to a sharp  deficit  in 1932. To meet this
shortfall, to keep up its bond payments and to retain the gold
standard, Greece needed an injection of foreign capital. In a
familiar tune, most recently sung in a German accent, Europe’s
financial leaders demanded austerity as the price for
assistance. The French delegate advocated closing schools and
cutting the salaries of public employees by 20 percent.  These were harsh terms, and Venizelos feared that the
sacrifices demanded by the guardians of the international
monetary system would doom his liberal regime and perhaps
democracy in Greece. To build national unity, he reached out to
the opposition Populist Party, hoping to form a coalition and
share the burden of leadership. The party’s leader, Panayis
Tsaldaris, curtly refused.  By April 1932, Greece was out of options. Without
substantive foreign intervention, the combined pressures of
foreign debt service and hemorrhaging currency reserves finally
forced Greece off the gold standard and into default. By tying
his regime to the integrity of the drachma, Venizelos also
ensured his fall from power, while the subsequent decline of his
centrist  Liberal Party  shattered the Greek political system.  Coup, Fascism  After default the Greek economy actually began a steady
recovery as the nation turned its efforts toward self-
sufficiency outside the global market. But in this case, the
inward-looking recovery was a false friend, and the political
instability that followed the drachma’s devaluation paved the
way for a successful coup by General Ioannis Metaxas. Whether
his regime was a fascist one or merely conservative-
authoritarian is an academic debate that accepts a simple fact:
It wasn’t democratic.  It is unlikely, whatever the outcome of Greece’s present
currency crisis, that fascism lies in the nation’s future.
Venizelos believed that liberal democracy couldn’t withstand the
burdens imposed by the international monetary system, and his
solution was to exit that system, with unfortunate results.
Although to date Greek leaders have made different choices, a
black future may still await Venizelos’s country -- and Europe -
- if Greece and similar small states are left without
assistance.  (Sean Vanatta is a graduate student in history at  Princeton
University . The opinions expressed are his own.)
Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Sean Vanatta at
 svanatta@princeton.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 