-- Italian Jobless Rate Rose to 10.2% in April Amid Slump
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-06-01T10:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/italian-jobless-rate-rose-to-10-2-in-april-amid-slump.html
Italy ’s  joblessness  rose more than
economists forecast in April to the highest in 12 years amid a
deepening slump in  Europe ’s fourth-biggest economy.  The  unemployment rate  increased to a seasonally-adjusted
10.2 percent, the highest since the first quarter of 2000, from
a revised 10.1 percent in March, Rome-based national statistics
office  Istat  said in a preliminary report today. Economists
forecast an increase to 9.9 percent, the median of 10 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey showed. The jobless rate rose to 9.8
percent in the first quarter from 9.1 percent in the previous
three months, Istat said.  The economy, in its fourth  recession  since 2001, will
contract 1.5 percent this year before expanding 0.5 percent in
2013, Istat forecast in its annual report May 22. Industrial
output probably declined 0.6 percent last month as two
earthquakes in the north weigh on Italy’s outlook with
“lasting” consequences on production, Rome-based employers
lobby Confindustria said in a May 30 note.  “Given the still-deteriorating economic outlook, the
private-services sector will struggle to generate any
significant number of new employment opportunities,”  Raj Badiani , an economist at Global  Insight Inc. (2172)  in  London , wrote in
a note. “Public-sector employment at both the central and local
government level is likely to shrink as a result of the need to
curtail state spending.”  Firing Rules  The Rome-based Senate approved yesterday an overhaul of the
labor market that includes new rules for hiring and firing
workers aimed at boosting growth. The reform passes to the
Chamber of Deputies or Lower house for final approval before
becoming law.  Labor Minister Elsa Fornero has said the new firing rules
should be applied also to civil servants. “We can’t have
differences” in the rules for the private and public sectors,
she told reporters in Turin on May 24.  Italy’s  consumer confidence  plunged in May to the lowest in
more than 15 years as levies on gasoline prices and tax
increases included in Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s austerity
measures crimped domestic demand.  Business confidence  also fell
this month to the lowest since August 2009, amid concerns the
recession which began in the fourth quarter may deepen.  “The unemployment rate has breached the confidence-sapping
10 percent mark sooner than expected, and is yet another
significant blow to already fragile consumer confidence,”
Badiani said.  Istat originally reported a jobless rate of 9.8 percent in
March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  