-- Spanish, Italian Bonds Pare Week’s Slide on ECB Bond Bets
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-06-01T15:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/italian-spanish-bonds-advance-on-speculation-ecb-will-buy-debt.html
Spanish and Italian government bonds
rallied, paring a slump for the week, on speculation the
 European Central Bank  will buy the securities to help prevent
the currency bloc from disintegrating.  German, U.S. and U.K. yields fell to all-time lows earlier
after Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said the future
of the euro is at stake and a report showed U.S. employers added
the smallest number of workers in a year in May. German  two-year 
note yields fell below zero for the first time and 10-year
yields on Austrian, Belgian, Dutch, Finnish and French bonds
dropped to records.  “The markets are so jumpy that even the slightest rumor of
policy action would ensure profit-taking on short Spanish
government bond positions,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income
strategist at WestLB AG in London, referring to bets that prices
will decline. “But if we were really getting strong speculation
that the ECB was intending to step in I think we would be down
30 or 40 basis points.”  Spanish 10-year government bond yields fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.51 percent at 4:41 p.m.
London time. The 5.85 percent securities maturing in January
2022 rose 0.335, or 3.35 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,239) face
amount, to 95.325. Italian 10-year  bond yields  dropped 16 basis
points to 5.74 percent.  An ECB spokesman in  Frankfurt  declined to comment on the
prospects of debt purchases when reached by phone today.  Negative Yield  The German two-year yield slid to as low as minus 0.012
percent, the first time the rate on the securities has been
 negative , according to data compiled by Bloomberg, before
recovering to 0.01 percent.  A yield below zero means investors will receive less in
repayments on the German securities when held through to
maturity than the amount they paid to buy them.  Danish and Swiss two-year rates were also negative,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It was only a matter of time, given the stressed
environment that we’re in in the euro area, that we saw a drop
to slightly negative levels,” Norbert Aul, a fixed-income
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  London , said, referring to
German two-year yields. “If the 10-year yield falls to as low
as 1 percent, then everything out to three years has the
potential to go negative.”  Bund Record  The  10-year bund  rate dropped three basis points to 1.17
percent after reaching 1.127 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg
began collecting the data in 1989. The seven-week advance for
the securities is the longest run since May 27 last year. Five-
year yields reached an all-time low of 0.295 percent and 30-year
bond yields touched 1.629 percent. Yields on U.K. gilts of all
maturities dropped to less than 3 percent for the first time.
The U.S. Treasury 10-year note rate declined to as low as 1.4387
percent.  “The morning was simply an extension of the major trend we
are in,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “Despite
the bad jobs data, there was always going to be some strong
profit taking” because of the risk of policy-maker action
during the weekend, he said.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, less
than the most-pessimistic estimate in a Bloomberg News survey,
after a revised 77,000 gain in April, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent
from 8.1 percent, while hours worked declined.  Disintegration Risk  Euro-area unemployment reached 11 percent in April and
March, the highest rate on record, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said.  The euro area is in real danger of disintegrating unless
policy makers revamp the bloc’s fiscal ties, said  Olli Rehn , the
European Commission’s Economic and Monetary Commissioner .  “The way things are going and under the current
structures, the euro area has a significant risk of breaking
up,” Rehn said in a speech in Helsinki. “We’re either headed
for a deterioration of the euro area or a gradual strengthening
of the European Union.”  Italian 10-year yields were still set for a nine basis-
point increase on the week, with  Spain ’s yields on similar-
maturity debt was 21 basis points higher.  Thailand , which shares  Italy  and Spain’s BBB+ rating at
 Standard & Poor’s , has 10-year borrowing costs of 3.65 percent.  “I don’t know if we’re on the edge of the precipice, but
we’re in a very, very, very difficult situation,” Spain’s de
Guindos said yesterday.  Bond Volatility  Volatility on Irish  government bonds  was the highest in
developed markets today followed by Belgium, France and  Austria ,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield
spreads and credit-default swaps.  French 10-year yields dropped as much as 29 basis points to
as low as 2.07 percent. The rate on similar-maturity Austrian
debt fell to 1.919 percent, Belgian yields tumbled to 2.743
percent, Dutch 10-year rates retreated to 1.486 percent, and
Finnish yields declined to 1.385 percent, all the lowest on
record.  A gauge of euro-area manufacturing decreased to 45.1 in May
from 45.9 in April, London-based Markit Economics said today.
The index for Spain fell to 42, from 43.5. A figure below 50
indicates a contraction.  German debt has returned 4.7 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities have lost 5.2
percent, and Italian bonds rose 6.8 percent, the indexes show.
Treasuries earned 2.2 percent, with gilts making 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  