-- Mitsubishi Delays $5.7 Billion Iron Ore Port on Mine Review
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-06-01T14:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/mitsubishi-delays-5-7-billion-oakajee-port-on-jack-hills-review.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , the biggest
Japanese trading house, is holding up its A$5.9 billion ($5.7
billion) Oakajee port project in Western Australia as it reviews
the Jack Hills iron ore mine.  Mitsubishi must decide on the scale of the expansion of
Jack Hills before funding talks with six state-owned Chinese
groups can be concluded, said John Langoulant, chief executive
of the Oakajee Port & Rail project.  “The delay has a lot to do with the delay in the
development of the mines,” Langoulant told reporters after a
conference in Melbourne today. “Discussions with the Chinese
parties are continuing but those discussions and the final
decision will depend on a range of factors. Short-term market
circumstances will be one.”  Mitsubishi, which paid A$325 million to buy out the Oakajee
project and the  Jack Hills  mine from partner  Murchison Metals
Ltd. (MMX)  earlier this year, is doing a complete review of Jack Hills
that will determine when its other mines in the region will also
start, Langoulant said. The review is expected to be completed
in the second half, he said.  Prices of iron ore delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin
have fallen 20 percent in the past year, according to data
compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  Chinese Demand  Prices of the metal fell on concern that slower economic
growth in  China , the biggest buyer, is curbing demand from  steel
mills .  “In the short term, it’s probably fair to say that demand
for  iron ore  might not be as strong as it has been over the last
five or six years but China has indicated that it’s prepared to
stimulate its economy and it continues to have high demand,”
Langoulant said. “Over the medium to longer term, if you look
at the demand-and-supply equation, that looks pretty much in
favor for the supply side.”  Oakajee port and rail development was designed to open
Western Australia’s midwest region for iron ore exports to Asia,
Langoulant said.  Mitsubishi shares fell 0.9 percent to 1,522 yen by the
close
of trading in  Tokyo  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  