-- Liverpool Hires Swansea Coach Rodgers to Replace Dalglish
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-06-01T10:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/liverpool-hires-swansea-coach-rodgers-to-replace-dalglish-1-.html
Liverpool hired Swansea’s  Brendan Rodgers  to replace  Kenny Dalglish  as coach as the English soccer
club seeks to rebound from its worst Premier League season in 18
years.  Rodgers, 39, told a televised news conference today he
signed a three-year contract with the 18-time English soccer
champion. Dalglish was fired May 16 by the club’s U.S. owner
Fenway Sports Group.  “Brendan was the only person we made an offer to,”
Liverpool Chairman  Tom Werner  told the news conference. “He was
the first choice and the right choice.”  Rodgers will try to reinvigorate a club that finished
eighth in the Premier League last season even after spending
about 100 million pounds ($152.9 million) on players since the
start of 2011. Rodgers guided Swansea to 11th in its first
season in the top flight since 1983.  “I’m blessed to be given this opportunity,” Rodgers said
in the Liverpool statement. “I promise to dedicate my life to
fight for this club.”  Liverpool, which last won the English title in 1990,
finished 37 points behind champion  Manchester City  and 17 points
off fourth place, which is typically the Premier League’s final
Champions League qualification spot.  Although Dalglish guided the Reds to their first trophy in
six years with the Carling Cup title and also took them to the
F.A. Cup final, his team lost 14 of its 38 league games and
finished with 52 points -- its lowest tally since the Premier
League began in 1992.  ‘Entertaining’ Soccer  Swansea drew 0-0 at Anfield in November in front of John W. Henry, Liverpool’s principal owner, and won 1-0 when the teams
met in Wales on the final day of the season.  “The style of football Brendan is associated is exactly
what we want to see at Anfield,” Werner said in the statement.
“Swansea was a revelation last season with their brand of
entertaining football.”  Still, the hiring of a manager inexperienced in handling a
big club represents a gamble, according to former Liverpool
players including Mark Lawrenson, who won five league
championships and the European Cup with the Reds in the 1980s.  “It’s an incredible throw of the dice and perhaps
illustrates that the American owners do not understand the soul
or heartbeat of the club,” Lawrenson  wrote in his column  in the
U.K.’s  Daily Mirror . “Managing Swansea is one thing but
Liverpool quite another.”  A native of  Northern Ireland , Rodgers was the youngest
manager in  England ’s Championship when he joined Watford in
November 2008 at 35. He’d worked under  Jose Mourinho  at Chelsea
before leaving for the second-tier team.  Short Career  Rodgers, whose playing career was ended early by injury,
ran Reading’s youth team for nine seasons before moving to
Chelsea when Mourinho joined the west London team. He was
Chelsea’s youth-team manager for two seasons and then was
promoted to oversee the reserve squad.  “When he joined us at Chelsea he was a young coach with
lots of desire to learn,” Mourinho was cited as saying by the
Sun. “But he was also a coach with ideas, who was ready not
just to listen but also to communicate and share.”  Rodgers coached Watford for seven months after leaving the
Blues and then joined Reading for a six-month stint until
December 2009. He was hired by Swansea at the start of the
season before last, and the club beat Reading in the playoff
final to move into the Premier League.  Rodgers’s appointment continues a revamp at Liverpool.
Dalglish joined director of football Damien Comolli, head of
sports science Peter Brukner and communications director  Ian Cotton  in leaving as Fenway Sports Group -- which also owns
Major League Baseball’s Boston Red Sox -- restructures.  FSG, controlled by hedge fund trader Henry, bought
Liverpool in October 2010 after lenders to former owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  forced a sale when the pair defaulted
on a loan linked to their 2007 buyout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  