-- Japan’s Capital Spending Increased 3.5% in First Quarter
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-06-01T01:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/japan-s-capital-spending-increased-3-5-in-first-quarter-1-.html
Japan ’s companies increased spending
in the first quarter, adding to signs the world’s third-largest
economy will sustain a recovery this year despite drags from
power constraints and the strengthening yen.  Capital spending  excluding software rose 3.5 percent from a
year earlier, after increasing 4.9 percent in the previous
quarter, the Finance Ministry said today in Tokyo. The second
straight quarter of expansion compared with a median estimate of
a 0.1 percent decline in a Bloomberg News survey of seven
economists.  Today’s report will be used by the government to revise
preliminary gross domestic product data that showed annualized
growth of 4.1 percent in the first three months of the year. The
economy should continue to grow this quarter, even with the
strengthening yen and electricity supply concerns weighing down
company outlooks and export performance.  “The overall picture for  capital spending  continues to be
a gradual recovery,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at
RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo and a former central bank
official. “Shipments to the U.S. are staying solid and it’s
clear that Japan’s major companies are recovering” from last
year’s earthquake, she said.  Companies including  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) 
are preparing power-saving measures as the government forecasts
electricity shortages due to the closure of all nuclear  power
plants  and will request users to cut consumption this summer. A
government panel deliberating on Japan’s energy supply after the
Fukushima disaster proposed four scenarios on May 29, including
one to go nuclear free, for a final decision by the summer.  Europe’s Crisis  The  European debt crisis  and concerns that Greece may exit
the euro are increasing demand for the yen as a haven. The yen
has climbed more than 6 percent against the dollar from this
year’s low in mid-March toward October’s record high of 75.35,
weighing on export sales and profits for manufacturers.  The yen traded at 78.56 as of 10:21 a.m. in Tokyo, after
touching 78.21 the previous day, the strongest since Feb. 15.
Finance Minister Jun Azumi told reporters in Tokyo today that
the government is watching excessive yen moves, and that the yen
and stock markets do not reflect the fundamentals of the
economy.  Vice Finance Minister Takehiko Nakao, the nation’s top
currency official, said this week in an interview in Hong Kong
that the  finance ministry  will take action on the yen if
necessary, suggesting the door is open to intervention to weaken
the currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  