-- Jeb Bush Says He Would Back Tax Increases to Cut Deficit
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-06-01T17:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/jeb-bush-says-he-d-back-tax-increases-to-cut-debt.html
Former Florida Governor  Jeb Bush , in
a break with his party, said he could support tax increases to
help reduce the federal government’s budget deficit.  The brother of former President  George W. Bush  told a
congressional panel in Washington today that he could back a
theoretical  deficit -reduction package that would include $1 in
tax increases for every $10 in spending cuts.  “If you could bring to me a majority of people to say that
we’re going to have $10 in spending cuts for $1 of revenue
enhancement -- put me in, coach,” Bush told the House Budget
Committee. “This will prove I’m not running for anything,” he
said, prompting laughter from lawmakers and the audience.  “I appreciate your candor,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat who had pressed Bush on the issue.
Bush later told reporters, “I don’t think you shut down every
option in order to find common ground.”  Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican,
declined to comment on Bush’s remarks.  The 10-to-1 proposal was rejected by all of the Republican
presidential candidates including the presumed nominee, former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , in a debate last August on
 Fox News . Democrats say that shows Republicans are being
unreasonable in the battle over how to reduce the deficit.  Lawmakers in Congress have fought over the deficit for more
than a year in part because most Republicans have ruled out tax
increases.  Grover Norquist  Bush said today that as governor he was repeatedly
presented with, and rejected signing, an anti-tax pledge
sponsored by  Grover Norquist  that most Republicans in Congress
have taken.  Bush said that while he cut taxes every year he was
governor, “I don’t believe you outsource your principles and
convictions to people.” He said, “I respect Grover’s political
involvement, he has every right to do it, but I never signed any
pledge.”  The former Florida governor has previously said he wants to
put to rest any talk of him becoming Romney’s running mate, and
today he said he wouldn’t consider an invitation to join the
Republican presidential ticket.  “Not in the cards for me -- nope -- I don’t know how many
times I have to repeat this,” Bush told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this
story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at +1-  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible
for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  