-- JPMorgan’s Iksil Said to Take Big Risks Long Before Loss
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-06-01T21:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/jpmorgan-s-iksil-said-to-take-big-risks-long-before-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  trader Bruno Iksil, known as the  London  Whale because his bets this year were
so large, has been a leviathan of a risk-taker since at least
2010, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Iksil’s value-at-risk, a measure of how much a trader might
lose in one day, was typically $30 million to $40 million even
before this year’s buildup, said the person, who wasn’t
authorized to discuss the trades. Sometimes the figure, known as
VaR, could surpass $60 million, the person said. That’s about as
high as the level for the firm’s  entire investment bank , which
employs 26,000 people.  Investigators are examining how long senior executives knew
about Iksil’s swelling bets at the chief investment office
before losses approached $2 billion. One focal point is why the
formula used to calculate Iksil’s VaR was altered early this
year, cutting the reported risk by half. The change followed an
internal analysis in late 2011 and was approved by top risk
executives, said a person close to the bank. About the same
time, half a dozen managers typically involved in such decisions
moved to new jobs.  “If it was something that had that large an impact, it
would have to be agreed to at the very-most-senior level within
risk management,” probably including the bank’s chief risk
officer, said Steve Allen, a former head of risk methodology for
JPMorgan who retired in 2004. “You’re not going to make a
change of that magnitude on the basis of one risk manager.”  Unexplained Change  JPMorgan hasn’t detailed how or why the New York-based
lender altered the VaR formula. The changes -- and the timing of
the firm’s disclosures about them -- are the focus of an inquiry
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told a congressional panel on May 22. Shares of the
bank, the biggest in the U.S., have tumbled 25 percent since
April 5, when Bloomberg News first reported on Iksil’s trades.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, has since
suspended the bank’s $15 billion share buyback program and
replaced executives who oversaw the errant trades. Dimon has
said the losses could grow and that it might take the rest of
the year to liquidate trades at the unit, which is charged with
managing the bank’s idle cash to earn a profit while minimizing
the company’s risk.  Iksil, who joined JPMorgan in 2005 according to  U.K.
regulatory records , was given more leeway than many traders
because he produced outsized gains during previous years --
including more than $100 million in 2011, said a person close to
the bank.  Whale Watching  His bosses may not have understood the complexity of his
trades, said the person, who asked for anonymity because the
information hasn’t been released publicly. Executives and risk
managers in the chief investment office were aware of Iksil’s
positions because they met every Thursday morning to discuss the
unit’s trades, the person said.  Iksil was assigned to devise hedges and make trades to
counter the risk that a faltering economy might lead to a surge
in losses on corporate loans or bonds. By 2010, the VaR on his
trading book was about half of that for JPMorgan’s entire chief
investment office, which at the time also oversaw more than $300
billion of securities, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the CIO’s operations.  VaR represents the maximum JPMorgan traders would expect to
lose on 95 out of 100 trading days, according to quarterly
filings with regulators. It is calculated daily, and the average
for a quarter is reported in regulatory filings.  Flawed Formulas  While there’s no estimate of what the losses might be on
the worst days, a string of daily losses exceeding the VaR can
be a warning that the formulas are flawed or that markets have
turned unusually volatile. Dimon had encouraged the once-
conservative CIO operation, run by Ina Drew, to boost profit by
buying higher-yielding assets such as structured credit,
equities and derivatives, Bloomberg News reported on April 13.  Banks and their traders have multiple computer models to
estimate potential swings in profits and losses. Value-at-risk
is among the most crucial because it’s reported to investors in
filings that are  reviewed by the SEC . Any changes to the model’s
characteristics are supposed to be disclosed, Schapiro said.  The bank produces more than half a dozen VaR barometers for
different parts of the firm, and the chief investment office
gets one of its own. Toward the beginning of this year, the bank
changed the mathematical formulas used to calculate VaR for that
unit, Dimon said on May 10, without elaborating on the reasons.  Quarterly Rise  The new formula showed average VaR for the chief investment
office stood at $67 million, according to a regulatory filing on
April 13, the day JPMorgan reported first-quarter results. When
JPMorgan reverted to the old model, it showed the average VaR
was $129 million, and that the figure ballooned to $186 million
at the end of the period, a May filing showed.  “We implemented a new VaR model, which we now deemed
inadequate,” Dimon said. “We went back to the old one, which
had been used for the prior several years, which we deemed to be
more adequate.”  Iksil alone may have amassed a $100 billion position this
year in contracts on one credit-derivative index, counterparts
at  hedge funds  and rival banks said in April. The holdings
amounted to tens of billions of dollars under the firm’s own
math, a person familiar with JPMorgan’s view has said.  The VaR changes may have allowed or encouraged Iksil or
other traders in the chief investment office to take bigger
positions, said David Hendler, an analyst at CreditSights Inc.  “It’s possible that when the new model said, ‘Hey, we can
put on more risk,’ they did,” he said. “And then when they
went back to the old model, they saw, ‘Oh my God, our risk is
much higher than we thought.’”  Internal Probe  The bank is conducting its own probe into the CIO’s losses
and plans to report on the findings, said  Kristin Lemkau , a bank
spokeswoman. Dimon is scheduled to testify June 13 before the
Senate Banking Committee, and will be asked to appear June 19 at
the House Financial Services Committee, a person familiar with
the plans has said.  Dimon didn’t mention Iksil by name on May 10, when the CEO
first disclosed the losses and the decision to revert to the old
version of VaR. “There are constant changes and updates to
models, always trying to get them better than they were
before,” Dimon said.  In practice, such updates typically occur no more than once
a year, said a former JPMorgan risk manager who asked not to be
identified to avoid alienating the bank. Lesley Daniels Webster,
a former head of market and fiduciary risk management at
JPMorgan, said that new models are usually tested “in
parallel” with old models for about three months to make sure
they’re working properly before being used.  Signing Off  “There’s a formal approval process for the adoption of a
new model,” said Daniels Webster, who retired in 2005 and runs
her own risk-management firm, Daniels Webster Capital Advisors,
based in Naples,  Florida . “Somebody has to sign off.”  Allen, the other former JPMorgan risk manager, said that a
model change big enough to reduce the VaR by half probably would
need approval from the chief risk officer, especially if a
trading book is unusually large.  Dimon said in April 2009 that he doesn’t pay much attention
to VaR and has criticized the gauge when analysts questioned him
in past years about its levels. VaR is “a very imperfect
number” that “bounces around all the time,” he said on a Jan.
18, 2006, conference call.  Washington Warning  U.S. banks were  warned  last year by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency to closely scrutinize the
possibility that computer models used to calculate VaR might not
be properly designed or calibrated.  “The use of models invariably presents model risk, which
is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based
on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports,” according
to the  April 4, 2011, document  from the OCC, which supervises
JPMorgan’s primary banking subsidiary. “Model risk can lead to
financial loss, poor business and strategic decision-making or
damage to a bank’s reputation.”  JPMorgan’s team that handled such matters was on the verge
of a shakeup that involved at least six management changes in
late 2011 or early this year within the chief risk office, chief
investment office and treasury. The personnel changes may have
contributed to lapses in risk management, said the person close
to the company.  People in Motion  Barry Zubrow, 59, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. veteran who
was hired by JPMorgan in November 2007, served as chief risk
officer through Jan. 12, when Dimon shifted him to oversee
regulatory, public relations and lobbying strategy. His
replacement was  John Hogan , 45, who oversaw risks within
JPMorgan’s investment bank during the U.S. subprime mortgage
crisis in 2008 and 2009.  Hogan, after being named chief risk officer in mid-January,
didn’t announce his new management team -- including his own
successor -- until Feb. 13, so he was doing both the new job and
the old job for about a month, according to the person close to
the bank. A chief risk officer signed off on the VaR change,
which took effect in January, the person said. It couldn’t be
determined whether Zubrow or Hogan signed off, and neither
responded to phone calls seeking comment.  The new team included Irvin Goldman, 51, who had been
overseeing strategy at the chief investment office, as the
unit’s chief risk officer. He replaced Peter Weiland, who
remained with the bank as head of market risk for the investment
office, reporting to Goldman.  Family Tie  Goldman, Zubrow’s brother-in-law, had been fired in 2007 by
Cantor Fitzgerald LP for money-losing bets that led to a
regulatory sanction of the firm, Bloomberg reported on May 20.
Regulators didn’t accuse Goldman of wrongdoing.  Evan Kalimtgis, 42, who co-headed risk management for the
$355.6 billion book of securities in the investment office, quit
in March after learning that Goldman would become his new boss,
people with knowledge of the move said. Kalimtgis, who until
mid-2011 was overseeing market risks in the London CIO office
where Iksil worked, said he couldn’t comment. Keith Stephan
succeeded Kalimtgis as head of market risk in the London office,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Andrew Abrahams, who had been head of quantitative research
and model oversight at JPMorgan, reporting to the chief risk
officer, retired in May, according to his profile on the website
LinkedIn. He’s now a founder at Gnana Inc., according to
LinkedIn. He’s also an instructor at  Stanford University  near
 Palo Alto ,  California , where in January he taught a  seminar  on
“model risks, safeguards and new directions,” according to the
school’s website.  Leaving the Bank  Abrahams said in an interview that he started planning
career changes in the latter part of 2011, and his departure had
“nothing to do with the current news story.” He said that
while his official retirement date was in May, he wasn’t
physically present after the end of 2011. Abrahams was succeeded
by C.S. “Venkat” Venkatakrishnan, according to a Feb. 13 memo
from Hogan.  Joseph Bonocore, 44, a former finance chief in the CIO who
was promoted in November 2010 to become the bank’s treasurer,
quit in October to join  Citigroup Inc. (C)  The job stood open for
five months until prime-brokerage and futures chief Sandie O’Connor, 45, was promoted to the post in March. The treasurer
shares responsibility with the chief investment officer for
managing “capital, liquidity and structural risks of the
firm,” according to JPMorgan’s  annual report .  Drew, 55, who as chief investment officer oversaw Iksil’s
trades, resigned on May 14 and was replaced by Matthew Zames,
41, who had headed fixed-income trading. Goldman was stripped of
his duties in May, though he remains at the firm, according to a
person familiar with the situation.  Internal Memo  JPMorgan named Ashley Bacon as deputy chief risk officer,
in addition to his role as head of firmwide market risk,
according to a memo today to employees from Hogan. “He will
partner with me to review and assess firmwide risk and risk
governance,” Hogan wrote.  After Dimon held the May 10 conference call to announce the
derivatives-trading losses, Hogan sent an internal memo urging
his employees in the risk department to “remain vigilant.”  “Our focus is no surprises,” Hogan wrote. “Remember, as
an independent oversight function, it’s our responsibility to
escalate early and often.”  Credit Derivatives  That oversight extends to JPMorgan’s chief investment
office, which in 2008 and 2009 started expanding its use of
credit derivatives to hedge its holdings against an economic
slump. The shift was led by Drew’s top deputy in London,
Achilles Macris, who in turn oversaw Iksil’s boss, Javier Martin-Artajo, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Iksil was assigned to design those hedges and execute
trades. Last year, Iksil made a bearish bet on an index of
credit derivatives, speculating that one or more companies
included in the index would default before trading contracts
expired in December, according to market participants at hedge
funds and banks. Some hedge funds were taking the opposite view.  Iksil’s bet won out, and the hedge funds faced losses of 25
percent, when American Airlines parent AMR Corp. filed for
bankruptcy less than a month before the insurance-like swaps
matured, the market participants said. The trades were made in
so-called tranches of the index, which concentrates risks on the
member companies.  Various Complaints  Traders sometimes complain about VaR models that “have
adverse effects on the business,” and they’re “less likely to
challenge an outcome that results in an advantage for them,”
according to the OCC supervisory guidance.  The agency said May 14 that it was examining the losses at
JPMorgan, including “details related to the specific
transactions as well as the surrounding risk-management
processes that resulted in this unexpected loss.”  The  Federal Reserve , as JPMorgan’s holding-company
supervisor, is studying organizational issues around the trading
loss to assure that they aren’t repeated in other areas of the
firm,  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman for the central bank,
said on May 15.  The most common reasons for altering a VaR model include
changes in the range of historical pricing data used to estimate
the potential swings and revisions in the amount of hedging
activity that’s allowed as an offset, said Daniels Webster, the
ex-JPMorgan risk manager.  Some of the toughest questions about the VaR changes may be
reserved for the executives who approved them, she said.  “There is no one VaR model out there that is recognized as
the sine qua non,” Daniels Webster said, invoking the Latin for
something indispensable or essential. “So we’re dealing with
judgment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net  or @liqquidity on Twitter.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  