-- KPN Reviews E-Plus Unit to Fight Carlos Slim’s Bid
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2012-06-01T09:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/kpn-says-it-plans-strategic-review-of-german-e-plus-business.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone company
that rejected an unsolicited 2.6 billion-euro ($3.2 billion)
offer for a stake by  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, will
conduct a strategy review of its German E-Plus business.  “Today, with the full support of the supervisory board,
KPN announces a review of strategic options for E-Plus to unlock
value embedded in the German business,” The Hague-based company
said today in a statement.  E-Plus may be seeking to merge with  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2
 Germany , according to  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein. The two units are the country’s two smaller
wireless network operators, competing with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)  KPN Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok
said as recently as in November that a combination of the two
operators could generate 3 billion euros in synergies, though
Telefonica was not willing to sell.  “This seems to us to be a fairly pointed message to
Telefonica,” Bienenstock wrote in a note to clients.  Telefonica said this week its board approved plans for an
initial share sale for O2. KPN today said there’s “material
synergy opportunity available through in-market
consolidations,” according to a presentation to shareholders.  ‘Interesting’ Timing  “The timing is interesting. Yesterday Telefonica opened
their door, and today KPN did,” said Frank Claassen, an analyst
at Rabobank International with a hold recommendation on KPN.  Claassen estimates E-Plus is worth about 8.5 billion euros,
though with cost savings through a merger, that could rise to 10
billion euros.  KPN had 23 million mobile customers in Germany at the end
of the first quarter. The company reported first-quarter revenue
from Germany rose 2.7 percent to 794 million euros. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in that
market was 303 million euros, little changed from 301 million
euros a year earlier.  On a conference call today, Blok declined to give a
timetable for the strategic review. KPN is also evaluating the
future of its Belgian and Spanish businesses. He said the
company is exploring all options.  The former Dutch phone monopoly is putting on its defense
as  America Movil  this week began its 8-euro a share offer to
expand its KPN stake to as much as 28 percent. KPN said today
the offer is “opportunistic.” Mexico City-based America Movil
is unwilling to enter into a shareholder agreement with KPN and
didn’t respond “positively” to the Dutch company’s proposal,
Blok said today.  Goldman, JPMorgan  “We continue to have constructive discussions with America
Movil on potential synergies,” the CEO said.  America Movil’s offer for KPN ends June 27. The purchase
would be the biggest investment by Slim, the world’s richest
man, outside his Latin American phone empire.  A spokeswoman for America Movil in the Netherlands didn’t
immediately have a comment when reached by Bloomberg News.  KPN last month hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  to explore strategic options.  KPN was unchanged at 7.65 euros at 11:10 a.m. on the
Amsterdam exchange, valuing the company at 10.9 billion euros.
The stock hasn’t closed above 8 euros since April 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  