-- KPN Said to Weigh German Wireless Merger With Telefonica
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-06-01T16:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/kpn-telefonica-said-to-weigh-german-merger-as-slim-prowls.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  are
considering ways to merge their German units, a move that would
create the country’s top mobile-phone operator by customers.  The companies are evaluating a variety of options,
including a combination of Telefonica’s O2 Germany unit and
KPN’s E-Plus, the two smaller of the nation’s four operators,
said two people with knowledge of the matter, declining to be
identified as the discussions are private. The companies are
considering selling a stake in a German entity as part of an
initial public offering, one of the people said.  A merger could help KPN, which said today it had begun a
strategy review of E-Plus, to fend off an unsolicited 2.6
billion-euro ($3.2 billion) offer for a stake by  Carlos Slim ’s
 America Movil SAB. (AMXL)  Telefonica this week received approval from
its board to hold an initial share sale for O2 Germany as the
Madrid-based company speeds up attempts to cut its net debt of
more than 57 billion euros.  “The combination would create significant synergies,”
said Henri Alexaline, a fixed-income investor who helps manage
$1 billion at London-based FM Capital Partners Ltd. “The key
hurdle would be how to remedy antitrust concerns but looking at
Vodafone’s current reach it does not look like a deal breaker.”  Synergies  O2 Germany and E-Plus would have a combined mobile-phone
client base of 41.7 million in the country, based on information
from the company’s websites. That compares with  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) ’s 36.5 million local mobile customers and  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) ’s 35.1 million wireless clients in Germany.  KPN acting Chief Financial Officer Eric Hageman said today
that consolidation in the German market could generate 4 billion
euros in synergies. Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok said as
recently as in November that Telefonica was “not willing” to
sell. He declined to comment today on whether KPN is in talks
with Telefonica.  “A combination of businesses of some kind would make a lot
of sense,” said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist
at FGA/MG Valores. “It would boost the operators’ market share
and would allow them to obtain significant synergies while
ruling out any potential problems with licenses to offer
services in the country.”  Telefonica, whose stock is down 33 percent this year, last
week had it debt rating cut by  Standard & Poor’s  as the Spanish
banking crisis accelerated the company’s loss of phone customers
to discounters.  Debt Rating  KPN rose 0.1 percent to 7.65 euros in Amsterdam after
earlier surging as much as 2.1 percent. Telefonica rose 0.8
percent to 9 euros in  Madrid . The Spanish operator has a market
value of 41.4 billion euros, compared with 110 billion euros in
2007.  A spokesman for Telefonica declined to comment on whether
the companies are considering combining their German businesses.  America Movil  this week began a 2.6 billion-euro offer to
increase its stake in  The Hague , Netherlands-based KPN.
Telefonica’s finance chief, Angel Vila, told an investor
conference in  London  yesterday that Telefonica has no plan to
make a counter bid for KPN, according to two people who attended
the meeting, who asked not to be identified because the meeting
is private.  Telefonica CEO Cesar Alierta, with his company’s net debt
greater than its market value, is turning to some of
Telefonica’s most valuable assets for cash.  Slim’s Offer  Alierta bought mobile-phone operator O2 Plc for $31.5
billion in 2006 to add wireless units in the U.K., Ireland and
Germany in his biggest acquisition. Germany is now Telefonica’s
second-largest market in  Europe  and may be valued at as much as
9 billion euros, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   KPN had 23 million mobile customers in Germany at the end
of the first quarter. Frank Claassen, an analyst at Rabobank
International, estimates E-Plus is worth about 8.5 billion
euros, though with cost savings through a merger, that could
rise to 10 billion euros.  Telefonica said this week it will explore share sales for
O2 Germany and its Latin American businesses. The prospect of
owning a minority stake in the No. 3 of four mobile operators in
Germany, a market with more handsets than people, has left
investors unconvinced.  Boris Boehm , who helps manage 1.1 billion euros including
Telefonica shares at Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg, says
the IPO plans aren’t helped by the fact that the operator’s need
for cash is too obvious.  Poker Game  “If everyone knows that Telefonica needs money out of the
IPO, I would say it’s not a wise idea,” he said, adding that he
wouldn’t be interested in buying O2  Germany ’s stock. “It’s like
in a poker game, if everyone knows what your cards are, it’s not
a good game to play.”  German mobile-phone subscriptions rose 4.8 percent in 2011,
compared with growth of 5.6 percent in all of Europe, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Wireless penetration
reached 139 percent in 2011 compared with 130.3 percent for the
region.  Heinrich Ey, a  fund manager  at Allianz Global Investors in
 Frankfurt , which manages about 300 billion euros including
Telefonica and Deutsche Telekom shares, said the Spanish company
had to “rush and react” after S&P’s cut and Slim’s KPN bid.  “The big question down the road is on consolidation,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net 
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  