-- Outer-Borough New York Livery Plan Is Blocked After Taxi Protest
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/n-y-judge-issues-order-blocking-outer-bourough-livery-plan.html
A new state law allowing car services
to pick up passengers who hail them in  New York City ’s outer
boroughs was blocked by a judge after three taxi groups
challenged the plan.  State Supreme Court Justice Arthur F. Engoron in Manhattan
signed an order yesterday temporarily blocking the legislation
from taking effect, saying the taxi groups demonstrated that the
plan would cause them “irreparable injury.”  “The court has trouble seeing how the provision of taxi
service in New York City is a matter that can be wrenched from
the hands of city government, where it has resided for some 75
years, and handed over to the state,” Engoron, who worked as a
cab driver more than 40 years ago while attending  Columbia
University , said in his ruling.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  struck a deal with lawmakers in
December for the city to permit car services to pick up
passengers who hail them on the street outside Manhattan. The
state legislature passed the law in February and rules to
implement the legislation were  approved  by the city’s Taxi and
Limousine Commission in April and were to take effect June 4.  The plan allowed the city to create an 18,000-car fleet of
taxis to pick up riders in Manhattan north of 96th Street, and
in the city’s other four boroughs of  Brooklyn , the Bronx, Queens
and  Staten Island , where customers can rarely find ordinary
yellow cabs.  Yellow Taxis  The plan also permitted the city to add 2,000 more yellow
taxis to its fleet of about 13,000, auctioning medallions, or
operating licenses, which command prices of $700,000 to $1
million, and which Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has relied upon to
plug a $1 billion hole in the city’s 2013 fiscal year budget.  Taxi medallion owners objected, citing concerns that the
added medallions would dilute the medallions’ value, and that
the outer-borough fleet would reduce the earning power of yellow
cabs by giving the new fleet the market for those street-hailing
customers.  Previously, only yellow cabs were permitted to pick up
fares on the street, while car services were legally limited to
calls dispatched by radio.  The Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, a group of cab
fleet owners, and the Taxicab Service Association, which
finances medallion purchases, sued the state and Mayor Bloomberg
in April, seeking to have the new law deemed unconstitutional.
The Greater  New York  Taxi Association, a group of medallion
owners, also sued last month.  ‘The Brakes’  “Today, the court applied the brakes to one of the most
egregious government end-runs and one of the most irresponsibly
produced plans in recent memory,” the Metropolitan Taxicab
Board of Trade said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Michael A. Cardozo, an attorney with the city’s law
department, said the city is “deeply disappointed” with the
court’s ruling.  “We think the court was mistaken in its analysis and are
exploring our appellate options,” he said.  The order “does not address the wisdom, or lack thereof,
of defendants’ good-faith efforts to address age-old problems,”
Engoron wrote. “Today’s order only seeks to preserve the status
quo until a more complete examination can be made of plaintiffs’
claim (among others) that the legislation at issue represents an
unconstitutional power grab, and of defendants’ response that
the state government has properly regulated an area of state-
wide concern.”  Yesterday’s order is contingent on the plaintiffs posting a
bond of $600,000 by June 7, the judge said in an e-mail
containing a copy of his order.  “This morning Mayor Bloomberg threw mud at his critics and
slammed this lawsuit as ‘stupid,’” Public Advocate Bill DeBlasio, who filed an amicus brief in the suit last week, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “The mayor has time to get
this plan right, but he needs to work within the law, and with
the City Council, to do it.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  The case is Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade v. Michael
R. Bloomberg, 102472/2012, New York state Supreme Court
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  