-- Obama Tells Donors Health-Care Fight May Loom After Court Rules
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-06-01T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/obama-tells-donors-health-care-fight-may-loom-after-court-rules.html
President  Barack Obama  is confiding
to Democratic donors that he may have to revisit the health-care
issue in a second term, a position at odds with his publicly
expressed confidence that the U.S. Supreme Court will uphold the
Affordable Care Act, according to three Democratic activists.  As he previewed his agenda for donors at a May 14
fundraiser, Obama said he may be forced to try to revise parts
of his health-care plan, depending on how the court rules later
this month, said one activist, who requested anonymity to
discuss the president’s comments. Guests at the $35,800-a-plate
dinner in the Manhattan apartment of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
President  Tony James  were asked to check their smart phones and
BlackBerries at the door.  The president has made similar remarks, usually in response
to questions, at other fundraising events since the  Supreme
Court  heard arguments in the case during the last week of March,
according to two other activists, who also requested anonymity.  Obama’s answers, which begin with the president repeating
his contention that the high court will uphold the law, have led
some contributors to conclude the White House is making
contingency plans should the justices strike down parts of the
law, which would give Republicans a powerful talking point about
one of his signature issues.  A challenge by 26 states centers on the law’s requirement
that individuals purchase health insurance or face a penalty.  Outside Groups  While Obama is discussing with wealthy donors the prospect
of a rebuke from the court, administration officials are
coordinating with health-care-reform groups on how to manage
their public response in the aftermath of the decision.  “While I won’t discuss in detail the president’s private
conversations, I can say that your reporting, attributed to
unnamed sources, inaccurately reflects the president’s views,”
 Jay Carney , Obama’s spokesman, said in an e-mail.  On April 3, Obama professed “enormous confidence” the law
is constitutional and “the court is going to exercise its
jurisprudence carefully,” in response to a question at the
 Associated Press ’s annual meeting. A day earlier, he said the
Supreme Court would have to take “an unprecedented,
extraordinary step” to throw out “a law that was passed by a
strong majority” in Congress.  Yet a planning memo, including a reminder that it’s
important “to continue projecting confidence that the court
will uphold the law,” was discussed at a May 29 meeting hosted
by a group called Protect Your Care, attended by officials from
the White House and  Department of Health  and Human Services,
said one of the attendees, who requested anonymity to discuss a
private meeting.  Staging Events  “The best way to demonstrate public outrage or public
celebration about the decision is to stage an event that shows
average people actually responding to the news,” according to
the memo, e-mailed on May 16 by an official at the Herndon
Alliance, a coalition of groups that backs the health-care
overhaul.  “The White House is obviously very involved in this
stuff,” said Bob Crittenden, executive director of the Herndon
Alliance. “Some of the groups we work with have very close
connections with the White House.”  Nick Papas, a White House spokesman, and Anton Gunn,
director of external affairs at Health and Human Services, make
regular appearances at the Protect Your Care meetings, which are
held every other week.  Private Meetings  Last week, Gunn and Hilary Haycock from the White House
attended, along with representatives from Families USA, Health
Care for America Now, the Center for American Progress and  labor
organizations  including the  Service Employees International
Union  and American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees.  “There’s a really strong feeling that getting out there
and trying to do contingency planning out in public is not a
very smart thing to do,” said Crittenden, also a professor of
medicine at the  University of Washington . “What we really want
to do is to make sure that everyone is prepared to talk about
the law when it comes up.”  Based on the tone of the justices’ questions to the lawyers
arguing the case, some of the law’s supporters are concerned
that the court will strike down the requirement that uninsured
individuals purchase health insurance or else pay a fine.  Overturning Mandate  “The odds are that it’s slightly more likely to overturn
the individual mandate,” said Richard Kirsch, a senior fellow
at the Roosevelt Institute and the former campaign manager for
Health Care for America Now, a group that fought for the
overhaul. After the court makes its ruling, “one of the battles
will be to define what’s happened.”  Even if the mandate is removed, supporters of the law
should organize media events to have “people who continue to
benefit from the law to tell their stories,” said Kirsch,
author of “Fighting for Our Health: The Epic Battle to Make
Health Care a Right in the  United States .”  Public opinion is divided on the different parts of the
law, said Bob Blendon, an associate dean at the Harvard School
of  Public Health .  “Nobody wants the whole bill thrown out,” he said.
“Nobody wants the bill as it is. The majority would be happy if
the mandate disappeared.”  While Republicans, including  Mitt Romney , their presumptive
presidential nominee, would “gain a little” if the mandate is
removed, they may be forced to offer another plan to cover those
with pre-existing conditions, Blendon said. “If the bill is
upheld, it’s a real boost for the president.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  