-- Obama Tells Donors Europe to Blame for Weak Job Growth
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-06-02T18:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/obama-tells-donors-re-election-chance-to-break-partisan-fever-.html
President  Barack Obama  told campaign
donors in Chicago and Minnesota that  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis is largely to blame for the slowest month of U.S.
employment growth in a year, seeking to counter an issue
weighing on his re-election bid.  “We’re not where we need to be; we’re not there yet; you
saw that in today’s jobs report,” the president said at a
Chicago fundraiser, the fourth of six yesterday in the Midwest.
“A lot of that’s attributable to Europe and the cloud that’s
coming over from the Atlantic. The whole world economy has been
weakened by it, and it’s having an impact on us.”  Obama’s prospects for a second term suffered a blow
yesterday with a U.S. Labor Department report showing payrolls
expanded by 69,000 last month, less than the most pessimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of private economists, while
the  unemployment rate  rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  Both Obama and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  have
sought to make the economy the focus of the election. The
president says the former Massachusetts governor backs policies
that brought the U.S. into a crippling downturn, while Romney, a
co-founder of the Bain Capital LLC private-equity firm, asserts
Obama lacks the business acumen needed to lead an economic
turnaround.  Romney, who clinched the Republican nomination on May 29 by
winning the Texas primary, said yesterday on CNBC that the jobs
numbers were “very bad news for middle-class families in
America” and a “harsh indictment” of Obama’s policies.  ‘Wonderful Family’  During a fundraiser last night at the Chicago Cultural
Center, the president said that, while Romney seems to “have a
very wonderful family” and loves the U.S., his vision is the
same one that “got us into this mess in the first place.”  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , the president’s former chief of
staff, introduced Obama to about 350 people at the event, with
tickets costing at least $2,500 per person. Emanuel said that,
through “sheer force of will,” Obama has helped create jobs,
including by leading a rescue of the U.S. auto industry.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC yesterday
reported sales gains for May that trailed analysts’ estimates.
GM deliveries last month rose 11 percent, while Chrysler’s
climbed 30 percent. Analysts had estimated gains of 15 percent
by GM and 40 percent by Chrysler.  In public remarks at the Chicago Cultural Center, Obama
listed repealing “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” -- the ban on gay men
and women serving openly in the military -- and ending the war
in  Iraq  among his biggest accomplishments in his first term.  Deep Frustration  At the same time, the president acknowledged the deep
frustration among the jobless and people whose homes are
underwater. “If you don’t have a job, you don’t care that there
have been four million jobs created,” he said.  The president later attended a fundraising dinner at the
Chicago home of Chaka and Tracey Patterson followed by another
one at the home of Paula and  James Crown . Tickets for each event
were $35,800 per person.  Chaka Patterson is a lawyer with Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom and was a vice president at  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  Tracey
Patterson is with  Accenture Plc. (ACN)  James Crown is president of
investment firm Henry Crown & Co. All four of the hosts are
members of Obama’s national finance committee.  Speaking about the disappointing jobs numbers, Obama told
attendees at the second Chicago event that the interconnected
global economy means, “When something happens across the
Atlantic or across the Pacific, it gives us a shock.”  “Despite all that, though, we’re moving in the right
direction,” he said. “But we’re not moving as fast as we could
be.”  ‘My Kitchen’  The president stayed overnight at the Georgian-style three-
story red brick Chicago house that he and first lady  Michelle Obama  bought in 2005. Last night marked only the 11th time he
has spent the night at his home since taking office and his
first since April 14, 2011.  “I am sleeping in my bed tonight. I’m going to go into my
kitchen. I might cook something for myself,” he told the crowd
at the Chicago Cultural Center yesterday.  Visiting Nesbitt  Today, he strolled about three blocks from his home, with
 Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser and Chicago native, to his
friend Marty Nesbitt’s house. Nesbitt is chief executive officer
of the Parking Spot, an airport parking service, and was Obama’s
campaign treasurer in 2008. Obama is the godfather to Nesbitt’s
youngest son.  A half-dozen Secret Service agents, dressed in black suits
and wearing sunglasses, surveyed the leafy Hyde Park
neighborhood where Obama and Nesbitt live. Agents flanked Obama
on the walk in the sunny weather.  When asked by a reporter whether he cooked breakfast this
morning, Obama said, “I woke up too late.” When another
reporter asked how his first night at home in more than a year
was he replied: “Still works.”  The fundraisers in  Minnesota  and Chicago yesterday took in
at least $5 million. At one of three events in Minnesota earlier
in the day, Obama said the November election will be “close,”
not because the other side has great ideas, but because “the
economy is still fragile.”  Continuing Crisis  At each of the four fundraisers that were open to the
media, Obama said that the U.S.’s economic woes are due in part
to the continuing debt crisis in the euro zone.  “Europe is having a significant crisis in part because
they haven’t taken as many of the decisive steps as were needed
to deal with the challenge, and that’s weakening  Asia  and that
means it’s harder for our exports,” he told supporters at the
Bachelor Farmer Restaurant in  Minneapolis .  During that event, the president blamed Republicans in
Congress for legislative gridlock on issues from funding highway
construction to taxes, saying they have been exclusively
focusing on the goal of defeating him in November. He urged
supporters to work for his re-election so that the partisan
“fever” gripping  Washington  can be broken.  “I believe that, if we’re successful in this election,
when we’re successful in this election, that the fever may
break, because there’s a tradition in the  Republican Party  of
more common sense than that,” Obama told approximately 100
people who paid $5,000 each to attend the event, the first of
three in Minnesota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  