-- Oil Falls to Eight-Month Low on Unemployment Rates
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-06-01T20:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/oil-falls-to-eight-month-low-on-unemployment-rates.html
Crude fell to the lowest level in
almost eight months as employment reports in the U.S. and the
euro area signaled fuel demand may tumble.  Oil dropped 3.8 percent after the Labor Department said
American employers added the fewest workers in a year in May.
The euro region’s jobless rate reached a record high, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said. Brent
dropped below $100 for the first time since October.  “You need a word stronger than terrible for the jobs
report,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group
Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Everything is driven by the
lousy economic data.”  Crude futures for July delivery declined $3.30 to $83.23 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Oct. 7. Prices are down 24 percent from this
year’s closing high of $109.77 on Feb. 24. Futures decreased 8.4
percent this week, the most since the week ended Sept. 23.  Brent for July settlement tumbled $3.44, or 3.4 percent, to
$98.43 a barrel on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in  London ,
the lowest close since Jan. 27, 2011. The European benchmark
fell 7.9 percent this week and 8.3 percent this year.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 69,000, less than the most-
pessimistic estimate in a Bloomberg survey in which responses
ranged from 75,000 to 195,000. The  jobless rate  unexpectedly
rose to 8.2 percent. It was forecast to hold at 8.1 percent.  ‘Serious Disappointment’  “That’s a very poor jobs report and it’s a serious
disappointment,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts .
“That’s clearly making people think that it’s time to get out
of the market.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 2.4 percent after
touching 1,277.46, the lowest intraday level since Jan. 9. The
S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities slid as much as 3.1 percent.  Unemployment has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009,
the longest such stretch since monthly records began in 1948.  “Those are terrible, terrible numbers,” said Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO Futures.
“Oil’s decline is directly impacted by concerns about U.S.
growth and global growth.”  Yesterday, the Commerce Department reported U.S. gross
domestic product expanded more slowly than estimated in the
first quarter, at a 1.9 percent annual rate. That was down from
a 2.2 percent prior estimate for January through March.  European Unemployment  The jobless rate in the  euro zone  was at 11 percent in
April and March, the EU’s statistics office said today. That’s
the highest level since the data series started in 1995. The
March figure was revised to 11 percent from 10.9 percent.  “It appears that we are on the brink of another recession
and no one will escape,” said  James Williams , an economist at
WTRG Economics, an energy-research firm in London,  Arkansas .
“You’ll also see weak oil demand.”  The European sovereign debt crisis that began in Greece and
then moved to Ireland, Portugal, Italy and Spain has reduced
economic growth and fuel consumption.  The 17-nation euro area is in real danger of disintegrating
unless policy makers revamp the bloc’s fiscal and economic ties,
Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said in a speech at
a European Commission event in Helsinki.  Around the world, manufacturing is struggling.  China  led a
slowdown in manufacturing across  Asia  that adds risks for the
global economy as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis roils markets.
A gauge of manufacturing in the  euro zone  fell to a three-year
low.  In the U.S. , manufacturing slowed in May after reaching a
10-month high in April.  Manufacturing Misses  Manufacturing reports in all three areas missed economists’
expectations for May, threatening the economic recovery and
raising worries that fuel demand will decline.  “Traders are starting to realize that the U.S. has its own
problems and I actually think we are in worse shape than
Europe,” said  Peter Schiff , chief executive officer of
Westport, Connecticut-based brokerage Euro Pacific Capital,
which has $3 billion in customer accounts. “ Oil prices  are
falling because people are worried about the decrease in global
demand.”  Total petroleum demand in the U.S. dropped 1.9 percent to
18.3 million barrels a day in the week ended May 25, the Energy
Department reported yesterday.  Demand Declines  “Big declines” in consumption are foreseen in Europe and
the U.S. this year from 2011, the  International Energy Agency 
said in its monthly Oil Market Report on May 11. Demand from
China and non-industrialized nations outside the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development is forecast to boost
global consumption by 0.9 percent this year from 2011.  Oil may fall further next week on concern that the euro-
area debt crisis will spread, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Seventeen of 33 analysts and traders, or 52 percent,
forecast oil will drop through June 8. Nine respondents, or 27
percent, predicted an increase and seven estimated prices will
be little changed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 618,296
contracts as of 3:12 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 646,060
contracts yesterday, 16 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.44 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  