-- Hollande Clashes With Putin Over Ouster of Syria’s Assad
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-06-01T22:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/hollande-clashes-with-putin-over-ouster-of-syria-s-assad.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
and Russian President  Vladimir Putin  disagreed over Syria at a
meeting in Paris, with Hollande saying more sanctions are needed
to force President Bashar al-Assad from power and Putin saying
added pressure on the regime may lead to civil war.  “We have disagreements over who is responsible for the
violence and over the need for Assad to leave,” Hollande said
at a joint press conference yesterday after a working dinner.  Putin said  Russia , which supplies arms to Syria, “has no
special military or economic ties” to the country and that
Assad has visited Paris more than Moscow. The Syrian leader
visited Paris twice while  Nicolas Sarkozy  was French president,
in 2008 and 2009.  Hollande, who was sworn in May 15, said he wasn’t
responsible for previous visits to Paris.  “The actions of the Syrian regime are intolerable,”
Hollande said. “Any solution to the crisis requires the
departure of Assad.”  France , Britain, and the U.S. accuse the Assad regime of
undermining Annan’s peace effort with continued deadly military
assaults against opponents of the regime. Russia and China have
blocked UN Security Council resolutions pushing for stronger
sanctions.  Putin said he doesn’t support either side in the Syrian
conflict, and that it’s “counter-productive” to conclude that
Annan’s mission has failed. Sanctions aren’t “efficient,” he
said.  Civil War  “We are not for Assad, neither for his opponents,” Putin
said. “We want to achieve the situation where the violence ends
and there won’t be large-scale civil war.”  Putin echoed the argument of the Assad regime that anti-
regime ’’militants’’ are responsible for much of the bloodshed,
ignoring the shelling by Syrian forces and the civilian killings
such as in Houla attributed by survivors and Western governments
to gangs of the pro-regime thugs.  “But how many of peaceful people were killed by so-called
militants?” Putin said. “Did you count? There are also
hundreds of victims.”  Putin cited the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
intervention in  Libya , asking whether the country is more stable
after the ouster of strongman  Muammar Qaddafi .  “What is happening in Libya, in  Iraq ?” he said. “Did
they become safer? Where are they heading? Nobody has an
answer.”  Berlin Stop  Earlier in the day, Putin also was pressed to shift Syria
policy by German Chancellor Angela Merkel. At a press conference
in Berlin, Putin said Russia doesn’t support either side in the
Syrian conflict and believes it’s too early to say Annan’s peace
plan has failed.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , speaking in Olso
yesterday, said Russia’s supply of weapons to Syria is propping
up the regime.  Last week’s massacre of more than 100 people in Houla,
including women and children, hasn’t broken an impasse in the UN
Security Council, where Russia continues to block attempts to
impose more economic pressure on  Syria .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  