-- Thomas H. Lee Said to Be in Lead to Buy Party City
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/thomas-h-lee-said-to-be-in-lead-to-buy-party-city.html
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP is in the
lead to buy Party City Corp., the closely held retailer of party
supplies that filed for an initial public offering in April,
said two people with knowledge of the talks.  A deal may be reached in the coming days, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private. An
agreement has yet to be reached and talks could break down, the
people said. Other bidders remain interested in the Elmsford,
New York-based company, and it could still go to another buyer,
said one person.  Party City in April  filed  to raise as much as $350 million
in an IPO that it hasn’t completed. Global demand for new equity
has since collapsed. World stock markets have lost about $4
trillion since the start of May, pulled down by speculation that
 Greece  may exit from the euro. Investors have also become
skittish about valuations as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  tumbled 22 percent
from its IPO price.  At least 13 IPOs have been withdrawn or postponed globally
since Facebook’s May 17 offering, slowing a market for deals
that’s struggled to keep momentum as U.S. stock values have
failed to recover to levels before the financial crisis.  Party City is owned by investors including Advent
International Corp., Berkshire Partners LLC and Weston Presidio,
who together hold 91 percent of its shares. It posted net income
of $76.3 million last year on $1.87 billion in revenue,
according to a prospectus filed on May 10. Party City had $982.3
million of debt as of Dec 31.  Franchised Stores  The company was founded in 1947 as a wholesale party
supplier. It has about 1,200 owned and franchised stores in the
U.S. and  Canada  and about 400 temporary Halloween stores, along
with a wholesale business.  Thomas H. Lee, the Boston-based private-equity firm,
manages $14 billion in assets and has stakes in companies
including  Dunkin Brands Inc. (DNKN) , Clear Channel Communications Inc.
and  Nielsen Holdings NV. (NLSN)  An agreement to buy Party City would
represent Lee’s fourth deal this year. That includes an
announcement this week that it would buy restaurant chain Fogo
de Chao Churrascaria LLC.  A spokesman for Lee declined to comment yesterday and a
spokeswoman for Party City didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  