-- Hong Kong’s Tsang Apologizes for Disappointing Public on Ethics
-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-06-01T05:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/hong-kong-s-tsang-apologizes-for-disappointing-public-on-ethics.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang , who accepted private jet and yacht trips offered by
tycoon friends, apologized for “disappointing” the public and
said the government will impose rules to require officials to
disclose conflicts of interests.  The government will adopt short-, medium- and long-term
measures to ensure officials disclose conflicts of interests to
the public, Tsang said today, in response to a review
committee’s suggestion yesterday that anti-corruption laws for
the city’s top leader should be tightened.  Tsang, whose term ends June 30, has been criticized by
lawmakers for accepting trips to Macau and  Thailand  on yachts
and jets owned by businessmen. The city should make it a
criminal offense for the chief executive to receive any
advantage, including transportation and hotel accommodation,
without approval, the Independent Review Committee for the
Prevention and Handling of Potential Conflicts of Interests said
in a  report  released yesterday.  “Because of my inappropriate actions, the public had their
confidence in  Hong Kong ’s clean government shaken,” Tsang told
reporters today. “I again offer my sincere apology.”  Separately, Hong Kong’s Audit Commission said yesterday the
city’s Chief Executive Office should be more “cost conscious”
in spending related to overseas travel by Tsang.  South China
Morning Post  reported that Tsang stayed in a $6,900-a-night
presidential suite during his visit to  Brazil .  Rein In Costs  The chief executive’s office needs to rein in costs
associated with the preparation for trips by Tsang, the report
said.  Travel spending by the office in 2011-2012 exceeded that of
2010-2011 because of more long-haul travels and lengthier stays,
the report said.  Tsang said he will cooperate with the anti-corruption body
in its investigation into his conduct, which was started after
complaints from political parties.  The current system, which puts the chief executive above
anti-graft rules, is “totally inappropriate,” the independent
review panel, led by former Chief Justice Andrew Li, said in the
report.  Leung Chun-ying, the chief executive-elect, said he
welcomed the report and will seek to implement its
recommendations on taking office, according to a statement on
the government’s website yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  