-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall, Cap Fourth Week Loss, on China PMI
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-06-01T08:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/hong-kong-stocks-fall-cap-fourth-week-loss-on-china-pmi.html
Hong Kong stocks  fell as  China ’s
manufacturing grew at the weakest pace since December and  home
prices  fell to a 16-month low, adding to concern that the
slowdown in the world’s second largest economy is deepening. The
Hang Seng Index capped its fourth straight week of losses, the
longest such streak since November.  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) , a Chinese steelmaker that’s opening an
iron-ore mine in  Australia , dropped 2.7 percent. Country Garden
Holdings Co., a developer controlled by billionaire Yang Huiyan,
slid 1 percent. China Railway Construction Corp., a builder of
train lines and other infrastructure, advanced 1.2 percent.
Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s largest gold producer, climbed
2.4 percent after agreeing to buy the rest of Australia’s Norton
Gold Fields Ltd.  China’s manufacturing missing estimates “shows the economy
is slowing,” said Francis Lun, managing director at Lyncean
Holdings Ltd. “When manufacturing slows, raw-material supply
should suffer, such as steel and aluminum.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slipped 0.4 percent to 18,558.34 as of
the midday trading break in  Hong Kong , having swung between a
gain of as much as 0.5 percent and a loss of 0.8 percent. Almost
three shares fell for every two that fell on the gauge, as it
completed its fourth week of decline. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong
slipped 0.7 percent to 9,620.87.  Raw-material producers declined after a report showed
China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index, a measure of manufacturing,
fell to 50.4 points in May from 53.3 in April, the slowest
growth since December and missing the 52 median estimate of
economists. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  More Stimulus  “The PMI figure shows the deceleration of economic growth
isn’t over,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “We’ll
probably see more measures from the government going forward to
put the economy back on to the growth track.”  Chinese developers dropped. Home prices fell 0.3 percent in
May from April to a 16-month low as officials pledged to keep
property curbs that have sapped buyer demand, according to data
from SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest real-estate
website owner.  The benchmark Hang Seng Index has slumped about 14 percent
from this year’s peak, dragging the value of shares on the gauge
to 9.5 times estimated earnings on average as of yesterday. That
compares with 12.5 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
9.9 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index expiring this month lost 0.6
percent to 18,420. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  added 1.9 percent to
28.87, indicating traders expect a swing of about 8.3 percent in
the next 30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Gentle in Hong Kong at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  