-- Loomis Seeks Cash-Handling Global Top Spot Through Acquisitions
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-06-01T14:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/loomis-seeks-cash-handling-global-top-spot-through-acquisitions.html
Loomis AB (LOOMB) , spun off from Securitas AB
in 2008, is seeking acquisitions in  emerging markets  from Chile
to Ukraine, armed with a budget of almost $300 million in cash
and credit lines, Chief Executive Officer Lars Blecko said.  The Swedish company aims to enter at least two new
countries every year and seeks to be among the top two players
in each market, Blecko said. Its focus is on  Latin America  and
eastern Europe as it takes on larger competitor  Brink’s Co. (BCO) ,
based in Richmond, Virgina, and  G4S Plc (GFS) , based in Crawley,
England.  “We’re eying the top spot globally thanks to our growth
strategy,” Blecko said in an interview June 1.  Emerging markets offer a buffer to some traditional markets
like Spain, where a shrinking finance industry has lowered the
number of bank branches requiring cash-transportation services.
Even so, with the onset of the European debt crisis, cash usage
has increased in nations such as Spain further offsetting a
scale back in banking operations, he said.  Loomis got an initial foothold in Turkey last year when it
bought 60 percent of Erk Armored, which mainly operates in the
region around Istanbul. Loomis wants at least 30 percent of that
market “over time,” the CEO said.  Other countries that Loomis is scouring for opportunities
include Argentina,  Chile , Peru, Bolivia, Uruguay, Poland,
Romania, Ukraine and Turkey. It also wants to buy more companies
in the U.S., where he said Loomis’s 28 percent market share is
slightly ahead of Brink’s.  Muted Crisis Effect  Overall, Loomis has had a limited effect from southern
Europe’s debt crisis, he said. In Spain, it competes with
Madrid-based Prosegur Cia de Segurida and each has about 49
percent of that market, he said. Loomis’s Spanish retail
customers such as grocery chain Mercadona SA are handling more
cash than before.  “There’s more cash handling on the retail side, while
people go less often to the bank,” he said. “The worse the
economic times are, the bigger the cash portion of transactions.
It serves as a hedge for us.”  Loomis was created in its current form in 2008 when it was
spun off by  Securitas AB (SECUB) , the world’s second-biggest guarding
services company. It traces its deeper roots to when  Wells Fargo
& Co . was founded during the California gold rush in 1852.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  