-- Pakistan Cuts Taxes, Raises Salaries Risking Deficit Target
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-06-02T08:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/pakistan-cuts-taxes-raises-wages-risking-deficit-as-vote-looms.html
Pakistan  cut taxes and raised
government salaries in an election-year budget that risks
missing a target to narrow the deficit from a three-year high.  The government pledged to narrow the budget gap to 4.7
percent of  gross domestic product  in the year ending June 30,
2013 from 7.4 percent of GDP in the previous 12 months, Finance
Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh said in his budget speech in
Islamabad yesterday. Opposition lawmakers shouted anti-
government slogans, held up placards and scuffled during the
presentation.  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government, facing a
general election by February at the latest, is under pressure to
counter growing public anger over power blackouts, the fastest
inflation in  Asia  and an insurgency on the Afghan border. The
government is relying on domestic borrowings after aid flows
from the U.S. and the  International Monetary Fund  dwindled.  “Raising salaries, reducing duties and increasing
expenditure means they are likely to miss the fiscal deficit
target once again,” said  Saad Khan ,  fund manager  and economist
at Askari Investment Management Ltd. in Karachi which oversees
25 billion rupees ($267 million) in stocks and bonds.  Salaries, Pensions  Government salaries and pensions were raised by 20 percent
and subsidies were cut by 60 percent to 208.5 billion rupees,
Shaikh said. The government will increase cash transfers to the
poor to 70 billion rupees from 50 billion rupees this year.  “We kept our promise to honest tax payers by not putting
further burden on them and in fact providing relief,” Shaikh
said at his post-budget news conference in Islamabad today.  Federal excise duties were abolished on 10 items including
livestock insurance,  customs duties  were reduced to curb
smuggling and the turnover tax on businesses was cut to 0.5
percent from 1 percent. A levy on cement was cut by 100 rupees a
metric ton, tax relief was provided to voluntary pension schemes
and the income tax exemption limit was raised by 100,000 rupees,
Shaikh said.  The 2.96 trillion rupee budget was unveiled after the
nation’s financial markets closed. The Karachi Stock Exchange
100  Index (KSE100)  rose 0.7 percent today and has climbed 14.5 percent in
the past year. The Pakistan rupee was at 93.67 against the
dollar, having declined 7.7 percent over the past 12 months.  ‘Huge Challenge’  “The rising fiscal deficit is posing a huge challenge for
policy makers,” said Raza Jafri, head of research at AKD
Securities Ltd. in Karachi. “They need to find ways to increase
tax income and cut subsidies without hurting growth.”  The government set a tax collection target of 2.38 trillion
rupees for the 12 months ending June 30, 2013, a 22 percent
increase, Shaikh said.  Pakistan recorded its highest budget deficit of 8.8 percent
of GDP in the year ended June 1991, according to government
data. The administration estimates  3.7 percent  economic
expansion in 2011-2012 and has a goal of 4.3 percent growth for
the next fiscal year.  Pakistan is trying to mend a fractious relationship with
its main aid provider, the U.S., which scaled back funds over
differences on how to stop militant groups from operating in the
country’s tribal areas and a refusal to re-open supply routes
for NATO troops in  Afghanistan . The Senate Appropriations
Committee has requested $1 billion in aid for Pakistan for
fiscal year 2013, down from about $1.5 billion.  Defense Budget  Pakistan raised defense spending by 7 percent to 545
billion rupees for the year starting July 1, according to the
budget documents.  With a view to wooing voters ahead of the election, the
government on May 24 said it would increase spending on roads,
electricity, education and healthcare by 19.5 percent to 873
billion rupees in the 12 months starting July 1. The Prime
Minister will move to a “small house,” giving up the official
mansion so it can become an institute of advanced studies,
Shaikh said.  As aid dried up, the administration borrowed 442 billion
rupees from the central bank in the first 11 months of the
fiscal year, defeating its zero-borrowing target. That was
double the amount borrowed last year,  State Bank of Pakistan 
data shows.  Rising Borrowings  Borrowings may still rise. An $11.3 billion IMF loan to
Pakistan expired in September, with disbursements suspended in
May 2010 after the country failed to meet conditions attached to
it.  The Washington-based lender, which has described the
country’s economy as “highly vulnerable,” said in February the
government should widen the tax base, curb some subsidies and
curtail central bank financing of the  budget deficit . Inflation
accelerated to a 10-month high of 12.29 percent in May, limiting
room to cut  interest rates  to support the $200 billion economy.
The pace of price gains is the fastest in a basket of 17 Asia-
Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The government plans to spend 183 billion rupees to reduce a
record shortage of power and is willing to commit ”unlimited
resources,” to end this crisis, Shaikh said in his speech, as
protesters burned tires and destroyed state property in
Faisalabad and Multan, Gilani’s hometown.  Energy shortages are adding to challenges and may slice 4
percentage points off economic growth in the current fiscal
year, according to the Planning Commission of Pakistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  