-- Payrolls in U.S. Probably Picked Up From Weakest in Six Months
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/payrolls-in-u-s-probably-picked-up-from-weakest-in-six-months.html
Hiring in the U.S. probably picked up
in May following the smallest gain in six months, a sign of
renewed progress in the labor market, economists said before a
government report today.  Payrolls climbed by 150,000 workers following a 115,000
April increase, according to the median forecast of 86
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  unemployment rate 
held at a three-year low of 8.1 percent, the figures may show.  Bigger job and wage gains may be needed to spur a self-
sustaining increase in hiring and consumer spending that will
accelerate the expansion. Nonetheless, a looming recession in
the euro area and slowing growth in  emerging markets  like  China 
and  Brazil  may prompt American companies to curb headcounts
until they see more evidence the U.S. recovery isn’t faltering.  “It’s been a tepid recovery, particularly on the jobs
side,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The sources of
impediments to growth really aren’t on the demand side. The
biggest problem that we have right now is uncertainty. Europe is
coming back to the fore, again.”  The Labor Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from payroll
increases of 75,000 to 195,000.  The jobs data come five months before Americans head to the
polls to either re-elect President  Barack Obama  or choose
presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , who has said White
House policies have prevented a stronger economic recovery.  Company Payrolls  Today’s Labor Department report may show private payrolls,
which exclude government jobs, climbed 164,000 after rising
130,000 in April, economists forecast.  The projected gain in total payrolls would bring the
monthly average this year to 190,600, compared with 176,200 in
the first five months of 2011.  Sustained gains of 150,000 would be indicative of “an
economy muddling along,” Stanley said. “The level of
employment is still far, far below where it was” before the
recession, he said.  With the projected gain in May, 3.9 million jobs would have
been recouped of the 8.8 million lost as a result of the 18-
month recession than ended in June 2009.  Stocks dropped last month as concern grew about  Greece ’s
future in the euro. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 6.3
percent in May.  Estimates for the  jobless rate , derived from a separate
survey of households, ranged from 8 percent to 8.2 percent.
Unemployment has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the
longest such stretch since monthly records began in 1948.  Spending Climbs  Even with the recent slowdown in the pace of job growth,
Americans are spending. Commerce Department data today at 8:30
a.m. in Washington will provide details of how consumption fared
at the beginning of the quarter. Purchases may have grown 0.3
percent in April, matching the previous month’s gain, according
to the Bloomberg survey median. Incomes also rose 0.3 percent
following a 0.4 percent increase, the survey showed.  Sustained purchases are prompting companies like  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest Internet retailer, to bring on new
workers. The Seattle-based firm announced last month it plans to
hire an additional 1,000 employees, according to the Puget Sound
Business Journal.  Automobile sales are also making a bigger contribution to
overall household spending. Demand for cars and light trucks so
far this year is running at the fastest pace since 2008,
according to industry data. Those gains are having a ripple
effect through manufacturing and may help limit the effect of
slowdowns in Europe and  Asia .  Manufacturing Expands  The Institute for Supply Management Inc.’s  factory index 
fell to 53.8 last month from a 10-month high of 54.8 in April,
according to the Bloomberg survey median ahead of today’s
report, due at 10 a.m.  New York  time. A reading above 50 signals
expansion.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.9 percent annual rate
from January through March, down from a 2.2 percent prior
estimate, reflecting smaller gains in inventories and bigger
government cutbacks, according to revised Commerce Department
figures released yesterday. The report also showed corporate
profits rose at the slowest pace in more than three years and
smaller wage gains at the end of 2011.  The pace of growth has been “disappointing” and “the
headwinds retarding recovery are well known,” Federal Reserve
Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said this week. He
reiterated that he expects growth of about 2.4 percent over the
next four quarters, and said  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is a
downside risk to the outlook.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  