-- Philippine Peso Falls as Spain Concern Mounts
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-06-01T08:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/philippine-peso-falls-as-spain-concern-mounts.html
The Philippine peso snapped a three-
week loss after Moody’s Investors Service raised the nation’s
credit-rating outlook to positive and first-quarter economic
growth beat analysts’ estimates.  The move by Moody’s on May 29 increases chances the country
will be upgraded from Ba2, two levels below investment grade.
The economy grew 6.4 percent in the three months to March from a
year earlier, more than the 4.3 percent median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “There’s a silver lining and we saw two this week: the
outlook rating upgrade and the first-quarter numbers were
positive,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
BDO Unibank Inc. in  Manila . “The peso is resilient but not
immune to this global volatility.”  The currency appreciated 0.8 percent this week to 43.393
per dollar at the close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. It rose 0.2 percent today. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, climbed
25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 7.75 percent this
week and was unchanged today.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index was poised for a
fifth weekly loss as concern  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis will
derail global economic growth boosted demand for the relative
safety of the greenback.  China Slowdown  China ’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index of manufacturing fell to
50.4 in May from 53.3 in April. That’s the weakest reading since
December and compares with the 52 median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  “China is realizing a slowdown,” said Ravelas. “If there
is continued uncertainty in Europe, a 44 peso level will be
vulnerable,” he predicted.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 rose two basis points this week to 6.05 percent, according
to prices from Tradition Financial Services. The rate was little
changed today.  The government seeks to further improve liability
management and may offer to buy back expensive dollar-
denominated debt, Finance Undersecretary Rosalia de Leon told
reporters today in Manila.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 