-- Plosser Says Fed Should Be More Open About Policy Making
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-06-01T16:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/plosser-says-fed-should-be-more-open-about-policy-making.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank should be more
open about how it sets monetary policy.  “We can and should improve our discussion of the economy
and our approach to policy through the publication of a more
comprehensive monetary policy report to the public,” Plosser
said in an essay posted to the Philadelphia Fed’s  website . “We
can also better define our reaction function, to enable the
public to better understand and anticipate future  policy
actions .”  Plosser endorsed the steps the Fed took this year to boost
communications, including revealing policy makers’ forecasts for
 interest rates  and adopting an inflation target of 2 percent.
Since becoming chairman in 2006,  Ben S. Bernanke  has pushed the
central bank to increase its openness and public understanding
of the Fed, including by holding regular press conferences.  “Economic research has shown that increased transparency
can improve the effectiveness of monetary policy, as well as the
Fed’s accountability with the public,” Plosser said.  The Philadelphia Fed chief said the policy-setting  Federal
Open Market Committee  is “still some way from agreeing on one
systematic policy rule or reaction function,” and that one way
to try to achieve such a goal “would be to describe the
variables that are important for our reaction function.”  Plosser also reiterated his concern the Fed has
“contributed to the breakdown of the boundaries” between
monetary and fiscal policy by allocating credit to specific
asset classes and through the bailouts of firms including Bear
Stearns Cos.  “We must seek ways to ensure that our central bank
preserves its independence and that the boundaries between
monetary and fiscal policy are restored,” Plosser said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  