-- Portugal Says Review of Aid Plan Has Been Successful
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-06-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/portugal-says-review-of-aid-plan-has-been-successful.html
Portuguese Economy Minister Alvaro Santos Pereira said the fourth review of the country’s aid
program has been successful as the government complies with the
terms of the international plan to ensure further financing.  “The final part of the review will be taking place in the
next few days, but we believe that it has been a fairly
successful review,” Santos Pereira, 40, said in a June 1
interview in Lisbon.  The Portuguese Finance Ministry will hold a news conference
June 4 about the conclusions of the fourth quarterly review of
the country’s financial aid program provided by the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  Portugal is cutting spending and raising taxes to comply
with the terms of the 78 billion-euro ($97 billion) aid plan.
Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said March 5 that if the
country can’t tap bond markets by September 2013 because of
“external reasons,” it would be able to count on continued
support from the IMF and the EU.  The Portuguese economy may contract 3.3 percent this year
before expanding 0.3 percent in 2013, the European Commission
forecast on May 11. The country’s  economic growth  has averaged
less than 1 percent a year for the past decade, placing it among
 Europe ’s weakest performers.  Public Spending  Portugal should “absolutely not” increase public spending
to try to improve its economic performance, Santos Pereira said.
“It’s not because you spend more that you’re going to get
economic growth. It’s if you spend better that you’re going to
get economic growth.”  If France or Germany were to increase public spending, that
could be good for Portugal, the minister said. French President
 Francois Hollande  took office last month promising more
 government spending  than his predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy .  “If our external markets boost their  demand , obviously
it’s good for us, we can export more, there’s nothing wrong
about that,” said Santos Pereira, who was formerly an economics
professor at Simon Fraser University in  Vancouver .  Portugal’s trade deficit narrowed in the first quarter as
exports rose 11.6 percent and imports fell 3.3 percent.  Santos Pereira said Portugal will be able to stick to its
plan even if  Greece  ends up leaving the euro area.  “We believe that because of our reform program and because
of our fiscal consolidation strategy we will be able to hold
course,” he said.  The Economy Minister said the  European Central Bank  is
“providing the help it can” to help solve the sovereign debt
crisis and doesn’t see so-called euro bonds as an immediate
solution.  “Growth has nothing to do with euro bonds, growth has all
to do with structural reforms,” Santos Pereira said. “I think
euro bonds right now are not on the table.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  