-- Presidential Campaigns Duel Over Candidates’ Jobs Records
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-06-01T21:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/presidential-campaigns-duel-over-candidates-jobs-records.html
The two competing U.S. presidential
campaigns dueled from opposite coasts yesterday, with both
focusing on an issue at a specific locale that they think
spotlights vulnerabilities for their opponent.  Surrogates for President  Barack Obama  went to the steps of
the Massachusetts statehouse in  Boston  to present Mitt Romney as
a failed former governor who exaggerates his job-growth record.  The presumptive Republican nominee leveled his attack from
outside the closed factory of solar-panel manufacturer Solyndra
LLC in Fremont, California, where he accused Obama of seeking
favor among campaign supporters by giving a federal loan
guarantee to an energy company that later went bankrupt.  Besides displaying the open hostility already simmering in
the 2012 presidential campaign, the two events showcased the
major themes the two camps have signaled they will hammer home
through November’s election.  “This building, this half-a-billion dollar taxpayer
investment, represents a serious conflict of interest on the
part of the president and his team,” Romney said, standing at a
podium set up on the road adjacent to the Solyndra facility.  The former  Massachusetts  governor has repeatedly criticized
the Obama administration’s decision to extend the $535 million
loan guarantee to Solyndra, saying it was part of a pattern of
rewarding companies and people that supported the president with
taxpayer dollars. The family foundation of Obama fundraiser
 George Kaiser  was the company’s biggest investor.  ‘Economic Guru’  For Obama’s campaign, the message chief political
strategist  David Axelrod  tried to deliver from the steps of the
statehouse was drowned out in part by loud Romney supporters.  The news conference was meant to pivot off the Obama
campaign’s scrutiny of Romney’s experience in private equity by
arguing that his business background didn’t translate into good
governance in Massachusetts.  “He offers himself as an economic guru and savior off of
his experience in business,” Axelrod said. “And when he was
governor of this state, this state was 47th in  job creation .”  All the while, Romney supporters tried to drown out the
event, with Axelrod shouting back, “You can’t handle the
truth.”  The campaign’s switch to focus on Romney’s Massachusetts
record came as former President  Bill Clinton , who is appearing
with Obama at a fundraiser next week, stepped into the debate
whether Romney’s experience in private equity should be a
political target.  Clinton’s View  “He had a good business career,” Clinton said last night
on CNN. “I don’t think that we ought to get into the position
where we say this is bad work.”  While Romney is qualified for the presidency, Clinton said,
“the Obama proposals and the Obama record will be far better
for the American economy.” He said he expected Obama will win
re-election “by five or six points.”  Obama’s campaign was hit today by news the  unemployment
rate  last month rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent, as
employers added 69,000 jobs -- the fewest in a year and less
than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
economists’ survey.  “Today’s weak jobs report is devastating news for American
workers and American families,” Romney said in an e-mailed
statement. “It is now clear to everyone that President Obama’s
policies have failed to achieve their goals and that the Obama
economy is crushing America’s middle class.”  Failing Grade  Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, said that while the economy “is not growing
fast enough” the May jobs numbers represent 27 consecutive
months of private employment growth. “Problems in the job
market were long in the making and will not be solved
overnight,” Krueger said in an e-mailed statement.  In a CBS News interview yesterday, Romney said he gives
Obama a failing grade in every area of his presidency, including
foreign policy.  Asked to grade Obama, Romney responded: “Oh, an F, no
question about that,” adding that it applies “across the
board.”  Tim Roemer, a former Democratic congressman from  Indiana 
and ex-ambassador to  India , said Romney is “misguided and
misinformed.” Romney is out of step with experts in his own
party who “have recognized President Obama’s accomplishments”
in foreign policy, Roemer said in an e-mailed statement.  Nancy Reagan  Romney and his wife, Ann, also met privately yesterday with
former first lady  Nancy Reagan  at her California home, where
they snacked on lemonade and cookies and she offered her
endorsement.  “Ronnie would have liked Governor Romney’s business
background and his strong principles, and I have to say I do
too,” she said in a statement released by her office. “I
believe  Mitt Romney  has the experience and leadership skills
that our country so desperately needs, and I look forward to
seeing him elected president in November.”  Both campaigns had sought yesterday to keep the locations
of their events secret until as late as possible. Romney’s
campaign went so far as loading reporters onto a bus without
telling them where they were being taken.  Romney, 65, a co-founder of the Boston-based private-equity
firm Bain Capital LLC, sought to use Solyndra’s failure to
underscore his central argument that he understands how business
works while Obama doesn’t. He also has said the president is
hindering corporate success with regulations, including the
Dodd-Frank Act that sets new rules for the banking industry in
the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.  Slow Turnaround  The reason “that the turnaround has taken so long to
occur, that the recovery has been so tepid, is that the
president fails to understand the basic nature of free
enterprise in America,” Romney said. “He thinks that
government-dominated decisions like this make America stronger.
They make us weaker.”  Solyndra, heralded by Obama in May 2010 as proof that “the
promise of clean energy isn’t just an article of faith,” filed
for bankruptcy last September, days before the FBI raided its
headquarters. The company received its loan guarantee under an
Energy Department program in September 2009.  Its demise has sparked investigations by Congress, the FBI
and watchdogs at the Energy and Treasury departments.  Taxpayers ‘Stuck’  “If the business had done spectacularly well, the
shareholders -- his friends -- would have done very, very well,
but the taxpayers would have just gotten their money back,”
Romney said. “On the other hand, of course, if the business
failed -- as it did -- it’s the taxpayers that get stuck with
losing a half a billion dollars.”  Solyndra received funding through a program created under
President  George W. Bush ’s administration that “has supported
tens of thousands of jobs across the country,” Obama campaign
spokeswoman Lis Smith said in a statement.  “In fact, both Republican and Democratic administrations
advanced Solyndra’s application, and the company was widely
praised as successful and innovative both before and after
receiving the Department of Energy loan guarantee,” Smith said.  Romney ended his day with a fundraiser in Beverly Hills,
 California . The gathering of supporters was the latest in a
series of such events he is holding this week in Nevada and
California.  Obama is “trying to find someone to take the fall” for
the poor economy, Romney told about 425 people who attended the
fundraiser. “He doesn’t understand the power of free people and
free enterprise.”  Voight Endorsement  Actor Jon Voight, who said he first met Romney in 2008,
told reporters he supports the Republican because he “wants to
restore individual freedoms.” Obama “would like to have
everybody dependent on the government,” he said.  There is almost no chance that Romney will carry California
in November’s election. Obama beat Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , the 2008 Republican nominee, in California 61 percent
to 37 percent. Still, the state is an important fundraising hub
for Republicans, especially in the Republican-leaning areas of
the state such as  San Diego  and Orange County south of  Los
Angeles .  Obama, 50, has raised more than twice as much as Romney --
$6.6 million to $2.9 million -- from the Los Angeles
metropolitan area,  according  to the Washington-based Center for
Responsive Politics.  -- With assistance from  Julianna Goldman  in  Washington . Editors:
Joe Sobczyk, Michael Shepard  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Beverly Hills, California, at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in Fremont, California at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  