-- Qatar’s Farm Fund to Target Grain, Wool Exports From Australia
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-06-01T00:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/qatar-s-farm-fund-to-target-grain-wool-exports-from-australia.html
Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, with
an estimated $100 billion in  assets , expects to start exports of
grains and wool from  Australia  as it nears completion of a A$500
million ($486 million) farm investment plan.  Hassad Food Co., the agricultural investment arm of the
Qatar Investment Authority, is shifting its focus to commercial
production from  food security  and is unlikely to buy new
properties when it reaches its purchase goal within a year, said
Tom McKeon, chief executive officer of Hassad Australia.  “We’re approaching completion of our business plan; once
we get there, our prime focus will be on developing the assets
we have,” McKeon said in an telephone interview from Sydney
yesterday. “It doesn’t make sense for the Qatari government to
concentrate too large an investment on Australia.”  Hassad may invest 500 million euros ($618 million) around
the world this year, the company’s Chairman Nasser al-Hajri told
Bloomberg News earlier last month. The Australian operation’s
most recent purchases include a 40,000 hectare (154 square mile)
property in Telopea Downs in Victoria state, and 31,500 hectares
of farmland in three locations in  Western Australia  this year,
to boost supplies of sheep, wheat and barley, McKeon said.  Wheat inventories in Australia, the world’s second-biggest
shipper, will probably hold above average this year even as
handlers seek to maximize exports following a record harvest,
Emerald Group Australia Pty said last month. Low sheep stock
levels in Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of wool, will
support the market, Rabobank International said in April.  Overseas Ventures  Qatar, which imports 90 percent of its food, invested $2
billion last year, Hussain al-Abdulla, a board member at the
Qatar Investment Authority, said in April. The company started
wheat and animal feed production in  Sudan  in 2009, and announced
plans to buy Turkish farmland last year.  While Hassad plans to expand globally by acquiring
agricultural companies -- particularly in north  Africa , the
Americas, Europe and south-east  Asia  -- it has been focused on
land acquisitions in Australia, McKeon said.  “The way the real estate market is set up in Australia,
there’s been no need to buy a company to buy the land,”  McKeon
said. “Most of the properties we’ve purchased have been from
willing sellers, and a lot have been on the market already.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  