-- Trading Curbs, JPMorgan CIO, Nasdaq OMX: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-01T12:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/trading-curbs-jpmorgan-cio-price-nasdaq-omx-loop-compliance.html
U.S. stock exchanges proposed changes
to trading curbs meant to safeguard equity markets, revising an
April 2011 proposal for a system that would prevent trades at
prices outside a certain band.  The curbs would give markets that list companies and
exchange-traded funds new flexibility to pause stocks when doing
so may damp volatility, according to a Securities and Exchange
Commission  filing  dated May 24 from venue operators including
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. The system would be
implemented in February as a one-year pilot program, said the
group, which includes the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, overseer of more than 4,400 brokers.  Regulators and exchanges introduced curbs after the May
2010 rout known as the flash crash to halt individual stocks
when they rise or fall at least 10 percent. Exchanges asked for
permission 13 months ago to test a replacement system known as
limit-up/limit-down, and the May 24 filing augmented that
request in response to comments from brokers and other market
participants. The 2011 proposal was never implemented.  “The plan will reduce the negative impacts of sudden,
unanticipated price movements in NMS stocks, thereby protecting
investors and promoting a fair and orderly market,” the
exchanges and Finra wrote, using the acronym for national market
system.  The SEC must approve the filing before it can be
implemented. The regulator must make a decision by May 31,
according to an SEC notice when a ruling was last delayed.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  After JPMorgan Loss, U.S. Regulator Ponders Tighter Volcker Rule  The main U.S. derivatives regulator will discuss whether to
tighten exemptions to a proposed ban on proprietary trading
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. announced at least $2 billion in
 credit-derivatives  trading losses.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission gathered
input yesterday for a final rule, required from five U.S.
regulators under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. Sheila Bair, former
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Keith Bailey,
managing director at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and Peter Antico, managing
director at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , were scheduled to discuss
exemptions from the ban for hedging and market-making.  Regulators including the  Federal Reserve , FDIC and
Securities and Exchange Commission have faced pressure following
JPMorgan’s announcement to tighten the so-called Volcker rule.  The rule -- named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who
during the Dodd-Frank debate proposed limiting banks’
proprietary trading activity -- is intended to reduce risky
trades by banks that hold federally insured deposits and have
access to the Federal Reserve’s discount window. A half-dozen
participants scheduled for the CFTC roundtable, including  Simon
Johnson , a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, have urged a stronger ban.  JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are
among banks that have urged regulators to delay and ease parts
of the rule. The 298-page proposal was released by five
regulators in October.  Taiwan’s Cabinet Agrees to Revise Capital-Gains Tax; Stocks Drop  Taiwan’s Cabinet reached an agreement with ruling lawmakers
on a plan that will make wealthier investors and larger
shareholders pay a capital-gains tax. The Taiex stock index fell
the most among global benchmark indexes.  Under the plan, investors who own more than 3 percent of
shares in a listed company or whose annual net income exceeds
NT$5 million ($167,185) must pay the tax, the Cabinet said in a
statement today. The plan was revised from the Kuomintang’s
proposal on May 28 that gave investors the option of choosing
from a flat rate or a levy on share trades that links tax rates
to the performance of the benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  stock index.  The government and Kuomintang have been at odds over a tax
on securities transactions that is aimed at narrowing a wealth
gap among Taiwan’s population and bolstering government finances
as the economy slows. Taiwan has exempted securities
transactions from capital-gains taxes since Jan. 1, 1990,
according to the stock exchange’s  website .  For more, click here.  Mutual Funds Urge Regulators to Limit Advertising by Hedge Funds  Mutual funds are pushing for limits on hedge fund
advertising permitted under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups
Act, saying such ads may hurt investors and damage the entire
fund industry.  The law’s repeal of a ban on the marketing of private
offerings to the general public may result in misleading
advertisements for hedge funds, Robert Grohowski, a senior
counsel at the Washington-based  Investment Company Institute ,
wrote in a  blog posting  yesterday. The group represents more
than 13,000 funds with more than $13 trillion in assets.  In the past, securities laws generally required firms to
market non-publicly traded securities only to so-called
accredited investors with whom they’ve had an existing
relationship.  In a comment letter to the Securities and Exchange
Commission last week, the ICI urged regulators to impose
restrictions on private fund advertising that are at least as
extensive as those for mutual funds. The group also suggested a
ban on advertising hedge funds’ performance until rules are
established governing how to calculate the returns, according to
the letter, which is posted on the ICI’s  website .  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, supports
the removal of the ban on general advertising, according to a
letter the firm sent to the SEC last month.  The ICI’s position was reported earlier yesterday by Dow
Jones.  Banks, Advisers Face Disclosure of Payments in Muni-Bond Deals  Banks and financial advisers may be forced to publicly
disclose payments made in connection with U.S. state and local-
government bond deals, a move aimed at revealing potential
conflicts of interest to investors.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which crafts
regulations for the $3.7 trillion market, is  considering  whether
to require underwriters and advisers to disclose fee-splitting
agreements or other incentive payments tied to municipal-finance
deals. Banks already must begin reporting such arrangements in
August to municipalities under rules approved by regulators.  The disclosures would shed light on hidden incentives
offered to banks and advisers in exchange for recommending
transactions to government officials. The board, known as the
MSRB, said yesterday it is soliciting comments on whether to
require disclosures on Emma, a website used to make municipal-
bond documents available to investors and the public.  Targets would include incentives for third parties who
steer business to a particular underwriter or financial adviser,
according to the statement. The move follows instances in which
U.S. regulators have focused on undisclosed payments between
those involved in municipal-finance deals gone bad.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan CIO Pricing Said to Differ From Investment Bank’s  The  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit responsible for at least $2
billion in losses on credit derivatives was valuing some of its
trades at prices that differed from those of its investment
bank, according to people familiar with the matter.  The discrepancy between prices used by the chief investment
office and JPMorgan’s credit-swaps dealer, the biggest in the
U.S., may have obscured by hundreds of millions of dollars the
magnitude of the loss before it was disclosed May 10, said one
of the people, who asked not to be identified because they
aren’t authorized to discuss the matter.  The biggest U.S. bank by assets is facing regulatory
scrutiny and criminal probes over losses in the CIO, which Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon pushed in recent years to make
bigger and riskier bets with the bank’s money. The loss, which
Dimon said stemmed from positions that were “poorly
monitored,” prompted calls from Congress for tighter bank
regulation and triggered criminal investigations by the U.S.
Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment on whether the CIO and investment
bank were using different prices.  “All components of the synthetic credit portfolio in the
chief investment office were mark-to-market,” she said.  The trades in question, made by a CIO group that included
Bruno Iksil, nicknamed the London Whale because his positions
grew so large, were on so-called tranches of credit-swap
indexes, the people said.  Because JPMorgan had amassed such large positions, even a
small change in how the prices were marked may have generated a
big difference in the value of the trades, one of the people
said.  For more, click here.  Nasdaq Public Safeguards in Facebook Seen as Focus of Regulators  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s handling of  Facebook (FB)  Inc.’s initial
public offering has already led to lawsuits and may cost brokers
$100 million. What Securities and Exchange Commission officials
will want to know is whether the market operator put the
public’s interest first.  The $16 billion IPO of the largest social networking
company, founded in 2004 by Harvard University student  Mark
Zuckerberg , was supposed to be a victory for Nasdaq OMX, chosen
by Facebook over rival NYSE Euronext. The debut was anything
but, with the first day of trading on May 18 marred by delays,
mishandled orders and investor uncertainty.  A review by the SEC that has yet to be completed shows
technical failures precipitated the trading issues, not a
violation of industry rules, the Wall Street Journal said May
30, citing people familiar with the matter who it didn’t name.  “We continue to review issues related to the IPO and have
drawn no conclusions,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in
an e-mail yesterday. Joseph Christinat, a Nasdaq OMX spokesman,
declined to comment, as did Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for
Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook .  Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld
acknowledged that a “poor design” in software put the opening
auction that set the price for the first traded shares into a
loop that delayed its completion. Executives of the company,
which operates the Nasdaq Stock Market, “believed they had the
right solution” as they worked to start trading, Eric Noll, the
executive vice president for transaction services, said in a
statement provided by spokesman Robert Madden on May 22.  If warranted, the most likely SEC sanction against Nasdaq
OMX would be a fine, according to Thomas Hazen, a professor at
the University of  North Carolina  at Chapel Hill’s School of Law.  For more, click here.  Dodd-Frank Exemption for Single N.Y. Bank Expected to Advance  A New York City bank with $10.5 billion in assets would be
the sole beneficiary of a Dodd-Frank Act exemption being
considered by the  House Financial Services Committee .  Emigrant Bank, which has about $10.5 billion in assets, has
asked lawmakers on the committee to approve a change to the 2010
financial-regulation overhaul law that will save the institution
$300 million. The committee was expected to vote yesterday to
approve the change.  A group of New York lawmakers, led by Republican
Representative Michael Grimm, have taken up the bank’s cause,
arguing that it would be unfairly punished for protecting itself
during financial stress. The measure would retroactively change
the date used to determine which institutions are exempt from
new rules on how to consider trust-preferred securities.  Courts  Citigroup Whistle-Blower Wins $31 Million Settlement  Citigroup Inc. (C) , laid low by bad mortgages, was the most
bailed-out U.S. bank during the 2008 financial crisis. Whistle-
blower Sherry Hunt, a Citigroup executive, detailed how the bank
continued to buy and sell flawed home loans, even into 2012.  Bloomberg’s Bob Ivry spoke with Neil Barofsky, former
special inspector general of the Troubled Asset Relief Program
and a Bloomberg contributing editor, about the bank’s mortgage
practices. The story appears in the July issue of Bloomberg
Markets.  For the video, click here.  Abacus Bank, 19 People Charged in Fannie Mae Mortgage Fraud  Abacus Federal Savings Bank and 19 individuals were charged
with mortgage fraud and accused of selling hundreds of millions
of dollars in fraudulent loans to Fannie Mae, Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said.  Abacus, which primarily serves the Chinese-American
community, pleaded not guilty before Judge Renee A. White in
state court in Manhattan yesterday. The bank is “disappointed”
to learn of the indictment as it discovered and investigated the
issue more than two years ago, fired some employees and reported
the results to law enforcement, its regulator and Fannie Mae,
the bank said in a statement.  Vance’s office is “overreaching” in accusing Abacus
“when many other banks that contributed to the national
economic crisis remain untouched,” it said.  The district attorney called the bank’s help “too little,
too late” at a press conference.  Loans covered by the indictment were made to 4,500
borrowers and were among about $1 billion in loans that the bank
sold to Fannie Mae, which then unwittingly packaged them as
mortgage-backed securities and sold them to investors, Vance
said.  The charges cover activities from May 2005 to February 2010
and follow a 2 1/2-year investigation, according to prosecutors.
Eight Abacus employees have admitted their guilt in the first
indictment of a bank in Manhattan since 1991, Vance said.  Abacus, a full-service bank based in New York, was founded
in 1984, according to its website.  The case is The People of the State of New York v. Abacus
Federal Savings Bank, 2480-2012, New York State Supreme Court,
New York County (Manhattan).  Interviews  Gensler Says JPMorgan Shows Need to Finalize Reforms  Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler
talked about JPMorgan’s trading loss and efforts by U.S.
regulators to reduce market risks.  He spoke with Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Bair Says Tighten Hedging Provision in Volcker Rule  Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair
discussed the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s meeting on
the Volcker Rule.  Bair, who spoke with Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness,” said compensation shouldn’t be based on hedging
profits.  For the video, click here.  Basel’s Ingves Warns Against Relying on Ratings for Risk Models  Investors shouldn’t only look at credit ratings when
assessing risk and need to rely more on their own analysis, said
Stefan Ingves, the head of the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision.  “When it comes to how one looks at rating agencies,”
financial market participants “should at least not rely solely
on external ratings without making their own considerations or
judgments at all,” Ingves, who is also the governor of Sweden’s
central bank, said in response to questions in Stockholm today.  Rating companies have come under scrutiny since failing to
identify some of the imbalances that led to the global financial
crisis. Denmark, which holds the rotating European Union
presidency, said May 21 it won backing in the 27-member bloc to
curtail the influence of rating companies and pledged to push
for more competition in the industry. Denmark also wants to
allow issuers and investors better access to suing rating
companies should they fail in their job.  Investors in Sweden’s biggest banks shrugged off downgrades
last month by Moody’s Investors Service, sending bond and share
prices higher.  According to Ingves, “those who make decisions in the
world of banking, in the financial sector, will have to do a
bigger share of the work” in assessing risk.  Comings and Goings  FDIC’s Rymer to Serve as Interim SEC Inspector General, BNA Says  Jon T. Rymer, inspector general of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., will serve as the interim inspector general for
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the SEC said in a
statement yesterday, BNA reported.  Rymer will serve in the role at the SEC until a permanent
inspector general is on board and will continue to carry out his
FDIC duties, the SEC said.  Noelle Maloney, who has been interim inspector general
since H. David Kotz left the SEC in January, will resume her
role as deputy inspector general, the SEC said in the statement.  Two Senior SEC Investigators to Leave Agency for Private Firms  Two senior U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
investigators are stepping down this month to join private law
firms, leaving vacancies atop two units formed in 2010 in an
overhaul of the enforcement division.  Robert Kaplan, co-chief of a 75-person unit that
investigates misconduct at hedge funds and private-equity firms,
will join Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in Washington as a partner on
June 5, the firm said in a statement yesterday. Thomas Sporkin,
who heads an SEC group tasked with vetting and handling tips, is
moving to BuckleySandler LLP in the coming weeks, according to a
statement by that firm.  SEC Enforcement Director Robert Khuzami enlisted Kaplan and
Sporkin two years ago as part of an effort to develop
specialized expertise and catch frauds earlier. Khuzami hasn’t
publicly announced who will fill the vacant posts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  