-- Trading Surge on Mexico Stock Exchange Forces Halt in Operations
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-06-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/trading-surge-on-mexico-stock-exchange-forces-halt-in-operations.html
Mexican investors rushed to adjust
their portfolios before an index rebalancing today sparked a
surge in orders that overwhelmed the exchange’s operating system
and forced it to halt trading.  The IPC  index  fell 0.5 percent to 37,872.95 yesterday
before the stoppage as trading volume surged 305 percent to 912
million shares, the most since Aug. 31. Bourse operator  Bolsa
Mexicana de Valores SAB  cut off transactions at 2:48 p.m. local
time, or 12 minutes before the normal close, and trading never
resumed. The exchange said trading will reinitiate today as
usual.  The overloading of the system adds urgency to the
exchange’s plans to implement a faster trading engine it’s been
planning to put in place by the end of June. It follows a series
of late-day transactions by Bulltick Capital Markets on April 13
that the chief regulator said may have been the nation’s worst
trading mistake, spurring pledges by officials for stepped-up
efforts to ensure an orderly market.  The exchange’s operations slowed yesterday because of a
“saturation in the number of orders per second,” Jorge Alegria, the head of markets and information at the stock
exchange, said yesterday in an interview in Cancun,  Mexico .
“Exchanges are subject to these kind of glitches.”  Facebook Inc. had its first day of trading disrupted by the
“poor design” of Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s software for IPO
auctions,  Robert Greifeld , the chief executive officer of the
exchange operator, said on May 20.  ‘More Capacity’  “The situation will not be present with the new trading
engine,” Alegria said. “That’s exactly why the new trading
engine has been developed -- to have 200 times more capacity
than the one we currently have.”  The exchange processed 145,000 trades on the day, more than
twice the daily average for 2012, according to data provided by
the bourse. It received 1.2 million orders.  Volume of  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the phone company controlled
by billionaire  Carlos Slim , and  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  was more
than six times the average for the past three months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the 10 minutes before the halt, shares of  Wal-Mart de
Mexico , the second-largest company on the IPC by weighting, fell
about 2.1 percent, extending the day’s losses to 5.1 percent.
The shares closed at 34.67 pesos.  Bancomer Casa de Bolsa, the local  brokerage  unit of Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, operated more shares of IPC stocks
than any other brokerage today with 418 million shares, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Bancomer’s brokerage has been the
seventh biggest in Mexico by gross volume this year.  America Movil’s weight on the index will decline to 24.9
percent from 27.3 percent as part of the rebalancing, according
to the exchange. Wal-Mart de Mexico’s weight will fall to 11.6
percent from 11.7 percent, Bolsa Mexicana said.  The so-called administrative recesses are activated
occasionally by Mexico’s exchange and are usually linked to
software glitches.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  