-- Rajoy’s Plea for ECB Aid Backfires as Yields Jump
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-06-01T09:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/rajoy-s-plea-for-ecb-aid-backfires-as-yields-jump.html
Spain’s campaign to cajole the
 European Central Bank  into buying its bonds is backfiring.  The nation’s  10-year borrowing cost  has jumped more than
half a point to 6.62 percent since Jaime Garcia-Legaz, the
deputy minister for trade, became the country’s first official
to urge the ECB to support its bonds on April 13. Yield
increases accelerated after May 24 when Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  signalled that Spain’s debt sustainability may be in
danger, and peaked at 6.70 percent on May 30, moving closer to
the 7 percent level that forced  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to
seek outside aid.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said late yesterday that
the future of the euro is at stake, as data showed a net 66
billion euros ($81 billion) of capital left Spain in March. “I
don’t know if we’re on the edge of the precipice, but we’re in a
very, very, very difficult situation,” he said at a conference
in Sitges, Spain.  Investors have lost more on Spanish debt this year than any
 government securities  apart from those of Greece. Spain, the
fourth-biggest euro economy, owes bondholders 731 billion euros,
more than the three countries that have already been bailed out
combined. Rajoy’s suggestion that his country risks being forced
out of  capital markets  reinforces concern that it may not be
able to manage its debts, according to Marius Daheim, a senior
strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank .  Foreign Sales  “The ECB decides on its own terms, doesn’t pre-announce
these purchases and can only be effective in moving markets if
it doesn’t preannounce, so there’s probably not much sense in
any government calling for them to act,” said Daheim, who’s
based in Munich. “It would have been better for politicians to
either leave it up to the ECB completely to take that decision
or at least consult them behind closed doors.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
debt securities instead of German bunds reached a euro-era
record of 548 basis points today. Foreign investors have cut
their holdings of the country’s debt to 37 percent of the total,
down from about 50 percent at the end of 2011, as the government
attempts to rein in a  budget deficit  that was more than twice
the euro-area average last year amid worsening bank losses and
cash-strapped regional governments.  Contagion Concern  The ECB  halted its bond-buying program , known as the
Securities Markets Programme, after offering 1 trillion euros of
three-year loans to banks in December and February. The
purchases, which began with Greek debt purchases in May 2010,
absorbed a total of about 212 billion euros. Rajoy said May 24
after a meeting of European Union leaders in Brussels that it’s
“up to the ECB to take this decision that it has already taken
in the past.”  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  called yesterday on
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to take steps to halt the crisis
before a backlash builds against budget cuts, pushing for
 Europe ’s largest economy to abandon opposition to direct euro-
area aid for banks. Europe should accelerate efforts “to limit
the contagion,” Monti said.  Spain’s government should talk less about what the central
bank should do, former ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said in an interview with state newswire Efe on
May 28, adding that the central bank had already shown
“largesse” to Spain. Klaas Knot, the head of the Dutch central
bank, said April 13 that the ECB is “very far” from
reactivating its policy of bond purchases.  Losing Money  “It can be counterproductive,” Mark Schofield, head of
interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said of the
Spanish calls for ECB assistance. “The ECB is probably very
concerned about the moral hazard in the SMP program, and the
problems in  Spain  are much broader than just liquidity.”  The request also may heighten volatility in Spanish bonds
because investors will “tend to think there’s no smoke without
fire,” Schofield said.  Investors have lost 5.2 percent on Spanish government debt
this year, including reinvested interest, while Greek bonds have
dropped 44 percent, the only two declines among 26 bond markets
tracked in indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Public appeals for help as Spain struggles to rescue Bankia
Group, the nation’s third-largest bank which has asked for 19
billion euros of aid, are incompatible with the ECB’s
independence, according to Charles Zerah, who helps oversee 48
billion euros at Carmignac Gestion in Paris.  “The calls cannot be successful because the ECB is
independent,” said Zerah. “The situation in Spain is quite
critical, in terms of the banking sector. They need to come with
a very serious program for several banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  