-- Record Corporate Bond Sales Hit Euro Crisis Wall: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-06-01T09:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/record-corporate-bond-sales-hit-euro-crisis-wall-poland-credit.html
Europe’s debt crisis is derailing
Poland’s record corporate bond sales as banks curb lending.  PGE SA (PGE) , Poland’s biggest utility, and PKO Bank Polski SA,
its largest bank, are among companies that delayed or canceled
debt sales since April. While Polish companies and lenders
raised a record 10.1 billion zloty ($2.84 billion) of debt
between January and April, sales dwindled to as little as 186
million zloty in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Benchmark bond offerings by Poland’s state-controlled
companies and the Warsaw stock exchange have helped boost
corporate debt sales as the syndicated loan market dries up.
While  Fitch Ratings  said in January it expected company debt
sales to total 30 billion zloty in 2012, that forecast is now at
risk, Miroslaw Dudzinski, a director for central and eastern
Europe at Fitch, said in a May 29 interview.  “What’s happening in Greece and  Spain  is definitely having
a negative impact on the market,” Wojciech Gorny, who helps
manage 2.5 billion zloty in fixed-income assets at Millennium
TFI, said by phone from Warsaw on May 29. “It increases  risk
aversion  across all asset classes, including bonds.”  Polish corporate dollar bonds tumbled 3.9 percent in May,
more than double the 1.5 percent decline for equivalent debt
across  emerging markets , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Corporate EMBI
Composite Index shows.  Slowing Expansion  Syndicated loans to Polish companies dropped to $485
million in the first five months of the year from a record high
of $5.62 billion in the same period in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest since the comparable
period in 2009, when $34.6 million was raised, the data show.  The Polish  economy  grew at the slowest pace in two years in
the first quarter, as euro-region turmoil hurt exports and
investment, the statistics office said yesterday.  As a weaker economy cuts demand for loans, PKO expects its
interest income to grow at a slower pace in the coming quarters
than in the first three months of the year, Chief Financial
Officer Bartosz Drabikowski said in an interview on May 29.  On top of external concerns, some Polish builders are
struggling to pay off their debt.  DSS SA (DSS) , which last year sold
118 million zloty of three-year unsecured bonds, filed for
bankruptcy in April.  PBG SA (PBG)  had its rating reduced to selective
default by Standard & Poor’s yesterday. Poland’s third-largest
builder is discussing a financing “solution” with its banks
for the next 12 months, the company said on May 28.  ‘Hard to Sell’  PBG has 375 million zloty of notes coming due in September
and 450 million zloty of bonds maturing in October 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “When it comes to the corporate segment, the market is
tough and it’s hard to sell anything,” Maciej Slomka, head of
fixed-income trading at Ipopema Securities SA, wrote in an e-
mailed response to questions yesterday. “DSS’s default and
problems at PBG have led to outflows from mutual funds, so they
don’t want to buy corporate bonds.”  Polish pension funds, with 237.7 billion zloty in assets
under management on April 30, are looking for “quality and
waiting for big offerings” from companies, Slomka said.  Utility PGE won’t need to tap bond markets for two years to
fund expansion after a court blocked its takeover of peer Energa
SA, Chief Financial Officer Wojciech Ostrowski said in an
interview on May 18. Two days earlier, he said the company won’t
sell debt in the near-term as market conditions worsen.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Polish government debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps rose eight
basis points to 282 at 10:56 a.m. in Warsaw, the highest since
Jan. 13, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The swaps cost 77 basis points less than the average for
countries in eastern  Europe , the Middle East and Africa that are
included in the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index, compared with
last year’s average 50 basis-point difference.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Poland’s dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries grew three basis points to 281
today, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index shows. The yield
 gap  of 10-year zloty bonds over equivalent German bunds
increased five basis points to 430, most since Sept. 22, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The zloty weakened 0.5 percent to
4.4148 against the euro after declining 4.9 percent in May.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA , known as PGNiG,
will sell as much as 2 billion zloty of bonds in June,  Poland ’s
biggest gas company said in a statement on May 22. PKO expects
market conditions to improve in June, allowing it to sell bonds
denominated in euros or Swiss francs, Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Jakub Papierski told PAP newswire on May 16.  “A lot of bond sales are being discussed on the market
right now, but some companies are waiting for better
conditions,” Fitch’s Dudzinski said in a phone interview on May
29. “Psychology is key because the companies have to feel
comfortable about the future in order to tap the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  