-- ResCap Creditors Seek to Probe Ally Pre-Bankruptcy Deals
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/rescap-creditors-seek-to-probe-ally-pre-bankruptcy-deals.html
Residential Capital LLC’s unsecured
creditors said they want to investigate deals that the bankrupt
mortgage company made to help its parent,  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ,
avoid billions of dollars worth of potential legal liability.  The request to look into the deals, routine in large
corporate bankruptcies, may delay ResCap’s push to sell about $4
billion in assets and win court approval to shield Ally from
legal claims. ResCap’s proposed plan of reorganization is built
on granting Ally so-called third-party releases for potentially
billions of dollars worth of legal claims related to  mortgage
loans  and mortgage-backed securities, the unsecured creditors
committee said in court papers filed yesterday.  “No plan of reorganization can be confirmed until the
fairness of these transactions and the conduct of the interested
parties is thoroughly examined,” lawyers for the committee
wrote. Approval of the plan will require “overwhelming support
of unsecured creditors holding such claims.”  ResCap filed for bankruptcy May 14 with plans to sell most
of its assets to  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)  Ally, a Detroit-
based bank that specializes in  car loans , supported the
bankruptcy filing as a way to resolve legal claims related to
mortgage-backed securities. Ally is 74 percent-owned by the  U.S.
Treasury  after receiving a bailout.  ‘Cooperate Fully’  “ResCap intends to cooperate fully with any court-approved
investigation,” Susan Fitzpatrick, a spokeswoman for ResCap,
said in an e-mail.  The official committee of ResCap’s unsecured creditors is
represented by lawyer Kenneth H. Eckstein with the law firm of
Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP.  ResCap has proposed dispensing with potential lawsuits
against Ally as part of the sale of mortgage loans and other
financial assets to its parent company. Ally agreed to pay $750
million to ResCap to settle any claims against the parent,
purchase as much as $1.6 billion of securities if others don’t,
and provide $150 million to help finance ResCap’s operations
during bankruptcy, according to a company statement.  Thirty-two of the company’s 33 biggest unsecured claims
were related to active or potential mortgage-securities
litigation, according to court papers. ResCap didn’t give a
value for the claims and said it disputes all of them.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  