-- Rising Anti-Compromise Republicans Set to Reshape Senate
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-06-01T14:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/rising-anti-compromise-republicans-set-to-reshape-senate.html
Outcomes in the Indiana, Texas and
Nebraska Republican primaries are raising the odds that South
Carolina Senator  Jim DeMint  will move closer to remaking the
ranks of U.S. Senate Republicans in the image of the anti-tax
Tea Party-dominated House caucus.  Texas Republican Ted Cruz, who was backed by the Tea Party
movement, this week forced Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst
into a July runoff for an open Senate seat. On May 8, Indiana
State Treasurer Richard Mourdock toppled incumbent Senator
 Richard Lugar , who was criticized in the Republican primary for
compromising with Democrats.  In Nebraska, Republican state Senator Deb Fischer -- whose
backers include Tea Party favorite Sarah Palin -- defeated
Attorney General Jon Bruning on May 15 for the Republican Senate
nomination and leads former Democratic Senator Bob Kerrey in
polls of the race for the open seat.  Democrats see the  Indiana  results as improving their
prospects in November, similar to the dynamics in the 2010
midterms when some Tea Party-backed candidates stumbled in the
general election. Whether the Democrats can extend that
advantage elsewhere remains to be seen this cycle, because the
Republican candidates are more seasoned and most of the races
will take place in states with histories of favoring their
party.  Empowering DeMint  What is clear is that even a handful of November victories
in these states will empower DeMint and his growing anti-tax-
and-spending caucus in pressing Minority Leader Mitch McConnell,
a Kentucky Republican, on such issues as a balanced budget
amendment and resisting compromises with Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat.  “The new conservatives have already had an enormous impact
on the Senate,” DeMint said in an e-mail. “With a few more
conservative reinforcements like Ted Cruz,  Richard Mourdock , and
others, we have a chance to really turn the tide so we can
repeal ObamaCare and  balance  the budget.”  The Tea Party claimed 28 House seats in the 2010 midterm
congressional election, and those members helped pressure
Republican Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio to refuse to accept a
series of spending cut proposals in exchange for raising the
nation’s debt limit -- a showdown that brought the government to
the brink of shutdown in July 2011.  In the Senate, DeMint in 2010 used his Senate Conservatives
Fund political action committee to assist the campaigns of five
newcomers including Rand Paul of Kentucky, Marco Rubio of
Florida and  Pat Toomey  of Pennsylvania.  Delaying Efforts  DeMint’s favorites have been eager to take on Senate
leadership. Paul, son of Republican presidential candidate and
 Texas  Representative  Ron Paul , has held up bills for weeks by
filing amendments and filibustering on issues including aid to
Egypt and federal education legislation.  An infusion of new allies could pay even more dividends
given who they will replace, said DeMint. Republican Senators
Lugar,  Olympia Snowe  of Maine and  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas,
who are all exiting, often worked with Democrats.  “If people on the far left have a principle they want to
stand by, they should never compromise. Those of us on the right
should not either,” Mourdock said May 9 in a CNN interview.
“Compromise may come in the finer details of a plan or a
budget.”  “We are at the point where one side or the other will win
this argument,” he added. “One side or the other will
dominate.”  Change From 2010  Many of the new faces are vying for seats expected to stay
under Republican control, as in Texas. That’s a change from two
years ago, when Tea Party-backed Republicans Christine O’Donnell
of Delaware, who once said she’d dabbled in witchcraft, and
Sharron Angle of Nevada lost Senate races where Democratic-held
seats appeared vulnerable. Those defeats helped Democrats
maintain a majority in the chamber.  The  Tea Party  also sees a strong opportunity in the  Arizona 
Senate primary for retiring Republican Jon Kyl’s seat.
Representative Jeff Flake, backed by the anti-tax Club for
Growth, leads competitor Wil Cardon 42 percent to 20 percent,
and he also has a 13-point edge over the Democratic contender,
Richard Carmona, according to a May 17-20 Public Policy Polling
survey.  In Indiana, Democrats say the primary results are creating
a better environment for them to pick up Lugar’s seat. President
 Barack Obama  won the state in 2008 and polls show Mourdock
locked in a close race with the Democratic nominee,
Representative Joe Donnelly.  ‘Big Win’  “Indiana’s a big win” for Democratic hopes in the race,
said  Jennifer Duffy , a Senate analyst with Cook Political
Report. “I don’t see others that have that potential at this
point.”  Still, Democrats are monitoring a four-way Republican
primary in Wisconsin, where former Governor Tommy Thompson is
being targeted by the Tea Party groups in a fight for an open
Senate seat a Democrat is giving up, said Duffy.  The Tea Party’s Senate focus is evident in the lack of
House primary challenges.  Of the 187 House Republican incumbents who faced primaries
this year, 176 of them won, according to the  National Republican
Congressional Committee . Of those who didn’t, six opted to run
for the Senate, four lost in member-to-member primaries because
of newly drawn districts, and one -- Jean Schmidt of  Ohio  --lost
to a challenger with Tea Party support.  ‘Sizable Effect’  “The bang for your buck is in the Senate, not in the
House,” said  Michael McDonald , an associate government
professor at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia.
“It’s much more of a freewheeling environment and, with the
filibuster, you don’t even need a majority in order to have a
sizable effect.”  It takes 60 votes in the 100-member Senate to end a
filibuster, or an unlimited debate, that can stall legislative
action.  Brendan Steinhauser, federal and state campaigns director
with FreedomWorks, an organization started by former House
Republican Leader  Dick Armey  of Texas and an ally of the Tea
Party movement, said his group is training activists in phone
banking, polling and door-to-door outreach in Texas and Indiana.  DeMint’s fundraising complements the grassroots effort.  In the 2010 election cycle, the Senate Conservatives Fund
raised $9.3 million, more than the leadership PACs of all other
senators and congressmen. This cycle, DeMint said his goal is to
raise more than $10 million to “replace incumbent Democrats
with conservative Republicans.”  Texas Legislature  The Texas legislature could provide a glimpse of where the
Tea Party may take the  Republican Party  on the national level.
While Texas House Speaker Joe Straus won his race in the May 29
primary, Tea Party-backed candidates ousted three of his allies,
including Representative Rob Eissler, a nine-year incumbent who
is chairman of the Public Education Committee.  The results leave many Republican lawmakers in Texas
“wide-eyed and frightened,” said Calvin Jillson, who teaches
political science at  Southern Methodist University  in Dallas.
“They survived this time, but they have to wonder, what about
2014 and elections down the road?”  To contact the reporter on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 Jcummings21@bloomberg.net  