-- Roger Federer, Agent Tony Godsick Leaving Management Company IMG
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-01T22:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/roger-federer-agent-godsick-leaving-management-company-img.html
Sixteen-time Grand Slam tennis
champion  Roger Federer  and his agent, Tony Godsick, have left
IMG Worldwide Inc.  Contracts with both the former No. 1-ranked men’s player
and Godsick ran out, IMG spokesman  Jim Gallagher  said yesterday
in a telephone interview.  “Our contract with Roger Federer has expired and we no
longer represent him,” Gallagher said. “Roger is an iconic
figure in the world of sports, a gentleman and a great champion,
and we hope to work with him again in the future.”  Federer, 30, of  Switzerland , remains the top earner in
tennis with nine endorsement deals, even without a major triumph
since the 2010 Australian Open. Federer makes $52 million a year
from prize money and endorsements from companies such as  Nike
Inc. (NKE) , Swiss bank Credit Suisse Group AG and Swiss luxury watch
brand Rolex, according to Forbes.  “I left them already, back when,” Federer said yesterday
at a news conference in Paris after beating  France ’s Nicolas Mahut 6-3, 4-6, 6-2, 7-5 to move into the fourth round of the
 French Open . “This is not the first time. So obviously it’s the
first day of the new month. Obviously this is when contracts
sometimes do run out, and that’s been the situation in my case.
And in Tony’s case, he didn’t renew. So we’ll see where it goes
now.”  Left Before  The third-ranked Federer was signed by IMG as a junior
player in 1998. He quit the agency in early 2003, before he had
any major championships, and handed his business matters to
Roger Federer Management: an attorney, a financial adviser and
his mother, Lynette. Miroslava Vavrinec, his girlfriend at the
time and now his wife and mother of their twin daughters, was
put in charge of media relations and travel. Federer, who won
his first major title at Wimbledon in 2003, rejoined IMG in
2005.  When asked yesterday if Godsick was still representing him,
Federer said: “Right now, I don’t think so.”  Gallagher said IMG wished Godsick “great success in the
future.”  Godsick said in an interview at the players’ lounge at
Roland Garros shortly before Federer’s match that his time with
IMG was up.  “I left IMG last night, my contract ran out and I took the
decision not to do a new contract, Godsick said. ‘‘That’s it.’’  Woods Departs  Godsick’s departure comes about a year after  Tiger Woods ’s
agent,  Mark Steinberg , left New York-based IMG and joined Excel
Sports Management. Woods went with Steinberg.  Federer didn’t rule out a return to IMG, whose former chief
executive officer,  Ted Forstmann , died in November.  ‘‘I was very close with Teddy Forstmann, who unfortunately
passed away last year,” he said. “Obviously I had an emotional
attachment to the company that way. He was the one who brought
me back really, and so obviously when all of that happened,
potentially it wasn’t helpful. I don’t know at this moment
what’s going to happen next.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  