-- Romney Aide Calls China Clash Defining Economic Element
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-06-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/romney-aide-calls-china-clash-defining-economic-element.html
Mitt Romney ’s calls for confronting
 China  as a currency manipulator, intellectual property thief and
trade cheat are what distinguishes his economic vision from
Republican orthodoxy, his top policy adviser said.  Lanhee Chen, policy director for the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee, said while Romney’s plan for “robust”
action to confront China on trade issues may be at odds with
some in his party and Democrats, it is at the core of his
strategy for improving the economy.  “Here’s a place where Governor Romney is really calling
for a different approach, for example, confronting China on
their currency manipulation, on their intellectual property
stealing, on the barriers they put up really to competition from
foreign firms,” Chen said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ” airing this
weekend.  “This is really a path forward that will be quite
different from” policies under Presidents  Barack Obama  and
George W. Bush, Chen said.  Romney, 65, “has been in touch” with former Secretary of
State  Henry Kissinger , a China specialist who disagrees with
Romney’s aggressive stance, Chen said, adding: “But look, the
bottom line is, Governor Romney is going to do what it takes to
get our economy going, including confronting China, and there
will be some in both parties that will disagree with him.”  No Homeowner Relief  Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts , doesn’t
intend to offer targeted relief for the 11.5 million American
homeowners who owe more on their mortgages than their homes are
worth, Chen said, suggesting that such actions are temporary
fixes insufficient to stabilize the housing market.  “ Governor Romney  has indicated that there are some steps
we ought to take to ensure that we’re growing our economy,”
Chen said. “But on the housing market specifically, I do think
we have to resist the temptation for short-term approaches.”  Romney, a former private-equity executive who founded the
Boston-based firm Bain Capital LLC, wants to replace the Dodd-
Frank financial regulation law enacted in 2010 with more limited
and “reasonable” rules, including governing derivatives and
“some kind of consumer protections,” Chen said.  “The mistake here is to say that somehow because we
repealed Dodd-Frank and we get rid of the really burdensome set
of regulations that Dodd-Frank put in place, that somehow we’re
going back to a dog-eat-dog kind of situation where there’s
absolutely no regulation,” Chen said.  Still, he said the so-called Volcker rule to ban
proprietary trading by banks “has a lot of problems,” and
would be “one of the problematic elements that, quite frankly,
Governor Romney would seek to replace.”  Tax Overhaul  While Romney has spoken extensively of a broad tax overhaul
plan that would eliminate certain deductions and exemptions and
lower rates, he is unlikely to specify during the presidential
campaign which ones he would seek to undo, Chen said.  “There are a number of specific ways to get there,” he
said. Romney “is going to get in there as president and work
with the Congress to figure out how we can achieve a broader
base of taxation and lower rates across the board.”  He defended Romney’s proposal to lower taxes by an average
of $231,971 for the top 1 percent of taxpayers compared with
current law, saying Romney “believes in a progressive tax
system,” and arguing that the existing system “penalizes
economic growth.”  Extolling Romney’s business background as his chief
credential for the presidency, Chen said the presidents over the
last century with the most business experience --  George W.
Bush ,  Jimmy Carter  and  Herbert Hoover  -- wouldn’t be models for
a President Romney.  “I don’t know that it’s fair to compare him to those that
have preceded him,” Chen said. “He would be a unique
commander-in-chief in the White House, and I just think it’s
probably not a fair comparison to look at other folks that may
have had elements of their background that are similar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  