-- Romney Aide Says China Defines Part of Economy Plan (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-06-01T20:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/romney-aide-says-china-defines-part-of-economy-plan-transcript-.html
Mitt Romney  policy director Lanhee Chen said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital With  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that the
presumptive Republican presidential nominee’s calls for
confronting China as a currency manipulator, intellectual
property thief and trade cheat are what distinguishes his
economic vision from Republican orthodoxy.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Romney campaign policy
director, Lanhee Chen, who joins us from Boston.  Thank you so
much for being with us.  We obviously want to -  LANHEE CHEN: Thanks, Al.  HUNT: Start off talking about the jobs number. As  Governor
Romney  said this morning, they were terrible, but he added it
follows a whole series of bad economic reports. But today,
 consumer spending , personal income were up a little,
manufacturing holding steady. Isn’t it a more mixed picture?  CHEN: Well, I think it’s a disappointing picture, Al,
unfortunately. As you mentioned, it sort of came on the tail end
of some really dismal economic news. Whether you look at slowing
GDP growth or decreasing  consumer confidence , jobless claims
being up, this is really sort of unfortunately the capstone to
what’s been a disappointing week.  HUNT: Well, let’s talk about how Governor Romney would fix
it. What’s his big idea for the economy? He talks about his
special background, but how is what he’s offering any different
than garden-variety Republicanism of George W. Bush?  CHEN: Well, you know, really, it’s an innovative approach
to our economy, which is what we need now. And it’s more than
just traditional Republican policies. I think we talk about the
importance of pro-growth  tax policy  and pro-growth regulatory
policy.  But if you look at trade policy as an example, here’s a
place where Governor Romney is really calling for a different
approach, for example, confronting China on their currency
manipulation, on their intellectual property stealing, on the
barriers they put up really to competition from foreign firms.
This is really a path forward that will be quite different from
both President Obama and President Bush, frankly.  HUNT: Well, one of the -  CHEN: If you look at -  HUNT: Well, I was going to say, one of America’s foremost
China experts is none other than  Henry Kissinger , who has made
it clear to a lot of people he disapproves of Governor Romney’s
posture here. Have you or the governor talked to Dr. Kissinger
about this recently?  CHEN: Well, the governor has been in touch with Dr.
Kissinger, but, look, the bottom line is, Governor Romney is
going to do what it takes to get our economy going, including
confronting  China , and there will be some in both parties that
will disagree with him.  But the bottom line is, we have to take a more robust
posture toward China, because they are a major trading partner
and they are somebody who has the potential to stand in the way
of economic growth, both for - for - for our country, but also
for our trading partners. And so Governor Romney is going to
take robust steps to make sure that China is a player on the
international stage that plays by the rules.  HUNT: OK, let’s talk about banking. JPMorgan, supposedly
the best-run Wall Street firm, leading the charge against Dodd-
Frank, it lost at least $2 billion, maybe a lot more, trading
risky derivatives from a federally insured bank. Now, does that
give your campaign any pause about rushing to rescind Dodd-Frank
and move back closer to more laissez-faire regulatory policies
prior - that we had prior to 2007?  CHEN: Well, I think - yeah, I think that the mistake here
is to say that somehow because we repealed Dodd-Frank and we get
rid of the really burdensome set of regulations that Dodd-Frank
put in place that somehow we’re going back to a, you know, dog-
eat-dog kind of situation where there’s absolutely no
regulation.  You know, Governor Romney has made clear that we do need
some regulation of derivatives trading, that we do need to have
some kind of consumer protections in place, that we do need to
look seriously at things we can do to ensure that the financial
services industry is regulated in a reasonable way.  But Dodd-Frank is really not the answer. And so, you know,
I think we have to resist the temptation to caricature what a
post-Dodd-Frank world looks like. And, unfortunately, that’s
what President Obama and his supporters have been doing.  HUNT: Was the Volcker rule a good idea?  CHEN: You know, I think the Volcker rule has a lot of
problems. I think you’ve seen a lot of our European trading
partners express dismay at the Volcker rule. I think the fact
that we’ve had to push off implementation of the Volcker rule
several times now in the  United States  indicates that there are
serious problems with it. And I think you have to look at the
Volcker rule as being an example of one of the problematic
elements of Dodd-Frank and one of the problematic elements that,
quite frankly, Governor Romney would - would seek to replace.  HUNT: Let’s talk about taxes. Governor Romney’s tax cut
proposal would give the top 1 percent by 2015 a tax cut of over
$231,000, and that’s a time when many Americans are being asked
to sacrifice. Shouldn’t the very rich and top corporate CEOs
also make some sacrifices?  CHEN: Well, Governor Romney believes in a progressive tax
system. And that’s what we have, and that’s what we will have in
a post- tax reform  world, if Governor Romney is elected
president.  The bottom line is, we have a tax system that’s far too
complex and - and, frankly, penalizes economic growth. We have
to go to a system that’s simpler and that’s flatter and that
reduces distortions in the  tax code . And we do that by lowering
rates across the board and by broadening the tax base.  HUNT: But, Lanhee, you haven’t told us yet how you’re going
to broaden that base. Would you, for instance, do away or reduce
the home mortgage deduction? Would you - would you - would you
equalize treatment of  capital gains  to ordinary income?  CHEN: Well, you know, we see a number of different
approaches one can take. Governor Romney has already said that
we have to look at curbing the deductions, particularly on
higher-income taxpayers. And there are a number of specific ways
to get there.  Bowles-Simpson illustrated some approaches. The president’s
bipartisan commission in 2005 illustrated approaches. So this is
a process where Governor Romney is going to get in there as
president and work with the Congress to figure out how we can
achieve a broader base of taxation and lower rates across the
board.  HUNT: Will he release specifics in this campaign? Will he
give us specifics now?  CHEN: Well, I think you’ve already seen far more specifics
from Governor Romney than you have from the president.  HUNT: No, but how about like - like the home mortgage
deduction or charitables? Will he talk about specifics like that
before November?  CHEN: Well, look, Al, what I come back to is this point,
that there are a number of different ways to get there. Governor
Romney has already indicated his commitment to achieve tax
reform with a broader base of taxation and lower income tax
rates.  HUNT: There are, as you know, 11.5 million American
homeowners with underwater mortgages. Would Governor Romney do
anything to help them immediately? Or is this just something the
market has to work out?  CHEN: Well, I think that - that the housing crisis has been
accentuated by - by the weak economic growth we’ve seen over the
last several years.  And Governor Romney has indicated that, you
know, there are some steps we ought to take to ensure that we’re
growing our economy.  But on the housing market specifically, I do think we have
to resist the temptation for short-term approaches. And I think
the president has fallen into that trap a little bit. He’s
introduced all of these different programs, whether it’s HAMP or
related programs, that really just haven’t helped the number of
people that they expected. And I think that that is part of the
downfall of a short-term approach when you’re thinking about the
housing markets.  Look, we have to do everything we can to get this economy
going, because ultimately that’s what’s going to get the housing
market going again and going to get home values rising again and
going to help people who, frankly, currently underwater in their
mortgages.  HUNT: Lanhee, let me ask you this. You’ve studied American
economic and political history, and a chief credential that
Governor Romney claims is his business background. Now, over the
last century, there have been three presidents who’ve had the
most extensive business background:  George W. Bush ,  Jimmy
Carter , and  Herbert Hoover . Are any of those models for a Romney
presidency?  CHEN: Well, look, Governor Romney really brings a unique
set of skills and experience to the presidency. And, you know,
it’s a set of skills and experience that was built from a 25-
year career in the private sector that is really unique.  I mean, I don’t know that it’s fair to compare him to those
that have preceded him or would precede him if he were elected
president. It really is a unique set of experiences, not just in
the private sector, but also if you look at what he did rescuing
the Olympics and governing  Massachusetts , really turning around
a difficult situation there.  He brings a unique set of experiences. He would be a unique
commander-in-chief in the White House. And I just think it’s -
you know, it’s probably not a fair comparison to look at other
folks that may have had elements of their background that are
similar to Governor Romney.  HUNT: Lanhee Chen, with that beautiful  Boston  landscape in
the background, thank you so much for joining us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<477727.5983423.3.0.2.6.25>#
 