-- Rosengren Says Renewed Fed Operation Twist to Spur Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-06-01T12:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/rosengren-says-renewed-fed-operation-twist-to-spur-growth.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the central bank should spur
growth and cut unemployment by prolonging a program that
lengthens the average duration of bonds on its balance sheet.  Continuing so-called Operation Twist beyond this month
would help the Fed meet its congressional mandate to ensure full
employment, Rosengren said in an interview with Bloomberg News
before a Labor Department report that unemployment in May rose
to 8.2 percent.  “That would have the impact of helping to reduce longer-
term  interest rates  without expanding our balance sheet,”
Rosengren said yesterday. “If you were looking for something
that would promote growth but didn’t have an impact on our
balance sheet, then certainly extending the maturity extension
program would be a viable way forward.”  Fed policy makers are scheduled to meet June 19-20
following a Labor Department report today that the economy added
69,000 jobs in May, the least in a year. Economists had expected
the economy to add 150,000 jobs and the jobless rate to be
unchanged at 8.1 percent, according to the median of a Bloomberg
Survey.  Rosengren said that given his outlook for weak growth and
no improvement in the  unemployment rate , an extension of
Operation Twist “would be a positive step that would provide
some additional support to the economy and hopefully promote
somewhat more rapid growth overall.”  Cut Unemployment  To help reduce unemployment and boost the economy, the Fed
cut its benchmark  interest rate  to near zero in December 2008
and purchased $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of
large-scale asset purchases.  The central bank started Operation Twist in September to
reduce longer-term interest rates without expanding its balance
sheet. Under the program the Fed sold $400 billion of  Treasury
securities  with maturities of three years or less and used the
proceeds to buy $400 billion of Treasuries with maturities of
six years or more.  The Boston Fed Chief said any new accommodation would hinge
on the  Federal Open Market Committee  reaching a consensus. Also,
the form of any easing would “partly depend on how the
consensus formed.”  A second Operation Twist would be “limited in scope
because it’s limited by the amount of securities we hold,” he
said. “If you want to do something more substantial, then you
would have to do it through greater clarity on communication or
expanding the balance sheet,” he said.  Record Low  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note tumbled 0.1
percentage point to 1.46 percent at 8:48 a.m. in  New York . The
yield reached a record low of 1.4387.  Low interest rates are not a barrier to easing because a
further reduction in borrowing costs would still spark growth,
Rosengren said.  A report yesterday showed initial jobless claims increased
to 383,000, above the 370,000 expected by economists in a
Bloomberg Survey. A gauge of business activity from the
Institute for Supply Management Chicago Inc. fell to 52.7, the
lowest reading since September 2009. Economists had expected a
reading of 56.8 on the index.  Weaker economic reports prompted Rosengren’s calls for
further monetary stimulus, he said, citing his decision to
advocate additional easing in a May 30 speech in Worcester,
 Massachusetts .  “We now know that our best estimate of first quarter GDP
growth was pretty weak,” he said, and reports on the labor
market have been “quite weak.”  “We’re not actually picking up steam and some of the
growth we were seeing at the beginning of the year might reflect
more the unusual weather patterns,” he said.  Rosengren, 54, was formerly the head of banking supervision
and regulation at the Boston Fed and became its president in
2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Rosengren next holding a seat in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  