-- H&R Block’s Sand Canyon Sued Over Losses on Mortgage Pool
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-06-01T17:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/sand-canyon-corp-sued-in-new-york-by-loan-trust-servicer.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) ’s Sand Canyon Corp.
unit was sued in New York state court by a loan trust servicer
for breach of contract involving a pool of mortgages.  Sand Canyon, formerly known as Option One Mortgage Corp.,
sold the trust more than 7,500 mortgage loans with a total
initial principal balance of about $1.5 billion, lawyers for the
servicer said in a lawsuit filed in New York state  Supreme Court 
in  Manhattan  yesterday.  The trust and its investors have lost more than
$325 million and about 56 percent of the loans in the pool have
been liquidated, modified or are “seriously delinquent,” the
servicer, Coppell, Texas-based Homeward Residential Inc., said
in the complaint. Homeward Residential was formerly known as
American Home Mortgage Servicing Inc.  “The huge losses realized by the Trust, and the very high
delinquency and default rates, caused some investors to examine
whether Sand Canyon’s representations about these loans had been
truthful,” the servicer said in the complaint. “One review of
a sample of 392 loans has shown that Sand Canyon breached its
representations and warranties with respect to almost 7 out of
every 10 of these loans.”  Sand Canyon ceased originating  mortgage loans  in December
2007, sold its servicing assets to American Home Mortgage
Servicing and discontinued remaining operations in April 2008.  H&R Block can’t comment on litigation, Teresa Clark, a
spokeswoman for the Kansas City, Missouri-based company, said in
an e-mail.  February Suit  Sand Canyon sued American Home Mortgage Servicing in the
same court in February, accusing the company of providing
electronic copies of loan files to trustees and insurers seeking
to bring new claims or demands to repurchase loans or strengthen
existing cases.  Sand Canyon said providing the loan files violates an
accord between the two companies, reached when American Home
Mortgage Servicing agreed to buy Sand Canyon’s mortgage loan
servicing portfolio in 2008, which called on both parties to act
as allies in the defense of certain liabilities.  American Home Mortgage Servicing moved to dismiss the suit
in March, saying it’s required to act in the best interest of
mortgage trust investors and must provide information to
trustees and investors electronically.  SEC Settlement  H&R Block agreed in April to pay more than $28 million to
resolve U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claims that
Option One didn’t tell investors it might be unable to make good
on obligations to repurchase faulty mortgages without
assistance.  Sand Canyon received $543 million worth of new claims for
alleged breaches of representations and warranties since the
fiscal third quarter ended Jan. 31, H&R Block said in a
regulatory filing in April.  The cases are Homeward Residential Inc. v. Sand Canyon
Corp., 651885/2012, and Sand Canyon Corp. v. American Home
Mortgage Servicing Inc., 650504/2012,  New York  state Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  