-- Scene Last Night: Dubin, Bacon, Clinton, Elmo, Hockney
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/scene-last-night-dubin-bacon-clinton-elmo-hockney.html
“It’s like a reunion,” said John
Baldessari, wearing a black vest and shirt.  The  Madison Square Park Conservancy  held a benefit last
night at Manhattan’s Prince George Ballroom to support its Mad.
Sq. Art program and drew a slew of artists, from  David Hockney 
to Claes Oldenburg.  Also on hand was Richard Koshalek, director of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington D.C., and
its chairman, James Tomilson Hill, vice chairman at  Blackstone
Group LP. (BX)   Philip Glass  performed “Metamorphosis No. 2” as part of a
tribute to Martin Friedman, a former director of the Walker Art
Center in  Minneapolis , who helped bring sculpture to Madison
Square Park. Friedman wore a telescope on a string around his
neck -- all the better to see friends.  Park Man  Glenn Dubin , chief executive, chairman and co-founder of
hedge fund Highbridge Capital Management LLC, is a New York City
park man.  As a boy growing up in  Washington  Heights, Dubin played
basketball in Fort Tryon Park on weekends.  “I’d be there from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., then hit the
sprinklers to cool off and go home,” Dubin said.  These days Dubin and his family live near Central Park,
where he said his 15-year-old son plays pickup hoops.  Dad’s given up on basketball (as well as football, which he
played at John F. Kennedy Jr. High School and Stony Brook
University).  Bike Ride  “I’m too old for that,” said the 55-year-old. “But I do
ride my bike through Hudson River Park.”  That’s where Dubin was May 29 -- in suit and tie, no
bicycle -- as the honoree at the Hudson River Park Spring Gala.
The event raised $1.6 million (four times the amount raised last
year) for the five-mile stretch of waterfront on Manhattan’s
lower west side.  Kayakers paddled around Pier 26, the still-under-
construction site that served as party headquarters.  “I’d like to go kayaking right now,” Dubin said as he
greeted Louis Moore Bacon, founder and CEO of hedge fund Moore
Capital Management LLC, whose chief operating officer, Scott M. Lawin, is on the board of Friends of Hudson River Park.  Entertainment included finger spins by members of the
Harlem Wizards basketball team.  Clinton Street  At the Sesame Workshop Annual Gala Wednesday, former U.S.
President  Bill Clinton  had a contest at his table to name
characters from the public-television show “Sesame Street.”  “I got Bert, Ernie, Elmo, Cookie Monster, Grover, Oscar
the Grouch and Big Bird,” Clinton said on the stage of Cipriani
42nd Street. “I could not remember the coolest name of them
all: Snuffleupagus. Now, I do want Republicans to know I was not
being prejudiced because he’s an elephant.”  Clinton was being honored, along with United Healthcare
Group.  Later, the Muppets, including Lily from Sesame Workshop’s
co-production in China and Filfil from the co-production in
Egypt, performed the classic “Sing,” helping the nonprofit
raise $2 million.  Horton’s Kids  At Nationals Park in Washington, Screech, the Nationals’
eagle mascot, hung out at a fundraiser for Horton’s Kids, which
provides tutoring and mentoring to children living in the
Anacostia neighborhood. Erik Franklin, a  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  federal
solutions specialist, brought his daughters Grace and Caroline
for batting practice. The May 30 event raised $300,000.  That night was also a family affair for Liana Kuturov, who
brought her mother and grandmother to the Hebrew Free Loan
Society benefit at the  Museum of Jewish Heritage  in  Lower
Manhattan . Kuturov is a recipient of an interest-free loan from
the society, which she said is helping her pay the $40,000
tuition bill at  St. John’s University . Gary Gladstein of Soros
Fund Management LLC and Edward Karan of Citibank Private Bank
are on the organization’s board.  ( Amanda Gordon  and  Stephanie Green  are writers and
photographers for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon; Stephanie Green in Washington at
 sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  