-- Bernanke, China Inflation, Diamond Jubilee: Week June 2-9
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-02T07:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/sec-approves-exchange-proposal-to-adjust-u-s-trading-curbs-1-.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission approved two proposals to alter trading curbs meant
to curtail volatility in the U.S. stock market.  The regulator approved a system known as limit-up/limit-
down that prevents trades at prices outside a specified band,
according to a statement on the SEC website yesterday. It also
backed changes to broader circuit breakers instituted after the
1987 market crash that halt exchange-listed securities in U.S.
markets during periods of volatility. Both programs will be
implemented on Feb. 4 for a one-year pilot period.  U.S. stock exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversees more than 4,400 brokers, introduced
curbs for individual stocks after the May 2010 rout known as the
flash crash to halt shares when they rise or fall at least 10
percent in five minutes. Exchanges asked for permission 13
months ago to test the limit-up/limit-down system and updated
their proposal on May 24.  “Limit-up/limit-down will make incremental but material
improvements to the single-stock circuit breaker plan,”  Jamie Selway , head of liquidity management at New York-based
Investment Technology Group Inc., said in a phone interview.
“Halts won’t go off for goofy reasons as much as they have in
the past and limit-up/limit-down will work a lot better in the
context of a flash crash. The marketwide circuit breaker changes
also provide helpful improvements to the legacy approach.”  Flash Crash  By the time the updated programs are in place, almost three
years will have passed since the flash crash. Selway said the
SEC took too long to approve the changes.  “The initiatives we approved are the product of a
significant effort to devise a sophisticated, yet workable and
effective way to protect our markets from excessive
volatility,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in the statement.
“In today’s complex electronic markets, we need an automated
and appropriately calibrated way to pause or limit trading if
prices move too far too fast.”  Under the limit-up/limit-down system, which will replace
the current practice of immediate halts when prices for
individual securities become volatile, trades won’t be allowed
to take place more than a specified percentage above or below
the average price over the preceding five-minute period. If
trading isn’t able to occur within the price band for more than
15 seconds, a five-minute halt will ensue,  the SEC said .  Price Bands  Each stock will be allowed to move a certain percentage
from its five-minute average, with the amount varying based on
its closing price the prior day.  The price band will be 5 percent above and below for stocks
higher than $3 in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and Russell
1000 Index and a group of about 430 exchange-traded products,
the SEC said. It will be 10 percent for other securities higher
than $3. Those between 75 cents and $3 can move up to 20
percent, while those less than 75 cents can move the lesser of
75 percent or 15 cents.  The plan will be implemented in two phases. It will
initially apply to  S&P 500  and Russell 1000 stocks and the group
of ETPs, with price bands calculated from 9:45 a.m. New York
time until 3:30 p.m. The second phase, which will start six
months later, will operate from the start of trading at 9:30
a.m. until the close at 4 p.m. and apply to all securities.  ‘Normal’ Trading  The limit-up/limit-down plan will also give the market that
lists a security the discretion to declare a trading pause when
a stock has “deviated from its normal trading characteristics”
and the exchange decides that a halt would curtail excessive
volatility, the SEC said. This will ensure a company’s shares
don’t “remain impaired” indefinitely, it said.  The commission said it expects exchanges will eliminate the
volatility curbs that apply only on their own venues. The New
York Stock Exchange currently has a system of so-called
liquidity replenishment points to limit rapid price moves on its
market.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Operating Officer  Larry Leibowitz 
has credited the system with preventing stocks his company lists
from trading at aberrant prices such as pennies during the flash
crash.  The exchanges and Finra will create an advisory committee
with representatives from a retail broker, institutional
securities firm, alternative trading platform and an investor to
offer their views on prospective changes to the limit-up/limit-
down system. While the committee can’t vote, “it’s nice to have
their input hard-coded into the process,” Selway said. The
exchanges and Finra told the SEC in a Nov. 2  letter  that
advisers were unnecessary.  1987 Crash  The SEC also changed the marketwide circuit breakers,
created in the aftermath of the October 1987 crash, because they
weren’t triggered during the May 6, 2010, rout that erased $862
billion from U.S. equities in less than 20 minutes. The
alterations will make the curbs “more meaningful and effective
in today’s high-speed electronic securities markets,” the
agency said in its  approval order .  All U.S. securities trading will halt for 15 minutes when
the S&P 500 falls 7 percent before 3:25 p.m. The trigger is
 currently  a 10 percent drop in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .
The proposal also shortens the length of most halts and modifies
the times when the circuit breaker can be triggered. A plunge of
20 percent will cause all trading to stop for the day. The
marketwide pause has been triggered only once, on Oct. 27, 1997.  Nobel Prize  An advisory committee to the SEC and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission recommended changing the marketwide system.
The advisers included  Joseph Stiglitz , an economist who won the
 Nobel Prize ; David Ruder, a former SEC chairman; Brooksley E. Born, who was chairman of the CFTC; and John J. Brennan,
chairman emeritus and senior adviser at Vanguard Group Inc.  The owner of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange is examining
the SEC’s approval of the marketwide circuit breakers,  Michael Shore , a spokesman for  CME Group Inc. (CME) , wrote in an e-mail. The
company has circuit breakers for equity-index futures that are
consistent with those in the stock market.  “CME Group has been a strong advocate for more
appropriately calibrated marketwide circuit breaker trigger
levels that are coordinated across trading venues,” Shore said.
“We have commented extensively on the proposals, are currently
evaluating the changes approved by the SEC and will be
submitting proposed amendments to our rules in the near
future.”  The lack of a linkage between the curbs for individual
securities and those that halt all trading is a risk, Selway
said. CME Group and the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association  urged  the SEC to allow marketwide curbs to
be triggered if a sufficient number of individual stocks are
 halted  since that may affect the calculation of indexes. The SEC
said market participants could submit comments about this issue
while the programs are being tested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  