-- Sentinel Management Chief, Head Trader Indicted in Illinois
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-06-01T19:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/sentinel-management-chief-head-trader-charged-by-u-s-correct-.html
Bankrupt Sentinel Management Group
Inc.’s chief executive officer, Eric A. Bloom, and head trader
were charged with fraud related to the cash management firm’s
2007 collapse, federal authorities said.  Bloom and Charles K. Mosley were indicted yesterday by a
federal grand jury in  Chicago  for allegedly making false
statements to investors and understating the potential risks,
according to the indictment.  Bloom, 47, and Mosley, 48, “participated in a scheme to
defraud and to obtain money and property of prospective
customers” using “fraudulent pretenses, representations and
promises,” eventually gathering more than $500 million,
according to the indictment.  The two face charges of bilking more than 70 customers in
“one of the largest criminal financial fraud cases ever
prosecuted in federal court in Chicago,” according to a
statement today from Patrick J. Fitzgerald, U.S. attorney for
the Northern District of  Illinois .  Bloom and Mosley each face 18 counts of wire fraud and one
count each of  securities fraud  and making false statements,
prosecutors said. Each  wire fraud  count carries a maximum
sentence of 20 years in prison.  Bloom didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the indictment that was left at a number
listed for his residence in Northbrook, Illinois. A listing for
Mosley of Vernon Hills, Illinois, wasn’t available.  The telephone has been disconnected at company headquarters
in Northbrook.  The case is U.S. v. Bloom and Mosley, 12-cr-409, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 