-- Serbian Government Delay Raises Fiscal Concerns, Fitch Says
-- B y   A l a n   C r o s b y   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-06-01T14:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/serbian-government-delay-raises-fiscal-concerns-fitch-says.html
Serbia  needs to form a government as
quickly as possible to ease concerns about its fiscal outlook,
Fitch Ratings said.  May 6 parliamentary elections in the Balkan nation produced
no clear winner and main political parties are negotiating a
coalition government. A delay in establishing a Cabinet “might
lead to significant fiscal slippage in 2012,” the agency said
in a statement today from  London .  Serbia’s budget deficit expanded to 80 billion dinars ($845
million) in the first five months of the year, to between 7
percent and 8 percent of gross domestic product, while public
debt approached 50 percent of GDP, exceeding fiscal targets, the
country’s Fiscal Council said on May 30.  “The longer it takes to form a government, the harsher the
fiscal measures to rein in the 2012 deficit are likely to be,”
 Fitch Ratings  said. Serbia’s legal deadline to have a government
or repeat the vote is the end of August.  The “uncertainty” in the election aftermath remains
“within the tolerance of the ’BB-’ rating,” Fitch said. The
rating may come under pressure in case of a protracted period
without a government, it said.  The economy contracted 1.3 percent in the first three
months and Fitch Ratings expects it to stagnate in 2012.  “Serbia is also sensitive to events in  Greece , given its
banks’ large exposure to the Greek banking sector,” the rating
agency said. “Ideally, a government would be in place ahead of
Greece’s re-run elections on June 17, in case investor concerns
increase to the point where a policy response is needed.”  Serbia also needs a new government to resume talks with the
 International Monetary Fund , which froze a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan program with the country in February as it
became clear it would slip on the agreed targets, including
keeping the public debt to 45 percent of GDP.  “A new deal with the IMF would be key to reducing
investors’ uncertainty,” Fitch Ratings said. “Fitch regards
the IMF program as positive, providing an anchor against
excessive deviations” as well as playing an “important role in
financing Serbia’s sizable current account deficits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crosby in Prague at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  