-- French Open Top Seeds Djokovic, Azarenka Win; Federer Advances
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-01T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/sharapova-advances-at-french-open-tennis-no-3-radwanska-loses.html
Roger Federer  was pushed to four sets
for the second straight French Open match, while top seeds Novak Djokovic and  Victoria Azarenka  won in straight sets.  Djokovic beat Nicolas Devilder of France 6-1, 6-2, 6-2 in a
third-round match yesterday at Roland Garros in Paris, while
Azarenka defeated Canadian Aleksandra Wozniak 6-4, 6-4.  Federer, the No. 3 seed, beat Frenchman Nicolas Mahut 6-3,
4-6, 6-2, 7-5 to extend his record of Grand Slam match wins to
235. The 16-time tennis major winner also was forced to four
sets in his last match.  “Struggled a little bit, but overall obviously I’m happy I
came through,” the Swiss right-hander said in a news
conference.  Six-time champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain, seeded second this
year, will play  Eduardo Schwank  of Argentina today in the third
round. Women’s matches include American Christina McHale against
defending champion Li Na of China.  Maria Sharapova  won a second-round match yesterday that had
been postponed from the day before, and No. 3 Agnieszka Radwanska became the highest-seeded woman to lose.  Djokovic, bidding to become the first man to hold all four
major titles at once since Rod Laver in 1969, broke the serve of
the 286th-ranked Devilder seven times and fired 28 winners to
the Frenchman’s 16.  The Serb will next play Italian Andreas Seppi, who beat
 Fernando Verdasco  of Spain in four sets. Azarenka, of Belarus,
will meet Slovakia’s Dominika Cibulkova. The winner of the
Azarenka-Cibulkova match will move on to face either American
teenager Sloane Stephens or sixth seed Samantha Stosur of
Australia in the quarterfinals.  Stephens Advances  Stephens, 19, beat  France ’s Mathilde Johansson 6-3, 6-2
yesterday to reach the fourth round of a major for the first
time. Stosur defeated Russia’s Nadia Petrova in straight sets.  Federer easily took the first and third sets, but looked
flat at times in losing the second and winning the fourth. He
next faces Belgian qualifier David Goffin, who beat Poland’s
Lukasz Kubot in straight sets.  Sharapova beat Japan’s Ayumi Morita 6-1, 6-1 in a match
rescheduled because of a 5 1/2-hour contest between John Isner
and Paul-Henri Mathieu. The Russian hit 22 winners to just one
for Morita.  “Nice to get out there and finish and get in the third
round,” said Sharapova, who plays  China ’s Peng Shuai today for
a spot in the fourth round.  Radwanska lost to 2009 champion Svetlana Kuznetsova of
Russia 6-1, 6-2 in a third-round match. The Pole, who ousted
American Venus Williams in the second round, needed to win the
title to have a chance at taking over the top spot in the world
rankings.  “It’s always disappointing when losing in the first week
of a Grand Slam,” she said. “I didn’t play bad, she was just
playing unbelievable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 