-- Tsipras Vows to Cancel Bailout as Make-or-Break Greek Vote Looms
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-06-01T12:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/tsipras-vows-to-cancel-bailout-as-make-or-break-greek-vote-looms.html
Alexis Tsipras, head of  Greece ’s
biggest anti-bailout party Syriza, appealed to Greeks to give
him the power in elections on June 17 to cancel the terms of an
international bailout and restore pensions and wages.  “The choice for Greeks on June 17 is one: bailout or
Syriza’s government program,” Tsipras said, presenting his
campaign platform in Athens today. “You either implement the
bailout or you cancel it. There is no such thing as a more or
less evil bailout, a more or less inappropriate medicine.”  Tsipras’s promise to abrogate the terms of the rescue loans
amounts to a bet the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund  will stop short of kicking Greece out of the 17-nation
euro. The cuts required for 240 billion euros ($306 billion) of
aid over the past two years have driven the country into the
worst recession since World War II.  He said Syriza would replace the bailout with a plan for
economic and social development and “fair fiscal reform,”
while canceling “onerous” terms and seeking a renegotiation of
the loan agreement.  Syriza was propelled to second place in inconclusive May 6
elections. Failed coalition talks prompted the need for a
revote. Most opinion polls show Syriza and  New Democracy , which
voted for the bailout, vying for first place. Neither has enough
support at this point to rule alone, the surveys show.  Tsipras has said he’ll try to keep Greece in the euro while
pledging to cancel austerity measures. He said today the bailout
terms were designed to drive Greece out of the euro area.  ‘False Dilemma’  “It is a mechanism of definitive bankruptcy and propelling
the country into a voluntary departure from the euro area, the
only exit that is institutionally viable,” he said. “This
false dilemma of ‘bailout or drachma’ hides the real equation
that the bailout leads to the return of the drachma.”  Syriza’s plan is to revoke all austerity measures that have
deepened the recession. He said pursuing  tax evasion  and taxing
high-income earners, including abolishing tax breaks for
shipowners, would boost revenue to the EU average. Syriza will
cancel laws tied to the bailout such as cuts to the minimum wage
and reduce sales taxes on some basic goods, such as bread and
milk, as well as sales taxes for key sectors such as tourism, he
said.  He said banks being recapitalized under a 50 billion-euro
fund granted by international creditors would be “nationalized
and socialized” and said the party would keep public companies
of strategic importance, freezing commitments to sell assets.
Companies already sold, such as  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO)  will “gradually and in line with the abilities
of the economy” be brought back under state control.  First Vote  Syriza’s unexpected gains in the May 6 election left New
Democracy and Pasok, which supported the second international
rescue in an interim government this year, two deputies short of
the 151 seats needed for a majority in Parliament.  Syriza won 16.8 percent of the vote compared with New
Democracy’s 18.9 percent. Under Greek election rules, the
winning party gets an extra 50 seats in Parliament. Four opinion
polls today showed both parties vying for first place.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
Natalie Weeks at   nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  