-- Six Injured in Kosovo as Nato Clears Serb Roadblocks
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   B e k i m   G r e i c e v c i
-- 2012-06-01T16:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/six-injured-in-kosovo-as-nato-clears-serb-roadblocks.html
Four Serb civilians and at least two
soldiers of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in
 Kosovo , known as KFOR, were injured when troops cleared
roadblocks set up by the Serb minority.  KFOR troops were removing the roadblocks set up by the Serb
community, which rejects the authority of Kosovo’s ethnic
Albanian government, when a “violent crowd” attacked the
troops, KFOR said in an e-mailed statement. “KFOR must confirm
two wounded soldiers during the removal operation,” with both
“wounded by gunshots.”  The protesters threw stones at the troops, Tanjug newswire
reported, citing people present at the incident. KFOR said it
“responded in self-defense accordingly, by using teargas and
rubber bullets.”  Serbia’s National Security Council urgently convened,
accusing Kosovo authorities of being behind the action aimed at
“causing instability and fear among the Serbian population.”
Chaired by the recently elected President Tomislav Nikolic, the
council issued a  statement  calling on local Serbs to “refrain
from conflicts with members of international missions.”  “KFOR will respond in self-defense accordingly” and
“will not allow the situation to escalate,” the multinational
mission said in its press release.  Nikolic Inauguration  The violence came a day after  Serbia , from which Kosovo
seceded in 2008, inaugurated Nikolic as president and is working
to form a new government following May 6 elections. Improving
relations with the breakaway province is a condition for Serbia
in its effort to join the European Union. Around 130,000 Serbs
live among Kosovo’s mostly ethnic Albanian population of 2
million.  Clearing of the roadblocks was carried out “to improve
freedom of movement not only for KFOR but also for international
organizations and for all people in Kosovo,” KFOR said in an e-
mailed statement. “KFOR condemns this violent act strongly.”  Serbia lost control over Kosovo in 1999 when NATO bombing
forced it to halt its campaign against Kosovo’s pro-independence
ethnic Albanians and hand over control to the alliance. Kosovo’s
ethnic Albanians declared independence in 2008, with support and
recognition from the U.S. and its West European allies.  Serbs Injured  Four Serbs were injured in the confrontation, including one
seriously, Tanjug newswire reported, citing chief of the local
hospital in Kosovska Mitrovica, Milan Jakovljevic.  “There’s not much we can do, maybe only some minor moves,
until the new Cabinet is in place,” Oliver Ivanovic, Serbia’s
deputy minister for Kosovo affairs in the outgoing government
told Belgrade-based B92 broadcaster.  He accused KFOR of acting on behalf of Kosovo’s government
which wants to “use the institutional vacuum” in Serbia where
political parties are negotiating a new coalition government.  The 60-year-old Nikolic, whose Progressive Party ran on a
platform of closer ties to  Russia , needs to balance economic
austerity with social protections, and Serbia’s drive to join
the EU with nationalists’ rejection of independence for the
breakaway province of Kosovo. Nikolic has turned to ex-President
 Boris Tadic , whom he beat in a May 20 presidential runoff vote,
to find a workable coalition and have a prime minister designate
by June 4, as neither party has majority backing.  It is “exceptionally important to stop the violence as
soon as possible in order to solve problems through dialogue,”
Tadic’s  Democratic Party  said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net ;
Bekim Greicevci in Pristina at 
 bgreicevci@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  