-- Slowdown Magnifies Jobs Number for Obama Race With Romney
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/slowdown-magnifies-jobs-number-for-obama-race-with-romney.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
prospects suffered a blow yesterday as a government report
showed hiring slowed last month, reinforcing Republican  Mitt Romney ’s main line of attack against the incumbent.  Jobs in the U.S. grew by 69,000 in May, the fewest in a
year and less than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of private economists. The unemployment rate
increased to 8.2 percent, the first rise since last June.  The jobs report “keeps the focus on the president’s
performance and on the Obama record,” said Stu Rothenberg,
editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in
Washington. “It simply makes it harder for the president to say
it’s not about me and it’s about a choice between two men. It’s
much easier for Romney to say, ‘Now, wait a minute, is he doing
a good job?’”  The slowdown in job growth follows April figures that also
came in below forecast and were revised down further yesterday,
to a 77,000 gain. The Labor Department’s monthly employment
report comes on top of other signs of a weakening economy, the
overriding concern of voters leading up to the November
election.  Obama, speaking at a fundraiser in  Minneapolis  yesterday,
suggested the slowdown in U.S. job growth was primarily due to
European governments’ inadequate response to the continent’s
debt crisis, saying “our biggest challenge is not here in the
United States but the economy overseas.”  Europe’s Crisis  “Europe is having a significant crisis in part because
they haven’t taken as many of the decisive steps as were needed
to deal with the challenge and that’s weakening Asia and that
means it’s harder for our exports,” Obama said.  Government reports yesterday showed manufacturing output
shrank in Europe and slowed in China, the world’s second-largest
economy.  Republicans immediately blamed Obama’s policies for the
stalling labor market. Romney called the jobs numbers “very bad
news for middle-class families in America” and a “harsh
indictment” of Obama’s policies.  “This crisis has been going on for 40 months,” Romney
said in an interview on CNBC. “The job of the president is to
get America back to work.”  Romney said, if elected in November, he would “focus all
my energy” on such an effort. “This president has not.” He
said Obama “is always quick to find someone to blame” for the
struggling economy.  Refusing to Cooperate  House Speaker  John Boehner  faulted Democrats and Obama for
what he was their refusal to work with Republicans to pass
legislation to promote job growth.  “If they had taken our advice and worked with us, the
economy would be better,” the Ohio Republican told reporters.  While Obama and White House officials sought to put the
numbers in the best light by citing continued expansion in
hiring over the past 27 months, some allies were more direct.  There is “absolutely nothing good to be said” about the
employment report,  Steven Rattner , who headed Obama’s automobile
task force, said on Twitter.  Reports released earlier in the week showed the  U.S.
economy  grew less than initially estimated during the year’s
first quarter, and business activity in May expanded at the
slowest pace in more than two years. The number of Americans
applying for  unemployment benefits  rose to a one-month high in
the week ended May 26.  Stocks Slide  U.S. stocks in May suffered their worst drop since
September amid the slowdown in economic growth and signs the
European debt crisis is worsening. The Standard & Poor’s 500
 Index (SPX)  declined 6.3 percent during the month.  Yields on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note tumbled to record
lows for a third day after the Labor Department report. The S&P
declined 2.5 percent to 1,277.79 yesterday, its biggest one-day
retreat since November. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  wiped
out its gain for the year.  Still, there are signs of life in the economy.  Consumer
spending  rose 0.3 percent in April, evidence that households are
supporting growth. Home values in 20 cities declined at the
slowest pace in more than a year during the 12 months that ended
in March. Car sales during this year’s first four months have
been running at their fastest pace since 2008.  Private forecasters had expected the U.S.  unemployment rate 
in May to remain at 8.1 percent and non-farm payrolls to grow by
150,000, according to the median estimate of 39 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Payrolls had expanded by an average of
226,000 during the first three months of the year.  Keeping Pace  The economy needs to add approximately 100,000 jobs each
month to keep even with  population growth , said Heidi Shierholz,
an economist with the  Economic Policy Institute  in Washington.  The jobs report underscored parallels with the climate of
economic distress confronting the last two presidents to lose
re-election, Republican  George H.W. Bush  in 1992 and Democrat
 Jimmy Carter  in 1980. Both were defeated in the aftermath of
recessions.  Still, the trajectory of the economy this time differs. In
1980, the unemployment rate rose 1.8 percentage points during
the election year to peak at 7.8 percent in July. In 1992, the
unemployment that followed the 1990-91 recession also didn’t
reach its height until the election year, peaking at 7.8 percent
in June.  Peak Unemployment  Joblessness peaked following the 2007-2009 recession at 10
percent in October 2009. Despite the 0.1 percentage point uptick
in the May unemployment rate, joblessness has declined during
the election year and is 0.8 percentage points lower than a year
earlier.  Obama also hasn’t faced the discontent within his own party
that fueled insurgent primary challenges by then-Senator  Edward Kennedy  of Massachusetts in 1980 and Patrick Buchanan in 1992,
and third-party general election candidacies by  John Anderson  in
1980 and Ross Perot in 1992.  The political impact of economic discontent in 1992 also
was compounded by public impressions that Bush was “out of
touch,” magnified by incidents such as the president’s
expression of surprise when encountering a price scanner at a
grocery store and his glance at his watch during one of the
presidential debates, said Democratic consultant  Tad Devine .  Close Race  Obama and Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, are
locked in a close contest, exchanging the lead four times during
May in Gallup’s daily tracking poll of voter preferences. Romney
led with 46 percent support against 45 percent for Obama in the
Gallup tracking poll conducted May 24-31. In yesterday’s
results, Obama was ahead by 3 percentage points, 47 percent to
44 percent for Romney. The margin of error is plus or minus 2
percentage points.  The increase in the unemployment rate presents an
additional challenge to Obama because it is the direction of the
economy that is most influential in shaping voter decisions in
the November election.  “Take the slope of the economy and that’s really a good
indicator of what voters will do, how they evaluate
presidents,” said Christopher Wlezien, a political science
professor at  Temple University  in Philadelphia and co-author of
the forthcoming book “The Timeline of Presidential Elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  