-- TSMC Falls Most in Three Years After Goldman Cut: Taipei Mover
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-06-01T07:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/tsmc-falls-most-in-three-years-after-goldman-cut-taipei-mover.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330)  fell the most in three years after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s Donald Lu, the top-ranked analyst covering the stock, cut
his recommendation, citing weak demand in China and  Europe .  The chipmaker dropped 6.1 percent, the most since Jan. 8,
2009, to NT$79.90 at the close in Taipei, with volume 1.7 times
the daily average over the past three months. TSMC accounted for
one-quarter of the benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  index’s 2.7 percent drop
today and was the largest contributor to a 1.1 percent decline
in the  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  as of 2 p.m. in Taipei.  Semiconductor inventories will increase this quarter and
next with a potential correction in the final three months of
the year, Beijing-based Lu wrote in a report yesterday. He
reduced his share-price estimate by 16 percent. TSMC, whose
 clients  include  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , forecast
record revenue for the current quarter in April and raised its
spending budget on anticipated stronger demand.  “TSMC shares have rarely outperformed the market once its
utilization has surpassed 95 percent due to cyclical concerns,”
Lu wrote. “We estimate TSMC’s utilization to reach 98 percent
in 2Q12 and would wait for a better entry point.”  Lu cut his recommendation on the stock to neutral from buy
and lowered his share-price estimate to NT$80. He also
downgraded rival  United Microelectronics Corp. (2303) , which dropped
4.2 percent today in Taipei, to sell from neutral.  Order Cuts  Rising competition and the risk of order cuts prompted
Jefferies Group Inc.’s Hong Kong-based analyst Robert Lea to
lower TSMC to underperform from hold, lowering his share-price
estimate 9 percent to NT$72.  “While it is difficult to be precise about the timing and
magnitude of the order cuts, we believe it is not a question of
‘if,’ but ‘when’ they occur,” Lea wrote in a May 31 report.
“Our checks suggest earlier thoughts of re-stocking have now
given way to de-stocking, as confidence in the economic recovery
has evaporated.”  TSMC has a buy rating from 24 of 32 analysts whose
recommendations on the stock are tracked by Bloomberg. Including
the downgrade from Jefferies, six analysts say hold while two
suggest investors sell the stock. TSMC’s decline today takes it
10 percent below its record-high close of NT$88.90 on May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 