-- South African Manufacturing Remains Under Pressure, PMI Shows
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-06-01T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/south-african-manufacturing-remains-under-pressure-pmi-shows.html
South Africa ’s purchasing managers’
 index  was little changed in May, indicating demand for
manufactured goods remains under pressure in  Africa ’s largest
economy, according to Kagiso Tiso Holdings.  The seasonally adjusted index fell to 53.6 from 53.7 in
April, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso  said in an e-mailed statement
today. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion in factory
output. The median estimate of six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for the measure to decline to 52.6.  The new sales orders index fell 3.7 points to 51.7 in May,
which “reflects a rapid deterioration in demand for locally
produced goods,” Abdul Davids, head of research at Kagiso, said
in the statement. “Inventories are too high relative to the
demand for manufactured goods and suggests a possible further
easing in headline PMI in the coming months.”  Factory output contracted for the first time in eight
months in March as the debt crisis in  Europe  cut demand from a
region that buys about a third of manufactured exports. The
manufacturing industry makes up about 15 percent of Africa’s
largest economy.  The business activity sub-index declined to 56 in May from
57.7 in the previous month, Kagiso said.  A weaker rand is adding to manufacturers’ costs, pushing up
the PMI price sub-index by 2.5 points to 73.6 last month. The
currency has slumped 10 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of April and was trading as low as 8.5704 today.  The Bureau for  Economic Research , based at the University
of Stellenbosch near  Cape Town , and the Institute of Purchasing
and Supply South Africa conduct the PMI survey on behalf of
Kagiso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  