-- South Korea Exports Fall 0.4% in May for Third Monthly Drop
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-06-01T01:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/south-korea-exports-fall-0-4-in-may-for-third-monthly-drop-1-.html
South Korea’s exports declined for a
third month in May, adding pressure on the central bank to hold
off from raising  interest rates  at a meeting next week.  Overseas  sales  fell 0.4 percent in May from a year earlier,
after a revised 4.8 percent decline in April, the Ministry of
 Knowledge Economy  said in a statement today. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists was for a 1.1
percent drop. A separate report showed today that inflation held
at a 21-month low of 2.5 percent in May.  South Korean officials are trying to sustain momentum in
Asia’s fourth-biggest economy after the fastest growth in a year
in the first quarter. A slowdown in  China  and the risk of a
Greek exit from the euro region are clouding the outlook for
exports, which are equivalent to about half of gross domestic
product.  “Export growth will likely remain sluggish, as weak demand
from  Europe  partially offsets the upturn in the tech cycle,”
said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays
Capital  in  Singapore , referring to technology-related industries
such as semiconductor chips.  The won fell 4.3 percent in May for the biggest monthly
loss since September and was little changed at 1,180.85 per
dollar at 9:41 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Kospi stock index declined 0.1 percent.  Output Rises  The nation’s industrial production  rose  the most in three
months in April as improving domestic demand offset exports hurt
by Europe’s debt crisis. Output rose 0.9 percent from March,
when it declined a revised 2.9 percent, Statistics Korea said
yesterday.  Exports rose to $47.2 billion in May from a revised $46.2
billion in April, today’s report showed. Imports declined 1.2
percent to $44.8 billion from a year ago. The  trade surplus  was
$2.4 billion.  Shipments to the European Union declined 16.4 percent from
a year earlier in the first 20 days of May, the ministry said.
Exports to China, the biggest buyer of South Korean goods,
dropped 10.3 percent and sales to the U.S. fell 16.5 percent.
Data for exports to individual countries are only available for
the first 20 days of the month.  Exports of semiconductors rose 1.2 percent last month while
car exports gained 3.7 percent, the ministry said.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s largest mobile-phone
maker last quarter, unveiled a new handset in the Galaxy S
series in May, intensifying a battle with Apple Inc. for
leadership in the smartphone market.  Growth Outlook  South Korea ’s economy expanded at the fastest pace in a
year last quarter, boosted by  government spending  and
investments by semiconductor makers. Still, the central bank
reduced its economic growth forecast for this year to 3.5
percent from 3.7 percent on April 16, citing downside risks from
the European debt crisis and high  oil prices .  Bank of Korea policy makers last month vowed to keep price
gains at the midpoint of a 2 percent to 4 percent medium-term
target.  “Recent declines in gasoline prices could lessen
inflationary pressures,” Chang Jae Chul, an economist at
Citigroup Global Markets Korea Securities Ltd. in Seoul, said
before the release today. “But prices of agricultural products
and other commodities are expected to rise further as import
prices rise along with weakness of the won.”  Core consumer prices, which exclude oil and agricultural
products, advanced 1.6 percent in May from a year earlier,
today’s report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  