-- Spain Default Swaps at Record as Europe Bond Risk Rises
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n
-- 2012-06-01T09:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/spain-default-swaps-at-record-as-bond-risk-increases-in-europe.html
The cost of insuring against a
default on Spanish  government bonds  rose to a record as the
nation’s debt crisis deepened.  Credit-default swaps linked to  Spain ’s notes climbed nine
basis points to 609 at 10:40 a.m. in London, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Swaps on  Telefonica (TEF)  SA, the nation’s
biggest phone company, climbed 13 basis points to an all-time
high of 481.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said the euro’s
future will be played out in the coming weeks in Italy and Spain
as data showed record levels of capital leaving his country. The
 International Monetary Fund  denied it was preparing financial
aid for Spain.  “It’s important that any support for Spain allows it to
maintain  market access  as a full-blown bailout would pretty much
exhaust bailout funds,”  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at
Investec Bank Plc in London, said in a note. “The most likely
path to achieve this is to separate banking and sovereign
support.”  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments climbed three basis points to 328.75, adding to the
gauge’s 50 basis-point jump in May. Swaps on Italy climbed 14
basis points to 575, approaching the record 602 basis points on
Nov. 15, Bloomberg data show. An increase signals worsening
investor perceptions of  credit quality .  Telefonica Risk  Swaps on Telefonica climbed after the company said it will
explore share sales for O2 Germany and its Latin American
businesses as part of attempts to cut its net debt of more than
57 billion euros ($70 billion).  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
Madrid-based company’s ratings to two levels above junk last
week. Junk, or speculative-grade, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  The cost of insuring bank debt also increased, with the
Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of 25 banks
and insurers rising 3.5 basis points to 300, after surging 23
percent last month. The subordinated bank-swaps index increased
2.5 basis points to 495.5.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps linked to 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings increased seven
basis points to 727, after a 69-point rise in May. The Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings advanced 2.5 basis points to 181.5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shanahan in  London  at 
 mshanahan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  