-- Spanish Regions Balance Budgets as Government Helps Funding
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-06-01T12:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/spanish-regions-balance-budgets-as-government-helps-funding.html
Spain ’s regions balanced their
budgets in the first quarter as the central government brought
forward transfers to the cash-strapped states.  The 17 regions eliminated their overall deficit, compared
with a full-year target of 1.5 percent of gross domestic
product. Stripping out the impact of transfers, which have
swelled the central government’s deficit, the regions’ deficit
narrowed to 0.45 percent from 0.75 percent a year earlier.  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro also said the government
is working on a plan to help regions return to  capital markets .
The mechanism, which will be “temporary” and linked to
additional budget conditions, should be ready next week, he told
a news conference in Madrid after the weekly Cabinet meeting.
Regions will still be responsible for their debts and the
government won’t create a separate institution to manage the
project, he said.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is trying to rescue the
regions, which manage more than a third of public spending,
without increasing the burden on the central government. The
central government’s 10-year borrowing costs rose to 6.56
percent today, approaching the 7 percent level that led Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  Rajoy has asked the regions to cut their deficit by more
than half this year after they accounted for most of the
nation’s budget  slippage  in 2011, when the shortfall reached 8.9
percent of GDP, compared with a target of 6 percent.  Montoro also said the government will draft its 2014 budget
alongside the 2013 spending plan. The budget process starts
around July each year and goes to parliament by the end of
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid   at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  