-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Papua New Guinea (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-01T18:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-papua-new-guinea-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Papua New Guinea :  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV  Consultation with Papua New Guinea  On May 14, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Papua New
Guinea, and considered and endorsed the staff appraisal without a
meeting.  Background  Papua New Guinea has seen solid economic growth over the past decade,
supported by sound macroeconomic policies, improved public finances,
moderate inflation, and attractive conditions for foreign investors in
the mining and petroleum industries. While Papua New Guinea remains a
low-income country, its resource wealth is an opportunity to raise
 living standards  for all. To achieve its development targets, the
government is focusing on public services, including education, health,
law and order, and infrastructure. Reforms are under way to raise the
efficiency of public enterprises and increase competition in the
private sector.
Real GDP is estimated to have increased to about 9 percent in 2011
from about 7.6 percent in 2010. Elevated commodity prices, the
construction of a liquefied natural gas project, and  government
spending  are boosting the economy and generating inflation pressures.
The temporary closure of key mines, caused by natural disasters, and
dwindling oil production dampened overall output growth. Headline
inflation peaked just below 10 percent in the second quarter of 2011,
but subsequently eased to 7 percent at year-end in line with declining
international food prices and the appreciation of the kina.
After a large fiscal deficit in 2009, the budget returned to surplus in
the last two years. Higher-than-expected commodity prices boosted
government revenue and greater spending discipline, including on spending
out of trust accounts, resulted in budget surpluses. The Bank of PNG
raised its policy rate by 75 basis points to 7¾ percent, increased
commercial banks’ cash reserve requirements by 200 basis points to 6
percent, and issued central bank bills to mop up liquidity. The nominal
effective  exchange rate  appreciated by 21 percent in 2011.
The financial sector remains profitable and well capitalized, but
vulnerabilities have increased. Exposure to the heated real estate
sector continues to fall. However, the non-performing loans ratio
increased and provisioning of commercial banks dropped.
The current account deficit widened to 36 percent of GDP in 2011, driven
by the rise in imports for the construction of the LNG plant and the
compensation of foreign workers. The deficit was, however, largely
financed by FDI and private external debt related to the LNG project.
Public external debt declined to 9.8 percent of GDP by end-2011.
Executive Board Assessment
We commend the authorities for achieving macroeconomic stability and a
sustainable fiscal position.[2]To preserve these achievements and
promote inclusive development, it will be important to combine steady,
affordable growth in government spending with improvements in public
financial management and expenditure effectiveness. This should be
accompanied by structural reforms and a flexible monetary policy.
After 10 years of uninterrupted economic growth, the medium-term outlook
remains positive. Risks to the outlook are broadly balanced and
predominantly related to the resource sector.2
Further monetary tightening would likely be needed to anchor inflation
expectations at the Bank of PNG’s 5 percent reference value.
Reducing excess liquidity by raising banks’ cash reserve requirements
and limiting reserve accumulation would be the most effective ways to
achieve tighter monetary conditions. Going forward, greater exchange
rate flexibility would provide an important buffer against external
shocks.
Fiscal policy should target a smooth expenditure path. Such a policy
would help sustain solid economic growth with moderate inflation,
and provide reliable funding for essential public services.
It could be
implemented through tighter control of expenditure growth in the
current election year, and steady increases in real spending per
capita over the medium term.
PNG’s resource sector could make a larger contribution to public
revenues. Efforts to promote this could include strengthening revenue
collection, reinforcing the internal revenue and customs services,
streamlining existing tax concessions, and applying the Additional
Profits Tax to mining activities, given that the average effective
tax take from resources appears to be on the low side of fiscal
regimes across the world.
The SWF provides a strong framework for insulating public expenditure
from volatility in resource revenue, and for improving transparency,
accountability, and good governance.  Withdrawal rules should be set
in accordance with the new Medium-Term Fiscal Strategy. Once the SWF
is established, all existing trust accounts should be consolidated with
the fund.
We welcome the government’s agenda for better public services. Plans to
increase the expenditure share of key development priorities--education,
health, law and order, and infrastructure--go in the right direction.
However, to deliver better public services marked gains in the
effectiveness of public spending are needed. Therefore we encourage
the authorities to develop a multi-year budget for selected expenditures
and invest in the reform of key ministries responsible for planning
and service delivery.
More competition would benefit consumers and raise efficiency.
We encourage the authorities to strengthen enforcement of competitive
behavior and replace existing monopolies. The introduction of exclusive
production rights and import protection for rice would go in the wrong
direction and hurt consumers. The authorities should proceed with SOE
reforms.
The current account deficit is largely financed by FDI and is not
expected to threaten external stability. The exchange rate is estimated
to be modestly undervalued and reserves are adequate to address
potential balance-of-payments needs.
The financial sector remains sound. Banks have high capital adequacy
ratios and should be resilient to contagion from the Euro area, but need
to maintain appropriate lending standards and further reduce exposure
to the real estate sector. Financial supervision has been of high quality,
and the planned enhanced cooperation among supervisors is welcome.
The authorities should implement the remaining 2011 FSAP recommendations.
The authorities need to urgently tackle structural deficiencies in the
provision of national statistics. Gaps in macroeconomic data provision
complicate PNG’s public policy-making and Fund surveillance.
This requires immediate reform and strengthening of the relevant
government agencies.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  