-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Botswana (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-01T20:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-botswana-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to Botswana:  A mission from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) visited Gaborone
during May 21-June 1 to conduct the 2012 Article IV Consultation
discussions with Botswana. The mission’s work focused on reviewing
recent economic developments, prospects and risks, and policies to
ensure continued macroeconomic stability and growth. The mission met
with Minister of Finance and Development Planning, the Honorable Kenneth
Matambo; Bank of Botswana Governor, Ms. Linah K. Mohohlo, Mr. Solomon M.
Sekwakwa,  Permanent Secretary  at the Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning; senior government officials, development partners, and
representatives from the private sector and civil society.  At the end of the mission, Mr. Lamin Leigh, IMF Mission Chief for
Botswana, issued the following statement in Gaborone today:  “The mission forecast that overall real GDP growth would be about 4
percent in 2012 compared to 5 percent in 2011. The international
diamond market showed some signs of recovery in the first quarter of
2012, following a relatively poor performance towards the end of 2011.
Non-mining GDP growth is likely to moderate on the back of the imminent
completion of large construction projects. Going forward, the current
fragile external environment poses considerable uncertainty on the global
economic outlook and mineral export demand. Thus, the period ahead will
require a delicate balancing act on the implementation of macroeconomic
policies.  “While inflation is currently higher than the Bank of Botswana’s
medium-term objective range of 3 -6 percent, it has trended downward
in recent months, and at this stage, there appears to be no firm
evidence of generalized price pressures in the domestic economy.
Thus, the mission supports the Bank of Botswana’s current accommodative
monetary policy stance.  “The mission commends the Government of Botswana’s on the FY2012/13
Budget which targets a small fiscal surplus. The budget is centered on
further expenditure restraint, while improving the quality of spending
to ensure value for money. Specifically, the mission continues to
support the emphasis on expenditure control as the government’s spending
envelope (above 30 percent of GDP), is high by international standards,
thus warranting a thorough assessment of pockets of unproductive spending
and ways to increase efficiencies. The mission also recommends the
rebalancing of revenue-raising and expenditure-cutting measures.
This could be achieved by complementing the measures in the Budget
with policies that widen the domestic tax base and prepare the economy
for an eventual decline in diamond revenues. Measures in this regard
include a judicious rationalization of tax exemptions and improvements
in tax administration to broaden the revenue base.  “The mission welcomes the emphasis given by the government to broaden
access to financial services and improve financial intermediation.
While Botswana’s financial system has grown and diversified considerably
over the last decade, the level of financial intermediation is relatively
low compared with other high middle-income countries although it has
improved in more recent years. Thus, greater financial development and
inclusion are consistent with current government policies as described
in both the Vision 2016 and National Development Plan (NDP) 10.
The mission also welcomes the emphasis placed in the FY2012/13 budget
speech on enhancing the capacity of Non-Bank Financial Institutions
Regulatory Authority (NBFIRA).  “The government’s emphasis on poverty eradication, inclusive growth,
tackling the high level of unemployment and diversifying the economy is
well placed. Considerable strides have been made towards reducing absolute
poverty as reflected in the Botswana Core Welfare Indicators survey of
2009/10. Efforts to encourage greater financial inclusion and measures
to target inequality at its sources should together help enhance inclusive
growth. Tackling the high level of unemployment in Botswana will require
faster economic growth and addressing distortions in the labor market
including the skill mismatch. The government’s tertiary education reform
program and the establishment of the Human Resource Development Council,
combined with the graduates’ internship program would contribute to
addressing the skill mismatch in the labor market. The mission urges the
government to move ahead with a number of regulatory reforms to improve
the business climate to support the goals of the recently approved
Economic Diversification Drive (EDD).  “The mission would like to thank the authorities for their warm
hospitality, the timely provision of required information, the
productive and open discussions, and the excellent cooperation
during the mission.”  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  