-- Suu Kyi Calls for Myanmar Job Creation to Defuse ‘Time Bomb’
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-06-01T06:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/suu-kyi-calls-for-myanmar-job-creation-to-defuse-time-bomb-.html
Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi called for investments that create jobs to avoid a
“time bomb” of youth unemployment on her first trip abroad in
24 years after the former dictatorship shifted toward democracy.  “I’m extremely worried about the high level of
unemployment in my country, particularly youth unemployment,”
Suu Kyi told reporters at the  World Economic Forum  on East Asia
conference in Bangkok today. “That’s a time bomb. Many of our
young people are already following the wrong path.”  The former political prisoner who won the Nobel Peace Prize
during her 15 years under house arrest became a lawmaker last
month after her National League for Democracy party won 43 of 45
seats in April 1 by-elections. The move prompted the U.S. and
European Union to ease economic and financial sanctions as the
former dictatorship loosens its grip on power.  London-based  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s biggest advertising
company, and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  India ’s biggest automaker,
announced moves to expand in Myanmar last month, while General
Electric Co. and Honda Motor Co. are among other companies
considering investing in the nation of 64 million people.
Myanmar is “set for economic takeoff” if it implements the
right policies, the  International Monetary Fund  said last month.  Investment Warning  Suu Kyi warned companies that Myanmar’s investment law
“would be of no use whatsoever” in a dispute because the
country’s legal system remains unreliable. She called for
transparency in all investments and aid projects, saying
projects like  Italian-Thai Development Pcl (ITD) ’s plan to build an
$8.6 billion deep-sea port in Myanmar left people “completely
in the dark” about what the contracts contained.  “Whatever investments, governmental agreements, whatever
aid might be proposed, please make sure that this is
transparent,” she told reporters in a briefing after her
speech. “We have to make this quite clear, otherwise we may
find the benefits go to one particular group or one particular
person even.”  Suu Kyi declined to say which types of investments she
wanted to see Myanmar attract because “I might be giving the
kind of signals I should not be giving at the moment. But let me
say I’m thinking in terms of low-hanging fruit because we
require quick creation of jobs.”  Mobile Phones  Suu Kyi, who also spoke on a panel about  women’s rights 
that included  Telenor ASA (TEL)  Chief Executive Officer Jon Fredrik Baksaas, called for the elimination of licensing requirements
that make it difficult to acquire  mobile phones . One in 30
people in Myanmar have a mobile phone and less than 1 percent of
the population has an Internet connection, Nomura Holdings Inc.
said in a March 14 report.  Suu Kyi also called for companies to help train employees
in the services industry to meet demand from “a tremendous
flood of tourists.”  “You would be helping our economy to go forward in a very
acceptable way,” she told participants in the forum. “Short
courses can give people a start in some job that will also give
them an opening into a higher level of employment.”  Myanmar announced yesterday it would allow visas on arrival
for investors from 26 countries, including the U.S., Germany,
China and the U.K.  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , Thailand’s biggest producer of beer and
whiskey, is exploring potential investments in the country.  “It doesn’t have to be an acquisition,” Chief Executive
Officer Thapana Sirivadhanabhakdi said yesterday in an interview
with Bloomberg Television in Bangkok. “We have been discussing
with the local partners there and that would be a great
opportunity going in to one of probably the most attractive
markets at the moment.”  Migrant Workers  Since arriving in Bangkok three days ago with a seat in the
airplane’s cockpit, Suu Kyi has met throngs of Myanmar migrant
workers and discussed their plight with Thai Deputy Prime
Minister Chalerm Yoobamrung. She called for better treatment for
the estimated 2 million laborers, about 60 percent of whom are
unregistered and thus ineligible for health care and a 300 baht
($9.43) minimum daily wage.  “If we were able to offer them the job opportunities that
they get here, then they would not need to come here,” Suu Kyi
said. “It was very touching to meet our workers and to find out
how much they long to go home.”  Thai rubber plantations will face labor shortages as
workers from Myanmar leave for their home country, Pongsak
Kerdvonbundit, president of the  Thailand  Rubber Association,
said at the World Rubber Summit in  Singapore  last week. A lack
of workers represents “the most important issue in Thailand
now,” he said.  Unemployment  The IMF estimates Myanmar’s unemployment rate at 4 percent
compared with 0.7 percent in neighboring Thailand. Myanmar’s per
capita gross domestic product amounts to about 15 percent of
Thailand’s, according to data from the IMF. The government has
moved to connect with the global financial system, dismantling a
fixed  exchange rate  earlier this year and revising investment
laws.  Suu Kyi returns to Myanmar on June 3 and will travel later
this month to  Europe . She visits Geneva and  Norway  before
arriving in the U.K., where she’ll address both houses of
Parliament on June 21. Suu Kyi graduated from the University of
Oxford and married a British citizen who died in 1999.  Myanmar President  Thein Sein , who declined an invitation to
attend the WEF event, took power 14 months ago and has won
praise for freeing political prisoners, loosening media
restrictions and persuading Suu Kyi to stand for parliament. Suu
Kyi, while welcoming the suspension of sanctions, said Myanmar’s
reforms must be seen with a “healthy skepticism.”  “These days I’m coming across a lot of what I would call
reckless optimism,” Suu Kyi told the World Economic Forum
participants. “That is not going to help you. It’s not going to
help us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  