-- Swiss Government Adopts Stricter Capital Rules for Banks
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-06-01T17:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/swiss-government-adopts-stricter-capital-rules-for-banks-1-.html
The Swiss government has adopted
stricter capital and leverage rules for banks, including  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG.  UBS and Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s biggest banks, will
have to hold equity amounting to at least 4.56 percent of their
total assets on the balance sheet and certain off-balance sheet
items, the government said in a statement today. The Swiss
financial regulator in 2008 gave the two banks until 2013 to
boost their capital as a proportion of assets, excluding
domestic lending, to at least 3 percent at group level and at
least 4 percent for individual institutions.  The leverage requirement is part of a package of so-called
too-big-to-fail rules that are being introduced for UBS and
Credit Suisse. Under the rules, the banks also have to hold
common equity equal to at least 10 percent of their risk-
weighted assets and another 3 percent that can be in the form of
contingent capital. In addition, the banks have to hold more
contingent capital, in proportion to their total assets and
market share.  Swiss policy makers are running ahead of counterparts in
the U.S. and  Europe  to make sure UBS and Credit Suisse cut risks
and hoard capital to avert the type of banking collapse that
hobbled Iceland’s economy. A Swiss government-appointed panel in
2010 rejected proposals to break up the two Zurich-based banks
or directly limit their size and activities.  Capital Requirements  The two banks were previously estimated to need to hold
total capital equal to 19 percent of risk-weighted assets. This
estimate now stands at about 18 percent after the lenders cut
assets, Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf told reporters
today in the Swiss capital Bern. The too-big-to-fail
requirements are planned to be phased in by 2018.  The government today also adopted tougher regulations for
mortgage lending and rules that will allow it in the future to
raise capital requirements for all banks by as much as 2.5
percent of risk-weighted assets to counter “excess credit
growth.” These measures will come into effect on July 1,
Widmer-Schlumpf said.  Borrowers will from July have to supply at least 10 percent
of the lending value of the property from their own funds
without using their pension assets. Mortgages will also have to
be paid down to two-thirds of the lending value within 20 years.  Mortgage Demand  “There is no sign of a weakening in the strong demand for
mortgage financing, not least due to the exceptionally low level
of  interest rates ,” the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority said in a statement today, adding that an increase in
rates may raise the possibility of defaults and falling prices.
“When a real-estate bubble bursts, the implications for the
country’s financial system can be extremely serious.”  The Swiss central bank last year lowered its benchmark
interest rate to zero to bolster the economy. President Thomas Jordan told SonntagsZeitung in an interview published on May 27
that while developments in the  property market  are giving him a
“stomach pain,” with risks of a bubble, borrowing costs will
“remain very low for a longer period of time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  