-- U.K. Manufacturing Slump Seen Spurring BOE Into Stimulus Revival
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-06-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/u-k-manufacturing-slump-seen-spurring-boe-into-stimulus-revival.html
Britain’s deeper-than-forecast
 manufacturing slump , suggesting the economy remains mired in
recession, may prompt the  Bank of England  to resume stimulus as
soon as next week, Deutsche Bank AG and and Citigroup Inc. said.  Deutsche Bank economist  George Buckley  in  London  said the
central bank will increase its bond-purchase target by 50
billion-pound ($77 billion) on June 7, revising a previous
forecast for no change in quantitative easing. Citigroup’s
 Michael Saunders  also sees an increase that day.  U.K. manufacturing shrank last month at the fastest pace in
three years, a survey yesterday showed, pointing to continued
weakness in the economy after two quarters of  contraction . While
the Bank of England halted expanding its bond-purchase plan last
month, policy makers have indicated they will restart it if
needed as the euro-area crisis deepens.  “There is plenty of scope for more,” Saunders said.
“Other options for stimulus, if QE does reach its limits,
include credit easing and temporary fiscal stimulus. If the euro
crisis continues to worsen, all these options may quickly come
into play.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Malcolm Barr brought forward
his forecast for more QE to July from August and said a “big
fall” in a services index next week could prompt a move by the
central bank on June 7.  Philip Shaw  at Investec Securities, who
forecasts further stimulus in August, said the odds of a move
sooner have “clearly shortened.”  Services Report  The manufacturing index dropped to 45.9 in May from 50.2 in
April, where a reading below 50 indicates contraction.
Economists had forecast a decline to 49.7. An  index of services 
probably fell to 52.4 from 53.3, economists said before a report
on June 7.  The Bank of England will announce its latest monetary
policy decision hours after the service measure is published. It
will keep its  bond-purchase target  at 325 billion pounds, said
38 of 41 economists in a survey. It will also leave its
 benchmark interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent, according
to a separate survey. Many of the responses were received before
the manufacturing report.  Britain’s recovery is under pressure from the government’s
fiscal squeeze, threats from the euro region and cooling global
growth. In  Europe , Greek voters return to the polls on June 17
after a deadlocked result last month raised concerns it may exit
the euro. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has warned the U.K. won’t
be immune to the euro turmoil, while Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  described it as a “storm” heading towards British
shores.  “The MPC will not stray from its position this time, but
it is not impossible that it sanctions more QE,” Shaw said.
“There are a number of clear reasons to point to the likelihood
of more easing in due course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  