-- U.K. Factory Output Drops at Fastest Pace Since Financial Crisis
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-01T08:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/u-k-factory-output-drops-at-fastest-pace-since-financial-crisis.html
U.K.  manufacturing  shrank last month
at the fastest pace since the depths of the financial crisis in
2009 as demand plunged.  A gauge of  factory output , based on a survey by  Markit
Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply ,
dropped to 45.9 from 50.2 in April, Markit said on its website
today. That’s the lowest since May 2009. The median forecast of
30 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a decline to
49.7 from an initial estimate of 50.5. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  The pound fell after the report. The British Chambers of
Commerce cut its U.K. outlook today because of the impact of the
euro-area debt crisis and said the economy will barely grow this
year. While the  Bank of England  halted expanding stimulus last
month, policy makers have said the central bank can resume bond
purchases if needed. Measures of manufacturing activity in  China 
and the euro area also fell last month.  “The harsh realities of the weak global economy and
sluggish domestic demand are bearing down on U.K.
manufacturing,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer  David Noble  said.
“The sector could well become a drag on the U.K. economy as it
seeks a return to better health.”  A measure of new orders dropped to the lowest level since
March 2009, while job losses were reported for the first time in
five months, Markit said.  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
survey was published and traded at $1.5289 as of 9:34 a.m. in
London, down 0.8 percent from yesterday.  Government bonds  rose,
pushing the yield on the 10-year gilt down 4 basis points to
1.531 percent.  Gross domestic product  will probably rise 0.1 percent this
year, the BCC said in a report, cutting a previous forecast for
growth of 0.6 percent. It sees expansion of 1.9 percent in 2013.  “Ongoing problems in  Europe  will persist for some
considerable time and cause difficulties for U.K. businesses,”
the lobby group said. “Although there will be minimal growth
this year, economic prospects will gradually improve.”  The Bank of England will probably keep its  asset-purchase
target  on hold at 325 billion pounds ($498 billion) next week,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. It will also hold its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent, according to a separate survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  