-- U.S. Given Six Months to Justify Nuclear-Waste Fees
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-01T20:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/u-s-given-six-months-to-justify-nuclear-waste-fees.html
The U.S. Energy Department must
justify the $750 million it collects annually from the atomic
power industry for waste disposal given that it no longer plans
to develop a depository at Yucca Mountain.  A three judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington  today said the department’s 2010 fee determination
was “legally defective” and ruled it has six months to
evaluate whether collection of the fee will provide too much or
too little revenue to offset costs of the nuclear-waste disposal
program.  “Long before the Yucca Mountain program was chosen, the
secretary, as we have noted, ran rather sophisticated
evaluations of the potential costs of a hypothetical repository
as part of his policy of conducting a ‘thorough analysis,” the
court said in its ruling. “His 2010 determination falls far
below the department’s own previous standard.”  Nuclear power plant owners sued the department to suspend
the fees until a new disposal program is begins.  President  Barack Obama  two years ago ended funding for
 Nevada ’s Yucca Mountain, about 100 miles (161 kilometers)
northwest of  Las Vegas , leaving the U.S. without a plan for a
permanent waste repository.  The National Association of Regulatory Utility
Commissioners, an association of utility regulators, called the
decision “an important victory for nuclear-power consumers.”  David Wright , the president of the group, said in a
statement that the court made clear the Energy Department hasn’t
justified continued payments into the Nuclear Waste Fund.  ‘Complete Assessment’  “Although the court did not suspend these payments, the
Energy Department is on notice that they must do a thorough and
complete assessment within six months,” he said.  Nuclear-power utilities and their consumers have paid more
than $30 billion into the fund, Wright said.  “To date they have nothing to show for their investment
except political delays, bureaucratic red tape, and a hole in
the Nevada desert,” he said.  The Energy Department still considers its decision to keep
the fee in place a requirement of the law, according to Jen Stutsman, an agency spokeswoman.  “Nevertheless, the department is prepared to conduct an
evaluation of the adequacy of the Nuclear Waste Fund fee that
complies with the D.C. Circuit’s decision and with the Nuclear
Waste Policy Act,” Stutsman said in an e-mail.  The case is National Association of Regulatory Utility
Commissioners v. U.S. Department of Energy, 11-1066, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  