-- U.S. Job Market Not (Yet) Marked by European Sclerosis
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-01T12:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/u-s-job-market-not-yet-marked-by-european-sclerosis.html
For years economists have stressed
the flexibility of the American  labor  market. Employers in the
U.S., less impeded by strong unions and fussy labor-market
regulation than in other advanced economies, were quicker to
fire workers during downturns -- and faster to hire once demand
picked up.  Workers were flexible, too, partly because they had to be.
With less of a welfare-state cushion than most Europeans, they
were more willing to pick up sticks and move to a new job. They
did their part.  Unemployment is hard, especially in a country that reveres
effort and expects its citizens to pull their weight. Finding
work after months and months of searching makes the pain of
joblessness all too clear, as told in the individual stories in
the June 4  issue  of Bloomberg Businessweek. The other themes in
those tales, though, are persistence and resourcefulness: The
flip side of flexibility is resilience.  Historically, drawing on those strengths, the U.S.’s
smoother turnover of  jobs  has resulted in faster growth and
lower unemployment. Particularly important was the lower rate of
long-term unemployment, the kind that most corrodes skills and
saps the will to work. This labor-market edge over the
competition has been a critical ingredient in the country’s
economic success.  Fading Advantage  Is this great American advantage now fading? What prompts
the question is the slow, un-American recovery from the recent
recession. An old rule of thumb -- the steeper the recession,
the stronger the recovery -- has been set aside since 2008. Jobs
have been slow to come back. Nearly three years after the
trough, the  unemployment rate  in May, released today, was still
8.2 percent, up from 8.1 percent in April. The Labor Department
reported that nonfarm employers added only 69,000 jobs in May,
far short of the 150,000 economists had forecast.  The reason isn’t hard to see. The causes of the recession
were unusual. Downturns brought on by debt overload and
financial breakdown are thankfully rare, but when these so-
called balance-sheet recessions happen they take longer to shake
off. The good news is that the U.S. is recovering, albeit
tepidly by its own standards, and joblessness is inching down.
The worry, meanwhile, is that long-term joblessness may be
causing permanent damage, pushing the U.S. toward  European
labor-market  sclerosis.  The implication is that “full employment” is no longer what
it was. It might mean an unemployment rate of 7 percent, say,
rather than 5 percent as before the recession. If so, and if the
 Federal Reserve  tried to push through the new floor for
joblessness with extra monetary stimulus, the result would be
rising inflation, not more people at work. A rise in so-called
structural unemployment, if it is happening, would be a serious
setback.  One worrisome piece of evidence is a relationship called
the Beveridge curve (named for an influential British economist
and social reformer of the 1930s and 1940s). It compares
unemployment and vacancies. In a typical recession, joblessness
rises and vacancies shrink as the economy contracts. During a
recovery, the process reverses. But in the current upturn, the
curve isn’t retracing its steps. Unemployment is falling more
slowly than you would expect, given the rise in vacancies.  This needs to be watched. It could be a sign of mismatch
between the skills employers want and the skills job applicants
are offering, which would point to higher structural
unemployment. In an April 11 speech, though, Fed Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen  advised caution. Some of the shift is probably due
to temporary extensions of  unemployment benefits , which might
encourage some job seekers to be more choosey. As the extensions
end, she said, things should get back to normal. In previous
recoveries, vacancies at first have often picked up faster than
hires. Detours in the Beveridge curve aren’t uncommon.  Not Structural  Yellen points to other signs that the country’s
unemployment remains much more cyclical than structural, thus
susceptible to sustained monetary stimulus. For instance, many
analysts have cited “house-lock” as a brake on employment:
Unable to sell their houses because their mortgages are
underwater, unemployed workers are finding it harder than usual
to move to find work. Although plausible, it doesn’t stand up,
Yellen says.  Internal migration has been trending lower in the U.S. for
many years, she notes, and shows no sudden drop of late. During
the recession, the fall in mobility was no bigger for homeowners
than for renters, and no worse where  house prices  have fallen
the most. As for the most important factor of all -- the
determination of jobless Americans to get back to work --
Bloomberg Businessweek’s stories suggest it’s undimmed.  In all, it’s right to regard American unemployment as still
predominantly cyclical. Jobs will keep coming as demand revives
-- and it’s too soon to let concerns about inflation drive
monetary policy. For now, the U.S. labor market is still
exceptional. But let’s not imagine that this can last
indefinitely. If the recovery slows, the damage caused by long-
term unemployment will worsen. Labor-market sclerosis will set
in.  Remember that fiscal policy is set not just to slow the
recovery at the end of this year but to crush it. The expiring
provisions of current law promise to push the economy over the
fiscal cliff of abruptly higher taxes and severe cuts in public
spending. A slow recovery interrupted by a self-inflicted second
recession is the formula that would finally cripple the labor
market and kill one of the U.S.’s greatest economic advantages.
It’s an experiment best avoided.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  private space
exploration  and  fighting childhood obesity ; William Pesek on
 Hong Kong’s growth concerns ;  Noah Feldman  on  China’s social-
media censorship ; Luigi Zingales on  market-friendly financial
regulation ; Josh Barro on  taking over failing cities .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 