-- U.S. Stock Futures Extend Loss as Payrolls Miss Estimates
-- B y   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-06-01T12:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/u-s-stock-futures-extend-loss-as-payrolls-miss-estimates.html
U.S. stock futures extended losses as
employers in May added the smallest number of workers in a year
and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly increased.  S&P 500 futures expiring this month lost 2.2 percent to
1,280.7 at 8:32 a.m. in  New York .  Payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, after a revised
77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate called for a 150,000 May advance. The jobless rate rose
to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent, while hours worked declined.  U.S. stocks dropped yesterday, completing the S&P 500’s
biggest monthly retreat since September, as the Institute for
Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s barometer of business activity
fell to its lowest level since September 2009. Data showed the
economy expanded less than initially forecast in the first
quarter.  Bigger job and wage gains may be needed to spur a self-
sustaining increase in hiring and consumer spending that will
accelerate the expansion. Nonetheless, a looming recession in
the euro area and slowing growth in  emerging markets  like China
and Brazil may prompt American companies to curb headcounts
until they see more evidence the U.S. recovery isn’t faltering.  Global equities tumbled earlier today after a Chinese
purchasing managers’ index showed manufacturing grew less than
estimated last month. Euro-area unemployment reached the highest
on record as a deepening economic slump and budget cuts prompted
companies from Spain to Italy to cut jobs. The euro region is in
real danger of disintegrating unless policy makers revamp the
bloc’s fiscal and economic ties, Economic and Monetary
Commissioner Olli Rehn said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jeff Sutherland  at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net  