-- U.S. May ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-06-01T14:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/u-s-may-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the  Institute for Supply
Management .
Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in May
for the 34th consecutive month, and the overall economy grew for
the 36th consecutive month, say the nation’s supply executives
in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business®.
The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management™ Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The PMI registered 53.5 percent, a
modest decrease of 1.3 percentage points from April’s reading of
54.8 percent, indicating expansion in the manufacturing sector
for the 34th consecutive month. The New Orders Index continued
its growth trend for the 37th consecutive month, registering
60.1 percent in May. This represents an increase of 1.9
percentage points from April and also the highest level recorded
by the index since April 2011. The Prices Index for raw
materials fell to 47.5 percent in May, dropping 13.5 percentage
points from April, indicating lower prices for the first time
since December 2011. Comments from the panel generally reflect
stable-to-strong orders, with sales showing steady improvement
over the first five months of 2012.”
PERFORMANCE BY INDUSTRY
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 13 are reporting growth in
May, in the following order: Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Furniture & Related Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Primary Metals;
 Electrical Equipment , Appliances & Components; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Textile Mills; Paper Products; Computer &
Electronic Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; and
Chemical Products. The four industries reporting contraction in
May are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Petroleum & Coal Products;
Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Transportation Equipment.
WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING …  “Business has been trending moderately higher since the
beginning of the year. [We] anticipate 5 percent to 7
percent growth for the year.” (Chemical Products)  “Sales were stronger than expected; customers are waiting
until the last minute to place orders.” (Machinery)  “We are having the best year in sales volume and profit
since mid-2008.” (Fabricated Metal Products)  “Business seems to be holding steady.” (Miscellaneous
Manufacturing)  “We had modest growth across most of our businesses, with
stable raw materials [prices] and improved schedules and
efficiency in our operations.” (Textile Mills)  “Business is lower than forecast for Q2 2012.” (Computer &
Electronic Products)  “We are seeing overall steady improvements, month over
month and year over year.” (Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products)  “Business is steady.” (Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products)  “While not quite as busy as last month, production is
steady and year over year still much better.”
(Transportation Equipment)  “Business continues to be up in general.” (Furniture &
Related Products)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price
Aluminum; Copper; Electrical Components; Guar; Natural Gas;
Plastic Components(b) (3); Plastic Resins(b) (4); and
Transportation Costs(b) (2).
Commodities Down in Price
Caustic Soda; Nickel; Plastic Components(b); Plastic Resins(b);
Rubber; Stainless; Steel (3); Transportation Costs(b); and
Wheat.
Commodities in Short Supply
Castings is the only commodity reported in short supply.
Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.
(b) Reported as both up and down in price.
MAY 2012 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES
PMI
Manufacturing continued its growth in May as the PMI registered
53.5 percent, a decrease of 1.3 percentage points when compared
to April’s reading of 54.8 percent. A reading above 50 percent
indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally contracting.
A PMI in excess of 42.6 percent, over a period of time,
generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy.
Therefore, the PMI indicates growth for the 36th consecutive
month in the overall economy, as well as expansion in the
manufacturing sector for the 34th consecutive month. Holcomb
stated, “The past relationship between the PMI and the overall
economy indicates that the average PMI for January through May
(53.6 percent) corresponds to a 3.7 percent increase in real
gross domestic product (GDP). In addition, if the PMI for May
(53.5 percent) is annualized, it also corresponds to a 3.7
percent increase in real GDP annually.”
New Orders
ISM’s New Orders Index registered 60.1 percent in May, which is
an increase of 1.9 percentage points when compared to the April
reading of 58.2 percent. This represents a continuation of
growth for the 37th consecutive month, and at a faster rate than
in April. A New Orders Index above 52.3 percent, over time, is
generally consistent with an increase in the Census Bureau’s
series on manufacturing orders (in constant 2000 dollars).
The 13 industries reporting growth in new orders in May --
listed in order -- are: Furniture & Related Products; Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Fabricated Metal Products; Wood
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Primary
Metals; Printing & Related Support Activities; Paper Products;
Computer & Electronic Products; Machinery; and Chemical
Products. The three industries reporting a decrease in new
orders during May are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Transportation Equipment.  Production
ISM’s Production Index registered 55.6 percent in May, which is
a decrease of 5.4 percentage points when compared to the 61
percent reported in April. This indicates growth for the 36th
consecutive month. An index above 51.2 percent, over time, is
generally consistent with an increase in the Federal Reserve
Board’s Industrial Production figures.
The 14 industries reporting growth in production during the
month of May -- listed in order -- are: Furniture & Related
Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Textile Mills; Fabricated Metal Products;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Paper Products; Primary
Metals; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Plastics &
Rubber Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Transportation Equipment. The
two industries reporting a decrease in production in May are:
Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Chemical Products.
Employment
ISM’s Employment Index registered 56.9 percent in May, which is
0.4 percentage point lower than the 57.3 percent reported in
April. This is the 32nd consecutive month of growth in the
Employment Index. An Employment Index above 50.5 percent, over
time, is generally consistent with an increase in the Bureau of
Labor Statistics (BLS) data on manufacturing employment.
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 13 reported growth in
employment in May in the following order: Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Textile Mills;
Primary Metals; Furniture & Related Products; Machinery;
Fabricated Metal Products; Transportation Equipment; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Computer & Electronic Products; Paper Products; and Chemical
Products. The two industries reporting a decrease in employment
in May are: Wood Products; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products.  Supplier Deliveries 
The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing
organizations was faster in May as the Supplier Deliveries Index
registered 48.7 percent, which is 0.5 percentage point lower
than the 49.2 percent reported in April. This is the fourth
consecutive month supplier deliveries have been faster than the
previous month, following 31 consecutive months in which
supplier deliveries slowed. A reading above 50 percent indicates
slower deliveries.
The eight industries reporting slower supplier deliveries in May
-- listed in order -- are: Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Paper Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Furniture & Related Products; Primary Metals; Machinery;
Chemical Products; and Transportation Equipment. The five
industries reporting faster supplier deliveries in May are: Wood
Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Fabricated
Metal Products.  Inventories(c)
The Inventories Index registered 46 percent in May, which is 2.5
percentage points lower than the 48.5 percent reported in April.
This month’s reading indicates that respondents are reporting
inventories are contracting, which has been the case in seven of
the last eight months. An Inventories Index greater than 42.8
percent, over time, is generally consistent with expansion in
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis ’ (BEA) figures on overall
manufacturing inventories (in chained 2000 dollars).
The five industries reporting higher inventories in May are:
Wood Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Machinery; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing.
The 10 industries reporting decreases in inventories in May --
listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal Products; Plastics &
Rubber Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products; Transportation Equipment; Furniture &
Related Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Primary Metals;
Computer & Electronic Products; and Chemical Products.  Customers’ Inventories(c)
The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 43.5 percent in
May, which is 2 percentage points lower than in April when the
index registered 45.5 percent. Customers’ inventories have
registered at or below 50 percent for 38 consecutive months. A
reading below 50 percent indicates customers’ inventories are
considered too low.
The two manufacturing industries reporting customers’
inventories as being too high during May are: Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; and Chemical Products. The
12 industries reporting customers’ inventories as too low during
May -- listed in order -- are: Wood Products; Machinery;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Paper
Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Petroleum & Coal
Products; Computer & Electronic Products; Transportation
Equipment; Fabricated Metal Products; Primary Metals; and
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products.
Prices(c)
The ISM Prices Index registered 47.5 percent in May, which is a
decrease of 13.5 percentage points compared to the April reading
of 61 percent. This is the first month the index has reflected a
decrease in the price of raw materials since December 2011, when
the index also registered 47.5 percent. In May, 14 percent of
respondents reported paying higher prices, 19 percent reported
paying lower prices, and 67 percent of supply executives
reported paying the same prices as in April. A Prices Index
above 49.4 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an
increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Index of
Manufacturers Prices.
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, six reported paying
increased prices during the month of May in the following order:
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Furniture & Related Products;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Paper Products; and Primary Metals. The nine
industries reporting paying lower prices during May -- listed in
order -- are: Wood Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Chemical
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Plastics & Rubber Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; Machinery; and Transportation
Equipment.
Backlog of Orders(c)
ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 47 percent in May,
which is 2.5 percentage points lower than the 49.5 percent
reported in April. Of the 84 percent of respondents who reported
their backlog of orders, 16 percent reported greater backlogs,
22 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 62 percent reported no
change from April.
The four industries reporting increased order backlogs in May
are: Furniture & Related Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Primary Metals; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. The
10 industries reporting decreases in order backlogs during May -
- listed in order -- are: Wood Products; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Petroleum & Coal Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Chemical Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Machinery; Paper Products; Computer & Electronic
Products; and Transportation Equipment.
New Export Orders(c)
ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 53.5 percent in May,
which is 5.5 percentage points lower than the 59 percent
reported in April. The New Export Orders Index has registered 50
percent or above for the past 35 consecutive months.
The 11 industries reporting growth in new export orders in May -
- listed in order -- are: Wood Products; Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Furniture & Related Products; Textile Mills;
Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal Products; Machinery;
Transportation Equipment; Paper Products; Computer & Electronic
Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components. The
only industry reporting a decrease in new export orders during
May is Chemical Products. Six industries reported no change in
new export orders in May compared to April.
Imports(c)
ISM’s Imports Index registered 53.5 percent in May, the same
percentage rate as reported in both April and March. The Imports
Index reflects six consecutive months of growth after only two
months of contraction in the past 33 months.
The 11 industries reporting growth in imports during the month
of May -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Furniture & Related Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Machinery; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Computer & Electronic Products; Transportation Equipment;
Chemical Products; and Fabricated Metal Products. The three
industries reporting a decrease in imports during May are: Wood
Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; and Primary
Metals.
(c) The Inventories, Customers’ Inventories, Prices, Backlog of
Orders, New Export Orders and Imports Indexes do not meet the
accepted criteria for seasonal adjustments.
Buying Policy
Average commitment lead time for  Capital Expenditures  increased
1 day to 121 days. Average lead time for Production Materials
increased 1 day to 56 days. Average lead time for Maintenance,
Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies increased 4 days to 30 days.
About this Report
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.
Data and Method of Presentation
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS code
categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Textile Mills;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Paper
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Furniture & Related Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing
(products such as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry,
sporting goods, toys and office supplies).
Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
Imports, Production, Supplier Deliveries, Inventories,
Customers’ Inventories, Employment and Prices), this report
shows the percentage reporting each response, the net difference
between the number of responses in the positive economic
direction (higher, better and slower for Supplier Deliveries)
and the negative economic direction (lower, worse and faster for
Supplier Deliveries), and the diffusion index. Responses are raw
data and are never changed. The diffusion index includes the
percent of positive responses plus one-half of those responding
the same (considered positive).
The resulting single index number for those meeting the criteria
for seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production,
Employment and Supplier Deliveries) is then seasonally adjusted
to allow for the effects of repetitive intra-year variations
resulting primarily from normal differences in weather
conditions, various institutional arrangements, and differences
attributable to non-moveable holidays. All seasonal adjustment
factors are supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce and are
subject annually to relatively minor changes when conditions
warrant them. The PMI is a composite index based on the
diffusion indexes of five of the indexes with equal weights: New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Production (seasonally adjusted),
Employment (seasonally adjusted), Supplier Deliveries
(seasonally adjusted), and Inventories.
Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators and
are convenient summary measures showing the prevailing direction
of change and the scope of change. A PMI reading above 50
percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally
expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally
declining. A PMI in excess of 42.6 percent, over a period of
time, indicates that the overall economy, or gross domestic
product (GDP), is generally expanding; below 42.6 percent, it is
generally declining. The distance from 50 percent or 42.6
percent is indicative of the strength of the expansion or
decline. With some of the indicators within this report, ISM has
indicated the departure point between expansion and decline of
comparable government series, as determined by regression
analysis.
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® surveys are sent out
to Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the first
part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report on
information for the current month. ISM receives survey responses
throughout most of any given month, with the majority of
respondents generally waiting until late in the month to submit
responses in order to give the most accurate picture of current
business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for release on
the first business day of the following month.
The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® monthly reports, are
listed in the order of most growth to least growth. For the
industries reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed
in the order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the
least level of contraction/decrease.
Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting the
current month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number of
days ahead for which commitments are made for Production
Materials; Capital Expenditures; and Maintenance, Repair and
Operating (MRO) Supplies, expressed as hand-to-mouth (five
days), 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, six months (180 days), a year
or more (360 days), and the weighted average number of days.
These responses are raw data, never revised, and not seasonally
adjusted since there is no significant seasonal pattern.
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is published monthly
by the Institute for Supply Management™. The Institute for
Supply Management™, established in 1915, is the largest supply
management organization in the world as well as one of the most
respected. ISM’s mission is to lead the supply management
profession through its standards of excellence, research,
promotional activities and education. This report has been
issued by the association since 1931, except for a four-year
interruption during World War II.
The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business® is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the first
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).
The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® featuring the
June 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Monday,
July 2, 2012.
/  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management
 http://www.ism.ws  