-- U.S. Audit Cites OCC Lapses in Oversight of Foreclosure Process
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-06-01T17:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/u-s-audit-cites-occ-lapses-in-oversight-of-foreclosure-process.html
The Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency underestimated the risks in bank foreclosure practices
from 2008 to 2010 and gave examiners a 13-year-old handbook that
didn’t address how securitization affects loan documentation, a
Treasury Department audit found.  Treasury’s inspector general’s office reviewed the OCC’s
work in the years following the onset of the credit crisis. The
period was later found to be rife with abusive foreclosure
practices including use of fraudulent documentation by
servicers. Five major banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , settled claims from
49 states and the federal government for $25 billion on Feb. 9.  “During this time OCC did not consider foreclosure
documentation and processing to be an area of significant risk
and, as a result, did not focus examination resources on this
function,” Jeffrey Dye, the inspector general’s director of
banking audits, wrote in the May 31  report .  In missing what “turned out to be serious foreclosure
issues,” the OCC relied too heavily on the banks’ own internal
quality-control procedures, he said. The bank programs, in turn,
focused on loss mitigation and compliance with investor
guidelines, not foreclosure documentation, the report found.  The inspector general also faulted the OCC, the primary
federal supervisor for national banks, for failing to update its
handbook on mortgage banking examinations for 13 years. The
guide didn’t address the effects of securitization or new
mortgage products that were at the heart of the housing bust,
the report concludes.  Comptroller  Thomas Curry  told the inspector general in a
May 15 letter that the OCC manual will be updated, but stressed
that the agency issued supplemental guidance to examiners in
2006 and 2007.  OCC spokesman Robert Garsson declined to comment on the
Treasury report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  