-- Uganda Central Bank Cuts Benchmark Lending Rate to 20%
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-06-01T12:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/uganda-central-bank-cuts-benchmark-lending-rate-to-20-.html
Uganda ’s central bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  by 1 percentage point, the third
reduction this year, to support economic growth as inflation
slows.  The Bank of Uganda lowered the policy rate to 20 percent
from 21 percent, Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile told
reporters today in the capital, Kampala. The bank raised the
rate by 10 percentage points between July and December.  Growth in  East Africa ’s third-largest economy probably
slowed to 3.2 percent in the year through June, from 6.7 percent
in the previous 12 months, the statistics office said yesterday.
At the same time inflation has fallen as the impact of last
year’s drought eased, giving the central bank room to lower
interest rates to bolster the economy.  “Boosting real output growth will require a resumption of
private sector credit growth through a gradual reduction of
interest rates over the next six to 12 months,” the governor
said. The economy’s expansion is less than potential growth of 6
percent to 7 percent, he said.  The euro crisis remains of concern to the East African
nation, with fears that it could trigger renewed turbulence in
the global financial market, hurting the local currency,
Tumusiime-Mutebile said. The bank will “act decisively to avoid
disruptive shocks to the  exchange rate  emanating from volatile
short term capital flows,” he said.  Pressure for Stimulus  Inflation slowed to 18.6 percent in May from 20 percent in
the previous month, the statistics office said yesterday. The
underlying inflation rate, which excludes food crops, fuel,
electricity and metered water, fell to 21.2 percent from 22.8
percent in the same period.  “Recent gross domestic product estimates for the fiscal
year have been much softer than in previous years,”  Razia Khan ,
head of Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in
 London , said in an e-mail before today’s decision. “It will
increase the pressure on the Bank of Uganda to cut rates to
provide new stimulus to the economy.”  Growth may recover to 5 to 6 percent in the 12 months
through June next year, the governor said.  Shilling-denominated loans contracted sharply in the past
financial year because of high interest rates, Adam Mugume, the
executive director of research at the central bank, told
reporters today in Kampala.  “Growth of 3.2 percent this season is very worrying,
calling for the central bank to unlock credit growth,” Arthur Nsiko, a researcher at African Alliance Uganda Ltd., an
investment advisory company, said in an interview in Kampala.  Uganda’s shilling dropped 0.3 percent against the dollar
and traded at 2,505 as of 2:33 p.m. in Kampala today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  