-- UN Rights Council Calls for Inquiry Into Syrian Bloodbath
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-06-01T18:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/un-rights-council-weighs-inquiry-into-syrian-bloodbath.html
The United Nations Human Rights
Council called for a “comprehensive, independent and
unfettered” probe into last week’s massacre of more than 100
people in Houla, a cluster of villages in central  Syria .  The worst atrocity in the 15-month uprising against Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad was carried out by “pro-regime
elements” and government forces, the Geneva-based council said
in a resolution that was passed by 41 votes today.  China ,  Russia 
and China voted against the resolution, which was submitted by
the U.S., Qatar and  Turkey . Ecuador and  Uganda  abstained.  The mass killing in Houla, where children under age 10
accounted for 49 of the 108 deaths, has sparked symbolic
responses such as the ejection of top Syrian diplomats from
Western capitals. It hasn’t broken an impasse in the UN Security
Council, where veto-wielding Russia continues to block attempts
to impose more economic pressure on a country that may be
slipping into civil war.  Syrian security forces killed 20 people today, the U.K.-
based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-mailed
statement.  Assad’s government has ignored repeated calls by the
council to grant access to a Commission of Inquiry examining
human-rights violations.  The UN says pro-government shabiha militiamen were
responsible for the slaughter in Houla. The Assad government
blamed the carnage on anti-government gunmen seeking to ignite
sectarian strife and encourage foreign military intervention.  Systematic Attacks  “These acts may amount to crimes against humanity and
other international crimes, and may be indicative of a pattern
of widespread or systematic attacks against civilian populations
that have been perpetrated with impunity,” UN human rights
chief Navi Pillay told the HRC today before the resolution was
approved. “There is a need for prompt, independent and
impartial international investigations into all serious human-
rights violations in Syria, including those that have occurred
in Houla.”  Pillay warned that the situation may “descend into a full-
fledged conflict” that threatens the future of Syria and the
region. The council’s resolution echoes her call for the
 Security Council  to consider referring Syria to the
 International Criminal Court . The UN’s decision-making body
alone can authorize sanctions, referrals to the International
Criminal Court and military intervention.  ‘No Impunity’  The UN has 291 unarmed military observers and 89 civilian
monitors in Syria to oversee a peace plan crafted by UN Special
Envoy  Kofi Annan . While the U.S. has publicly raised the
possibility of expanding the numbers of observers, UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and his team are opposed for reasons of
safety.  The European Union urged Assad’s government to give the
Commission of Inquiry “immediate access” so it can probe the
Houla bloodbath. “There must be no impunity for the
perpetrators of the crimes committed; those responsible for the
violence across Syria will be held accountable for their
actions,” the EU said in a statement.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said today his government
doesn’t support either side in the Syrian conflict and believes
it’s too early to conclude that Annan’s peace plan has failed.
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  rejected his remark and
said Russia’s supply of weapons to Assad is propping up the
Syrian leader’s government.  Annan, who visited Assad in Damascus in the aftermath of
the Houla massacre, is running out of time to bring the
government and the opposition into a political dialogue that
could eventually persuade Assad to step aside. His progress will
be the focus of a June 7 briefing to the Security Council in  New
York , which he’ll make in person for the first time since he was
named peace broker.  The Human Rights Council today asked Annan to brief the
organization at its next session, which starts on June 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  