-- Thunder Defeat Spurs in Game 3 of NBA Western Conference Finals
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-01T05:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/thunder-defeat-spurs-in-game-3-of-nba-western-conference-finals.html
Kevin Durant  had 22 points as the
Oklahoma City Thunder broke the San Antonio Spurs’ 20-game
winning streak with a 102-82 home victory in Game 3 of the
 National Basketball Association ’s Western Conference finals.  The Spurs, who hadn’t been beaten since a 98-84 loss
against the  Los Angeles Lakers  on April 11, still lead the best-
of-seven playoff series two games to one. Game 4 is set for
tomorrow at Chesapeake Energy Arena in Oklahoma City.  “We never thought these guys had an advantage over us even
though we had lost a few,” Durant told reporters. “It was just
good that we took it to 2-1. We didn’t want to go down 0-3.”  Thabo Sefolosha had 19 points for the Thunder, who jumped
off to an 8-0 advantage in the first three minutes of the game
as Sefolosha tallied four steals.  Oklahoma , which hasn’t lost at
home during the playoffs, extended the lead to 54-41 at
halftime.  “We just played a good basketball game,” Thunder coach
Scott Brooks said. “We played with a lot of force, we played
with good energy, but we played defensive-minded basketball.
That’s who we are. That’s how we win.”  Tony Parker and Stephen Jackson each had 16 points for the
Spurs, who had a postseason-worst 21 turnovers that were
converted into 20 points by the Thunder. The loss kept the Spurs
from tying a record for most wins to start the postseason set by
the Lakers, who won 11 straight in 1989 and 2001.  “They played like it was a closeout game, both offensively
and defensively,” Spurs coach  Gregg Popovich  said. “They were
very active, physical, they moved the ball well on offense. They
did all those things better than we did. They beat us good.”  The winner of the series will face the  Miami Heat  or  Boston
Celtics  in the NBA Finals. Miami has won the first two games of
the Eastern Conference finals, with Game 3 tonight in Boston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  