-- Turkcell to Hold Annual Meeting June 29 Amid Owners’ Dispute
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-06-01T09:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/turkcell-to-hold-annual-meeting-june-29-amid-owners-dispute-1-.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) ,
 Turkey ’s biggest mobile-phone operator, will hold an annual
shareholders’ meeting on June 29 after a call by the company’s
statutory auditors as the shareholders say disputes still
remain.  Earnings and dividend proposals for both 2010 and 2011 will
be discussed at the meeting, Turkcell said in a statement to the
 Istanbul Stock Exchange  today. “There is no decision by the
board of directors in line with the legal quorum for the items
of the agenda, prepared by the statutory auditors, on changes to
the board and dividend payment proposals,” according to the
statement.  Investors  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and Moscow-based Altimo blocked a
decision on dividend payments and approval of 2010 financials in
a series of shareholders’ meetings last year, after failing to
oust Chairman  Colin Williams  from the board. They claimed he
hampered Turkcell’s growth by favoring Mehmet Emin Karamehmet,
chairman of the company’s founding shareholder Cukurova Holding
AS.  The annual meeting set for June 29 should not be expected
“to produce results as it was summoned by the auditors,” not
by shareholders, Murat Vargi, a former board member who  holds  a
1.2 percent stake in Turkcell, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “The call doesn’t reflect consensus by the board of
directors,” Vargi said. He urged the market regulator “to
intervene by appointing the required number of independent board
members” to end the dispute which started to “negatively
affect” Turkcell and its units.  Cukurova, TeliaSonera and Altimo are “still in dispute”
over the size of Turkcell’s board of directors, said Vargi, who
is also a founder of the company with Karamehmet.  TeliaSonera  TeliaSonera, the biggest shareholder with a 38 percent-
stake, will seek the completion of all items proposed by the
auditors at the annual meeting, Cecilia Edstrom, TeliaSonera
spokeswoman, said in a phone interview from  Stockholm .  Turkcell should add more members, including independents,
to its seven-strong board of directors as demanded by Turkey’s
market regulator and TeliaSonera seeks to increase the board’s
size at the meeting, Edstrom said.  TeliaSonera also seeks to have Turkcell’s financials and
dividend plan for last year and 2010 concluded at the meeting,
she said.  Turkcell rose 1.5 percent to 8.26 liras at the 12:30 p.m.
midday break in Istanbul. The main share index gained 0.6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  