-- HMV Gains as Hammersmith Apollo Sold to O2 Owner: London Mover
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-06-01T15:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/hmv-gains-as-hammersmith-apollo-sold-to-o2-owner-london-mover.html
HMV Group Plc (HMV) , the U.K.’s biggest
retailer of CDs and DVDs, gained the most in more than two
months after agreeing to sell the Hammersmith Apollo concert
venue in a deal that helps bolster the company’s finances.  The  shares  rose 17 percent, the biggest advance since
March 14, to 3.99 pence after gaining as much as 25 percent
earlier in the day. HMV’s stock is still more than 90 percent
lower than at the start of the decade as consumers switched to
online purchasing and downloading, and using handheld technology
for games.  The sale of the 70-year-old West  London  venue, which has
hosted performances by The Beatles, the  Rolling Stones  and  Bob
Marley , will bring in 32 million pounds ($49 million) cash, HMV
said yesterday after markets closed. The buyer is Stage C, a
company controlled jointly by the owner of London’s O2 Arena.  HMV, which acquired the Hammersmith Apollo in 2010, is
reshaping its business as more consumers download music and
movies rather than purchase CDs and DVDs. The faltering economy
and competition from online retailers and supermarkets may cast
“significant doubt” on the company’s  ability  to survive,
Maidenhead, England-based HMV said in January.  HMV said yesterday that a 220 million-pound bank facility
will be extended to September 2014, subject to completion of the
sale, which it expects to take place by the end of August.  A review of HMV’s remaining live-music business is
continuing, the company said. The 12 venues include the
Manchester Ritz and Edinburgh Picture House.  Stage C is owned by Anschutz Entertainment Group’s Ansco
Music Club Ltd., whose venues include the O2, and Getgo
Consulting GmbH, which is part of  CTS Eventim AG. (EVD)   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  