-- Verizon Buys Hughes Telematics for $612 Million in Cash
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-06-01T20:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/verizon-to-acquire-hughes-telematics-for-612-million-in-cash.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  agreed to
buy  Hughes Telematics Inc. (HUTC)  for $612 million in cash, vaulting
the telephone company deeper into the automotive-technology
market.  Verizon will pay $12 a share in the acquisition, which is
expected to close in the third quarter, the New York-based
company said in a statement today.  Hughes, based in Atlanta, sells products that offer GPS
tracking, communications and safety features in cars. The deal
gives Verizon a new source of growth as it faces saturation in
the U.S. market for mobile phones and land lines. Verizon is
competing with carriers like  AT&T Inc. (T)  and other companies such
as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which sells both devices and services.  “Connected devices are expected to be another leg of
growth,”  Walter Piecyk , a New York-based analyst with BTIG LLC,
said in a telephone interview. Verizon is betting that the more
they can operate in your car “the better they can integrate
with what’s in your hand or at home,” he said.  Hughes offers voice and data connections to vehicles that
are monitored through call centers, according to company
filings. The system provides  emergency services , location-based
features and vehicle diagnostics.  “Apple isn’t the only company trying to build an
ecosystem,” Piecyk said.  The deal represents a premium of 176 percent over Hughes’s
trading price yesterday of $4.35 a share. Verizon will receive a
$21.4 million breakup fee from Hughes if the deal fails,
according to a filing today.  Hughes shares rose almost threefold to close at $11.79 in
New York. Verizon fell 1.5 percent to $41.03. The carrier’s
shares had risen 3.8 percent this year before today.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Debevoise & Plimpton LLP advised Verizon on the
deal. Hughes was represented by  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  