-- Vuitton, Zappa, Westinghouse Solar: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-01T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/vuitton-zappa-westinghouse-solar-apple-intellectual-property.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
expanding its fight against counterfeiters beyond courts, won a
U.S. trade ruling that will help it keep knockoff  Louis Vuitton 
handbags, luggage and accessories from entering the U.S.  The French luxury-goods maker filed the complaint last
year, accusing a Chinese couple of setting up shell companies to
sell counterfeit and knockoff handbags in the U.S. Notice of the
International Trade Commission’s order was posted May 30 on the
agency’s website.  Louis Vuitton’s use of an ITC complaint to protect a brand
valued at $25.9 billion by Millward Brown Optimor’s 2012 BrandZ
study may be emulated by other luxury-goods makers, said
Michelle Marsh of New York’s Kenyon & Kenyon LLP, who
specializes in fashion-related trademark issues.  The ITC, which investigates claims of unfair trade
practices including violations of  intellectual-property  rights,
more often handles patent-infringement cases.  Paris-based Louis Vuitton, named the world’s most valuable
luxury brand for the seventh year, has sued companies that run
websites and already works with customs officials and other  law
enforcement  to seize  counterfeit goods .  The order, which will go into effect in 60 days unless
President  Barack Obama  overrules it on public policy grounds,
directs Customs and  Border Protection  to turn away any products
that are made in a way that is similar or copies the Louis
Vuitton trademarks.  The case was originally filed at the ITC targeting
companies set up by a couple whom Louis Vuitton claimed ran a
counterfeiting ring using numerous shell companies. The couple
and some of their companies reached settlement agreements, while
other companies selling the counterfeits failed to respond to
the complaint.  Louis Vuitton argued that it was entitled to a broad
exclusion order that would cover any products infringing its
trademarks because it was impossible to identify every company.
The staff at the ITC, which acts as a third party in
investigations in the public’s interest, supported the request.  Once customs receives the order, all ports in the U.S. will
be notified with information that will help officials know what
to look for, such as how the shipments may enter the U.S. and
how to distinguish between the real and fake goods, said Therese
Randazzo, director of IPR policy and programs division of
Customs and Border Protection.  Companies that are turned away at the border can file a
protest, and can even seek a ruling ahead of time to get
clearance to enter the U.S., she said.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Handbags, Luggage,
Accessories, and Packaging Thereof, 337-754, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  Frank Zappa Trademark No Longer Valid in Germany, Court Rules  Frank Zappa ’s family trust can’t use a trademark named
after the late American rock star to prevent a German music
festival from using the title “Zappanale,” the country’s top
civil court ruled.  The trademark “ZAPPA,” which the U.S. based Zappa Family
Trust filed in  Europe  and cited in the case, lost its protection
because it wasn’t used within five years after registration, the
court said in statement on its website.  The trust’s domain, “www.zappa.com,” is a website about
Zappa, whose best-known works include the album “Apostrophe
(’)” and the single “Don’t Eat The Yellow Snow,” and doesn’t
constitute use of the trademark, the judges said.  The music festival has used the Zappanale title since 1990,
according to the Karlsruhe-based court.  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Westinghouse Solar, Zep Settle U.S. Patent Dispute Over Panels  Westinghouse Solar Inc. (WEST)  and  Zep Solar Inc.  settled a patent
dispute over designs to reduce the cost of attaching solar
panels to roofs.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed. The settlement, which
covers civil suits and a case pending before the U.S.
International Trade Commission in Washington, extends to all
customers, suppliers and licensees of the companies, they said
in a joint statement.  Westinghouse Solar had accused Zep of infringing patents
related to ways to reduce the amount of hardware and labor
needed to install solar panels. The companies were vying to have
their designs adopted by more installers to take advantage of
the increased popularity of the $8.4 billion U.S. market for
solar energy in homes and businesses.  Reducing installation costs is important because they have
remained stable even as the price of solar panels dropped. That
has created a barrier for some homeowners even with tax breaks,
the Solar Energy Industries Association, a trade group based in
Washington, has said.  Westinghouse, formerly Akeena Solar Inc., sought to ban
U.S. imports of  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ)  panels, mainly made by the
Kitchener, Ontario-based company in China using the Zep design.
The Westinghouse Solar design, known as Andalay, is used by
 Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)   The dispute dates to 2009, when Westinghouse Solar sued Zep
in federal court. It filed the ITC case in October.  The case before the commission is In the Matter of Certain
Integrated Solar Power Systems, 337-811, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington). The civil cases are Akeena Solar
Inc. v. Zep Solar Inc., 09cv5040, and Zep Solar Inc. v.
Westinghouse Solar Inc., 11cv3800, both U.S. District Court for
the Northern District of  California  (San Jose).  Apple’s Samsung Copy Case Hinges on Cheech and Chong Test  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s claim that  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  copied the
design of the iPhone may hinge on what a U.S. trade judge
described as the “Cheech and Chong test.”  “Does it look like it, feel like it, smell like it?” U.S.
International Trade Commission Judge Thomas Pender said
yesterday at the beginning of Apple’s patent-infringement trial
against Samsung, referring to a routine in which the comedy duo
identified dog feces.  Apple contends Samsung’s phones and Galaxy Tab tablet
computer copy designs on the look and front face of the iPhone,
and they also infringe patents related to the user interface and
headset plugs. The Cupertino, California-based iPhone maker is
asking the ITC to block imports of Samsung products that violate
Apple’s patent rights.  “Not content to copy the overall design and interface,
Samsung has copied the smallest detail of the iPhone,” Apple
lawyer Harold McElhinny of  San Francisco ’s Morrison & Foerster
LLP told the judge in opening arguments in Washington. “Samsung
copied our original and iconic design.”  Samsung is Apple’s biggest adversary in the iPhone maker’s
challenge to the growth of devices that run on Google Inc.’s
Android operating system. Together, Samsung and Apple made more
than 49 percent of all smartphones sold worldwide in the first
quarter, with Samsung edging out Apple in that period for the
title of world’s biggest manufacturer of the devices, research
analyst Gartner Inc. said May 16.  When the late Apple founder  Steve Jobs  unveiled the iPhone
in 2007, he warned rivals that it was protected by more than 200
patents, McElhinny said. Apple’s inventions have been displayed
in museum shows and even been the subject of a book, he said.  “Samsung cannot overcome the originality of Apple’s
design,” McElhinny said.  Samsung, which has its own patent-infringement claims
against Apple that are scheduled to come to another trial at the
trade agency next week, contends it came up with its own ideas
and designs through decades and more than $3.5 billion spent on
research.  “Samsung has been in this industry, building and
innovating to the point where Apple could enter the market,”
Samsung lawyer Charles Verhoeven of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &
Sullivan LLP told the judge. “We are anything but an also-ran
trying to copy Apple’s technology.”  Pender is scheduled to hear testimony through June 6 and
release his findings Oct. 5. ITC Judge James Gildea, who is
scheduled to hear Samsung’s case beginning June 4 through June
15, is expected to release his determination on Sept. 14.
Apple’s infringement claims against Samsung over other patents
is set for a July trial in federal court in San Jose,
California.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Megaupload Asks Court to Dismiss U.S. Criminal Copyright Case  Megaupload.com asked for dismissal of U.S. criminal charges
that the file-sharing website illegally distributed copyrighted
movies and music in a $175 million copyright conspiracy.  Megaupload Ltd., as a foreign corporation without offices
in the U.S., can’t be prosecuted for violations of the country’s
law, the company said in a filing May 30 in federal court in
Alexandria,  Virginia .  “In short, a corporation such as Megaupload cannot be
brought within the jurisdiction of this court for criminal
proceedings absent its consent,” the company said in court
papers.  Megaupload.com and founder Kim Dotcom, 38, were indicted in
what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a “Mega Conspiracy” involving the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. The
company and Dotcom were charged with multiple criminal copyright
and wire fraud counts, according to a revised indictment issued
in February. Dotcom faces as long as 20 years in prison for each
of the racketeering and money-laundering charges in the
indictment.  Dotcom was arrested at his residence in New Zealand in late
January and spent four weeks in jail before being released to
await an extradition hearing, currently scheduled for Aug. 20.  A New Zealand court on May 29 granted Dotcom access to
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  files that led to his arrest.
Judge David Harvey in that case ruled that withholding the
information could threaten Dotcom’s right to a fair trial,
according to a copy of the ruling e-mailed to Bloomberg News.
The U.S. government opposed the disclosure.  In a separate May 29 court ruling, German-born Dotcom was
allowed to return to his leased luxury mansion in an Auckland
suburb after his bail terms were relaxed.  Alisa Finelli, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on Megaupload’s court filing.  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 12-cr-00003, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Canadian Community Colleges Take Access Copyright License  The Association of Community Colleges of  Canada  agreed to a
license with Access Copyright to gain access to more than
22 million works, Access Copyright said in a  statement .  Access Copyright , a nonprofit organization, handles
Canada’s copyright licensing for publishers and authors.  The institutions will pay a royalty of C$10 ($9.68) per
full-time equivalent student per year as opposed to the previous
rate of 10 cents a page for coursepack copying.  The agreement will run through Dec. 30, 2015.  Canadian Brides to Pay More to Dance at Weddings Under Directive  Canadian brides will have to factor a little extra money
into their wedding plans, following a  new directive  from the
Copyright Board of Canada.  The rights organization certified new tariffs for live
music performances at a wider range of events, including
conventions, fairs, ice shows and weddings, according to a board
statement.  Fees will be based on the size of the audience and the
nature of the event, with weddings costing C$9.25 ($8.96) if
fewer than 100 people are present and as much as C$39.33 for
more than 500 attendees. The fees rise if dancing is permitted.  Parades where recorded music is played from floats will pay
a fee of C$4.39 a float, with the whole event subject to a
minimum fee of C$32.55 day.  The fee for events where admission is paid and music
accompanies a fireworks display is 0.8 percent of the gross
receipts from ticket sales, excluding taxes.  Tombstone Pattern Infringed by Cemetery, Designer Claims  A Toronto-based interior designer claims the design she
created for her mother’s tombstone is infringed by operators of
the cemetery where her mother is buried, the Toronto Star
reported.  The Catholic Cemeteries Archdiocese of Toronto said the
allegedly infringing pattern was created under contract by an
outside design firm and that they jointly own the copyright,
according to the newspaper.  The designer, Laura Abanil, told the Star that when she
went to visit her mother’s grave she was unhappy that the design
she said took her several months to complete was showing up on
nearby grave markers.  Lawyers for the cemetery responded in a letter that the
tombstone design required skill and judgment that Abanil doesn’t
possess and proposed to settle the case by making a donation to
the charity of her choice, according to the Star.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  