-- Wal-Mart CEO Duke Defends Retailer Amid Bribery Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-06-01T20:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/wal-mart-s-walton-says-company-taking-bribery-probe-seriously.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Duke  told employees and shareholders at the
company’s annual meeting today that the retailer, whose
executives are accused of bribing Mexican officials, is
committed to ethical behavior.  Speaking before 14,000 people in Fayetteville, Arkansas,
Duke addressed an ongoing bribery investigation by the U.S.
Justice Department and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
He said the world’s largest retailer was built by founder Sam
Walton on a foundation of ethics and trust and will continue to
behave that way. His comments followed similar statements by Rob Walton, the company’s chairman and son of the founder.  For the first time since acknowledging an investigation
into bribery allegations in April, Duke spoke about the
accusations and demanded ethical behavior from his company. He
said Wal-Mart is investigating the allegations and will get to
the bottom of the matter.  “It’s either the right thing to do or we won’t do it at
all,” Duke said. “This is my standard. This was Sam Walton’s
standard. We will not accept anything less than integrity.”  Wal-Mart  fell  0.4 percent to $65.55 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 9.7 percent this year.  Wal-Mart said that all 15 directors were reelected and one
new director,  Marissa Mayer , who is vice president of Local and
Maps for  Google Inc. (GOOG) , was elected to the board. The Walton
family  owns  more than 47 percent of the stock, effectively
controlling the voting power of the shareholder base.  Shareholder Proposals  The meeting also included two proposals asking for more
clarity from the company. One proposal asked for more
transparency on the executive bonus structure, while another
called for more disclosure of political donations. Both
proposals, and another that sought to nominate a director with
healthcare experience to the board, were rejected.  The comments from Duke and Walton came after several state
pension funds recommended that shareholders vote against some or
all of the retailer’s board members, including the chairman.
Pension funds in California, Connecticut, Maryland,
Massachusetts and New York all said they would vote against some
directors.  “This goes to the core of how the company is run,”
 Charles Elson , executive director of the John L. Weinberg Center
for  Corporate Governance  at the  University of Delaware , said in
a phone interview yesterday. “People have questioned their
employment practices and that kind of thing in the past but this
is alleging real problems in oversight and management. It’s a
tough one for them.”  Integrity Talk  New York City Comptroller  John Liu , whose office manages
the New York City Pension Fund, said in a statement that he was
not convinced by the company’s talk about integrity.  “Wal-Mart’s promise that integrity is central to its
business rings hollow,” Liu said. “The board must demonstrate
by its actions, not rhetoric, that it is responsive to
shareowners and looking out for our interests.”  The pension fund voted against five Wal-Mart directors.  When presenting the shareholder proposal to scrutinize
executive bonuses, Wal-Mart employee Jackie Goebel said the
company’s push for growth led to the alleged bribery.  “Our company is placing too much emphasis on growth at all
costs,” said Goebel, who works at a Wal-Mart store in Kenosha,
Wisconsin and owns shares through her  retirement plan .  Both Walton and Duke said that the bribery investigation is
ongoing. The two top executives both said that the company will
get to the bottom of what happened. Wal-Mart will take the
investigation “wherever it leads,” Walton said.  “Acting with integrity is not negotiable,” Walton said,
from a stage with a mock-up of  Sam Walton ’s original Five and
Dime store. “You have my word. We will act the right way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  