-- Weaker Brazil Economy Raises Doubts About Credit-Led Growth
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-06-01T16:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/weakening-brazil-economy-raises-doubts-about-credit-led-growth.html
Brazil ’s economy grew less than
analysts expected in the first quarter, reinforcing signs that
its consumer-led growth model, a magnet for investment over the
past decade, is running out of steam.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.2 percent in the first
quarter and 0.8 percent from the same period a year ago, the
national statistics agency said in a report today. Growth in the
first three months of the year was lower than expected by all
but one of 50 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median
forecast was for a 0.5 percent expansion.  While economists expect the pace of growth to accelerate in
coming months, they forecast the second-largest developing
economy after China will grow less than 3 percent for the second
consecutive year in 2012, trailing the rest of  Latin America .  Consumer demand driven by credit expansion, the strategy
pursued by two successive presidents, is faltering even as the
government cuts taxes and lowers borrowing costs to stoke
spending by the 40 million Brazilians who rose out of poverty
from 2003-2011.  Retail sales  barely rose in February and March,
while vehicle sales fell 11 percent in April as the default rate
among tapped-out consumers rose to 5.8 percent.  “Brazil had a great decade and now it’s going into a
slowdown,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management, said by telephone from New York before the report
was released. “People owe a lot and own too much stuff.”  BRICS Faltering  Investors are concerned that some of Brazil’s fastest-
growing sectors will lose steam. The MSCI Brazil Consumer
Discretionary Index of construction and retail companies has
plunged 13 percent this year compared with a 5 percent fall for
the  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index. A slowdown in mortgage lending, which
grew by 43 percent over the past 12 months, is a particular risk
to the housing market, Shaoul said.  As  Europe ’s debt crisis has deepened, causing $3.9 trillion
in losses in world stock markets since May, the government has
abandoned its goal of boosting growth to 4.5 percent from last
year’s 2.7 percent. Economists in the latest weekly  central bank
survey  cut their forecast for 2012 growth for the third straight
week to 2.99 percent.  Other  emerging markets  that have been powering the world
economy since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008 are also losing steam. India reported first quarter growth
of 5.3 percent yesterday, the least in nine years.  China  this
year will expand 8.2 percent, its slowest pace in 13 years,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Debt Burden  Nearly a quarter of Brazilian households, particularly
those in lower-income brackets, are over-indebted, according to
MB Associados, a Sao Paulo-based economic consulting firm. That
means they spend more than 30 percent of total income on
servicing debt, compared with an average 10.9 percent for all
U.S. households, the firm said.  Instead of trying to stimulate demand with further credit
measures, policy makers should focus on removing long-standing
bottlenecks to faster growth, such as high taxes, red tape and
poor infrastructure, said  Arminio Fraga , a former central bank
president and chairman of the BM&F Bovespa exchange.  “The time has come for Brazil to make progress on the
supply side, investing more,” Fraga, a founding partner of Rio
de Janeiro-based asset manager Gavea Investimentos Ltda., said
in a May 22 interview. “Paying more attention to productivity
is crucial from now on.”  Poor Harvest  A poor grain harvest and weak export growth contributed to
the first-quarter GDP result, as investment fell due to a
worsening of the global economic scenario, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said today in a conference call from  Sao Paulo .  While strong demand and recent government measures will
allow the economy to accelerate in the second half of the year,
it will be difficult to reach 4 percent expansion this year,
Mantega said. “We’ll be satisfied if we achieve growth in 2012
above growth in 2011,” he added.  Today’s GDP report confirmed that Brazil’s economy is
recovering “very gradually,” central bank President Alexandre
Tombini said in an e-mailed statement.  Lowest Investment  Brazil invested 20 percent last year, the lowest among
Latin America’s major economies and compared with 48 percent in
China, according to International Monetary Fund data.  In the first quarter, investments fell 1.8 percent from the
previous quarter, the statistics agency said. Agricultural
activity fell 7.3 percent while the industrial sector advanced
1.7 percent after a weak performance at the end of 2011. The
services sector, which is driving growth, rose 0.6 percent.  “Growth is taking longer to recover than what was
expected,” Marcelo Salomon, co-head for Latin America Economics
at Barclays Plc, in a telephone interview from  New York .
“Businessmen in Brazil are delaying their investments.”  Despite higher import tariffs for sectors such as chemicals
and textiles,  industrial output  fell in April on a yearly basis
for the eighth straight month, the national statistics agency
reported yesterday. In the first four months of the year the
trade deficit on manufactured products widened $4.1 billion to
$30.7 billion from the same period a year earlier, according to
Trade Ministry data.  In a country that prides itself on its industry, even if
the past decade’s boom was aided by surging commodity exports to
China, only 28 percent of the industrial machinery and equipment
bought in Brazil is manufactured domestically, according to the
machine builders’ association known as Abimaq.  Protecting Industry  On April 3 President Dilma Rousseff announced incentives to
boost government purchases of locally made goods, tougher
enforcement of trade rules and the elimination of a 20 percent
payroll tax for 15 industries. She also has raised taxes on
foreign dollar inflows to weaken the real that was the world’s
best-performing major currency in the first two months of the
year, and expanded subsidized lending by the state development
bank BNDES.  The measures were too little and too late to reverse a
trend of rising imports that began five years ago, said Jose
Velloso, Abimaq’s vice-president. “We’ve got a ship with three
holes and only managed to plug one,” Velloso said by telephone
from Sao Paulo, adding that he sees  industrial output 
contracting this year by 2 percent to 3 percent.  While a 14 percent depreciation of the real in the past
three months may provide industry with some relief, it is
unlikely to do much to improve its competitiveness as wages rise
at twice the rate of inflation, Morgan Stanley said in a May 25
report.  ‘Unacceptable’ Rates  The government prompted banks to lower borrowing costs
after Rousseff in a televised address to the nation May 1 said
the rates they charge are “unacceptable.” The central bank has
done its part to lower borrowing costs by freeing up 18 billion
reais ($9 billion) in reserves to encourage banks to lend to car
buyers. This week it cut its benchmark Selic rate for the
seventh time since August, taking it to a record 8.5 percent.  The government isn’t concerned about over-stretching
consumers. Domestic demand fueled by a “moderate” expansion of
credit and a strong labor market will allow growth to accelerate
in the coming months even as the global outlook remains
“complex,” Tombini said in the e-mailed statement today.  C onsumer confidence  hit a record high in April, and
 unemployment  was 6 percent, a record low for the month.  “Our outlook is positive,” Gustavo Bach, chief executive
officer of Rio de Janeiro-based retailer Hermes Group, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s still a lot of pent-up demand for
 consumer goods .”  Still, Brazil must step up its efforts if it wants to boost
its growth potential in coming years, said Alberto Ramos, senior
Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs & Co.  “They’re neglecting the long-term reforms to boost growth
capacity,” Ramos said by telephone from New York. “Brazil is
not investing enough and if you don’t invest, you don’t grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  