-- Twitter Said to Expect $1 Billion in Ad Revenue in 2014
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-06-02T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/twitter-said-to-expect-1-billion-in-sales-in-2014-on-ad-growth.html
Twitter Inc. expects to generate at
least $1 billion in sales in 2014, two people with knowledge of
the matter said, indicating that the blogging service will grow
about twice as fast as some analysts now predict.  Twitter based the forecasts on expected advertising demand,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
numbers are private. The San Francisco-based company could
change or miss the forecasts, the people said.  Demand for advertising aimed at Twitter’s more than  140
million  users is benefiting the company. Researchers at
 EMarketer Inc.  have said that in 2014, Twitter will reach $540
million in ad sales, which make up virtually all of its revenue,
up from $139.5 million last year. Even so, it will take Twitter
longer to generate $1 billion than bigger competitors  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   “The marketers who have used Twitter’s advertising
opportunities have been pleased,” said Nate Elliott, an analyst
with  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  in New York. “Twitter’s going to
be able to push forward and continue to make more money from
it.”  Google crossed the $1 billion  threshold  five years after
its founding, while Facebook, which sold shares in an initial
public offering last month, achieved that  goal  six years after
it got started. Founded in 2006, Twitter will be eight years old
in 2014.  Overseas Expansion  Twitter has stepped up a campaign to induce marketers to
devote more of their ad budgets to its service, which lets users
post messages of no more than 140 characters to followers.
Twitter, which unveiled its first ad offering in 2010, started a
self-service platform this year to reach more small businesses.
It also recently expanded mobile-ad services.  Companies need to spend money on Twitter to ensure their
messages are seen, said  Jeremiah Owyang , an analyst at  San
Mateo , California-based Altimeter Group. “Because all of the
brands are jumping in and spewing content, there’s a deafening
noise. So, the one way to cut across that is to advertise and
make your content shine higher.”  Under Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo , Twitter is also
working to expand internationally, including in  Japan , to lessen
its reliance on the U.S. market. The percentage of revenue
Twitter earns from the U.S. will fall to 83 percent in 2014 from
about 90 percent this year, researcher EMarketer estimated in
January.  Management Stability  He is also aiming to bring stability to management after a
series of shifts at the top. Costolo was promoted to CEO in
2010, taking over for  Evan Williams , a co-founder. The next
year, another co-founder, Jack Dorsey, became executive chairman
of the company and head of product development.  Dorsey, who had been replaced as CEO by Williams in 2008,
splits his time between Twitter and his duties as CEO of Square
Inc., the mobile-payments provider he co-founded in 2009.  While the company’s ad service may be improving, EMarketer
in September reduced its estimates for revenue because of
slowness in rolling out the self-serve ad platform that was
announced earlier this year. EMarketer had earlier predicted
revenue of $150 million instead of $139.5 million.  Gabriel Stricker , a spokesman for Twitter, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Erlichman in  New York  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  