-- Xstrata’s $385 Million Glencore Payout Sparks Outcry
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-06-01T15:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-01/xstrata-s-385-million-glencore-payout-sparks-investor-outcry.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)   investors  say a potential
250 million-pound ($385 million) payout to 73 managers and
executives of the mining company after its takeover by Glencore
International Plc is “insensitive” and “unacceptable.”  Standard Life Plc (SL/) , Fidelity Worldwide Investment and Royal
London Asset Management, holding a total of more than 3 percent
of Xstrata, have criticized the payments announced yesterday.
Investors will vote on the so-called incentive arrangements on
July 12 with 50 percent approval needed to pass the deal.  It’s “unacceptable and depressing” and “makes supporting
Glencore’s already inadequate offer for Xstrata even less
palatable,”  David Cumming , Edinburgh-based head of equities at
Standard Life Investments, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Consequently we still believe it should be opposed.”  The payments may bolster opposition to the deal after 36.5
percent of Xstrata investors voted against the directors’ pay
report last month. Xstrata’s Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis ,
54, is the biggest recipient under the plan, netting 28.8
million pounds in bonuses in the three years to 2015.  It’s “provocative and insensitive given the current
climate,”  Dominic Rossi , global chief investment officer for
equities at Fidelity Worldwide, said in an e-mailed statement.
“In effect the interests of management have been placed ahead
of those of shareholders.”  Glencore (GLEN) , owner of about 34 percent of Xstrata, agreed to
an all-share combination in February to create the fourth-
biggest mining company and generate about $500 million a year in
cost savings. The offer of 2.8 shares for each Xstrata share
currently values the stock Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore
doesn’t already own at about 18.4 billion pounds.  Best Practice  The payments “do not reflect best practice and fall a long
way short of the principles of remuneration that Fidelity has
been promoting for some time,” Fidelity’s Rossi said.  Xstrata “considered very carefully the management
incentive arrangements for the merger, particularly in light of
the heightened public debate about executive remuneration,”
Chairman  John Bond  said in a statement yesterday. Two-thirds of
Davis’s incentive bonus will be paid in cash, the rest in stock.  Glencore said the incentives are designed to “ensure
Xstrata shareholders’ interests are reflected in the combined
group to balance the influence of Glencore management,”
according to a prospectus posted on its website.  Glencore  declined  1.5 percent to 335.4 pence at 2:46 p.m.
in London. Xstrata fell 2.6 percent to 898.3 pence.  ‘Serious Concerns’  “We have serious concerns about the justification for
retention payments of this scale, without any conditions
attached, and also the precedent that it would set,” said Ivor Pether, a  fund manager  at Royal London Asset Management who
holds 11 million shares of Xstrata.  Glencore is paying as much as $80 million in fees on the
transaction, while Xstrata’s bill will be as much as $116
million, a document on the merger published by the companies
shows. Glencore is working with Citigroup Inc. and Morgan
Stanley as financial advisers, while Xstrata has tapped Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and
Nomura Bank International Plc.  Xstrata said yesterday it planned to pay as much as 172.8
million pounds in retention awards to the managers and
executives. A further payment for existing contractual
provisions for 2012 will be capped at 44 million pounds and as
much as 35 million pounds worth of Glencore shares may be
awarded under the 2013 share performance plan, it said.  The commodities trader has faced calls from Xstrata
investors including  Schroders Plc (SDR) , Fidelity and Standard Life to
increase its bid for Xstrata, the largest exporter of coal
burned by power stations. Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, 55, has rebuffed those arguments, saying in a March
5 interview he was a “little lost” at expectations of a raised
offer.  Glencore won’t be allowed to vote its holding in Xstrata on
the merger, according to the U.K.’s takeover code, putting a
final decision into the hands of the shareholders who control
the rest of the company. That means about 16 percent of
Xstrata’s holders have the power to block the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  