-- Labour Vows Curbs on U.K. Welfare Payments to Migrants
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-07T15:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/labour-pledges-to-end-u-k-arms-race-on-immigration.html
The opposition Labour Party called
for greater limits on benefit payments to European migrants to
Britain to make the system “fairer,” as it sought to
capitalize on anti-immigration sentiment among voters.  The party’s home affairs spokeswoman, Yvette Cooper, said
voters fear the impact of Bulgarian and Romanian migration when
restrictions on nationals from both countries working in the
U.K. are lifted next year. Changes to ease potential problems
could be made before January, she said.  “Ministers should take sensible action around the benefit
system and services,” Cooper said in a speech in  London  today.
“The system needs to be seen to be fair. Giving people the
right to work in other countries is not about people traveling
and getting support from other countries if they don’t plan to
contribute.”  Prime Minister David Cameron’s Conservative-led government
has been attacked by Labour for failing to release estimates of
how many Bulgarians and Romanians will enter the U.K. to work.
Far more people from the eight eastern European countries that
joined the European Union in 2004 arrived in Britain that the
then Labour government forecast.  Cooper, who has not ruled herself out as a future leader of
the Labour Party, called for a “presence test” that would
prevent migrants from immediately making claims for state-funded
welfare payments. Labour leader Ed Miliband admitted in a party
political broadcast shown last night that the party got it wrong
on immigration when they were in power before 2010.  ‘Arms Race’  Cooper said in future Labour will focus on “practical”
measures to cut immigration, rather than getting involved in an
“arms race” of rhetoric, acknowledging it’s lost touch with
voters on the subject. During the 2010 election campaign, Labour
Prime Minister Gordon Brown was recorded calling a voter who
expressed concern about immigration a “bigoted woman.”  Cooper said the presence test would help “clarify” that
“people will be expected to be in the country for some time or
to contribute before they get something back.” She also called
for EU-wide change to a rule that family benefits must be paid
even if parents and children live in different countries.  “If someone moves from Newcastle to London for work and
leaves their children behind, they cannot claim child tax
credit,” she said. “But if someone moves to London, leaving
their children in Paris or  Prague  instead, they can claim child
tax credit and send it home. That’s not fair.”  Cooper also demanded tighter enforcement of labor market
rules, saying companies that recruit low-skilled workers from
abroad should do more to train local staff.  Home Secretary Theresa May was meeting German Interior
Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  today to discuss issues related to
the lifting of EU labor restrictions on Bulgarians and
Romanians. Friedrich said before the meeting that more EU
regulation is needed to prevent migrants settling in countries
like  Germany  and the U.K. to claim benefits that are more
generous than at home.  “There is no problem when people are coming to Germany
for work,” he told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. “That’s
what we want. But we don’t want to have people coming only to
get social security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  