-- MacDonald Dettwiler Launches to Orbit on Satellite Boom
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-03-07T21:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/macdonald-dettwiler-launches-to-orbit-on-satellite-boom.html
MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates
Ltd. (MDA) , the top technology stock in  Canada  over the past year, has
more room to rise as it taps the U.S. government satellite
market through its Space Systems/Loral acquisition.  The maker of the International Space Station’s Canadarm2
robotic arm as well as the Radarsat earth-observation
satellites, has surged 65 percent over the past 12 months, the
 best-performing  stock among six peers in the S&P/TSX Information
Technology index. It’s also the second-best performing  stock  in
the benchmark  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  in 2013, rising 30 percent
to an intraday record on March 6. MacDonald Dettwiler fell 0.3
percent to C$72.77 in Toronto today for a market value of C$2.32
billion.  MacDonald Dettwiler last month reported fourth-quarter
adjusted  earnings  that topped analysts’ estimates after adding
revenue from its $875 million deal for SS/Loral, a unit of New
York-based  Loral Space & Communications Inc. (LORL)   “The Loral purchase is a game-changer for them,” said Luc Fournier, a fund manager at Industrial Alliance Insurance
Financial Services Inc. in Quebec City, who oversees about C$800
million ($776 million) in Canadian equities including shares of
MacDonald Dettwiler. “Analysts have really warmed up to the
stock in recent weeks because MDA has entered a new market. This
acquisition really opened a lot of eyes.”  Shortly after Vancouver-based MacDonald Dettwiler reported
earnings, six  analysts  raised their price targets for the stock.
There are currently nine buys, three holds and one sell for the
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The SS/Loral purchase is critical to MacDonald Dettwiler’s
growth, Thanos Moschopoulos, an analyst with BMO Capital
Markets, said in a phone interview from Toronto.  NASA Key  “If you’re trying to sell into the U.S. government or NASA
the key is having SS/L -- it’s a multi-billion dollar market,”
Moschopoulos said. “Most of their business is commercial, so
the government contracts are the growth opportunity.”  SS/Loral, based in Palo Alto,  California , makes commercial
satellites designed for transmitting television and radio,
broadband Internet and mobile communications signals. It has
also provided batteries to the International Space Station and
antennas for the Voyager spacecraft.  Moschopoulos expects a  total return , including dividends,
of about 13 percent this year, raising his price target to C$78
from C$71.25 while maintaining an outperform rating for the
stock.  A risk to anticipating growth through government contracts
is the $85 billion of automatic  federal budget  cuts called
sequestration, which began on March 1 and point to tighter
spending in the future.  Defense Spending  Defense contract awards shrank to $12 billion in January
from $36 billion in December, said George Ferguson, a senior
analyst with Bloomberg Industries, in a research note.  With net debt of C$800 million, about 2 1/2 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as well
as C$350 million in unused debt, MacDonald Dettwiler is in a
manageable financial position for further acquisitions,
Moschopoulos said.  “We have a growth strategy and acquisitions are a
fundamental component of that growth strategy,” Anil Wirasekara, chief financial officer, said on the phone from
 Vancouver . “We want to expand our geographical base from North
America to more multinational. There’s lots of opportunities in
emerging economies in  Brazil ,  Russia , the Asian economies.”  The company is willing to add to its debt or go to the
capital markets to fund acquisitions as big as SS/Loral, as long
as the price is right, Wirasekara said.  Order Backlog  MacDonald Dettwiler disclosed its backlog of C$2.9 billion
in January, after winning a C$706 million contract from the
Canadian government to help build three Radarsat satellites to
be launched in 2018. The satellites will be used to monitor
Canadian territory for military and environmental purposes, the
federal government said.  This backlog, along with several active bids awaiting
approval, will keep the company busy well into 2014,
Moschopoulos said. By then, MacDonald Dettwiler should be in the
thick of competing for contracts alongside  Boeing Co. (BA)  and the
European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co., he said.  Orbit Satellite  This year “and onwards will mark a period of strong
revenues and earnings growth at MDA as the company endeavors to
win more business and increase its market share in the U.S.
commercial satellite market,” Naser Iqbal, analyst with Salman
Partners Inc., said in a note to clients Feb. 28.  Projects on the horizon include NASA’s satellite servicing
initiative, which is in the request-for-information stage.
MacDonald Dettwiler is “well-positioned to participate as
either a prime or a sub-contractor,” said Paul Steep, analyst
with Scotia Capital Markets, in a note March 1.  Steep maintained a sector outperform rating, the equivalent
of a buy, while raising his price target to C$78 from C$70.  Daniel Friedmann, chief executive officer of MacDonald
Dettwiler, said sequestration’s impact on the company will not
be substantial.  “The big impact is that there’s nothing new and big coming
up,” Friedmann said in a conference call discussing the most
recent earnings. “To the extent that nobody is spending the
money on our competitors, that’s good.”  The company is concentrating on smaller proposals this year
in anticipation of making bigger bids in 2014, Friedmann said.  Canada Projects  Depending on how long sequestration lasts, it may reduce
2013 revenue by as much as C$10 million, he said.  “Whether or not they do cut back, there are still billions
being spent,” Moschopoulos said. “That’s a big opportunity.”  In the meantime, MacDonald Dettwiler continues to snap up
projects in Canada and the U.S.  On Feb. 25 the company said it successfully launched
Sapphire, the Canadian Department of National Defence’s first
dedicated operational military satellite.  The company has also secured a C$15.8 million deal with the
Canadian Space Agency to design equipment for mapping an
asteroid as part of a  NASA  mission to be launched in 2016.  “Personally I think they’ll be able to deliver,”
Industrial Alliance’s Fournier said. “The only question is how
fast. Long-term prospects for the satellite communications
business are excellent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  