-- Macy’s, J.C. Penney Ordered Into Mediation by Judge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/macy-s-j-c-penney-martha-stewart-ordered-into-mediation-1-.html
Macy’s Inc.,  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  and
 Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia Inc., in the middle of a trial,
were ordered into mediation by a  New York  judge to resolve a
dispute over the right to sell some Martha Stewart merchandise.  During a nonjury trial that began in New York State Supreme
Court on Feb. 20, Justice Jeffrey K. Oing ordered the two
retailers and the home merchandise company to participate in
mediation before April 8, when the proceedings are set to resume
because of scheduling conflicts.  “It’s getting very close to a moment we don’t want to get
to,” Oing said. “It’s reached a critical point in this trial
where the business people should take a step back and find some
common ground.”  Martha Stewart and Macy’s Chairman  Terry Lundgren  spoke on
the telephone yesterday at the judge’s request, Oing said,
adding “we’re still here.” Lundgren testified last week that
he hadn’t spoken with Stewart since December 2011, when he hung
up on her after she called to tell him about the J.C. Penney
deal the night before it was announced.  “Martha Stewart and Terry Lundgren had a productive
conversation regarding the ongoing contract dispute between MSLO
and Macy’s,” Martha Stewart Living spokeswoman Katherine Nash
said in a statement yesterday. “We view today’s actions as a
positive step forward and welcome a prompt and fair
resolution.”  Revive Sales  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
New York-based Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million as the
department-store chain seeks to revive sales with new mini-
stores dedicated to Martha Stewart and other brands.  Macy’s, which has sold Martha Stewart-branded home goods
since 2007, sued her company in January 2012, saying it had the
exclusive right to sell items in certain categories including
bedding and cookware. Macy’s sued Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney
about three months later.  Lawyers for Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department
store chain, have argued that J.C. Penney is trying to “reap
the rewards” of its work with the Martha Stewart brand, which
the chain says it rebuilt after Stewart’s release from prison in
2005, when her products were sold at Kmart.  Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner
that favors private-label brands. Martha Stewart Living also
said Cincinnati-based Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a five-year
renewal option in January 2012 because of the breach.  Unbranded Goods  Oing said he won’t hear arguments today on a possible
request for a preliminary injunction blocking J.C. Penney from
carrying unbranded goods designed by Martha Stewart Living in
the categories exclusive to Macy’s after lawyers for J.C. Penney
agreed not to stock the items until April 8.  Macy’s had said it was considering asking Oing to expand a
preliminary ban against Martha Stewart Living to prevent J.C.
Penney from selling Stewart-designed goods in certain exclusive
categories even if they aren’t marked with her name.  The judge said he will listen to those arguments when the
trial resumes if the three sides haven’t resolved the case by
then.  “You folks gotta sit down and talk hard about this and get
something done,” Oing said.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v.  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) , 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 