-- Adidas Jumps as Upbeat Outlook Outweighs Quarterly Loss
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-03-07T11:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/adidas-shares-slide-as-profit-forecast-misses-estimates.html
Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-
largest sporting-goods maker, forecast higher sales and profit
this year and raised its  dividend  by 35 percent as it targets
fast-growing  emerging markets  and introduces new products.  Sales will increase at a “mid-single-digit” percentage
pace in 2013, while operating margin will improve to almost 9
percent from 8 percent in 2012, the Herzogenaurach, Germany-
based company said today as it reported a fourth-quarter loss
because of reduced growth assumptions for the Reebok brand.  Adidas rose as much as 4.8 percent in  Frankfurt  trading,
 the most  in more than 10 months, shrugging off the loss and a
2013 profit forecast that fell short of analysts’  estimates . The
company, which cut its sales forecast for the year in November,
is ramping up the expansion of its retail business to help
offset diminishing expectations for  Reebok .  “We stick to our view that earnings improvement could be
higher in 2013,” Michael Kuhn, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
wrote after today’s earnings report. The profit outlook was “a
little light, but close to consensus expectations.”  Adidas forecast 2013 net income of 890 million euros to 920
million euros, compared with the 946 million-euro  average
estimate  of 26 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares were up 4.3 percent at 74.75 euros as of 12:15
p.m. in Frankfurt, the  biggest gain  in  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX
Index. (DAX)  They have risen 11 percent this year.  Adidas posted a fourth-quarter net loss of 272 million
euros after charges for asset impairment of 265 million euros.  Reebok ‘Clean’  The charges were caused mainly by an adjustment of its
growth assumptions for Reebok, particularly in  North America ,
 Latin America  and  Brazil , and an increase in discount rates due
to  Europe ’s debt crisis, the company said.  “We were surprised that it happened now,” Jurgen Kolb, an
analyst at CA Cheuvreux, said of the impairment. “The good news
is, the basis for Reebok is now clean,” he wrote in a report.  Reebok has weighed on Adidas’s growth since it was acquired
in 2006. Sales at the brand declined in each of the three years
after the acquisition, while the discovery of “commercial
irregularities” at Reebok in  India  caused the sporting-goods
maker to cut its guidance for wholesale revenue in 2012.  Adidas remains committed to Reebok, Chief Executive Officer
 Herbert Hainer  said today at a press conference, adding that
“he doesn’t see why” it can’t be a “successful brand.”  CrossFit Community  He expects Reebok to return to growth this year as it
introduces new footwear and apparel collections, including a
collection taking inspiration from the  CrossFit  community and a
partnership with yoga instructor Tara Stiles.  Adidas doesn’t plan  acquisitions  as it has to do its Reebok
“homework” first, Hainer said. The company will focus on what
it owns and on returning cash to shareholders, he said.  Gross margin in the fourth quarter widened to 47.6 percent
from 45.6 percent amid price increases and higher retail sales.  Sales gained 4 percent to 3.37 billion euros, missing the
3.44 billion-euro average estimate of 19 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. On a currency-neutral basis, sales rose 1 percent.  Growth was boosted by double-digit revenue gains in  Greater
China  and record sales of “well above” 1.7 billion euros in
soccer, Adidas said. Golf also performed strongly last year,
already reaching a 2015 revenue goal with sales of more than 1.3
billion euros. The golf business will grow “at a single-digit
rate” this year, Hainer said.  Adidas proposed a dividend of 1.35 euros a share, up from 1
euro a year earlier. The increase is “very good news,” Herbert Sturm, an analyst at DZ Bank AG, wrote in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  