-- Thai Bulls Beat Bears Selling Most in Asia
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n ,   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-03-08T12:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/thai-bulls-beat-bears-selling-most-in-asia-as-set-hits-1994-high.html
Never before have Thai stocks
rallied so much at a time when foreign investors were heading
for the exit.  The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  rose 4.6 percent last month even as
international money managers  sold  a net $583 million of the
nation’s shares, the biggest outflow among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg. The  advance , propelled by $611 million of
purchases by domestic investors, is the largest for any month
when net overseas withdrawals exceeded $500 million. The  index 
 fell  an average 5.5 percent during such  periods  since Bloomberg
began compiling the data in 1999.  “Local investors are prepared to step in and hunt for
bargains,” Petcharat Powattanasatien, who helps oversee about
$30 billion as the head of equity investment at Bangkok-based
Kasikorn Asset Management Co., said by phone on March 4. Her
firm is the nation’s biggest money manager.  Thai citizens are driving equity gains as the nation’s $377
billion economy grows at the fastest pace since at least 1993
and local incomes climb. While Morgan Stanley is advising
clients to cut stock holdings after  valuations  rose to record
highs, Aberdeen Asset Management and ING Investment Management
are still bullish. The  SET index  has recovered every time when
foreign selling coincided with monthly losses since September
2008, rallying an average 22 percent in the next 12 months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Top Fund  “Thai stocks are still relatively quite attractive given
the outlook for the economy and company earnings,” Adithep Vanabriksha, the head of equities for Thailand at Aberdeen,
which oversees about $314 billion, said by phone from Bangkok on
Feb. 27. The  Aberdeen New Thai Investment Trust (ANW)  has jumped 35
percent this year, the top performer among 225 Thai stock funds
tracked by Bloomberg.  Adithep favors shares tied to domestic demand, including
 Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK) , Thailand’s fourth-largest listed lender by
assets, and  Siam Makro Pcl (MAKRO) , which sells food and consumer
products. Both companies are based in Bangkok.  The SET index rose 0.4 percent to close at a 19-year high
of 1,566.92. It’s up 13 percent this year. The  MSCI Southeast
Asia Index (MXSO)  has advanced 4.7 percent in 2013, while  the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index  has increased 0.8 percent.  Outflows from Thai stocks last month compare with $1.2
billion of inflows into Indonesia and $146 million of net
purchases in the  Philippines , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Jakarta Composite Index and the Philippine Stock
Exchange Index both climbed 7.7 percent in February.  Volatility Falls  Stock trading by local individual and institutional
investors accounted for about 73 percent of total volume in
 Thailand  as of March 6, compared with 61 percent five years ago,
exchange data compiled by Bloomberg show. Average daily turnover
on the Stock Exchange of Thailand’s main SET board and its
Market for Alternative Investment surged 135 percent in January
from a year earlier to about 58 billion baht ($1.95 billion),
the bourse  said  in a Feb. 20 statement.  “This is a positive change as it helps to reduce
volatility within the market,” Cindy Huang, a manager of the
ING Thailand Fund, which returned about 26 percent this year,
said by phone from Taipei on Feb. 26. Huang favors property and
construction stocks.  The SET index’s 30-day  volatility  was 12.2 yesterday, down
from an average 20.2 during the past decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with readings of 9.8 for
 Indonesia ’s benchmark index and 13.8 for the Philippine gauge.  Relative Value  The baht has strengthened 3.4 percent against the dollar
during the past 12 months. The cost to insure government bonds,
rated BBB+ at Standard & Poor’s, against non-payment for five
years using credit-default swaps was 87 basis points yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with 75 basis
points for  Malaysia , which is rated one level higher at S&P.  Thai shares are expensive after valuations surged,
according to Jonathan Garner, the Hong Kong-based chief Asia and
emerging-market strategist at Morgan Stanley. He advised cutting
positions to below their weighting in benchmark indexes in a
Feb. 27 report.  The SET Index trades for 14 times analysts’ estimated 12-
month  earnings , the highest level since Bloomberg began tracking
the data in January 2006 and a 36 percent premium to the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index. The Thai gauge’s 82 percent advance from
its Oct. 4, 2011, low has exceeded the 77 percent average gain
during bull markets since 1987, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Economic Growth  Capital outflows and Thailand’s widening current-account
deficit spurred the government to devalue the baht on July 2,
1997, a move that helped spark the Asian financial crisis.  Foreign investors withdrew about 30 billion baht, or $1
billion at current exchange rates, from Thai stocks in the 12
months ended June 1997, according to exchange data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gauge slumped 60 percent in the period, versus a
16 percent drop in MSCI’s Southeast Asia gauge. The Thai index
is still 11 percent below its all-time  high  in January 1994.  Thailand’s economy and its financial markets have become
more resilient to foreign withdrawals, according to ING’s Huang.
The nation’s foreign-exchange  reserves  have grown more than 500
percent since the Asian crisis to about $179 billion as of Feb.
22, central bank data compiled by Bloomberg show. Thailand will
probably record a current-account surplus equivalent to 0.1
percent of gross domestic product in 2013, data from the
International Monetary Fund show.  Tax Breaks  GDP expanded 18.9 percent in the three months through
December, the fastest pace since Thailand began compiling
figures in 1993, as manufacturing rebounded from the worst
floods in almost 70 years in 2011, the government said on Feb.
18. The economy grew 6.4 percent in 2012, compared with the
decade average of 4.2 percent. The expansion may slow to between
4.5 percent and 5.5 percent this year, according to government
estimates.  Rising incomes and tax incentives for long-term investment
have spurred more Thais to put money in  stocks , said Aberdeen’s
Adithep. The country’s per-capita GDP has increased to about
$5,850 from $3,900 five years earlier, according to the
Washington-based IMF. Thailand allows citizens to make tax-free
investments of as much as 1 million baht a year into retirement
and long-term equity funds.  Shares offer better returns than gold and bank deposits at
a time when surging real estate prices have made property
investment unaffordable, said Neeranuch Pornkuakulsap, a 51-
year-old owner of a garment factory in Bangkok, who has about 5
million baht of savings.  Infrastructure Spending  Bullion has dropped about 5.5 percent this year. The
average  interest rate  on 3-month deposits at four major Thai
banks is 1.61 percent, the lowest level since July 2011,
according to the Bank of Thailand. Resale  prices  of completed
luxury condominium units in Bangkok jumped 15.6 percent in the
third quarter of 2012 from a year earlier, according to CBRE
Group Inc., a Los Angeles-based property brokerage.  “Most of my friends are making a lot of money” in stocks,
said Neeranuch, whose equity holdings have gained about 10
percent this year. “I still think it will generate much better
returns than putting money in the banks.”  The long-term prospects for Thailand’s economy and stock
market are both positive because infrastructure spending is
increasing and the country is luring foreign direct investment,
Medha Samant, an investment director at Fidelity Worldwide
Investment, which oversees about $240 billion, said by phone
from Hong Kong on Feb. 28. The $1.2 billion  Fidelity Thailand
Fund (FIDLTHI)  returned about 13 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Bargain Prices’  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s government approved on
Feb. 27 a 2 trillion baht infrastructure-spending plan to build
high-speed trains and mass transit networks.  “The next catalyst will be when the government starts to
disburse money regarding these projects,” Pong Ho Yin, a Hong-
Kong based money manager at Allianz Global Investors, said in a
Feb. 28 phone interview. “That will provide more confidence to
the foreigners.”  Applications for investment incentives on new factories,
plants and operations in Thailand more than doubled to a record
1.46 trillion baht last year, the government said on Jan. 10.
Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. boosted
production capacity in Thailand during the past four months.  Earnings in the SET index will probably climb 28 percent in
the next 12 months, versus 18 percent for MSCI’s developing-
nations  gauge , according to projections compiled by Bloomberg.  Many Thais “have had great success and spectacular returns
by investing in companies with sound fundamentals such as strong
earnings growth,” Sompong Cholkadeedamrongkul, a 60-year-old
private investor in Bangkok, said by phone on Feb. 27. “There
were several occasions that heavy selling by foreign investors
gave me opportunities to buy shares of those companies at
bargain prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  