-- Thai Central Bank Seeks Extra Yuan Bond Quota, Pongpen Says
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-03-07T09:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/thai-central-bank-seeks-extra-yuan-bond-quota-pongpen-says-1-.html
Thailand ’s central bank aims to
increase holdings of Chinese bonds and add overseas corporate
debt to its $179 billion of foreign-exchange reserves as it
seeks to boost returns.  “We fully invested the quota from the Chinese authorities
and we feel that we need more diversification in our
international reserves,” Bank of Thailand Deputy Governor
Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said in an interview in Bangkok today.
“ Yuan  yields are higher than in developed markets. This year
will be the year we are investing more in new emerging-market
assets.”  The Bank of Thailand currently has a 7 billion yuan ($1.1
billion) allocation for bond purchases and has a $300 million
quota to buy onshore yuan debt under  China ’s Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor program, known as QFII. The monetary
authority’s holdings of yuan-denominated notes are “very
close” to the QFII limit, Pongpen said.  As record-low  interest rates  depress yields in developed
countries, emerging-market bonds are attracting increasing
inflows. China’s 10-year sovereign notes yield 3.57 percent,
compared with 1.93 percent for similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries
and 1.46 percent for  German securities , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Currency Tools  The central bank wants to support internationalization of
the yuan and help the development of the Chinese market, Pongpen
said, adding that it’s possible the bank will apply for an
increase to its QFII quota again in the future.  Thailand’s foreign-exchange  reserves  stood at $179 billion
in the week ended Feb. 22, near a record high of $183.6 billion
in September, official data show. Funds invested in yuan assets
aren’t classified as international reserves because the Chinese
currency isn’t fully convertible.  The Bank of Thailand will also buy more assets from non-
Asian  emerging markets , including Eastern Europe and  Latin
America , which will help diversify risk and reduce volatility on
returns, Pongpen said.  The deputy governor said policy makers have the tools in
place to deal with capital inflows, which have contributed to
the baht’s 2.9 percent advance against the dollar this year, the
best performance in  Asia .  Bond Investment  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy has  attracted  a net
$6.5 billion into local-currency debt this year from overseas
investors, compared with $31 billion for the whole of 2012,
according to Thai Bond Market Association data. That’s even
after the government removed a 15 percent tax exclusion on
income earned on the securities in October 2010.  “We always have it in our tool box,” Pongpen said, adding
that the central bank isn’t yet considering any measures to curb
inflows. “At this stage, we have seen quite balanced flows.”  The central bank has encouraged local entities to invest
abroad and is expecting outflows to increase in 2013 from $12
billion last year, she said. Imports of machinery by local
businesses has also helped to counter inflows “to some
extent,”
Pongpen said.  “If the  exchange rate  goes beyond the level that we think
is appropriate for the country’s fundamentals, then the capital
management tools will always be in our drawer,” she said. A
stronger baht “is not always a bad thing,” Pongpen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 