-- Thai Central Bank Seeks to Boost Yuan Bond Quota, Pongpen Says
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-03-07T07:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/thai-central-bank-seeks-to-boost-yuan-bond-quota-pongpen-says.html
Thailand ’s central bank aims to
increase holdings of Chinese bonds and add overseas corporate
debt to its $179 billion of foreign-exchange reserves as it
seeks to boost returns.  “We fully invested the quota from the Chinese authorities
and we feel that we need more diversification in our
international reserves,” Bank of Thailand Deputy Governor
Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said today in an interview in Bangkok.
“ Yuan  yields are higher than in developed markets. This year
will be the year we are investing more in new emerging-market
assets.”  The Bank of Thailand currently has a 7 billion yuan ($1.1
billion) allocation for bond purchases and has $300 million of
quota to buy onshore yuan debt under China’s Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor program, known as QFII. The monetary
authority’s holdings of yuan-denominated debt is “very close”
to the QFII limit, Pongpen said.  As record-low  interest rates  depress yields in developed
countries, emerging-market bonds are attracting increasing
inflows. China’s 10-year sovereign notes yield 3.57 percent,
compared with 1.93 percent for the similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries and 1.46 percent for  German securities , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank wants to support internationalization of
the yuan and help the development of the Chinese market, Pongpen
said, adding that it’s possible the bank will apply for an
expansion of its QFII quota in the future.  Thailand’s foreign-exchange  reserves  stood at $179 billion
in the week ended Feb. 22, near a record high of $183.6 billion
in September, official data show. Funds invested in yuan assets
aren’t classified as international reserves because the Chinese
currency isn’t fully convertible.  The Bank of Thailand will also buy more assets from non-
Asian  emerging markets  including Eastern Europe and  Latin
America , she said, adding that this would help diversify risk
and reduce returns volatility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 