-- AirAsia Faces Bureaucracy Costs With Venture in India Market
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-03-07T00:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/airasia-faces-bureaucracy-costs-with-venture-in-india-market.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , Southeast Asia’s
biggest discount carrier, reported profits in all but one year
in the past decade. It’s now entering a market where the
industry has lost more than $6.6 billion in five years.  The airline may struggle to post profits in  India  as high
fuel taxes, airport costs and cut-rate competition erode gains
from rising travel demand, said Harsh Vardhan, the chairman of
Starair Consulting that advises airlines. AirAsia will also have
to contend with the nation’s bureaucracy that interferes with
pricing of tickets.  “AirAsia can’t overnight change the economies of
operations in India,” said New Delhi-based Vardhan. “Fuel
prices are common, the bureaucracy is the same for everyone and
the environment is very competitive. That will make it difficult
for them to make money.”  The airline aims to start Indian operations in the fourth
quarter after winning approval yesterday for the nation’s first
foreign aviation investment since rules were eased in September.
Carriers in the country may lose $1.4 billion this fiscal year,
CAPA Centre for Aviation has forecast, as high fuel costs and a
price war forced liquor tycoon  Vijay Mallya ’s  Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  to halt flights since October.  Tony Fernandes , the group chief executive of AirAsia, has
said price will be the ‘No.1’ differentiator in India as he aims
to lure passengers from the nation’s 23 million train travelers
a day. The Indian market is “fantastic” and the nation is now
“ready for a true low cost carrier,” he said last month.  Airbus Planes  Fernandes has expanded AirAsia into the region’s biggest
discount carrier by setting up ventures in the Philippines,
 Japan ,  Thailand  and  Indonesia . In December, the airline ordered
100 Airbus SAS A320s valued at $9.4 billion, in addition to the
200 it had agreed in 2011 to purchase.  AirAsia’s profit more than tripled in 2012 to 1.9 billion
ringgit ($612 million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Indonesia AirAsia’s profit jumped 54 percent, while Thai AirAsia
also posted a profit for the period, the company said in a
statement last month. Ventures in the Philippines and Japan
reported losses.  Airlines in India have been losing money even after
passenger traffic more than doubled in the past seven years.  Jet
Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s biggest listed carrier,
hasn’t made an annual consolidated profit in five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Mumbai-based
company is in talks with Etihad Airways PJSC to sell a stake as
it seeks funds to pare debt.  Airport Charges  Jet fuel, which accounts for about half of a carrier’s
expenses, costs as much as 60 percent more in India compared
with  Singapore . Carriers’ airport costs are also rising in the
nation as the airports regulator last year approved a 346
percent increase in charges at New Delhi airport.  Aziz Laikar, a spokesman at AirAsia, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mailed questions about the challenges of doing
business in India.  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) , the nation’s only publicly traded budget
airline, may post its second straight annual loss in the year
ending March 31, according to nine analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Kingfisher Air, the only Indian carrier to order
Airbus A380s, has been in talks with investors to revive
operations since grounding planes in October. Paramount Airways
also stopped flights in 2010.  Domestic carriers had a combined debt of as much as $20
billion last year, with half that amount owing to working
capital needs, payments to airport operators and fuel companies,
according to the civil aviation ministry. India’s airlines have
lost more than 360 billion rupees ($6.6 billion) since the year
ended March 2007, according to government data.  Air India  Companies also have to contend with competition from  Air
India  Ltd. that gets government funds to help mitigate losses.
The government last year pledged 300 billion rupees worth of
bailout for the state-owned carrier over eight years.  Still, AirAsia’s expertise and its Indian partners’
resources may help the new airline overcome the challenges of
Indian market, said  Arun Kejriwal , director at Mumbai-based
Kejriwal Research & Investment Services Pvt.  Tata Sons Ltd. will own 30 percent in the venture while
Arun Bhatia of Telestra Tradeplace Pvt., whose son is married to
the daughter of billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal , will hold 21 percent.  “Those who are joining together are the people who know
the industry the best,” said Kejriwal. “They’ve seen good and
bad of all and they are aware of what’s happened in India.”  Aging Jets  Fernandes and partner Kamarudin Meranun bought AirAsia from
 DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)  with two aging  Boeing Co. (BA)  737 jets and 40 million
ringgit of debt, for a token 1 ringgit, or 32 cents -- three
days before the Sept. 11 terror attacks. Air India had its roots
in an airline that former Tata Chairman J.R.D. Tata had started
in 1932.  AirAsia, which will own 49 percent of the Indian venture,
will initially invest about 800 million rupees. The airline
plans to operate from  Chennai  in south India to smaller cities
in the country. A carrier must complete five years of domestic
operations before it can fly overseas, according to the nation’s
aviation rules. Budget airlines, led by IndiGo, account for
about 60 percent of India’s airline market.  “If an airline is going to be viable, its fares have to
reflect its cost of operations,” said Binit Somaia, a Sydney-
based director at CAPA. “The costs of operation in India are
high. It’ll be challenging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  