-- Malaysia Holds Rate as Quickening Growth Reduces Stimulus Need
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-03-07T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/malaysia-holds-rate-as-quickening-growth-reduces-stimulus-need.html
Malaysia  held interest rates
unchanged for an 11th straight meeting as a strengthening global
recovery reduced the need for monetary stimulus.  Bank Negara Malaysia maintained the  benchmark overnight
policy rate  at 3 percent, the central bank said in a statement
in Kuala Lumpur today. The decision was predicted by all 20
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Southeast Asian nations have shown resilience to the global
slowdown, with Malaysia’s economy expanding at the fastest pace
in more than two years last quarter. While the government has
refrained from cutting fuel subsidies ahead of elections,
domestic demand and wage increases are adding to price pressures
that HSBC Holdings Plc and Barclays Plc economists predict
may prompt the central bank to raise borrowing costs this year.  “Benign inflation and healthy growth make for a stable
monetary policy stance,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore , said before the decision. “Though
the market is not expecting any rate hike in the near term, risk
of a monetary action by the central bank in the second half of
the year is rising if the authority hopes to anchor inflation
expectation.”  The ringgit has lost more than 1.5 percent this year amid
concern Prime Minister Najib Razak’s ruling coalition will lose
seats in parliament. The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  of
stocks has fallen 2.6 percent after hitting a record on Jan. 7.  Risk Premium  “Investors are pricing some degree of risk in the currency
and equity markets,” said  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based
economist at Barclays, who forecasts a rate increase in the
fourth quarter as inflation pressures rise. “Once the election
uncertainty is out, fundamentals will push their weight on the
market. We remain positive on the ringgit.”  The ringgit was little changed at 3.1045 against the U.S.
dollar today. The decision was released after markets closed.  Najib, whose governing National Front alliance won the 2008
vote by its narrowest margin in five decades, must dissolve
parliament by April 28 for polls to be held within 60 days. The
premier has boosted spending on roads and railways, raised civil
servant salaries and pensions, waived school fees and boosted
handouts for the poor.  Malaysia’s government forecasts  economic growth  of 4.5
percent to 5.5 percent this year. The expansion will be driven
by consumption and investment while inflation will be “well
below” 3 percent this year, Bank Negara Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said last week. Consumer prices rose 1.3 percent in January
from a year earlier, after climbing 1.2 percent the previous
month.  “While inflation is expected to rise during the year, the
expectation is for it to remain modest,” the central bank said
in a statement today. “The Monetary Policy Committee considers
the current stance of monetary policy to be appropriate given
the outlook for inflation and growth.”  Indonesia  today kept its  benchmark rate  at a record-low
5.75 percent, as predicted by all 21 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. In  Thailand , the central bank held borrowing costs last
month for a third straight meeting.  “We continue to see risks of upward policy normalization
in the second half of 2013” for Malaysia, said Lim Su Sian, a
Singapore-based economist at HSBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  