-- Anglo American S. Africa Faces Class-Action Suit Over Silicosis
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-03-07T11:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/anglo-american-s-africa-faces-class-action-suit-over-silicosis.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s South African
unit faces a class-action suit from miners with silicosis who
worked at 11 operations that the company used to own, lawyers
led by Leigh Day & Co. said.  “It’s a class action to which anyone who meets the
requisite criteria will belong unless they decide to opt out,”
Richard Meeran, an attorney with Leigh Day, said by phone from
London. The potential number of claimants is at least in the
tens of thousands, he said.  The application, made in the Johannesburg High Court, is
being served on Anglo’s South African unit today, Leigh Day and
others including Garratt Mbuyisa Neale Attorneys said in an e-
mailed statement.  South Africa’s highest court cleared the way for damages
claims to be brought against gold companies in March 2011 by
ruling that former miner Thembekile Mankayi could pursue a 2.7
million-rand ($300,000) claim against  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) 
Gold companies including AngloGold deny liability, and say they
will oppose the action.  “We can confirm that we’ve been served with the
application,” Pranill Ramchander, a Johannesburg-based
spokesman for Anglo, said in a phone interview. “Anglo American
denies any liability and we will continue to defend any
action.”  Leigh Day’s application is separate to the suit the firm
brought against AngloGold in October.  Other Cases  Leigh Day also sued Anglo American in 2004 on behalf of 18
former miners at its President Steyn mine in the Free State
province. The case is expected to be heard over four months from
February to June 2014, and will entail an arbitration hearing
before three judges including retired Appeal Court Judge Ian
Farlam, who is heading an inquiry into the deaths of at least 34
people at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine last year.  Silicosis is caused by prolonged exposure to dust in mines,
leaving irreversible scar tissue in lungs and making it hard to
breathe. It also heightens the risk of contracting tuberculosis.  The mines involved in the class-action suit served today
are Free State Geduld, Welkom, Western Deep Levels, Western
Holdings, Freddies, Free State Saaiplaas, Vaal Reefs,
Elandsrand, Joel and President Steyn, all of which were owned by
Anglo American South Africa until 1998, Meeran said.  South Africa’s gold mines caused about 1,140 new cases of
silicosis annually from 1980 to 1990, David Davis, a
Johannesburg-based mining analyst at SBG Securities Ltd., wrote
in a 2011 report on the possible accountability of such cases.  Merged Suits  Lawyers representing workers in other cases will merge
damages lawsuits filed against AngloGold, Harmony Gold Mining
Co. and other employers, Richard Spoor, who represents about
18,000 workers and dependents of those who died from their
illness, said in a March 5 interview.  Today’s application “provides a mechanism through which
the interests of the wider class of silicosis sufferers,
including those who are unaware that they have the disease, are
protected.” Leigh Day said in the statement. “To the extent
that the President Steyn litigation does not resolve the issue
of Anglo American South Africa’s liability, the intention is
that the proposed class action will address these issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  