-- Lanxess Plant Shutdowns Mar Estimate-Beating Quarterly Profit
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-03-07T12:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/lanxess-plant-shutdowns-mar-estimate-beating-quarterly-profit.html
Lanxess AG (LXS) , the chemical maker that
joined  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index in September, said it will
idle a factory in  Belgium  and another in the U.S. because of
weak orders.  The factory closures, which will stop producing in coming
weeks, are a reaction to “soft” underlying demand, which has
continued into 2013 across most businesses, the company said.
Lanxess shares fell as much as 4 percent to 64.20 euros in
Frankfurt trading.  A butyl rubber plant Zwijndrecht in Belgium will be closed
for four weeks in May and production of ethylene propylene diene
monomer, or EPDM, in Orange,  Texas  will be closed for as many as
six weeks, said  Daniel Smith , spokesman for the Leverkusen,
Germany-based company. Lanxess is budgeting for demand to
increase over the course of the year as it reaches for an
operating profit target of 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion) next
year.  “We are not surprised at all about the very cautious
outlook for the first half of 2013,” Peter Spengler, an analyst
at  DZ Bank  said in a note to clients. “We hope for a good
second half performance. There is even some hope for a decent
second quarter.” Spengler rates Lanxess hold.  The outlook overshadowed fourth-quarter results that beat
analysts’ estimates. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and one-time items increased 37
percent to 239 million euros in the fourth quarter, the company
said today in an unscheduled statement. Berenberg analyst
Jaideep Pandya had predicted 215 million euros.  Commodity End  Sales held steady at 2.12 billion euros, in line with
estimates. Earnings per share in the quarter rose to 62 euro
cents from 6 euro cents.  The factory near Antwerp has a capacity of about 150,000
metric tons of butyl, which is used in the inner liners of car
tires, spokesman Smith said.  Butyl is at the commodity end of Lanxess’s portfolio,
subjected to competition from rival makers including  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Russia’s Sibur
Holding OJSC. Lanxess Chief Executive Officer Axel Heitmann is
steering the focus toward higher-margin rubbers produced with
catalysts to increase their performance and efficiency.  The plant in Texas can produce 60,000 metric tons of EPDM,
which is used in wiper blades and door sealants, he said.  Shares of the maker of pigments, leather chemicals and
water-treatment chemicals were down 3.3 percent at 64.70 euros
as of 12:28 p.m. local time. The stock has fallen 2.6 percent
this year for a market value of 5.4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  