-- ANZ to Cut 50 Jobs at Australian Institutional Banking Unit
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-03-07T03:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/anz-bank-to-cut-50-jobs-in-institutional-international-banking.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,  Australia ’s third-largest bank by market value,
plans to cut about 50 jobs in institutional and international
banking as lenders trim costs amid weak credit demand.  ANZ advised staff late last month about the eliminations
mainly in Sydney and  Melbourne , spokesman  Paul Edwards  said in
an e-mailed statement. The reductions will help ANZ’s
institutional bank unit boost capital efficiency and adapt to
pressure on margins as the economy slows, he said.  Australian banks have relied on staff and pay cuts to
protect profit as they confront the weakest demand for home
lending since 1977. In 2012, ANZ announced plans to shed 1,000
jobs by September of that year as part of Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Smith ’s efforts to offset slumping loan growth.  “Costs and jobs are key areas of focus for banks at the
present time when growth is weak,” said  Angus Gluskie , managing
director at Sydney-based White Funds Management, which oversees
more than $350 million in assets. “There is more to play out on
it. It is a two to three year program.”  The latest reductions are a combination of managerial and
administrative roles and also reflect a merger of the
international and institutional banking divisions last year,
Edwards said.  Shares of ANZ declined 1.5 percent to A$28.78 as of 2:41
p.m. in Sydney trading. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index fell 0.4
percent.  Profit Drops  ANZ Bank said last month that it will send 70 back-office
jobs at its wealth unit from Sydney to Bangalore,  India .  Unaudited  profit  at the Melbourne-based bank fell 20
percent to A$1.36 billion ($1.39 billion) in the three months
ended Dec. 31, company figures showed last month, as margins
were squeezed at its New Zealand and international businesses.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest lender
by market value, will freeze base salaries for people making
A$150,000 or more in its institutional banking and markets
division, an internal memo showed in July.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , eliminated more than 500 roles early
last year. National Australia Bank Ltd., is scheduled to brief
investors on its technology program and its cost management
plans on March.13.  ANZ’s institutional and international banking encompasses
products and service for large corporate clients including
syndication, advisory, foreign exchange and risk management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  