-- Mapletree REIT Jumps in Asia’s Biggest 2013 IPO: Singapore Mover
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-03-07T06:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/mapletree-reit-jumps-in-asia-s-biggest-2013-ipo-singapore-mover.html
Mapletree Greater China Commercial
Trust (MAGIC) , Asia’s biggest share sale this year, gained on its first
trading day as investors were attracted by returns higher than
those of comparable properties.  The shares gained 10 percent to S$1.025 at 2:04 p.m. in
Singapore after being offered at 93 Singapore cents apiece. They
started trading at 2 p.m. and were 29.5 times subscribed.  The property trust, including assets such as the Festival
Walk shopping mall in  Hong Kong , raised S$1.6 billion ($1.3
billion). The offer price reflects a 5.6 percent yield for the
year ending March 2014, compared with the 4.2 percent return for
the  Bloomberg Asia REIT Index. (BBAREIT)   “Investors are buying because of the attractive yield,”
said  Alan Richardson , a Hong Kong-based fund manager who helps
oversee about $110 billion for Samsung Asset Management Co.
“The REIT’s offered yield is higher than the average yield of
Singapore REITs. And we shouldn’t forget that its assets are
located in China where average yields are even lower.”  The trust is the fourth by Mapletree Investments Pte, a
property unit of Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state-owned
investment company. Mapletree Industrial Trust and Mapletree
Commercial Trust have advanced about 50 percent from their offer
prices, while Mapletree Logistics Trust is up more than 70
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trusts have dominated Singapore’s IPO market in recent
years as high-yielding assets gained popularity amid low
 interest rates .  A total of 30 REITs and property trusts were listed in the
city-state with a combined value of S$56 billion, making up 6
percent of the total market capitalization of stocks traded,
Lawrence Wong, head of listings at the  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ,
said in a statement on Feb. 27. “SGX also has the largest
number of cross-border asset REITs in Asia,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  