-- Apple Wins in Samsung U.K. Essential Patent Claim Trial
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-03-07T13:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/apple-wins-in-samsung-u-k-essential-patent-claim-trial.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a U.K. lawsuit filed
by  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co. as part of the two companies’ global
patent battle over technology used on mobile devices.  Judge  Christopher Floyd  in London today invalidated the
Korean company’s patents for technology allowing phones to send
and receive information over third-generation mobile networks.  Samsung argued at two separate trials last year that
Cupertino, California-based Apple had infringed three patents.
The iPhone maker said the patents were invalid and, regardless,
Samsung was required to license the technology under fair terms
if it’s vital for connecting to modern networks, according to
court filings.  Samsung and Apple have each tallied victories in patent
disputes fought over four continents since the iPad maker
accused  Asia ’s biggest electronics producer in April 2011 of
“slavishly copying” its devices.  “It just marks another step in their global patent war,”
said Gary Moss, a lawyer at EIP Partnership LLP who isn’t
involved in the case. “Samsung doesn’t seem to have had much
luck so far.”  Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman at Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, said in an e-mail the company was disappointed by the
U.K. ruling and would review the judgment before deciding
whether to appeal.  IP Rights  “For decades, we have heavily invested in pioneering the
development of technological innovations in the mobile
industry,” Samsung said in a statement. “We will continue to
take the measures necessary to protect our intellectual property
rights.”  Apple spokesman Alan Hely declined to comment on today’s
ruling.  While Apple settled its lawsuits with  HTC Corp. (2498)  in
November, the company continues to wrestle with Samsung for
dominance in the international mobile phone market. At stake is
market share in the mobile-device market that researcher  Yankee
Group  expects to double to $847 billion by 2016.  Samsung said this week it would ask for a further review of
patent damages awarded to Apple following a U.S. judge reducing
by nearly half a $1.05 billion award to the company, after
determining the jury based its decision at trial on an incorrect
legal theory.  Apple lost an October U.K. appeal ruling over whether
Samsung’s Galaxy tablets infringed the design of the iPad,
upholding a decision by a lower court that found several of
Samsung’s tablets weren’t “cool” enough to be confused with
the iPad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  