-- Apple Seeks to Revive Patent Claims Against Google’s Unit
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-03-07T17:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/apple-seeks-to-revive-patent-claims-against-google-s-unit.html
Apple Inc. asked a U.S. appeals
court today to reinstate patent-infringement claims it filed
against  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit over touch-screen
technology used in mobile phones.  “This is Apple’s first touch-screen patent,” Apple lawyer
Joshua Rosenkranz of Orrick Herrington in New York told a three-
judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
in Washington. The patent was for “a key invention and it drove
the iPhone phenomenon and later the iPad. It claims something
that no one had ever done.”  Apple is appealing a U.S. International Trade Commission
decision over transparent screens that can sense multiple
touches in different locations, enabling users to operate a
mobile phone by touching or swiping its screen. Motorola
Mobility persuaded the agency to rule that one of the patents
was invalid and the other wasn’t infringed.  Commission lawyer Megan Valentine defended the agency’s
decision, saying the Apple multitouch invention was very similar
to earlier technology, including a patent issued in 2008 and a
Sony Corp. paper for a product called  SmartSkin .  “The algorithms are nearly identical in the two patents,”
she told the panel. She also defended the commission’s finding
that the commercial success of the iPhone wasn’t proof of the
uniqueness of the patented invention.  ‘Head-Scratcher’  “There are so many features of the iPhone,” Valentine
said. “Taking this one feature out without a showing of a tie
is not sufficient.”  Motorola Mobility lawyer  David Nelson  of Quinn Emanuel in
 Chicago  said the two patents “describe that same sensing
device.” He also urged the court to uphold the finding of non-
infringement, saying the judge’s interpretation of that patent
was correct.  In its filings with the court, Apple said figuring out how
a device with a transparent screen could accurately detect
multiple touches was a “head-scratcher.” Apple said Motorola
Mobility tried and failed to develop its own useful touchscreen.  When the iPhone went on sale, reviewers cited the “magic
touch screen” of the device and Time magazine singled out the
touchscreen when it  named  the iPhone its “Invention of the
Year,” Rosenkranz said.  “The moment Apple unveiled its invention, we all know what
happened,” Rosenkranz told the court. Cupertino, California-
based Apple has claimed other handset makers copied the iPhone
and has filed patent-infringement lawsuits around the world.  Part Fiction  Motorola Mobility, in its filing, called Apple’s
description of its inventive process as “equal parts fiction,
hyperbole, and litigation-inspired hindsight.”  “Apple is asking this court to believe that the success
and popularity of its iPhone and iPad devices must mean Apple
actually invented all of their individual components,” Motorola
Mobility said in its filing with the court. “The major hardware
components for the iPhone and iPad all existed prior to Apple’s
entry into the mobile device market, and the facts show that
Apple borrowed copiously from the work of others.”  The case targeted Motorola Mobility’s Droid, Droid 2, Droid
X, Cliq, Backflip, Devour and Charm phones, as well as the Xoom
tablet. Mountain View, California-based Google bought Motorola
Mobility last year, after the commission issued its decision.  The ITC in  Washington  has the power to block imports of
products that violate U.S. patents. Since most smartphones are
made in Asia, the trade agency has become a central front as
handset manufacturers use patent litigation as part of an
overall effort to increase their own market share.  Smartphone Rivalry  Mobile devices have grown in popularity worldwide, with one
in seven people having a smartphone, and another billion people
are expected to get them within the next three years, according
to researcher Strategy Analytics.  In the fourth quarter, Motorola Mobility had 4 percent of
the U.S. smartphone market, compared with Apple’s 45 percent,
said Neil Shah, an analyst with Boston-based Strategy Analytics.  Apple and Motorola Mobility have sued each other in
Wisconsin and  Florida . In a March 1 filing in the Florida case,
the two sides said they have “engaged and continue presently to
engage in informal settlement negotiations” and will meet at
least once before a May 31 court-ordered mediation deadline.  The Wisconsin cases, some of which were transferred to
Chicago, were thrown out by two different judges and are on
appeal before the Federal Circuit. The ITC is reviewing whether
Apple infringed a Motorola Mobility patent for a sensor that
detects how close a phone is to the body so it doesn’t
accidentally dial a call or hang up. A final decision is
scheduled to be issued April 22.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. ITC, 12-1338, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The ITC case is In
the Matter of Mobile Devices and Related Software, 337-750, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  