-- Armory Week Woos Billionaires with Picasso, Warhol: Guide
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-03-07T14:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/armory-week-woos-billionaires-with-picasso-warhol-guide.html
New York ’s Armory Week attracts
hundreds of galleries to two piers on the  Hudson River  and an
actual armory across town on Park Avenue.  Add an unexpected attraction: Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich ’s mega-yacht, Eclipse (not open to visitors) moored
nearby.  The piers are best accessed by cab, a brisk walk along the
Hudson River’s walkway, or by shuttle bus running from Chelsea.  Pier 94 houses 146 contemporary art galleries. This year’s
special Focus section is art from the U.S., which inspired
artworks made with bullets ( David Cole  at  Dodge Gallery ) and
cigarettes (Duke Riley at Magnan Metz) as well as canvases with
copper leaf background oxidized by the artist’s urine (courtesy
of  Elise Adibi  at Churner and Churner).  Here are some additional suggestions:  1.  Larry Gagosian : An Armory debutant, his booth occupies a
prominent spot with  Andy Warhol ’s camouflage paintings.  2.  Galerie Laurent Godin : Note the giant sculpture of an
axe-wielding lumberjack guarding the booth entrance. Inside,
David Kramer pokes easy fun at the art world. “...You won’t
have  Damien Hirst  to kick around any longer,” is written on a
splashy abstract canvas.  3.  Andrehn-Schiptjenko : Swedish artist Tobias Bernstrup’s
sculpture spelling “Hope” suggests anything but. Made of wood
and cardboard, it contains fragments of broken bridges,
shattered beams and a bus suspended precariously in mid-air.
Asking price: $46,000.  Sold Out  4.  Eleven Rivington : The gallery quickly sold out its
entire booth of 20 tiny figurative paintings during the VIP
preview of candle flames by TM Davy. (Range: $2,500 to $3,500).  5. Victoria Miro: A fragile sculpture of a globe made by
Sarah Sze, who will represent the U.S. at the Venice Biennale
this year, has already sold for an undisclosed price. Other
works for sale include paintings by Barnaby Furnas and  Chris Ofili .  Walk over to Pier 92 for the Modern section of the fair
with 61 exhibitors, where Picasso prints hang near nudes by  Tom
Wesselmann  and Sol LeWitt sculptures.  1.  Galleria d’Arte Maggiore  has paintings by Morandi,
Fernand Leger and Giorgio de Chirico selling for as much as $1.2
million.  2. Chowaiki & Co.: The New York gallery has pegged its
presentation to the Armory Show centennial with works by  Paul Gauguin ,  Claude Monet , Marcel Duchamp and  Edward Hopper , who
participated in the inaugural show, and contemporary artists
like Vik Muniz and Mike Bidlo. Gems include Dora Maar’s photo of
Picasso’s Guernica (not for sale). Prices range from $5,000 to
$3.8 million.  Coney Island  3.  Andrew Edlin : A scale replica of the Coney Island
amusement park offers wonderful fun. Press a button, and the
Ferris wheel rotates; another activates the miniature subway.
Tom Duncan took 18 years to build the model, which is
imaginative and detailed, right down to the bathers on the beach
and tiny hot air balloons soaring above. Asking price: $300,000.  4.  Mazzoleni Arte Moderna : Postwar Italian art is on view,
including slashed colorful paintings by  Lucio Fontana , burnt and
cracked canvases by Alberto Burri and one exquisite Piero
Manzoni. Prices range from $1 million to $1.5 million.  The Armory  Across town on Park Avenue, the annual Art Show organized
by the Art Dealers Association of America is rich in single-
artist booths.  1.  David Zwirner : This booth features little-known 1930s
oil paintings by Milton Avery depicting circus scenes.  2. Marianne Boesky: Find some exuberant works by Salvatore
Scarpitta (1919-2007), including a sculpture of a race car and
pieces made with skis and sleds.  3.  Ronald Feldman : Electrical wires and switches look
glamorous in the painting and sculptures by Kelly Heaton here.
Each piece emits humming sounds that bring to mind crickets on a
summer night.  4.  James Cohan : The front page of the New York Times is the
starting point for a new group of collages by Fred Tomaselli.
One depicts  Mitt Romney  next to children dressed in white
cloaks.  5.  Mitchell-Innes and Nash : Jean Arp’s gleaming sculptures,
drawings and reliefs take center stage. The works span the 1920s
to 1960s and cost as much as $2 million.  More Choices  With at least 11 art fairs taking place in New York through
March 10, here are a few more options:  Volta NY: The Armory Show’s younger sibling, it’s an
invitational show of solo projects by emerging artists. This
year it features 95 international galleries -- as well as a new
SoHo location. 82 Mercer Street;  http://www.ny.voltashow.com/ .  Independent: Organized as an alternative to the more
corporate art fairs, this hip event returns to the former Dia
building in Chelsea for the fourth year. Its 40 exhibitors
include some of the most prominent galleries and non-profit
institutions in the emerging-art sector. 548 West 22nd Street;
 http://www.independentnewyork.com .  Moving Image: In its third year, the fair focuses on
contemporary video art with projects by 30 international
artists. 269 Eleventh Avenue (Waterfront New York Tunnel);
 http://www.moving-image.info .  New City Art Fair: Japanese Contemporary Art: The week’s
only event focusing on contemporary art from  Japan . 529 West
20th Street, 2W;  http://www.newcityartfair.com .  SCOPE New York: The fair focuses on emerging art, bringing
55 galleries from 18 countries and 20 “breeder” galleries. 312
West 33rd Street;  http://www.scope-art.com .  Salon Zurcher: The fifth edition of this mini fair is
organized by downtown Galerie Zurcher and includes only six
participants -- all from outside  New York City . Information: 33
Bleecker Street;  http://www.galeriezurcher.com/salon-zurcher .  Russian Pavilion NY: The inaugural event will feature 18
emerging and established artists from  Russia , Eastern Europe,
the Caucasus and Baltic regions. 25 Central Park West (March 8
through 11);  http://www.russianartpavilion.com .  The Armory Show runs at Pier 92 and Pier 94 in  Manhattan 
through March 10. Information:  http://www.thearmoryshow.com .  The Art Show runs at the Park Avenue Armory in Manhattan
through March 10. Information:
 http://www.artdealers.org/artshow .  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 