-- Asmussen Says ECB Has `Done Its Part' Providing Liquidity
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-03-07T19:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/asmussen-says-ecb-has-done-its-part-providing-liquidity.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said that it’s not the ECB’s role to
provide additional liquidity for small and medium-sized
businesses in need of funding.  “A lack of capital and rising risk aversion” of banks
when lending to smaller companies “aren’t for the ECB to act
on”, Asmussen said today in a speech in Ingolstadt,  Germany .
“We neither have the mandate for this nor do we have the
instruments.”  The ECB flooded financial markets with two tranches of so-
called Longer Term Refinancing Operations totaling more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) a year ago after banks stopped
lending to each other because of  Europe ’s debt crisis. Banks now
have started repaying the loans, which were offered at the
average of the ECB’s benchmark rate over their duration.  “We have done our part in providing liquidity,” Asmussen
said today. “Now it is up to others to do something.” Asked
whether this means the ECB will not provide any further long-
term loans to fight a lack of capital, he said “that’s all I
will tell you on this subject.”  The ECB today left its benchmark rate unchanged at a record
low of 0.75 percent. It predicted the 17-nation economy will
shrink 0.5 percent this year, more than the 0.3 percent
contraction forecast three months ago. The estimate for 2014
growth was reduced to 1 percent from 1.2 percent.  While officials discussed cutting borrowing costs today,
the “prevailing consensus was to leave the rates unchanged,”
President  Mario Draghi  said. He expects the economy to
“gradually recover” later this year.  Asked whether the ECB may introduce additional measures to
encourage bank lending to small and medium-sized companies,
Draghi said “we always think and study and reflect, but we are
not committing to or planning anything special.” He added that
the ECB’s monetary policy “will remain accommodative for as
long as needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  