-- Aspen First-Half Profit Gains on Sales in South Africa, Asia
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-03-07T13:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/aspen-first-half-earnings-gain-on-sales-growth-in-asia-africa.html
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN) ,
Africa’s largest generic drugs manufacturer, said first-half
earnings climbed 12 percent as sales increased in  South Africa ,
Asia and  Latin America .  Net income advanced to 1.7 billion rand ($184 million) in
the six months through December, compared with 1.5 billion rand
a year earlier, the Durban, South Africa-based company said
today in a statement. That included a foreign-currency gain of
46.7 million rand as currencies in countries outside South
Africa strengthened versus the rand.  Sales climbed 20 percent to 9 billion rand, including 3.4
billion from the Asia-Pacific region and 3.6 billion from South
Africa, said Aspen, 18.6 percent owned by British drugmaker
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)  Profit from units outside its home market
climbed to 63 percent of the total, compared with 61 percent a
year earlier.  “The Asia-Pacific business is expected to replace South
Africa as the group’s largest revenue generator by the end of
the 2013 financial year,” Aspen said. “Further countries in
which Aspen can set up its own sales infrastructure in Asia are
under consideration.” The company will start trading in
 Malaysia  before the end of the financial year, it said.  Aspen, which supplies medicine in more than 150 countries,
bought a portfolio of 25 pharmaceutical brands from
GlaxoSmithKline in a 2.2 billion-rand deal last year. It said
last month it is in talks to buy Dutch manufacturing capacity
and product lines from U.S. medicine maker  Merck & Co. (MRK)   The shares fell after five consecutive days of increases,
declining 0.3 percent to 185.4 rand by 3:06 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The company, which has gained 10 percent in the
year to date, is trading close to a 22-year high, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  