-- Hate Follows When the Police Try to Do Their Job
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2013-03-07T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/hate-follows-when-the-police-try-to-do-their-job.html
It’s a lousier time than usual to be
a lowly member of the investing public looking for protection
from the sharks of finance.  Deep-pocketed banks are dominating the process of writing
the new financial rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, dwarfing
the efforts of investor advocates looking to rein in the banks.  At the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is charged
with protecting investors, lawbreakers can cut  sweet deals  for
exemptions from punishments before the ink is dry on their
settlement papers.  Efforts to help everyday investors, in the meantime, can
wind up taking a back seat. Dodd-Frank, signed into law in July
2010, required the SEC to establish and staff an Office of the
 Investor Advocate . More than 2 1/2 years later, the project is
stuck on the agency’s to-do list.  “There’s a basic resistance to seeing things from the
investor point of view,” said Barbara Roper, director of
investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America. “It
all goes back to the same thing -- the degree to which the
industry dominates this whole conversation.”  It’s a cultural problem as Roper sees it: Regulators and
the regulated operate in a setting where people with the same
pedigree move back and forth between government and private-
sector jobs and outside views carry little weight. SEC spokesman
Kevin Callahan said in an e-mail that investor protection is at
the core of all the agency’s actions, and that until an investor
advocate is appointed, existing SEC offices are performing the
roles required by Dodd-Frank.  Old Acquaintance  A  study  released last month by the Project on Government
Oversight, a nonprofit watchdog group, stirred up a discussion
about the revolving door of lawyers who alternate between
government and industry, where they defend banks and brokers.
Sorting through documents filed by 419 SEC alumni who had
recently left the agency, the Project found 2,000 cases in which
alumni planned to represent a client or an employer before the
SEC between 2001 and 2010.  That’s a lot of meetings among lawyers who used to work
down the hall from one another, but who now -- officially,
anyway -- are adversaries. In the view of SEC critics, it is
part of the clubby state of affairs that pushes government
watchdogs and banks to see things the same way. Callahan said
that the U.S. Government Accountability Office  studied  the
revolving-door issue and concluded that the SEC’s controls were
as strong as those of other government agencies. What a relief.  The public’s concern that regulators “are on the same team
or focused in the same way as the entities they are supposed to
be regulating” is a valid one,  New York  University Law School
professor Rachel Barkow said on a panel at the New York City Bar
Association last month. If more of an effort were made to have
representatives of consumers at agencies, “you might have a
more proactive movement right now to break some of the big banks
up,” she said.  For now, the banks throw their weight around. To get an
idea of just how much access bankers get to regulators, consider
the calculations that Duke University law professor Kimberly
Krawiec and Duke lecturing fellow Guangya Liu recently
completed. Krawiec and Liu tallied up all the meetings that the
Treasury Department, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
the SEC, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. had with various constituencies between October 2011 and
December 2012 to discuss the Volcker rule.  Industry Outguns  Public interest groups such as Americans for Financial
Reform and Better Markets had 64 meetings with the regulators.
The financial industry and its representatives: 551.  Those sit-down meetings “are where the real work is taking
place,” Krawiec says. “And the meetings were almost completely
dominated by financial firms, their trade groups and their law
firms.”  Regulators aren’t turning away public-interest groups that
ask for meetings. It’s just that the financial industry has such
vast resources that it overpowers the conversation. “Despite a
significant expansion in the number of foot soldiers out there
working in the public interest on these financial issues, we are
still completely overwhelmed by the industry lobbyists,” said
Dennis Kelleher, chief executive officer of Better Markets.  It won’t make it any easier to push for reform if the stock
market keeps hitting new highs, which inevitably will cause
memories of the crisis to fade.  NYU’s Barkow suggested that regulators seek out people from
different backgrounds to fill consumer-advocate positions that
would carry clout in policy disputes.  There actually is a government agency that has gone out of
its way to get diverse views. It is reviled by the banking
industry and is under attack by politicians who want to diminish
its independence and prevent it from carrying out its mandate.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has a consumer advisory
 board  that includes 13 female and 12 male members, four of whom
are Hispanic. They have backgrounds in public policy, housing,
retirement advocacy and academia.  Compare that to the SEC’s investor  advisory committee ,
which does include Roper and other investor-friendly members but
also has two hedge-fund officials, a private-equity executive, a
venture capital guy and a director from the Bush Institute, a
public policy research group founded by former President George
W. Bush and his wife, Laura. The board of governors at the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority relegates two of its
“public” seats to retired securities industry officials.  You don’t hear any drums beating to shut Finra or to reduce
the SEC’s independence. Show me a financial regulator with real
independence and input from diverse voices, and I’ll show you a
sitting duck for vicious attacks.  (Susan Antilla, who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at   santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 