-- May Rebuffs U.K. Lawmakers’ Call for Reducing Cannabis Penalties
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-07T14:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/may-rebuffs-u-k-lawmakers-call-for-reducing-cannabis-penalties.html
U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May
rebuffed calls from lawmakers to examine more closely the U.S.
states of Washington and  Colorado  and their experiences of
legalizing marijuana use.  Parliament’s cross-party Home Affairs Committee said in a
report that it recommended the U.K. fund a detailed research
project to monitor the effects of each state’s legalization of
cannabis and examine the costs and benefits. The report followed
the decision by the U.S. states to legalize the drug and the
proposed state monopoly on cannabis production and sale in
Uruguay.  “It is of course important that any debate on alternative
approaches should be focused on clear evidence and analysis,”
May, a Conservative, said today in a written response to the
committee. At the same time, “the coalition government has no
intention of decriminalizing drugs,” she said.  May, the minister in charge of policy on drugs, said she
will lead a review to look at a number of countries that cover a
spectrum of approaches to drug policy, and assess their
effectiveness in cutting drug use and reducing harm to
individuals and communities.  Cannabis is a Class B drug in the U.K., meaning those found
in possession face a maximum five-year jail term. May’s
reluctance to alter the penalty for cannabis may stem from the
political fallout former ministers have suffered when altering
the seriousness of its status.  From 2004 to 2009 the drug was categorized at Class C,
removing the threat of arrest for possession, a decision that
was made to free-up police time. Former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  reversed the decision after changes in scientific evidence
about the effects of the drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  