-- Bakries Haven’t Decided to Sell Media Unit, Anindya Says
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r
-- 2013-03-07T05:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/bakries-haven-t-decided-to-sell-media-unit-anindya-says.html
The Bakrie family has no plan to
sell its media business amid a report it’s seeking $1.8 billion
for control of Indonesian broadcaster  PT Visi Media Asia. (VIVA)   The family may sell part of its 72 percent stake in the
owner of two national television channels, Anindya Bakrie,
president commissioner of Visi Media, said in an interview in
Jakarta yesterday. The Bakries want two bidders to raise their
offers from $1.4 billion, Dow Jones reported, citing people
familiar with the matter.  The media business and a stake in mobile-phone company  PT
Bakrie Telecom (BTEL)  gives the family exposure to private consumption,
a key driver of economic growth in  Indonesia , the fourth-most
populous country, he said. Bakrie Group is seeking to cut debt
and last month agreed to pay a $50 million deposit ahead of
plans for its separation from  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the coal venture at the
center of a battle for control with  Nathaniel Rothschild .  “We don’t want to exit the telecom, media and technology
business,” said 38-year-old Anindya Bakrie, the eldest son of
billionaire Indonesian politician Aburizal Bakrie. “Is it
possible since it is a listed company that we take some chips
off the table? Why not? But we want to make sure it doesn’t
derail the group’s vision.”  CT Corp., owned by businessman Chairul Tanjung, offered
$1.2 billion for a majority stake in Visi Media, Investor Daily
newspaper reported Feb. 19.  Cutting Debt  The family group, with businesses spanning mining, property
and telecommunications, needs to cut its debt ratio by about
half, Anindya Bakrie said from his office in the Bakrie Tower in
central Jakarta. The group also plans to sell some assets to
focus on areas of strength, he said, without identifying
specific businesses.  Bakrie Group wants to cut borrowings to between two and
three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. That compares with four to five times Ebitda now,
he said.  “We definitely have to deleverage,” said Bakrie, a
graduate of  Northwestern University . “We also need to
streamline and focus on which business we want to be at.”  The Bakrie family has been involved in a dispute with
Rothschild over some allegation of financial irregularities at
Bumi. Rothschild lost a bid to regain control of the London-
listed company during a general meeting on Feb. 21, which would
help the Bakries wind down their partnership.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
William Mellor in Sydney at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  