-- Bale Leads Tottenham Past Inter in Europa League; Chelsea Loses
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-07T23:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/bale-leads-tottenham-past-inter-in-europa-league-chelsea-loses.html
Gareth Bale continued his scoring
run and set up another goal as Tottenham beat Inter Milan 3-0 in
their Europa League round-of-16 soccer opener. Chelsea lost 1-0
at Steaua Bucharest.  Bale got the first goal last night at White Hart Lane in
north  London , giving him 21 this season and 11 in the past nine
games for Spurs and Wales. Gylfi Sigurdsson made it 2-0 before
Jan Vertonghen headed in Bale’s corner kick as Tottenham
extended its unbeaten run in all competitions to eight games.  “We set the tempo from the first whistle,” Bale said in
an interview with ITV. “It was a great performance and we take
a great lead into the away leg with no away goals for them.”  Chelsea went down in  Romania  to a first-half penalty kick
by Raul Rusescu and Newcastle drew 0-0 with Anzhi Makhachkala.
Lazio and Basel both won 2-0, Fenerbahce and Benfica were 1-0
winners, while Levante and  Rubin Kazan  finished scoreless.  The return matches in all eight two-game series in Europe’s
second-tier club competition will be played March 14, with the
quarterfinal draw taking place the following day.  Bale took six minutes to put Tottenham in front as he
jumped between two defenders to head in Sigurdsson’s cross. The
Welshman picked up a yellow card for diving eight minutes later,
which will keep him out of the second match in  Italy .  Sigurdsson made it 2-0 when he scored off the rebound after
Inter goalkeeper Samir Handanovic stopped Jermain Defoe’s shot
in the 18th minute.  Inter’s Ricardo Alvarez missed a chance just before
halftime when he shot wide after getting behind the defense.
Vertonghen closed the scoring in the 53rd minute with a firm
header off Bale’s corner kick.  ‘Difficult Place’  “It was a great European night but unfortunately we’re not
there yet,” Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas, who led Porto
to the 2011 Europa League title, told ITV. “We have to go there
and it’s a difficult place to play.”  Tottenham, which won the competition in 1972 and 1984 when
it was known as the UEFA Cup, is seeking to join Inter, Juventus
and Liverpool as a three-time champion.  In Bucharest, Steaua took the lead against Chelsea in the
34th minute as Rusescu scored from the penalty spot after being
pulled down by Ryan Bertrand. Blues interim manager  Rafael Benitez  disagreed with the call from referee Sergei Karasev.  “It was a soft penalty,” Benitez said in comments on
Chelsea’s website. “In these kind of games and competitions if
you don’t score away it’s more difficult. We are disappointed
but we still have the belief that we can win at home.”  Chelsea is playing in the Europa League after being
eliminated from the elite  Champions League , which it won in May.  Home Run  In Moscow, Anzhi Makhachkala extended its unbeaten run in
home matches with a scoreless draw against Newcastle. Anzhi won
its first seven home games after starting the competition in the
second qualifying round, allowing just one goal.  The game featured just four shots on target, with Samuel Eto’o twice denied by Newcastle goalkeeper Rob Elliot, who
replaced the injured  Tim Krul . Newcastle’s best chance came from
Hatem  Ben Arfa , who was then played in on goal in the second
half only to have his chip saved by Vladimir Gabulov.  Ederson and Ogenyi Onazi scored in Lazio’s victory against
Stuttgart in  Germany , while Pierre Webo’s 81st-minute goal
sealed Fenerbahce’s win at Viktoria Plzen in the  Czech Republic .  Marcelo Diaz and  Alexander Frei  scored in Basel’s home win
against 2008 champion Zenit St. Petersburg and Benfica beat
Bordeaux as Rodrigo’s shot hit the crossbar and deflected in off
the back of goalkeeper Cedric Carrasso for a 21st-minute own
goal. Levante and Rubin Kazan each had a man sent off as they
played out a scoreless draw in  Spain .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 