-- Banks Said to Weigh Defying Fed With Dividend Disclosures
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-03-07T16:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/banks-said-to-weigh-defying-fed-with-dividend-disclosures.html
The largest U.S. banks are weighing
whether to disregard a Federal Reserve request and announce
their dividend plans shortly after the central bank’s stress
tests are released, people with knowledge of the process said.  The Fed has asked 18 firms, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , to wait until next week, even
though the lenders will get preliminary word today about whether
their capital plans were approved. Bank executives are concerned
that investors could be confused and are considering whether
securities laws may require prompt disclosure of their plans for
 dividends  and share repurchases, the people said.  The debate reflects pressure from stockholders to restore
dividends and buybacks to levels that prevailed before the 2008
credit crisis, when payouts were cut to token amounts to
preserve capital. Now, after the second-most profitable year on
record for U.S. banks, investors in the six largest lenders are
anticipating increases that could total $41 billion.  “You don’t want to surprise the analyst community, which
is sitting there hungry for details,” said John Coffee, a
securities-law professor at Columbia University Law School.
“Analysts have a way of finding these things out even if the
company doesn’t make a formal disclosure, and if it leaks, the
company is supposed to immediately disclose the true results.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission requires that
once material nonpublic information has been shared with a
subset of  market participants , it must be released so that no
one gets an unfair advantage.  Bankers Resist  Bank lawyers are pressing management to disclose plans this
week to avoid running afoul of securities laws, according to one
of the people. Some bankers are resisting because the Fed
results will be preliminary and regulators could still change
their minds, according to three people, who asked for anonymity
because the discussions are private.  The banks’ dilemma stems from the latest round of Fed
stress tests, designed to show whether lenders could survive
shocks like the one that almost destroyed the banking system in
2008. The Fed gives initial results this week and tells banks
next week whether they can boost payouts, after taking into
account plans by management to improve their capital.  Banks are allowed to disclose their own report cards
showing how they think they fared under the stress tests.
They’re required to release those assessments by March 31.  ‘Helpful Disclosure’  “We’re still working through internally whether we think
it’s helpful for us to put out results at the same time” as the
Fed, JPMorgan Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake said March 5
during an investor conference, referring to releasing the firm’s
report card. “There is a possibility we’ll do that and we’re
just trying to work out whether that’s the most helpful
disclosure.”  The  Bloomberg Bank Stress Test Index (BBSTI)  of the 18 banks
subject to the Fed’s 2013 examination rose 0.9 percent to 215.85
at 11:07 a.m. in New York. It’s up 11 percent this year.
U.S. insurer MetLife Inc., which de-banked last month and is no
longer subject to Fed oversight, dropped from the index today.  Spokesmen for the six biggest banks -- JPMorgan,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Goldman Sachs
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  -- said their companies had no comment on
their payouts. The Fed’s Barbara Hagenbaugh declined to comment.  Sowing Chaos  Breaking up the release of stress-test results over two
weeks has sown confusion about when and what bankers should
disclose publicly, two people said. The Fed added the ability
for a bank to resubmit its capital plan if the first one was
rejected. That change was adopted after lenders including
Citigroup fell below minimum capital ratios in last year’s test
when including plans for dividends or repurchases.  Some firms may choose to disclose whether they received
preliminary approval for their capital plans, what they
requested from the Fed on payouts and share buybacks or a
combination of the two, one of the people said. Resubmissions
are due March 11, three days before final results are released.  Even though moratoriums on disclosure are normal, a week
“is a long time,” said Coffee, the law professor.
The timing caused chaos last year when New York-based JPMorgan,
the biggest U.S. bank, surprised investors and the Fed by
announcing two days early that it received regulatory approval
for a 20 percent dividend increase. JPMorgan’s statement sent
the stock up 7 percent and led the central bank to release test
results two days ahead of schedule.  Faster Disclosure  The disclosure prompted other lenders, including Wells
Fargo, U.S. Bancorp and  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , to
accelerate the disclosure of their own plans. It also irritated
some staff at the Fed, which had planned to release the test
results ahead of the industry, one person familiar with the
central bank’s operations said at the time.  JPMorgan’s disclosure was the result of less-than-perfect
communication between the company and the Fed, and regulators
didn’t fault the lender, a senior Fed official told reporters on
a conference call.  “Those banks that know they have been approved for a
dividend increase may want to announce it because it will imply
they passed their stress test with flying colors,” Coffee said,
without referring to a specific lender. “They may find a way to
tell the world the good news without technically violating the
moratorium on stress-test disclosure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  