-- Banks Should Recognize Credit Losses Earlier, IASB Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-03-07T14:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/banks-should-reveal-credit-losses-earlier-accounting-board-says.html
Banks should be required to
recognize losses on credit portfolios before the assets go into
default, an international accounting standards body said today.  The measures, known as the expected loss model, would mark
a shift from the incurred loss model, which allows banks to wait
until “financial assets are close to default,” the
International Accounting Standards Board said in a report. Banks
would have to recognize losses on portfolios as they deteriorate
in quality, under the proposals.  “We believe the model leads to a more timely recognition
of credit losses,” Hans Hoogervorst, chairman of the London-
based IASB, said in the statement. “At the same time, it avoids
excessive front-loading of losses, which we think would not
properly reflect economic reality.”  The Group of 20 nations set up a group to examine
alternatives to the incurred loss model following the 2008
financial crisis. The rules had been criticized for “delaying
the recognition of losses” and for failing to accurately
reflect losses on credit portfolios “that were expected to
occur,” said the IASB, which is a global body in charge of
harmonizing accounting standards.  The proposals “provide enhanced transparency to an
entity’s credit risk and are likely to increase the credit loss
provision recorded by many financial institutions,” Tony Clifford, an accountant at Ernst & Young LLP, said in an e-
mailed statement.  No ‘Panacea’  The proposals were developed in cooperation with the
Financial Accounting Standards Board, the rule maker for U.S.
banks, and “simplified to reflect feedback received from
interested parties,” the IASB said.  “It is important to be realistic; this is not going to be
the panacea,” Nigel Sleigh-Johnson, head of the financial
reporting group at the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
 England  and  Wales , said in an e-mailed statement. “There are
potential pitfalls linked to any model.”  The IASB and the U.S.’s FASB have previously diverged on
standards, including accounting for exposure to derivatives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  