-- Barclays Names Kheradpir Operating Chief Amid Jenkins Revamp
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-07T13:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/barclays-names-kheradpir-operating-chief-amid-jenkins-revamp.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-
largest bank by assets, named Shaygan Kheradpir as its chief
operations and technology officer, responsible for helping the
lender automate more systems to cut costs.  Kheradpir’s role will absorb some former responsibilities
of Jerry Del Missier, the chief operating officer who departed
last year in the wake of the Libor scandal. A former head of
information technology at  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the 52-
year-old Kheradpir has worked for the London-based lender since
January 2011 and was chief operating officer for consumer
banking, Barclays  said  on its website today.  “Improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of our
operations, facilitated in part by technological innovation and
automation, were identified as a key priority in the strategic
review we unveiled last month,” Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  said in the statement.  Kheradpir will report to Jenkins, who is hiring a new
executive team and has vowed to overhaul the lender’s culture
following the record 290 million pounds ($437 million) Barclays
was fined for helping rig the London interbank offered rate. The
scandal prompted the departures of CEO  Robert Diamond , Del
Missier and Chairman Marcus Agius.  Jenkins, 51, hired former Financial Services Authority
Chief Executive Officer  Hector Sants  as head of compliance and
government and regulatory relations, a newly created role, in
December. Sants’s job includes Del Missier’s former
responsibility for managing regulatory changes.  Barclays is also searching for a replacement for Finance
Director Chris Lucas, who said last month he plans to retire.
General Counsel Mark Harding also will retire, the lender said
on Feb. 3.  Kheradpir left Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone
company, as executive vice president and chief information and
technical officer. Before that, he worked for GTE Corp. from
1987 until it was purchased by Verizon in 2000. He earned a
doctorate in electrical engineering at  Cornell University ,
Barclays said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  