-- Beauty and the iPad: Entrepreneur Takes on Charity Events
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/beauty-and-the-ipad-entrepreneur-takes-on-charity-events.html
The  Charity Angels  wear pink polo
shirts and white skirts when they patrol the greens and fairways
of Sherwood Country Club in Thousand Oaks, California.  The occasion is the  Heart Foundation ’s annual golf
tournament, and these models-for-hire aren’t par for the course.  The Charity Angels greet guests, encourage players and talk
up prizes in the “opportunity drawing.” They also speak about
the foundation’s goal to reduce the number of deaths in the U.S.
from heart disease.  “They are beautiful faces walking around, but that’s not
all,” said Tom Eisenstadt, a co-founder of the Heart
Foundation. “You get an earful of our story from them.”  The Angels’ presence at the tournament for the past two
years has helped the organization more than double revenue from
the drawings.  “A big part of their appeal is they’re able to pull on
these guys’ heart strings,” said Eisenstadt, senior vice
president, investments, at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Calabasas,
 California . “They’re personable and charming and they create
buzz around our event that people come back for.”  The Charity Angels are the creation of Mellisa Nielsen, 34.
Nine years ago she was running a modeling agency when a friend
called with a request.  “She said, ’Can you please send all your hot models to
help me with this golf tournament?’” Nielsen explained in a
phone interview.  Wary Clients  The next year, she closed her agency and formally founded
the Charity Angels in Los Angeles. The company staffed 143
benefits last year, and bookings for 2013 are up 40 percent.
Still, some clients are wary of hiring beautiful women to mingle
with guests.  “It’s hard to explain what we do, and easy to judge before
meeting us,” Nielsen said. “I had a pitch for a prestigious
private school in Los Angeles, and they were a little cautious.
Meeting me in person put them at ease.”  Word of mouth also may help convey the staff’s other
assets. Nielsen said they are well-informed about the events
they work and often sympathetic to the cause. She asks the
angels to choose events that personally resonate.  “I have a former Miss  Georgia  who’s had a lot of family
members die of cancer, so she goes to every cancer event,”
Nielsen said. She also holds one-hour training sessions on the
charities.  ‘Cause Ambassadors’  “I want my angels to know more about the cause than the
chairs if possible,” she said. “We’re cause ambassadors.”  “The hardest part is finding the right moment to start a
conversation,” said Lindsey Palumbo, 32, a Charity Angel and
former actress who appeared in “Days of Our Lives.”  Nielsen’s grandfather wrote and held cue cards in
Hollywood, helping actors remember their lines. Her business
helps guests at fundraisers remember to give more.  The Charity Angels carry iPads loaded with pictures of the
charity’s work. “The iPads are our electronic cue cards,”
Nielsen said.  Assignments are mostly in southern California, and her
ambition is to take the company national. She currently has 36
Charity Angels working as independent contractors, 80 percent of
whom she says are models and actresses. Two are based in New
York.  The work provides supplemental income. Nielsen pays each
Angel $300 to work a 10-hour day at a golf tournament, and $150
to work a 5-hour evening gala. The pink polo and white skirt is
the uniform for tournments; at galas they wear black dresses.  Soul Food  “My husband has allowed me to be a stay-at-home mom, but I
wanted to do something that was fulfilling, that would feed my
soul,” said Palumbo, who has a daughter named Lillie.  Nielsen said she has invested about $90,000 in the business
and is projecting her first profit in 2013. “Every time it’s my
birthday, I ask for iPads and monitors,” she said. She’s
studying at UCLA for a certificate in fundraising and grant
writing.  “I fell into this for my love of giving back and also from
attending events and just seeing the holes,” Nielsen said.
“You have all these donors sitting in the room, you have their
attention for a finite period. How do you capitalize on that?”  “This is L.A., this is Sherwood, beautiful women are a
dime a dozen, but these women definitely stand out,”
Eisenstandt said. “And they look as good at the end of the
party as they do at the start.”  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars, Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 