-- Berlusconi Is Convicted by Milan Court in Wiretapping Trial
-- B y   D a n   L i e f g r e e n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-07T14:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/berlusconi-is-convicted-by-milan-court-in-wiretapping-trial.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  was convicted in a wiretapping case related to the
2006 battle for control of  Banca Nazionale del Lavoro SpA , the
first of three corruption rulings he faces this month.  The verdict, televised from Milan today, carries a one-year
prison sentence. Piero Longo, an Italian senator and one of
Berlusconi’s lawyers, had no immediate comment when contacted by
phone.  The spate of corruption rulings threatens to derail the
career of the three-time prime minister, who has dominated
Italian politics for two decades. This month a Milan court is
set to rule on charges he engaged a minor in prostitution, while
another appeals tribunal will decide whether to uphold a four-
year sentence for  tax fraud . Berlusconi has denied wrongdoing in
all the cases.  “It’s really impossible to tolerate a judicial persecution
that’s lasted 20 years,” Berlusconi said in an e-mailed
statement. He called for a “complete reform of the judicial
system” and said he aims to obtain justice on appeal.  The verdicts come at a time when Berlusconi is set to play
a key role in trying to end a political impasse in Italy after
inconclusive elections last month produced a hung parliament.
President Giorgio Napolitano will begin consultations with
Berlusconi and other political leaders aimed at finding a way
out of the logjam around March 18, just when the prostitution
verdict is due.  Leaked Transcripts  Berlusconi can appeal today’s verdict and is unlikely to
serve jail time because Italian law doesn’t require prison
sentences to be carried out until the appeals process is
exhausted, which can take several years. In  Italy  the statute of
limitations often kicks in before the appeals process concludes.
The statute of limitations in this case runs out in July or
August, news agency Ansa reported.  In the wiretapping case, Milan prosecutors accused
Berlusconi of allegedly leaking transcripts of tapped phone
calls related to a bank takeover fight to Il Giornale, a Milan
newspaper owned by his brother Paolo, to discredit a political
rival, according to a September 2011 statement by prosecutor
Edmondo Bruti Liberati. Paolo Berlusconi was sentenced to two
years and three months, Ansa said.  When Berlusconi was ordered to stand trial in February
2012, his lawyer Niccolo Ghedini described the accusations as
“not credible.” Maurizio Gasparri, a former whip for
Berlusconi’s party in the Chamber of Deputies, today called the
verdict “ridiculous” because the former premier is a victim of
“years of unauthorized” wiretapped conversations, according to
an e-mailed statement.  Snared Politicians  The wiretaps were part of a separate probe in 2005 into
whether local bankers broke securities laws in trying to block
foreign bids for Italian banks. The recordings, ordered by Milan
prosecutors, snared politicians on both sides of the aisle and
led to the resignation of two of Italy’s top bankers and  Bank of
Italy  Governor  Antonio Fazio .  The transcripts refer to calls between Piero Fassino, who
formerly headed the Democrats of the Left party, and a banker
seeking support for a takeover bid for BNL in 2006. Fassino was
recorded during a takeover fight for the bank between  Spain ’s
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and Italy’s Compagnia
Assicuratrice Unipol SpA.  BNL ultimately was acquired by  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in 2006 for 9
billion euros ($11.7 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Liefgreen in Milan at 
 dliefgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  