-- Bersani Clings to Premiership Goal as Allies Predict Failure
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-07T08:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/bersani-clings-to-premiership-goal-as-allies-predict-failure.html
Pier Luigi Bersani will probably
fail to win the consensus needed to form a government in  Italy ,
some allies said yesterday after giving the Democratic Party
head a mandate to negotiate parliamentary backing with rivals.  Bersani revamped his program to entice Beppe Grillo’s Five
Star Movement into an alliance with the Democratic Party, or PD.
He repudiated his previous commitment to budget rigor and added
policy proposals reminiscent of Five Star’s. Still, success
depends on smoothing over differences with Grillo, who called
Bersani a “ dead man talking ” after the PD failed to win a
parliamentary majority in Feb. 24-25 elections.  “Forming a PD-Five Star government will be hard,”
Giuseppe Civati, a regional councilor in Lombardy and
parliamentarian-elect, said in an interview after hearing
Bersani’s new strategy at a PD meeting in  Rome . “Forming a
Bersani-PD-Five Star government will be even harder.”  Bersani, a former communist, is reinventing himself as a
crusader for economic stimulus as Italy’s established
politicians cope with the biggest parliamentary upheaval in two
decades. Grillo’s upstart, anti-austerity campaign took votes
from both Bersani and three-time premier Silvio Berlusconi,
leaving no single force in a position to govern and raising
speculation a new vote would be needed to break the deadlock.  ‘Austerity Cage’  Bersani was applauded by PD officials yesterday in Rome as
he announced a fresh program and said priority number one was
breaking Italy “out of the austerity cage.” Bersani, who
supported Prime Minister Mario Monti’s tax increases last year
and promised during the campaign to maintain fiscal austerity,
said the PD failed to appeal to voters who have been hurt the
most by Italy’s 18-month recession.  “Grillo was the winner of these elections,” Claudio
Burlando, governor of the Region of Liguria and a former
transport minister, said in an interview. “It will be very
difficult” for Bersani to win Grillo’s support, Burlando said.  Bersani, 61, squandered an advantage of as much as 10
percentage points in some opinion polls as promises by Grillo
and Berlusconi to undo Monti’s austerity went unanswered by the
PD. While Bersani won the Chamber of Deputies, Italy’s lower
house, no one garnered more than 40 percent of the seats in the
Senate. Control of both houses is required to pass laws.  Italy’s parliament will meet for the first time on March
15. After that, Italian President Giorgio Napolitano will begin
consulting with lawmakers and eventually appoint one leader to
try to garner majorities in both houses and form a government.  Democratic Party officials yesterday voted to approve the
new plan and confirm Bersani’s leadership.  “I am absolutely in agreement with Bersani’s plan,”
Emanuele Fiano, a representative in the Chamber of Deputies,
said in an interview. “I think that in this stage of the crisis
it has to be him to try to find a solution for the parliament
and the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  