-- BHP Rebuffs China Claim of Manipulation in Iron-Ore Price
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-03-07T16:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/bhp-billiton-rebuffs-china-claims-of-iron-ore-price-manipulation.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, rebuffed claims by  China  that the
biggest suppliers of iron ore have manipulated prices of the raw
material used to make steel.  A recent surge in  iron-ore  prices was caused by changes in
demand, market speculation and “unreasonable” pricing methods,
China’s top planning body said. BHP seeks to “improve
transparency by increasing liquidity in the spot market,” the
Melbourne-based company said today in response.  The dispute harks back to tensions between suppliers and
China, the biggest buyer of iron ore, when prices were set
annually. The yearly price-setting negotiations, a practice in
place for more than four decades, largely ceased in 2010 when
the industry moved toward shorter-term contracts. The China Iron
and Steel Association asked the nation’s steelmakers in
September not to participate in iron-ore auctions by BHP, Rio
Tinto Group and Vale SA, saying they weren’t transparent.  Chinese steelmakers re-stocked ore during the traditional
“winter reserve” period and ramped up purchases as confidence
in the economy improved, leading to an explosive increase in
demand in the short term, the National Development and Reform
Commission said in a  statement  on its website yesterday.  “This is 600 Chinese mills versus 1,500-plus miners and
the market is actually very liquid,” Melinda Moore, a bulk-
commodities analyst at Standard Bank Plc in London, said by
phone. “I don’t expect it to have an impact on price. It’s hard
to know what the NDRC are trying to achieve with this because
markets work as markets work.”  False Impression  The three largest mining companies and certain traders
either delayed or controlled deliveries to make up for their
previous losses, creating a false impression of temporary short
supply, according to the NDRC. Some mining companies also bought
iron ore from the market to drive up prices, it said.  The peak of tensions between China and mining companies was
marked by the 2010 arrest of  Stern Hu , Rio Tinto’s head of iron
ore in the country. He was jailed for 10 years for taking bribes
and espionage and three of his Chinese colleagues were given
sentences as long as 14 years.  The case also led to a 2010 probe by the Chinese commerce
ministry’s antitrust bureau into whether BHP, Vale and Rio, the
three-biggest exporters, were monopolizing supplies.  China has sought to curb its reliance on the three
producers, which account for about 75 percent of global trade,
by boosting foreign investment in alternative suppliers and new
mines. The iron and steel association said in 2010 it was
seeking to cut its reliance on foreign companies to just one-
third of requirements by 2015.  Record Volumes  BHP, the third-largest iron ore exporter, said it produced
record volumes of iron ore in the second half of 2012, all of
which it sold and delivered to the market. It posted sales of
$22.6 billion from its iron ore unit last year.  “We sell significant volumes on a spot basis, including
through widely accessible trading platforms, irrespective of the
iron ore price,” BHP said today.  The NDRC said major mining companies based long-term
contract prices on “opaque” bidding, pushing prices up even as
a very small amount of ore was traded, according to the
statement. It didn’t name any producers.  Some commodity prices gained from the second half of last
year “as sentiment improved and economic growth accelerated,”
BHP said when it reported first-half earnings Feb. 20. “The
iron ore market was affected by this change in sentiment and
prices responded following a deep inventory cycle in China that
temporarily disrupted the supply-demand balance.”.  ‘Very Normal’  Vale (VALE3) , the biggest iron-ore producer, declined to comment on
the NDRC statement in an e-mailed reply to questions. A London-
based official for Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest exporter,
declined to comment.  BHP said it was “very normal” for steel mills, traders
and producers to both buy and sell cargo to balance their books.
“This is also the case on both the Beijing and Singapore
platforms,” it said. “Such transactions occurring on the
platforms is to the benefit of all market participants in that
it supports transparent market pricing and market liquidity.”  China imported 70.9 million metric tons of iron ore in
December, a record for a single month, the planning body said.
There was a “meaningful improvement” in iron ore demand from
steel mills in China,  Japan  and  Europe , Macquarie Group Ltd.
analysts wrote in a Feb. 22 report.  Iron ore is poised to decline over the rest of the year as
global supply increases and a rally spurred by restocking in
China ends, according to Morgan Stanley.  Prices Peaked?  The price probably peaked at about $159 a ton last month
and will average $129 over the rest of the year, analysts Joel Crane and Peter Richardson said in a report today. The raw
material may average $133 a ton over 2013, with prices seen
dropping to $130 in the fourth quarter from $142 in the first,
they said.  Iron ore has rallied 68 percent since September as economic
growth in China accelerated and port inventories in the biggest
buyer slumped to a three-year low. Morgan Stanley joins analysts
from Deutsche Bank AG to Bank of America Corp. forecasting lower
prices. Global seaborne supply will gain 9.1 percent this year,
topping an 8.3 percent rise in demand, Morgan Stanley estimates.  Iron ore with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin rose 0.4 percent to $145.80 a dry ton yesterday,
according to data from The Steel Index Ltd. The global benchmark
reached $158.90 on Feb. 20, the most expensive since Oct. 13,
2011. It bottomed at $86.70 on Sept. 5.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  