-- Biogen Asked in Suit to Return ALS Biosamples to Knopp
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-03-07T23:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/biogen-asked-in-suit-to-return-als-biosamples-to-knopp.html
Knopp Neurosciences Inc. asked a
federal judge to order  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , its partner in a failed
attempt to develop a drug for Lou Gehrig’s disease, to turn over
to Knopp biosamples from patient tests.  U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton scheduled an expedited
trial without a jury in June on closely held Knopp’s breach of
contract lawsuit against Biogen, according to a filing today in
federal court in Boston.  Knopp, based in Pittsburgh, sued Biogen Feb. 25 claiming it
breached a licensing agreement the companies had to develop and
market a drug to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as
ALS or Lou Gehrig’s disease. Knopp wants Biogen to return the
biosamples from its ALS trial, called Empower, and Biogen says
it isn’t obligated to do so, according to the complaint.  “The failure to preserve the Empower biosamples, and
ultimately to investigate them using the right tools in the
right hands, will represent a research setback during which time
thousands of patients will have died of ALS,” Knopp said in its
complaint.  Gorton, at a hearing in  Boston  today, set four days for a
bench trial beginning June 17. At the trial, he will also hear
arguments on Knopp’s request for an injunction to prevent Biogen
from destroying or studying any of the samples.  Clinical Trial  Biogen, based in Weston,  Massachusetts , said in January
that the drug, dexpramipexole, failed to show any efficacy in a
large clinical trial, in the third and final phase of studies
generally required for regulatory approval. The drug had been
thought to potentially slow the progression of ALS after
promising signs in earlier studies.  ALS affects about 30,000 people at any time in the U.S.,
causing nerve damage that leads muscles to shut down
progressively over three to five years until most patients die
from respiratory failure. There’s just one drug on the market
for the disease, Sanofi’s Rilutek, which provides only a modest
benefit.  Biogen paid $80 million in cash and stock for a licensing
deal in August 2010 with Knopp, which first developed the drug.
The trial reported in January showed no efficacy in improving
patients’ ability to function or extending their lives, Biogen
said in a statement at the time.  Development Halt  Based on the results, Biogen said it would stop development
of dexpramipexole. That would also lead to a termination of the
agreement with Knopp.  Biogen fell 98 cents to $171.47 at 5:20 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market  trading . The shares have gained 47 percent in the
past year.  Knopp’s own analyses of the trial results found “subgroups
of the total study population that exhibited slower disease
progression and reduced mortality when treated with
dexpramipexole,” according to the complaint. Knopp said it
wants the patients’ samples from the trial to help it continue
to try to develop the medicine itself.  Biogen is planning ways to use the biosamples in its own
ALS research, said Dan McIntyre, a spokesman for the company.
Biogen agreed not to use the samples through June 21, when the
trial is expected to conclude, he said.  Study Results  “While we’re deeply disappointed in the negative results
of the Empower trial, we’re confident in the validity of the
study results,” McIntyre said in a telephone interview. “We
did additional analyses of multiple sub-populations and they
failed to demonstrate any efficacy. If we had found any hope
ourselves, we would have pursued it.”  Knopp claims Biogen is required to return the samples under
the terms of the companies’ license agreement. Biogen told Knopp
it doesn’t believe it has such an obligation, and that patient
consent forms prohibit Biogen from transferring them, according
to the complaint.  Redi Kasollja, a lawyer for Knopp, didn’t immediately
respond to messages seeking comment on the suit.  The case is Knopp Neurosciences Inc. v. Biogen Idec
International Holding Ltd., 13-cv-10386, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in San Francisco at  mhytha
@bloomberg.net;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  