-- Birds Eye Vegetable Sales Mark Progress in Obesity Fight
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/birds-eye-vegetable-sales-mark-progress-in-obesity-fight.html
Anti-obesity efforts by 48
companies, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , have
led to more fresh foods in poor neighborhoods, reduced soda
consumption and a jump in vegetable sales, a U.S. report shows.  Pinnacle Foods Inc. (PF)  saw a two-month sales increase for its
Birds Eye frozen vegetables last year during a $2 million
marketing push on the Nickelodeon channel, part of an initiative
related to U.S. first lady Michelle Obama’s “Let’s Move!”
campaign. The vegetable sales were among the actions highlighted
in a report today by the Partnership for a Healthier America on
government alliances started in 2010 with the  food industry .  President  Barack Obama , led by his wife’s initiative, has
raised nutrition standards in public schools and sought to
persuade businesses to voluntarily take steps to combat obesity.
While Birds Eye can be counted as a success, goals such as Wal-
Mart’s pledge to open hundreds of stores selling fresh produce
in underserved urban neighborhoods are incomplete.  “We’ll see if the changes that are coming about make a
meaningful dent in the obesity problem,” said Kelly Brownell,
director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at  Yale
University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut . “If the changes don’t
come about or aren’t meaningful, government is going to have to
interact with the industry in a different way.”  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, has completed 53 of
at least 275 stores it promised to build or renovate in or near
so-called food deserts by July 2016, according to the
Partnership report.  New Stores  Andrea Thomas, senior vice president for sustainability at
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, said the Partnership’s
data only recorded stores opened by August. As of January, 86
food desert stores were complete, including one in Springfield,
Missouri, that  Michelle Obama  toured last week, Thomas said.  “We’re on track and we’re excited about the progress that
we’re making,” she said.  Sam Kass , an assistant White House chef and senior policy
adviser for Obama’s Healthy Food Initiatives, said Wal-Mart is
ahead of where he thought it would be at this time.  “We’re not concerned about any of the progress that’s
being made; in fact, we’re really excited by that report,” Kass
said in a telephone interview. The new Wal-Mart store in
Missouri means “families don’t have to decide, ‘am I going to
make a choice on price or am I going to make a choice about
what’s healthier for my kids.’”  Supply Chain  About 78 million U.S. adults, about a third of the
population, and 12.5 million  children  were obese in 2009-2010,
according to a January 2012 government report.  The first lady has made the eradication of food deserts a
central part of her “ Let’s Move! ” campaign. About 23.5 million
Americans live in low-income areas that are more than 1 mile
from a supermarket, according to Obama’s Healthy Food Financing
Initiative. Food deserts are defined by the U.S. Agriculture
Department as urban areas that aren’t within 1 mile of a grocery
store or rural areas at least 10 miles from a store.  Walgreen, the largest U.S. drugstore chain, has added
fruits and vegetables to 37 stores in or near food deserts, or
3.7 percent of its commitment, according to the report. Walgreen
told the Partnership the company added the foods to 50 stores,
including 14 that aren’t near USDA-designated deserts.  “We remain committed to reaching the goal of 1,000 food
oasis stores by 2016,” Michael Polzin, a spokesman for the
Deerfield, Illinois-based company, said in a phone interview.
“It’s not something we can flip a switch on and offer in our
stores overnight. It does take some time to develop that supply
chain and develop the offering.”  Bully Pulpit  A little more than a year after her husband became
president in 2009, Michelle Obama began using her position as
first lady to try to end  childhood obesity  within a generation.
She began lobbying companies to make products healthier, labels
easier to read and limit marketing to children.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  pledged to stop selling full-sugar soft drinks
in schools,  Kraft Foods Group Inc. (KRFT)  said it would further reduce
the sodium content of its products and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  moved to
make food and beverage advertising to kids on its TV networks
and radio stations meet new nutritional standards by 2015.  The Partnership, a nonprofit outgrowth of Obama’s campaign,
is talking with health research foundations about studying
whether the changes have led to reductions in obesity, Lawrence Soler, the group’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview. Collaborating with industry, rather than trying to
legislate or regulate, may be the best tactic, he said.  “Anytime you can get someone to voluntarily work with you
on change or on an initiative, things often happen faster,” he
said.  Physical Activity  Bright Horizons Family Solutions Inc. (BFAM) , the provider of
employer-sponsored child care that sold shares to the public in
January, eliminated fried food from 80 percent of daycare
centers and sugary drinks from them all, the Partnership said in
its report. The Watertown, Massachusetts-based company also cut
the amount of time children can spend on computers in 94 percent
of its centers to one hour a day or less, and provides at least
one hour of physical activity in 93 percent of its facilities,
the report shows.  “This is something that’s just vitally important to the
well-being of children and we’re on board with it,” Susan
Brenner, senior vice president for education at Bright Horizons,
said in a phone interview.  Bright Horizons’ changes “are quite significant,” said
Brownell, the Yale professor who was hired by the Partnership to
verify the company’s claims. “Score one for the good guys.”  Bottom Line  Pinnacle Foods, a closely held company based in Parsippany,
 New Jersey , said its two-month jump in Birds Eye frozen
vegetable sales spurred another advertising push. Sally Genster Robling, president of the Birds Eye unit, said the business will
spend $6 million on the campaign over three years, and plans to
introduce new products that were inspired by recipes children
submitted through a Nickelodeon program.  The Partnership “is very much focused on, ‘let’s deliver
business results while doing the right thing,’” Robling said in
a telephone interview.  Companies won’t stick to their obesity commitments if they
lose money on them, Soler said.  “They don’t see this as a philanthropic approach, they see
this as a good business decision,” he said in an interview.
“That’s how this is going to be sustainable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  