-- BlackRock Sells Pound After BOE Decides Against Further Easing
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-03-07T20:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/blackrock-sells-pound-after-boe-decides-against-further-easing.html
BlackRock Inc. said it sold the
pound after the  Bank of England  left its asset-purchase program
unchanged today because the company questions Britain’s leaders’
ability to guide the nation out of an economic slump.  “We sold sterling to express our view, given our already
underweight position in gilt,” Scott Thiel, the head of global
fundamental fixed-income at the world’s biggest money manager,
said in e-mailed comments. BlackRock is “cautious” on the U.K.
because of “consistently above-target inflation, the coalition
government struggling to maintain a cohesive message” and
London’s waning dominance as an international business center.  Pacific Investment Management Co. also holds fewere pounds
than its benchmarks recommend, Thomas Kressin, head of European
foreign-exchange, said in a Feb. 25 interview. FX Concepts LLC
shares Pimco’s view that the pound is still overvalued even
after its 6.1 percent decline this year and is poised to fall
further.  The Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor  Mervyn King 
maintained its target for  quantitative easing  at 375 billion
pounds ($565 billion). Current Governor Mervyn King, who gives
way to Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  in July, has said a
weaker pound would help rebalance the economy.  King and two of his Monetary Policy Committee colleagues
voted to expand so-called  quantitative easing  at the central
bank’s Feb. 7 meeting, though they were outvoted by the six
other members, according to minutes released Feb. 20.  Rating Downgrade  Moody’s Investors Service cut Britain’s credit rating to
Aa1 from Aaa on Feb. 22, citing continuing weakness in the
economy. Analysts have lowered their year-end forecasts for
sterling against the euro by 4.8 percent this year to 83 pence,
according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  With Carney’s arrival in July spurring a debate on the
BOE’s remit, the Treasury said today Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  will consider the bank’s 2 percent inflation
target in his budget this month as he does every year. The
Financial Times reported that Osborne may announce a change to
the existing monetary framework in the budget.  Inflation was 2.7 percent in January, and the MPC has said
its current mandate is already flexible and they plan to “look
through” the price surge to aid the economy.  “Any consideration by the U.K. government or the Bank of
England for changes to the bank’s mandate that would appear to
be either reactive or not go through a thorough vetting process
would place additional downward pressure on the currency,” the
London-based Thiel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in  London  at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  