-- BNP Paribas Targets Asian Super-Rich to Boost Wealth Business
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-03-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/bnp-paribas-targets-asian-super-rich-to-boost-wealth-business.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  is outpacing the
wealth-management businesses of French competitors  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  as the country’s largest bank
targets the super-rich in Asia and America.  Net inflows more than doubled to 7.5 billion euros ($9.8
billion) last year as the Paris-based company attracted money
from clients in  China ,  Singapore ,  Indonesia  and  Malaysia , wealth
unit co-heads Vincent Lecomte and Sofia Merlo said in an
interview. Societe Generale lured a net 1 billion euros, while
Credit Agricole reported outflows of 2.7 billion euros in 2012.  French banks are fighting over rich emerging-market clients
to boost revenue as tougher capital requirements crimp
investment-banking profitability. BNP Paribas is expanding from
its western European base, which accounts for about 60 percent
of its wealth assets, to vie with bigger managers, including
Switzerland’s UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG.  “BNP is in the Champions League of wealth management and
there’s a clear difference in terms of size with its nearest
French peers,” said Sebastian Dovey, founder of London-based
research firm Scorpio Partnership. “The challenge for the top
private banks is to create truly global ultra-high-net-worth
businesses.”  While assets under management at BNP Paribas climbed 8.6
percent to 265 billion euros, that’s still barely a fifth of the
funds at UBS, the biggest Swiss bank.  Asian Growth  BNP Paribas hopes that Asia, where Lecomte and Merlo expect
to double assets and revenue over the next three to five years,
will help close the gap. Rich Asians may increase assets by more
than 11 percent a year through 2016, according to a report last
May by Boston Consulting Group.  Turkey, Poland and  Morocco  are also targets for expansion
and BNP Paribas wants to attract more ultra-wealthy individuals
with at least 25 million euros in investable assets.  “The growth in assets is in line with our target and it’s
quite satisfactory compared with our peer group,” said Lecomte.
“This is a business the bank is investing in.”  Revenue and profit rose at BNP Paribas’s wealth-management
unit in 2012, while the business’s return-on-assets was little
changed, Lecomte said, declining to provide further details.  BNP Paribas, which in 2009 expanded by taking over Fortis
activities in countries such as Belgium and Luxembourg, in 2012
had 6.55 billion euros in annual net income, an 8.3 percent
increase from a year earlier. Societe Generale’s full-year
profit slumped 68 percent to 774 million euros while Credit
Agricole had a record 6.47 billion-euro annual loss, partly hurt
by the sale of its unprofitable Greek unit Emporiki Bank.  Lagging BNP  “SocGen and Credit Agricole are lagging BNP,” said
Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps manage about 600 million euros
at Ofi Gestion Privee in Paris, including BNP and Societe
Generale. “BNP’s image has been less shaken during the
financial crisis, and that’s fundamental in wealth management.”  Societe Generale increased wealth-management assets 1.7
percent to 86.1 billion euros in 2012, even as France’s second-
largest bank retreated from North America with the sale of a
minority stake in U.S. Rockefeller Financial Services Inc. and
its shares in Canadian Wealth Management Group Inc.  “2012 was as year of consolidation,” Jean-Francois Mazaud, head of private banking at Societe Generale, said in an
e-mailed statement. “The wealth-management sector has had to
confront significant changes since the start of the financial
crisis.”  Strong Performance  Before  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis deepened, Societe
Generale Private Bank’s former CEO had set a goal to reach 150
billion euros of assets by 2015.  The bank is targeting growth in Asia and Mazaud said the
second half of last year showed a “clear turnaround” after a
challenging 2011.  Societe Generale’s private-banking revenue and cost-to-
income ratio improved in the fourth quarter and Mazaud expects
the unit to deliver “strong performance” in 2013.  “Clients are now beginning to return to higher-yield
solutions,” he said.  Credit Agricole’s private-banking managed assets rose 4.7
percent to about 132 billion euros last year as market and
currency gains helped offset the sale of “non-core assets” in
Latin America, the bank said Feb. 20..  Firms that can’t boost assets under management will
struggle to alleviate margin pressures as regulatory and
compliance costs grow, said Dovey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  