-- BOE Weighs Opening its Stimulus Toolbox as Economists Split
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-03-07T09:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/boe-reopens-stimulus-toolbox-as-economists-split-on-next-move.html
Bank of England  policy makers will
today consider restarting asset purchases and a range of other
measures as they redouble efforts to revive Britain’s economy.  While a majority of economists predict no change in the 375
billion-pound ($564 billion) quantitative-easing target, 11 out
of 39 surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast an increase. The
division reflects uncertainty prompted by last month’s split on
the Monetary Policy Committee, when Governor  Mervyn King  and two
others were defeated in a push for a 25 billion-pound expansion.  That vote and a series of comments since the last meeting
have created suspense on the next move as officials consider how
to help an economy that’s barely grown in the past two years.
With incoming governor  Mark Carney  suggesting that policy isn’t
yet “maxed out,” Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  has said he wants
to discuss negative  interest rates  and Markets Director  Paul Fisher  raised the idea of a prolonged period of bond buying.  “A majority of the MPC have reached the point where they
agree that the economy needs more stimulus,” said  Michael Saunders , chief western Europe economist at Citigroup Inc. in
London, who predicts a vote to restart bond purchases. “Now
they have to agree on how to do it.”  The BOE will also keep its  key interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent, according to another survey. It will
announce its decisions at noon in London.  The pound declined to as low as $1.4967 before the
announcement, the weakest since July 13, 2010. It traded at
$1.4995 as of 9:07 a.m. in London.  ‘Blue Skies’  At their last meeting, the MPC discussed cutting the key
interest rate from 0.5 percent, purchasing assets other than
gilts and changing the remuneration on bank reserves. While
Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said talk of negative interest
rates is part of “blue-skies thinking,” the broadening MPC
discussion has raised expectations that more stimulus is coming.  “They’ve got themselves in a bit of a corner,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London and a former
BOE official. “They’ve done nothing to roll back on the
expectation in the market that more easing is coming. It’s
turned the meeting into a bit of an event risk.”  King said yesterday that results from the Funding for
Lending Scheme, introduced last summer, were “disappointing.”
Data this week showed lending by Lloyds Banking Group Plc and
Banco Santander SA fell in the fourth quarter.  U.K. Outlook  The BOE has forecast “weak” growth in the near term, and
recent reports have failed to fully dispel concerns the economy
is heading for a  triple-dip recession . While services growth
accelerated in February, manufacturing and construction
contracted. U.K. tour operator  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  said
yesterday it plans to cut 2,500 jobs and shut almost 200 stores.  The economy is also under pressure from Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne ’s austerity measures. He pledged to
press on with his budget plans after Moody’s Investors Service
stripped Britain of its top  credit rating  last month.  Separately, the ECB will keep its  key rate  at a record-low
0.75 percent, according to 56 of 61 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Five predict a reduction to 0.5 percent. The ECB will
announce its decision at 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt and President
 Mario Draghi  holds a press conference 45 minutes later.  In Ottawa yesterday, Carney’s Bank of Canada kept its
 benchmark  at 1 percent and softened language about tighter
policy for the second meeting in a row, saying inflation will
“remain low in the near term.”  Inflation Remit  That’s in contrast to the situation Carney will inherit in
July in the U.K., where  inflation  may remain above the BOE’s 2
percent target for the next two years. MPC members have said
they will “look through” the price surge to aid the economy.  The U.K. Treasury said Osborne will consider the BOE’s
inflation target as he does every year, as policy makers debate
an overhaul of central bank’s remit. The Financial Times said
today Osborne may announce a change to the existing monetary
framework in his budget on March 20. A Treasury spokesman played
down the report, saying it is no more than a reflection of the
public debate on the subject.  The BOE will also announce today what bonds it plans to buy
with the 6.6 billion pounds it will get from the redemption of
the March 2013 gilt. It announced it would reinvest the funds
after its meeting last month.  Among economists forecasting more stimulus today, Saunders
predicts a 25 billion-pound increase in QE. He sees purchases
rising to 450 billion pounds this year and the introduction of
new measures by the BOE in the coming months.  Brian Hilliard , chief U.K. economist at  Societe Generale  in
London, said looser policy won’t happen today and it may take a
change in leadership to spark sweeping new tools.  “If we’re looking at radical options, I don’t think
they’re going to be seriously considered until Carney arrives,”
he said. “The question is what you do in the meantime and what
you do is QE. More easing is likely before long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  