-- Boeing Testing Found Remote Battery-Fire Risk, U.S. Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-08T01:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/boeing-s-initial-tests-found-battery-fire-risk-remote-ntsb-says.html
Preproduction tests of batteries on
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner didn’t start a fire during an
intentional short-circuit, leading the company to conclude the
risks of a blaze were remote, according to a U.S. report.  The National Transportation Safety Board, which released
preliminary findings yesterday on a January battery fire, said
it will hold an investigative hearing in April on the design and
certification of the 787’s lithium-ion battery system.  “It really appears that inadequate testing was done or a
failure to anticipate these failure modes,” Patrick Veillette,
a pilot and former military accident investigator, said in an
interview.  The NTSB report didn’t identify the underlying cause of a
short-circuit that, according to safety board investigators, led
to a battery fire aboard a  Japan  Airlines Co. 787 in Boston on
Jan. 7.  Boeing’s new aircraft, built with light carbon-fiber
materials instead of metal to be more efficient, has been
grounded worldwide since Jan. 16 after a second lithium-ion
battery failure. It was the first such commercial aircraft
grounding since 1979.  The JAL Dreamliner battery caught fire on the ground after
landing. An  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  787 made an emergency landing
in Japan nine days later after a battery emitted smoke and
fumes.  Completing Investigation  The NTSB report is “a positive step in the progress toward
completing the investigation of the Jan. 7 event in Boston,”
 Marc Birtel , a spokesman at Boeing’s commercial headquarters in
 Seattle , said in an e-mail. “The Boeing team has worked
tirelessly in support of the NTSB to help develop an
understanding of the event and will continue to do so.”  Boeing is still reviewing the material released yesterday,
Birtel said. Boeing  rose  $1.97, or 2.5 percent, to close
yesterday at $81.05 in  New York  trading.  In addition to the investigative hearing, the NTSB plans to
hold a forum on lithium-battery safety in April. Fires linked to
lithium-based batteries have been involved in three cargo
aircraft accidents since 2006.  The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration announced Jan. 11
it was reviewing the 787’s safety to ensure that nothing was
overlooked during certification.  In addition to the 787’s carbon skin and frame, Boeing
installed unprecedented new electrical systems to further reduce
weight and enhance efficiency.  Barriers, Venting  The FAA is preparing for a decision to let Boeing proceed
with plans to harden the battery against overheating and fire,
and eventually return the plane to service. Administrator
Michael Huerta told reporters Feb. 28 that he expected his staff
to present recommendations as early as this week.  Boeing presented the FAA with its proposed fix on Feb. 22
in a bid to get the plane airborne again. The agency hasn’t yet
ruled on the Boeing recommendations.  Huerta said the Boeing proposal contains three layers:
using sensors and circuitry to ensure that none of the eight
individual cells within a battery overheats; preventing a failed
cell from harming adjacent cells; and protecting the plane from
damage if all the cells burn.  Huerta said Boeing’s proposal was “very comprehensive.”
In addition to Huerta, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, who
has said regulators must be “1,000 percent sure” the plane is
safe, must also agree.  Passing Tests  The first step, according to Huerta, will be a sign-off on
Boeing’s plan to re-certify the plane. Commercial flights won’t
resume until the batteries pass a series of tests in
laboratories and in flight, he said.  The fixes are designed to deal with every possible type of
battery failure, Huerta said.  In testing before the 787’s certification, Boeing concluded
that the only way the lithium-ion  battery  could catch fire was
if it were overcharged, according to the NTSB. As a result, the
company designed multiple layers of circuitry into the charging
system to prevent such a failure.  When Boeing engineers triggered a short-circuit in a
battery cell by puncturing it with a nail, it didn’t catch fire,
only emitting smoke, according to the NTSB.  The safety board didn’t explain why Boeing’s test didn’t
produce the type of fire that occurred in  Boston .  The nail test can’t always replicate the worst failures in
an internal short-circuit,  Dan Doughty , a consultant in
 Albuquerque , New Mexico, who formerly headed battery testing at
Sandia National Laboratories, said in an interview.  Battery Hissing  The test is used because it’s easy and no widely accepted
alternative exists, Doughty said. The understanding of how
batteries fail has expanded since Boeing performed its tests in
the late 2000s, he said.  As a result of Boeing’s initial tests, the company
concluded that battery failures creating smoke would occur only
about once in 10 million flight hours, the NTSB report said.  Prior to its grounding, the 787 had accumulated fewer than
52,000 hours in flight, according to NTSB. During that time it
had two incidents with the batteries, including the fire in
Boston.  The NTSB is also investigating separate safety tests
conducted on the plane’s electrical system, according to the
reports. Those tests often were done without the batteries
connected or didn’t test all the battery functions, according to
the NTSB.  The fire in an equipment bay in the JAL plane’s belly
proved difficult to extinguish, according to the reports.  Fire Rekindled  The smoke and flames didn’t stop when a mechanic used a dry
chemical fire extinguisher on the battery, according to the
report.  Airport firefighters then used a liquid called Halotron,
which knocked down the fire. It later rekindled, according to
the report. A fire captain told investigators that the battery
continued emitting thick white smoke.  “The captain also reported that the battery was hissing
loudly and that liquid was flowing down the sides of the battery
case,” investigators said in the report.  The captain was burned on the neck when the battery
exploded, the NTSB said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  