-- Boeing Battery Tests Said to Be Boosted as Carmakers Help
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y ,   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-07T21:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/boeing-said-to-boost-787-battery-tests-as-carmakers-aid.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s supplier of lithium-ion
batteries for its 787 Dreamliners tightened quality checks after
the planemaker sought advice from other companies that use the
technology, said five people with knowledge of the matter.  Boeing tapped  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  General
Electric Co. (GE) , United Technologies Corp. and others to provide
expertise after battery faults grounded the global 787 fleet on
Jan. 16, said the people, who asked not to be identified as they
aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) , the supplier, has doubled the number of its
tests on the advice of a “Non-Advocate Review” panel created
by Boeing with officials from some of the companies, one person
said. Fixing the  batteries  is key to resuming 787 service, and
Boeing faces penalties from the eight airlines that operate the
787s as well as those whose deliveries have been delayed.  The panel, along with engineers from Boeing, GS Yuasa and
 Thales SA (HO)  “identified improvements that could be made to the
battery, the battery system and the airplane installation that
would provide three distinct layers of protection,” said  Marc Birtel , a spokesman at Boeing’s commercial headquarters in
Seattle. “Among the items in this comprehensive set of
solutions were improvements to the production process.”  Automaker Advisers  Automaker representatives on Boeing’s panel examined GS
Yuasa’s testing protocol and were surprised to learn that more
than 90 percent of the batteries were passing quality control,
said two people with knowledge of the matter. In the electric-
vehicle industry, that figure is around 60 percent, they said.  Yasushi Yamamoto, a spokesman at Kyoto, Japan-based GS
Yuasa, declined to comment. The Japan Transport Safety Board
said March 5 it had ended testing of the GS Yuasa batteries and
hadn’t found anything “notably unusual.”  United Technologies (UTX) , which makes the auxiliary power unit
that connects to the batteries, is working with Boeing and the
Federal Aviation Administration, executives have said. Dan
Coulom, a spokesman, said any aid provided doesn’t extend beyond
the company’s role as a supplier.  Ford and GM declined to comment on assistance to Chicago-
based Boeing. Ford Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally ran
Boeing’s commercial jet unit when the Dreamliner was being
developed in the mid-2000s.  Boeing “reached out to a variety of industry experts,
including GE, but not limited to us,” David Joyce, CEO of GE
Aviation, said in an interview last month. “They’ve assembled a
group of very high-technology people to help them and just to
share expertise.”  Shares Rise  Boeing rose 2.5 percent, the most since Jan. 9, to $81.05
at the close in New York. The National Transportation Safety
Board opened a public docket on its probe of the Jan. 7 fire on
a  Japan  Airlines Co. 787 at the  Boston  airport, the first of two
electrical faults that triggered the Dreamliner’s grounding.  The planemaker is assembling upgrade kits for the battery
system as it awaits an FAA verdict on the proposed fix. Boeing
Commercial Airplanes President Ray Conner presented a plan to
regulators on Feb. 22 that included increased separation of the
cells in the battery, extra monitoring by pilots and a stronger
case with vents. The FAA is still considering that proposal.  The measures are focused on containing fires, even though
the two-month investigation has yet to identify a root cause for
the January faults. The 787 fire in Boston was followed later
that month by a smoking battery on an All Nippon Airways Co. jet
that forced an emergency landing in Japan.  LaHood’s View  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has said he won’t
let the jet fly again until he’s “1,000 percent sure” it’s
safe.  The FAA’s grounding order was the first for an entire model
since 1979, and prompted offers of support for Boeing from
around the world.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  CEO Elon Musk said he was connected with
Boeing’s chief engineer, Mike Sinnet, by Richard Branson, whose
Virgin Atlantic Airways has 16 787s on order. Tesla builds the
Model S electric sedan, which also uses a lithium-ion battery.  The 787 is the world’s first composite-plastic airliner and
is also the first to replace the pneumatic system with an
electrical one, which generates enough power to light 400 homes.
It’s the only commercial jet equipped with the lithium-ion
batteries, which are used for backup.  Boeing is working toward doubling monthly Dreamliner output
by year’s end to fill a backlog of more than 800 orders for the
plane, which starts at a list price of about $207 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  