-- Bovespa Index Posts World’s Biggest Two-Day Gain as OGX Surges
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-07T21:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/bovespa-index-futures-gain-as-brazil-industrial-output-expands.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index had the biggest
two-day gain among the world’s major stock gauges as companies
owned by the Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  surged after he
signed a financing arrangement with  Grupo BTG Pactual. (BBTG11)   OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA, Batista’s oil company,
soared the most in four years, while port developer  LLX
Logistica SA (LLXL3)  rose to a six-week high.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil producer, gained after Credit
Suisse Group AG raised its recommendation to the equivalent of
buy following an unexpected increase in diesel prices. Utility
Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA jumped the most since Oct. 2008.  The Bovespa jumped 1.6 percent to 58,846.81 at the close in
Sao Paulo, extending a two-day gain to 5.2 percent, the biggest
advance among 94 major stock gauges in the world, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Batista’s EBX Group Co. yesterday said it
signed an agreement with BTG Pactual, the financial group led by
billionaire  Andre Esteves , which includes credit lines and
future long-term capital investments in projects.  “The deal Eike struck with BTG is surely positive, as
Esteves is a very respected person in the market,” Fernando Goes, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Clear Corretora,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s positive for the Bovespa
because those companies have a big weighting on the index.”  BTG provided a $1 billion liquidity line to EBX Group, said
a person with direct knowledge of the deal who asked not to be
identified because details of the agreement haven’t been made
public.  OGX, the fourth-heaviest weighted  stock  on the benchmark,
jumped 16 percent to 3.40 reais. LLX rose 10 percent to 2.44
reais. Mining unit  MMX Mineracao (MMXM3)  & Metalicos SA surged 17
percent to 3.64 reais.  Petrobras Gains  BTG shares rose 2 percent to 35 reais after earlier falling
as much as 1 percent. Trading volume was 25 times the three-
month daily average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known, gained 5
percent to 18.95 reais after rallying the most since 2008
yesterday. The increase in diesel prices will help reduce losses
from selling imported fuel at a discount as part of a government
policy to curb inflation.  The price increase announced by Petrobras, whose chairman
is Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , could be a sign that the
government is willing to make changes in its interventionist
policies, Citigroup Inc. analysts  Stephen Graham  and Nicolas
Riva said.  “The hike suggests the government understands the need to
treat Brazil’s largest company better as far as its bottom line
is concerned, since it loses money selling fuel below what it
pays for imports,” Graham and Riva wrote in a note e-mailed to
clients late yesterday.  Hypermarcas Earnings  Consumer-health company  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3)  rose 2.8 percent to
18.10 reais after posting fourth-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ forecasts. Net income was 124.7 million reais in the
three months ending in December, more than the average estimate
of 90.1 million reais, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Eletropaulo jumped 9.7 percent to 12.23 reais, leading
utilities higher. The MSCI Brazil/Utilities Index  rose  3.6
percent to a four-month high.  The Bovespa has dropped 7.1 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and China
has slid 2.7 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.9 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.6 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 10.96 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.55 billion reais this year
through Mar. 5, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  