-- Britain Trails Only Chad in Airline Access Costs, WEF Study Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/britain-trails-only-chad-in-airline-access-costs-wef-study-says.html
Britain has the second-highest
airline access costs among 140 countries worldwide, according to
research published today in a World Economic Reform report into
competitiveness in the travel and tourism industries.  The U.K. ranks behind only  Chad  in terms of ticket taxes
and airport fees, with a rating of 24.5 out of 100, where 0
represents the highest expense, according to the study. The U.S.
is rated 14th most costly, with  Japan ,  Germany  and  France  also
figuring among the bottom third of countries.  Airlines operating in the U.K. pay a tax known as air
passenger duty on a per-passenger basis, with the tariff rising
in four bands to as high as 184 pounds ($277)  a trip for long-
haul, premium seats. The four biggest carriers serving the
country said Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne should
do away with the levy in his next budget to be delivered on
March 20.  “We call upon the Chancellor to use the forthcoming budget
to remove APD to stimulate economic growth,”  Ryanair Holdings
Plc (RYA) ,  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. and  International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , the parent of British Airways,
said in a joint statement. “It’s hard to find another
comparable table on a key measure of international
competitiveness which shows the U.K. to be trailing the rest of
the world.”  Swaziland, Iran and Luxembourg score highest in the WEF,
with ratings above 97.  Britain fares better in the overall ranking of
competitiveness, placing fifth in the world -- two places higher
than in the 2011 study -- behind only Switzerland, Germany,
Austria and Spain. The U.S. is placed sixth and France seventh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  