-- Cablevision Says Viacom Threatened Billion-Dollar Penalty
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-03-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/cablevision-says-viacom-threatened-billion-dollar-penalty.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  said
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  threatened to impose a penalty of at least $1
billion on the cable operator unless it agreed to buy the rights
to networks it didn’t want, according to a court filing.  Cablevision is suing Viacom on antitrust grounds tied to
the content provider’s alleged practice of bundling cable
channels. Cablevision claims it was forced to accept all of
Viacom’s programming -- including low-rated channels it didn’t
want -- because Viacom would have imposed a “10-figure”
penalty if the Bethpage, New York-based operator only licensed
certain networks.  Cablevision claimed Viacom controls “commercially critical
networks,” including Nickelodeon, Comedy Central and  MTV , that
the cable operator must accept to avoid losing significant
numbers of subscribers, according to a copy of the complaint
unsealed yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan .  While the fifth-largest U.S. cable operator said it only
wanted to license Viacom’s highly rated networks, the penalty
that it would have paid to avoid taking low-rated networks such
as Logo and Palladia was more than its “entire programming
budget,” according to the complaint.  “This anti-consumer abuse of market power is a key reason
cable bills continue to rise and programming choice remains
limited,” Cablevision said in its e-mailed statement.  Viacom responded in an e-mailed statement that
Cablevision’s lawsuit is “nothing more than a hypocritical
attempt” to void a deal signed in December.  ‘Walking Dead’  “Cablevision’s suit is misguided, without legal merit, and
as factual as an episode of ‘Walking Dead’ on AMC, which like
all the networks controlled by Cablevision’s management is also
offered in a bundle to distributors,” Viacom said in the
statement.  Viacom doesn’t consider its rates a penalty, according to
spokesman Jeremy Zweig. The programmer’s standard rate card is
the price they prefer for their networks. Typically,
distributors can negotiate for a discount from that rate.  James Dolan  is the chief executive officer of Cablevision.
His family controls shares in  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) , which airs
“The Walking Dead.”  Cablevision received a “significant discount” by
accepting all of Viacom’s networks, the New York-based
programmer said. Cablevision chose the discounted packaged
“precisely because it offers greater value for them and their
customers,” Viacom said.  The case is Cablevision Systems Corp. v. Viacom
International Inc., 13-cv-01278, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  