-- Cameron Invokes Thatcher, Says No Alternative on Deficit
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-07T14:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/cameron-invokes-thatcher-says-no-alternative-on-deficit.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron 
rejected suggestions that cutting taxes or increasing government
expenditure would help Britain’s struggling economy, saying the
risk of higher  interest rates  is too great.  Cameron mocked those, including Business Secretary Vince Cable from his Liberal Democrat coalition partners, who have
called for more spending as talking “as if they think there’s
some magic money tree.” To answer those in his own  Conservative
Party  calling for tax reductions, he invoked a former Tory prime
minister.  “ Margaret Thatcher  understood that a  tax cut  paid for by
borrowed money is no tax cut at all,” Cameron said in a speech
to business people in the swing electoral district of Keighley
in northern  England . “Getting taxes down to help hard-working
people can only be done by taking tough decisions on spending.”  Over the past 50 years, Keighley, near Leeds, has usually
fallen in general elections to the party that has gone on to win
power nationally. The Conservatives must hold it in 2015 to stay
in office. A week after the Tory candidate came third in a
special election in Eastleigh in southern England, a seat the
party hoped to gain, Cameron’s ability to win such battles is in
question and his authority in the party may be waning.  Britain’s economy  shrank 0.3 percent  in the final quarter
of 2012, leaving it on the brink of a triple-dip recession. The
opposition  Labour Party  argues that the lack of growth is the
result of Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s program
of spending cuts to narrow the  budget deficit . Moody’s Investors
Service cut the U.K.’s top credit rating last month, citing the
weak growth outlook and challenges to fiscal consolidation.  Cabinet Table  The premier’s speech took a course he’d told some of his
lawmakers about two days ago. As discontent among them has
risen, he has begun inviting small groups of them to private
sandwich lunches around the Cabinet table.  At the most recent gathering, according to one of those
present, who asked not to be identified as the meeting was
private, Cameron discussed electoral strategy. He was asked
about the Feb. 28 election in Eastleigh, where the
Conservatives, who began the campaign with the goal of winning
the seat from the Liberal Democrats, finished behind both their
coalition partners and the U.K. Independence Party, which
campaigns for withdrawal from the European Union and opposes
Cameron’s plan to permit gay marriage.  The prime minister told the group that Lynton Crosby, his
newly appointed campaign chief, was advising the party to
“remove the barnacles from the ship” and stick to delivering a
clear message about the benefits of continuing the austerity
program, rather than change direction.  ‘Hold Firm’  “The very moment when we’re just getting some signs that
we can turn our economy round and make our country a success is
the very moment to hold firm to the path we have set,” Cameron
said in his speech today. “The path ahead is tough, but be in
no doubt the decisions we make now will set the course of our
economic future for years to come. And while some would falter
and plunge us back into the abyss, we will stick to the
course.”  Cameron said Osborne’s annual budget statement to
Parliament on March 20 will “be about sticking to the course.”
Cable contradicted the premier’s strategy yesterday, saying the
economic argument in the U.K. may have shifted in favor of debt-
funded  capital investment , with slow growth now a greater
concern than a loss of market confidence.  “There is a body of opinion arguing that the risks to the
economy of sticking to existing plans are greater than the risks
stemming from significantly increased and sustained public
investment,” Cable wrote in an article in the New Statesman
magazine, headlined “When the facts change, should I change my
mind?”  ‘He Agrees’  Cameron denied there was a difference of opinion. “There
is no need for me to fight with  Vince Cable  because he agrees
with the government’s plan,” he told reporters after the
speech, adding that the article had been approved by the
Treasury.  Cable wrote that the coalition’s decision when it was
formed in 2010 to emphasize austerity and deficit reduction was
right at the time “in the context of febrile markets and
worries about sovereign risk, at that stage in  Greece , but with
the potential for contagion.” Now, he said, “the question is
whether the balance of risks has changed.”  Cameron invoked Thatcher again, using a slogan she
frequently used, to say that no other course was possible for
his government.  “We are making the right choices,” he told his audience.
“If there was another way I would take it. But there is no
alternative.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Keighley, England at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  