-- Cameron to Pledge No Change of Course Amid Tory Doubts
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/cameron-to-pledge-no-change-of-course-amid-tory-doubts.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
will urge his Conservative Party to stick to its current course
today after lawmakers raised doubts about his leadership and
senior ministers openly questioned spending plans.  Cameron will give a speech on the economy in West
Yorkshire, in a House of Commons district the Conservatives must
hold in the 2015 general election to stay in power. A week after
the Tory candidate came third in a special election in a seat in
southern  England  the party hoped to gain, the premier’s ability
to win such battles is in question and his authority in the
party may be waning.  “The very moment when we’re just getting some signs that
we can turn our economy round and make our country a success is
the very moment to hold firm to the path we have set,” Cameron
will say, according to extracts released by his office. “The
path ahead is tough, but be in no doubt the decisions we make
now will set the course of our economic future for years to
come. And while some would falter and plunge us back into the
abyss, we will stick to the course.”  Britain’s economy  shrank 0.3 percent  in the final quarter
of 2012, leaving it on the brink of a triple-dip recession. The
opposition Labour Party argues that the lack of growth is the
result of Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s program
of spending cuts to narrow the budget deficit. Moody’s Investors
Service cut the U.K.’s top credit rating last month, citing the
weak growth outlook and challenges to fiscal consolidation.  Cable Call  As Osborne prepares for his annual budget statement to
Parliament on March 20, Business Secretary Vince Cable, a member
of Cameron’s Liberal Democrat junior coalition partners,
contradicted the premier’s strategy yesterday, saying the
economic argument in the U.K. may have shifted in favor of debt-
funded capital investment, with slow growth now a greater
concern than a loss of market confidence.  “There is a body of opinion arguing that the risks to the
economy of sticking to existing plans are greater than the risks
stemming from significantly increased and sustained public
investment,” Cable wrote in an article in the New Statesman
magazine, headlined “When the facts change, should I change my
mind?”  While Cameron may tolerate a certain amount of criticism
from the Liberal Democrats as the parties seek to distinguish
themselves in voters’ minds in the run-up to the 2015 election,
he must now contend with agitating from senior members of his
own party.  Ministerial Resistance  Two of the leading Tories in the Cabinet, Home Secretary
Theresa May and Defense Secretary Philip Hammond, are resisting
attempts by Osborne to make further cuts to their departmental
budgets. May, who’s responsible for policing and border
controls, meets junior lawmakers in Parliament regularly to
discuss their concerns, a practice Cameron has also adopted.  “Hammond and May are killing two birds with one stone,”
Tim Bale, a professor of politics at Queen Mary University,
 London , said in an interview. “They look strong by defending
their budgets against the chancellor and also preserve policies
popular with Tories such as law and order, immigration and the
military. We can’t say they are deliberately maneuvering for a
future leadership race, but we can’t rule it out either.”  Cameron, 46, has been Tory leader since 2005. Under party
rules, a challenge to him requires 46 Conservative lawmakers, 15
percent of the parliamentary party, to request a confidence
vote. If he lost, he’d have to resign and couldn’t stand in the
forthcoming contest.  ‘Right Thing’  “I know some people think it is being stubborn to stick to
a plan,” Cameron will say today. “That somehow this is just
about making the numbers add up with no care whatsoever for what
it means for people affected by the changes we make. But nothing
could be further from the truth. My motives for sticking to the
plan are exactly about doing the right thing to help families
and business up and down the country.”  Labour leader Ed Miliband, whose party has a 10-percentage-
point cushion over the Tories in national opinion polls, joked
yesterday about whether May had leadership ambitions during
Cameron’s weekly question-and-answer session in Parliament.  “The home secretary is shaking her head,” Miliband said.
“I’m looking forward to facing her when they’re in
opposition.”  Minutes later, May was holding one of her regular
“surgeries” for fellow lawmakers in the tea room next to the
House of Commons chamber.  Cabinet Table  Cameron has begun his own meetings with rank-and-file
Conservative lawmakers, inviting 12 of them to lunch around the
Cabinet table in his Downing Street office two days ago to air
their concerns, according to one of those present, who asked not
to be identified as the meeting was private.  One topic raised was the Feb. 28 election in Eastleigh,
where the Conservatives, who began the campaign with the goal of
winning the seat from the Liberal Democrats, were beaten into
third place behind the U.K. Independence Party, which campaigns
for withdrawal from the European Union and opposes Cameron’s
plan to permit gay marriage.  The prime minister told the group that Lynton Crosby, his
newly appointed campaign chief, was advising the party to
“remove the barnacles from the ship” and stick to delivering a
clear message about the benefits of continuing the austerity
program, rather than change direction.  The prime minister was also challenged about what the
government can do to get the economy growing again, according to
the Tory lawmaker, and replied that the issue now was
implementation of policies that had been agreed on.  After Eastleigh, one Conservative, Stewart Jackson, was
quoted as telling London’s Evening Standard newspaper that
“unless things are demonstrably different” by the early
summer, Cameron “will have great difficulty in persuading the
electorate that we can win a general election.”  Hammond Rebuffed  Hammond, who was sitting next to May when Miliband made his
jibe yesterday, gave media interviews last week urging that his
department’s spending be protected and saying cuts should be
made to welfare. Those comments were rebuffed by Cameron’s
spokesman. Questioned by reporters two days ago, Hammond denied
that the skirmishing meant he’s in conflict with the chancellor.  “The reality is, I worked with George Osborne very closely
for many years,” Hammond said. “It is about us working
together to resolve the best way of dealing with the fiscal
consolidation that we need across government. We have got to
work together to do it in the most effective way, and in the
case of the MoD do it in the way that is least damaging to
military capability.”  Cable wrote that the coalition’s decision when it was
formed in 2010 to emphasize austerity and deficit reduction was
right at the time “in the context of febrile markets and
worries about sovereign risk, at that stage in  Greece , but with
the potential for contagion.” Now, he said, “the question is
whether the balance of risks has changed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  