-- Campari Slides After Posting Surprise Decline in Annual Earnings
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-03-07T11:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/campari-slides-after-posting-surprise-decline-in-annual-earnings.html
Davide Campari-Milano SpA, (CPR)  the maker
of Skyy vodka, reported an unexpected drop in annual profit amid
declining sales in  Italy  and Brazil, and said this year will
also be “challenging.”  Earnings before interest and taxes fell to 287.5 million
euros ($374.3 million) from 295.5 million euros a year earlier,
the Milan-based distiller said today, sending the shares down
the most since November.  The average estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was 307 million euros.  Revenue reached 1.34 billion euros. On a so-called organic
basis, excluding currency shifts and acquisitions or disposals,
sales at the maker of Wild Turkey bourbon rose 2.8 percent,
compared with the 2.7 percent median estimate of seven analysts.  Trading in Campari  shares  was halted in Milan after the
stock fell as much as 4.6 percent.  “We expect 2013 to be another challenging year due to
heightened macroeconomic difficulties in eurozone markets,”
Chief Executive Officer Bob Kunze-Concewitz said in the
statement. The company expects “continued positive momentum”
in the U.S. and Pacific regions as well as improvements in  Latin
America  and eastern Europe, he said.  Turbulent economic and political conditions in Campari’s
home market of Italy have roiled sales, while stagnant growth
across the rest of the continent has offset growth in in the
Americas region, which includes the U.S., the world’s most
profitable spirits market. U.S. sales rose 8.6 percent on an
organic basis last year, representing 22 percent of revenue.
Brazilian sales plunged 7.9 percent as Campari sold fewer local
brands. Revenue in Italy, which provided 29 percent of business
last year, fell 3.3 percent on an organic basis.  Commercial Dispute  European sales increased 3.4 percent on growth in  Russia 
and as the company sold more Aperol in Austria and Switzerland.
Campari registered a 9.1 percent decline in Germany due to a
commercial dispute that affected the Campari and Aperol brands.  Sales in the rest of the world advanced 12 percent, aided
by sales of Wild Turkey in  Australia  and a “positive
development” in China,  South Africa  and Nigeria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  