-- Canada Dollar Gains From Almost 8-Month Low on Trade Gap
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-07T22:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/canada-dollar-gains-after-january-trade-deficit-report.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened
from an almost eight-month low against its U.S. counterpart as
the nation recorded the smallest merchandise trade deficit in
almost a year in January on exports of crude oil and bitumen.  The currency extended gains as the number of Americans who
filed for  unemployment benefits  lat week declined to a six-week
low, showing further improvement in the labor market of  Canada ’s
largest trade partner. The so-called loonie fell yesterday after
the Bank of Canada left the benchmark interest rate unchanged
and said the current level will “remain appropriate for a
period of time.”  “This is a bit of better news for the Canadian dollar,
after what the bank said yesterday,”  David Watt , chief
economist in Toronto at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc,
said by phone of the trade-deficit report. “Canada also
exported recorded volume in terms of barrels per day to the U.S.
in December, and there’s more production coming on line in the
next few months.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.3 percent to $1.0294
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
97.14 U.S. cents. The loonie touched C$1.0337 per U.S. dollar
yesterday, near its lowest since June.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond fell for a
fourth day, with yields rising four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.88 percent. The 2.75 percent security
maturing in June 2022 fell 32 cents to C$107.32 after falling to
C$107.25, the lowest since Feb. 25.  The  Bank of Canada  will auction C$1.5 billion ($1.46
billion) of 30-year bonds on Feb. 13. The 3.5 percent securities
will mature in December 2045.  Oil, Stocks  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, advanced 1.1
percent to $91.43 a barrel in  New York  after rising as much as
1.4 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  of U.S. stocks
rose 0.2 percent to a record high closing level of 14,329.  “We’ve almost priced in everything we can negative into
Canadian dollar, so it’s about time for a rebound,” said Eimear Daly, a currency market analyst at Monex Europe Ltd. by phone
from  London . “It’s moving on a positive outlook for equities --
the performance of the Dow Jones has really astounded people.”  The loonie strengthened as Canada’s deficit of C$237
million ($230 million) followed a revised December shortfall of
C$332 million,  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the deficit would be C$600
million, based on the median of 20 forecasts.  U.S. ‘Resilience’  Another report showed Canadian  building permits  rose 1.7
percent to C$5.85 billion ($5.68 billion), following a revised
10.4 percent fall in December, the statistics agency said.
Economists forecast a 5.3 percent gain.  “Right now, we’ll take any good news from the Canadian
economy,” said HSBC’s Watt.  First-time jobless claims in the U.S. unexpectedly fell by
7,000 to 340,000 in the week ended March 2, the lowest since the
period ended Jan. 19, according to data today from the Labor
Department in  Washington . The median forecast of 50 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for an increase to 355,000. The
four-week average dropped to a five-year low.  “There’s a limit to the extent of the Canadian dollar’s
decoupling from the U.S. dollar,”  Valentin Marinov , head of
European Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in
London, said by phone. “Potential indications that the
resilience of the  U.S. economy  is having a positive spillover
effect on the Canadian economy could support the Canadian
dollar.”  Carney’s View  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has warned in every
policy decision since April that rates could rise, reiterating
yesterday that his eventual next move will probably be an
increase. That makes him the lone Group of Seven central banker
who has indicated he might raise  interest rates , while the U.S.
Federal Reserve and  Bank of England  are buying bonds to hold
down yields to boost growth with policy rates close to zero.  “The considerable monetary-policy stimulus currently in
place will likely remain appropriate for a period of time, after
which some modest withdrawal will likely be required,” policy
makers led by Carney said in a statement from Ottawa yesterday.  Canada’s  unemployment rate  increased 0.1 percentage point
to 7.1 percent in February, a Bloomberg News survey of 21
economists said. Statistics Canada will release the unemployment
report tomorrow.  The loonie has fallen 3.9 percent during the past six
months among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  has
gained 1.6 percent, and the euro has surged 4.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  