-- Canada to Cap Spectrum Purchases for Largest Telecos
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-03-07T19:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/canada-to-cap-amount-of-spectrum-large-telecom-firms-can-buy.html
Canada will limit the amount of
wireless spectrum that large telecommunications providers such
as  BCE Inc. (BCE)  can acquire in an auction set to begin Nov. 19, the
industry department said.  BCE,  Telus Corp. (T) ,  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and other
operators will each be able to buy only one of four blocks of
spectrum identified by the industry as most desirable, the
department said today in a statement outlining the rules for the
auction in the 700-megahertz band.  The Canadian government estimates the sale may raise C$897
million ($870 million) based on the value of the minimum opening
bids for the spectrum, according to government documents. It
announced plans last year to cap the purchase of spectrum in
this way.  The government is seeking to “ensure that Canadian
consumers continue to benefit from more choice in the wireless
sector and faster wireless speeds at better prices,” Industry
Minister Christian Paradis said in the text of a speech
distributed to reporters in Ottawa.  The auction format is designed to ensure there are at least
four wireless providers in each region of the country, Industry
Canada said. The government also said it will require companies
to be more lenient in providing roaming on their networks to
competitors and sharing cell-phone towers.  The deadline for bids is June 11.  Looser Rules  Paradis told reporters it would be “premature” to say if
the government would further loosen restrictions on foreign
ownership of telecom operators. Last year, the government
relaxed the rules to allow foreign companies to own operators
with less than 10 percent market share by revenue.  Desjardins Securities analyst Maher Yaghi said in a
research note that he expects each of the incumbent operators to
spend about C$600 million acquiring spectrum.  The government should have set aside more airwaves for
smaller companies to promote competition and lower prices,
Helene LeBlanc, a lawmaker for the New Democratic Party, the
biggest federal opposition party, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  