-- Canada January Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-03-07T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/canada-january-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
January building permits report from Statistics Canada.  Municipalities issued building permits worth $5.8 billion
in January, up 1.7% from December. The increase in the
residential sector more than offset a decrease in the non-
residential sector. Despite the advance, the total value of
building permits has been trending downwards since October 2012.  The increase in construction intentions came from every
province except Alberta and  Quebec . New Brunswick posted the
largest advance followed closely by Saskatchewan and British
Columbia.  In the residential sector, the value of permits increased
17.6% to $3.8 billion in January, following six consecutive
months of decline. Ontario had the largest gain, with British
Columbia a distant second followed closely by New Brunswick.
These gains more than offset decreases in Quebec, Newfoundland
and Labrador and Manitoba. However, residential construction
intentions are continuing a downward trend that began in July
2012.  Construction intentions in the non-residential sector fell
19.2% to $2.0 billion, following a 7.8% decrease the previous
month. Ontario, Quebec and Alberta were responsible for most of
the decline. Non-residential construction intentions rose in
Saskatchewan, New Brunswick, Manitoba and  Newfoundland  and
Labrador. The total value of non-residential permits has been on
an upward trend since June 2012, following a relatively flat
period that began in May 2011.  Residential sector: Higher construction intentions for both
multi-family and single-family dwellings  Construction intentions for multi-family dwellings rose
38.0% to $1.6 billion in January. It was the first increase in
seven months. The advance was principally attributable to higher
construction intentions in Ontario, British Columbia and New
Brunswick.  Municipalities issued $2.3 billion worth of building
permits for single-family dwellings in January, up 6.6% from
December. This was the second increase in seven months. Higher
construction intentions in Ontario more than offset decreases in
four provinces, led by Quebec and Manitoba.  Municipalities approved the construction of 16,002 new
dwellings in January, down 15.6% from December. The increase was
largely the result of a 25.9% gain in multi-family units to
9,550. The number of permits issued for single-family dwellings
rose 3.0% to 6,452 units.  Non-residential sector: Declines in all components  Construction intentions in the commercial component
decreased 15.2% to $1.3 billion, a second consecutive monthly
decrease and their lowest level since February 2012. Despite
these declines, commercial intentions have been on a continuous
upward trend since November 2011.  Construction intentions for commercial buildings were down
in every province except Saskatchewan, Newfoundland and Labrador
and Manitoba. Ontario and Quebec had the largest declines. The
decrease in January came from a variety of buildings, including
retail complexes, hotels and restaurants as well as warehouses
in Ontario and office buildings in Quebec.  The value of institutional permits declined 26.7% to $366
million in January, falling to their lowest level since January
2012. This was the third decrease in a row. The decline was
largely attributable to lower construction intentions for
educational institutions in Ontario,  Alberta  and Quebec as well
as medical facilities in Alberta. Institutional construction
intentions have been trending slightly downwards for eight
months.  Construction intentions in the industrial component fell
25.6% to $296 million in January. This was the third consecutive
monthly decrease following a record high in October. Industrial
construction intentions have been on a downward trend since June
2012. This follows a continuous year-long increase that began in
June 2011.  The decrease in January was largely the result of lower
construction intentions for mining and primary industry
buildings in Ontario, manufacturing buildings in Alberta and
utilities buildings in Ontario and Quebec. Industrial
construction intentions decreased in seven provinces, led by
Ontario, with Quebec a distant second.  Most provinces post gains  Construction intentions advanced in eight provinces in
January. New Brunswick posted the largest advance followed
closely by Saskatchewan and British Columbia.  In New Brunswick, construction intentions more than tripled
following two consecutive monthly declines. The increase was a
result of higher construction intentions for residential and
institutional buildings.  In Saskatchewan, construction intentions grew on the
strength of higher construction intentions for single family
dwellings and commercial buildings.  A 10.9% increase in British Columbia was attributable to
higher construction intentions for multi-family dwellings and
institutional buildings.  In Ontario (+2.1%), higher residential construction
intentions offset declines in non-residential components.  The largest decrease occurred in Quebec, where all
components except multi-family dwellings fell.  In Alberta, the value of permits for institutional and
commercial buildings was behind the decline.  Just over half of the census metropolitan areas post increases  The value of permits was up in 18 of the 34 census
metropolitan areas.  Toronto,  Vancouver  and Saskatoon recorded the largest gains.
Toronto reported advances in residential buildings. Vancouver’s
gain came from multi-family dwellings and institutional
buildings, both of which had decreased the previous month. In
Saskatoon, the increase came mainly from higher construction
intentions for commercial buildings and single-family dwellings.  The largest declines occurred in Montréal and Kitchener-
Cambridge-Waterloo. In Montréal, the decline originated from
lower construction intentions for commercial buildings and to a
lesser extent single-family dwellings and industrial buildings.
In Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo, lower construction intentions
for institutional buildings were behind the decrease.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc -
cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=eng) .  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total for the entire population.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Data for the current reference month are subject to
revision based on late responses.  With this release, seasonal adjustments were reviewed to
take into account the most recent seasonal variation from the
series. Revised monthly seasonally adjusted estimates for the
three previous years are released at the same time as the annual
revision to the unadjusted data of 2012.  The trend-cycle estimates have been added on the graphs as
a complement to the seasonally adjusted series. Both the
seasonally adjusted and the trend-cycle estimates are subject to
revision as additional observations become available. These
revisions could be large and even lead to a reversal of movement,
especially at the end of the series. The higher variability
associated with the trend-cycle estimates is indicated with a
dotted line on the graph.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  