-- Canadian Natural Profit Drops 58% on Oil Price, Currency
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-07T21:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/canadian-natural-quarterly-profit-falls-58-on-lower-oil-prices.html
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the
nation’s third-largest oil producer by market value, said
fourth-quarter profit fell 58 percent as crude prices declined
and it reported a foreign-exchange loss.  Net income dropped to C$352 million ($341 million), or 32
cents a share, from C$832 million, or 76 cents, a year earlier,
the Calgary-based company said today in a statement. Excluding a
foreign-exchange loss and employee stock-option costs, per-share
profit missed the 38-cent average of 17  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company announced plans today to sell or bring in a
partner for some of its Montney holdings in British Columbia.
It’s also seeking new markets to boost  cash flow  as rising
supplies depress crude prices. The price of Western  Canada 
Select, an oil-sands benchmark, fell 25 percent from a year
earlier to average $61.32 a barrel in the quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “They’ve got a huge position in the Montney and this helps
realize the value sooner rather than later,”  Lanny Pendill , an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a phone
interview today.  Canadian Natural  rose  3 percent to C$32.10 at the close in
Toronto, the highest price since Sept. 21.  Montney Assets  The company is seeking a buyer or joint-venture partner
with liquefied natural gas experience for about 250,000 net
acres in the Montney, it said. Canadian Natural has the largest
Montney holding, according to the company.  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , another Calgary-based energy company,
yesterday announced plans to sell or find partners for holdings
in the North Duvernay and Montney. Several companies, including
Exxon Mobil Corp., are exploring LNG terminals in British
Columbia to export gas from the Montney.  Canadian Natural also said today that Vice Chairman John Langille will retire in May after 37 years at the company. Corey Bieber, vice president of finance, will become chief financial
officer on March 28, succeeding Douglas Proll, who’ll become an
executive vice president. Chief Operating Officer Tim McKay also
adds the role of executive vice president, responsible for the
producer’s Horizon oil-sands operations.  Revenue Declines  Canadian Natural reported a 75 percent decline in revenues
to C$3.7 billion, from C$14.6 billion a year earlier. It
produced the equivalent of 658,973 barrels of oil a day during
the quarter, up from 657,599 barrels a year earlier.  The company posted a foreign exchange loss of C$210
million, primarily due to repayment of U.S. dollar debt
securities in the fourth quarter instead of the third quarter.
During the fourth quarter, the company repaid $350 million of
5.45 percent unsecured notes. It repaid $400 million of 6.7
percent unsecured notes during the third quarter of 2011.  Canadian Natural’s Horizon output fell below the company’s
guidance, as it carried out maintenance at the project in the
fourth quarter, including unplanned work in late December.  “The key catalyst for the stock going forward is going to
center on reliability at Horizon,” Pendill said.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  are Canada’s
largest oil producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  