-- Carrefour Reports Smaller-Than-Estimated Drop in 2012 Profit
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-03-07T13:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/carrefour-reports-smaller-than-expected-decline-in-2012-earnings.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , France’s biggest
retailer, posted a smaller-than-estimated fifth straight drop in
annual profit and pledged to lift capital expenditure to stoke a
revival in its domestic business.  Recurring operating income fell 2.6 percent to 2.14 billion
euros ($2.78 billion), the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based
company said today. Analysts expected profit of 2.07 billion
euros, according to the average of 10 estimates, in line with a
forecast Carrefour made in January. The  shares  rose as much as
5.8 percent to the highest since July 2011.  The smaller-than-expected drop was “driven by a very
strong performance in France,” said John Kershaw, an analyst at
BNP Paribas in  London . The “unwind of French mismanagement
comes quicker and bigger than expected.”  Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat plans to increase
capital expenditure to as much as 2.3 billion euros this year as
France’s largest retailer fights to win back domestic market
share. His 2013 goals include improving price perception,
refurbishing outlets, broadening the grocer’s multichannel
offering and expanding in  Latin America  and  Asia .  French profit growth accelerated in the second half, rising
8.4 percent and leading to a gain for the year of 3.5 percent.
Carrefour, which gets almost half its sales from the country,
can sustain its domestic margin without damaging
competitiveness, Plassat said at a presentation in Paris today.  No Improvement  The economic environment is unlikely to improve in 2013,
the CEO said.  To help fund investment and focus the business on its main
markets, Plassat has dispensed with assets in  Colombia ,
 Malaysia ,  Indonesia ,  Singapore  and Greece in his first nine
months at the helm. Carrefour, which has no plans to exit other
countries, wants to be number one or two in the markets in which
it operates as it decentralizes its approach to retailing, the
CEO said.  The shares rose as much as 1.24 euros to 22.62 euros in
Paris trading and were at 22.35 euros as of 2:33 p.m., extending
this year’s gain to 16 percent.  In  Turkey , the situation with Carrefour’s joint-venture
partner remains the same and as majority owner, “it’s
reasonable that we should devote some thinking to develop the
appropriate strategy,” Plassat said.  In Poland, the market may consolidate in one or two years
once Carrefour and three or four rivals have fought for the
number two position, the CEO said. The grocer has no plans to
spin off its Atacadao cash and carry unit in  Brazil , Plassat
said.  Real Estate  The retailer would like to gradually extract value from its
real estate assets, including the land and building rights it
owns, over time, Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Jean Sivignon
said earlier on a call with reporters. That won’t include
selling off any property, Plassat said.  Carrefour, whose French hypermarkets are on average 30
percent bigger than its large outlets in Spain, Italy and
 Belgium , could shrink the sales area of some stores and rent the
space to other businesses, according to Deutsche Bank analyst
Sally Ronald.  The company revived and shelved a plan to spin off its
property assets in 2011 amid opposition from shareholders and
unions. The plan was to list a 25 percent stake in the French
retailer’s real estate in Europe.  Carrefour proposed a dividend of 58 cents a share, payable
in cash or stock, in line with the payout policy announced in
March 2012, it said today.  Net debt  improved by 2.6 billion euros to 4.32 billion
euros, or 1.2 times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization, as of Dec. 31, Carrefour said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  