-- Cash Incentives Help People Lose Weight, Researchers Find
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-03-07T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/cash-incentives-help-people-lose-weight-researchers-find.html
Financial incentives for losing
weight help people shed more pounds than programs that don’t
affect dieters’ wallets, a study found.  Participants who received money monthly for losing weight
or paid into a pool when they didn’t meet goals, dropped 9.1
pounds on average, compared with 2.3 pounds for those without
cash incentives, according to research released today in advance
of the American College of Cardiology meeting in  San Francisco .  “Just wanting to lose weight isn’t enough,” said Donald Hensrud, chairman of preventive medicine at the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester,  Minnesota , who helped write the study. “People need
creative strategies. Financial incentives can be powerful.”  More than two-thirds of companies are experimenting with
programs that encourage healthier behavior in workers, such as
higher insurance premiums for smokers or reduced rates for
fitness clubs. One common tactic is to withhold incentives or
raise fees for obese workers, penalties that can be lifted if
they lower their body mass index, according to Michael Wood, a
senior benefits consultant in Seattle at  Towers Watson & Co. (TW)   “The jury is still out as to whether financial incentives
will improve the rate of success of people losing weight on a
long-term basis,” Wood said in a telephone interview.  $168 Billion  More than two-thirds of U.S. adults are overweight or
obese, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Obesity-related health costs are more than $168
billion annually, according to a Feb. 20 study in JAMA-Surgery.  Today’s study followed 100 adults ages 18 to 63 years who
were obese based on their  body mass index . They were weighed
monthly for a year. The study was one of the longest looking at
workplace financial incentives for  weight loss .  Fifteen people received the maximum $360 over the year by
attending every monthly weigh-in and reaching and maintaining
their weight loss goal, Hensrud said. The study participants
paid $2,200 into the pool in penalties, which was then divided
among the eight people who reached the overall weight-loss goal
of 10 percent and two other people in a general lottery. The
researchers spent $12,000 for the monthly incentives.  Future studies should look at what financial incentives
work best and how long the programs need to be in place to help
people maintain their weight loss, Hensrud said.  Rising Tide  More than two-thirds of companies offer financial
incentives to encourage participation in wellness activities, an
increase from about half in 2010, according to the 18th annual
Towers Watson survey on employer health care released today.  While incentive programs can cost companies about $100 to
$1,200 year for each person and any spouse, healthier employees
lower health insurance costs, Wood said. Companies also can
build program costs into their health insurance bill, he said.  Thirty-six percent of companies reward employees for
participating in a smoking-cessation program and 42 percent
charge tobacco users about $50 a month, according to the survey.  About 16 percent of companies reward or penalize employees
based on outcomes other than tobacco use, including weight
control or cholesterol levels, an increase from 10 percent in
2012. That number is expected to jump to 47 percent in 2014 as
more companies say they will enact these programs, according to
the Towers Watson survey taken from November 2012 to January
2013 of 583 employers with a total of 11.3 million workers.  Fear Factor  In the  Mayo Clinic  study, each person was assigned to one
of four groups. One group was provided weight-loss education,
another received education and financial incentives, a third was
provided education plus behavior modification and the last had
financial incentives with education and behavior modification.  Those in the financial incentive groups who met their
weight-loss goals received $20 a month, while those who didn’t
had to pay $20 into a bonus pool. Half of the bonus pool went to
people who met their study goals and the other half was put into
a lottery for everyone who completed the yearlong study no
matter their results, Hensrud said.  “Fear of losing money tends to motivate people about two
and a half times more than the prospect of gaining the same
amount of money, so we intentionally designed the incentives so
that participants would have some of their own skin in the
game,” said Steven Driver, a lead study author and a resident
physician in internal medicine at the Mayo Clinic.  Sixty-two percent of the people with financial incentives
completed the study compared with 26 percent in the non-
incentive groups. The researchers estimated that 6.5 pounds of
the 9.1 pounds average weight loss was attributable to the
incentives.  Hensrud said financial incentives don’t work alone and may
need to be combined with other methods to help people lose
weight. Also, the incentive program didn’t pay for itself so
more work may be needed to find programs that don’t add to
company costs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  