-- Chavez Lies in State as Grieving for Socialist Leader Builds
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-03-07T16:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/chavez-lies-in-state-as-grieving-for-socialist-leader-builds-2-.html
Venezuelans are paying their
respects to former President  Hugo Chavez  today, filing past an
open casket in a military academy after his body was carried
through the streets of Caracas yesterday.  Chavez’s body is laying in state in the capital until a
funeral tomorrow. Among leaders arriving early and attending a
wake last night were  Argentina ’s Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner
and  Bolivia ’s  Evo Morales .  “Chavez lives, the fight continues,” officials including
Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  shouted in unison as they walked
past the flag-draped casket holding the socialist leader.  Maduro, in his first decree as acting president, declared
seven days of national mourning, and stores closed across the
capital as the shock of Chavez’s March 5 passing after a two-
year battle with cancer settles in. He has not yet been sworn in
as acting president, and Venezuelan state media is continuing to
refer to him as Vice President.  The government took control of the nation’s airwaves
yesterday for most of the day to broadcast live coverage of the
procession, which drew tens of thousands of supporters wearing
the red shirts that became a symbol of Chavez’s 21st-century
socialism. Several were shown crying, waving Venezuelan flags
and carrying paintings of Chavez and his hero  Simon Bolivar , the
country’s 19th century liberator.  Procession  Over two million people have participated in the funeral
procession, Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said today on
state television, adding that not all mourners would be able to
see Chavez’s body.  Twenty-two heads of state will attend Chavez’s funeral
tomorrow, Foreign Minister Elias Jaua said today on state
television. He said the media should refrain from making
“political analysis” at this time.  Vigils and marches of solidarity were also held at
Venezuelan embassies throughout Latin American, including Peru,
Chile and  Colombia , whose business-friendly governments have
shunned the anti-American rhetoric favored by Chavez. Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  likened Chavez to Jesus Christ,
while condolences also arrived from the leaders of Russia and
 China , which were among Chavez’s biggest trading partners.  Ahmadinejad will leave Tehran today to travel to Caracas
for the funeral, state-run Fars news agency reported late
yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  Heart Attack  Chavez died of a heart attack and in his final moments
expressed a desire to continue live, the  Associated Press 
reported, citing General Jose Ornella, the head of  Venezuela ’s
presidential guard, who said he was with Chavez at the moment.  An official in the information ministry, who asked not to
be identified because of policy, said he could not immediately
comment on the AP report.  Even as the grieving intensifies, the battle to fill the
void left by Chavez was getting under way. According to
Venezuela’s constitution, an election to choose Chavez’s
successor must be called within 30 days.  Maduro, who Chavez endorsed before undergoing surgery in
Cuba for the last time in December, tried to project unity. At
the wake he stood for a moment of silence next to Chavez’s
coffin with National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello , who is
seen as a potential rival.  Military Loyalty  The armed forces also appeared to be lining up behind
Maduro, who unlike Chavez, a former tank commander, doesn’t have
any military experience.  “Now, more than ever, the Venezuelan people and armed
forces are united to complete Chavez’s mission, which is to make
Maduro the next Venezuelan president,” Defense Minister David
Molero said today on state television. “The armed forces will
never raise its weapons against the people again.”  Opposition parties may nominate Miranda state Governor
Henrique Capriles Radonski as their candidate to compete in the
snap vote. While a final decision won’t be taken until after
Chavez’s funeral, “Capriles is the only name that’s on the
table,” Ramon Jose Medina, deputy leader of the opposition
alliance, said in a phone interview after a full day of meetings
with party members.  Capriles lost to Chavez by 11 percentage points in an
October vote.  Bonds  Venezuela’s dollar-denominated bonds, which are rated four
levels below investment grade by  Standard & Poor’s , have rallied
25 percent over the past year, swelling their return to 692
percent since Chavez’s inauguration in 1999.  They fell for a third day today, with the yield on 9.25
percent bonds due in September 2027 climbing 28 basis points to
9.54 percent at 11:30 a.m. in  New York , the highest since Dec.
4. The price fell 2.15 cents to 97.76 cents on the dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays Plc today cut its debt rating on Venezuela debt to
neutral from overweight because of uncertainty “that the
government might not strictly follow” the constitution,
analysts Alejandro Grisanti and Donato Guarino said today in an
e-mailed report.  “We remain constructive on the credit over the longer
horizon, given the growth potential driven by oil reserves and
willingness to pay,” they wrote.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  