-- China Opposes Others’ Loose Policy, Li Keqiang Co-Author Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-07T03:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/china-opposes-others-loose-policy-li-keqiang-co-author-says.html
China  doesn’t approve of excessively
loose monetary policies by other nations, according to a senior
government adviser who wrote a book with  Li Keqiang , the
country’s incoming premier.  “We have already taken a position on this before and China
doesn’t approve of some countries’ overly accommodative monetary
policy,” Li Yining, 82, a  Peking University  professor and
delegate to China’s top advisory body, said at a briefing in
Beijing today when asked about  Japan ’s recent easing. “This is
an act of transferring the crisis to others.”  The remarks may reflect official displeasure over the yen’s
depreciation amid Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign
for more monetary easing to fight deflation. China is “fully
prepared” for a currency war should one happen, central bank
Deputy Governor Yi Gang said March 1, according to the official
Xinhua News Agency.  China can take steps to counter the effects of other
nations’ monetary policies such as expediting industrial
upgrading and boosting indigenous innovation, Li said, without
mentioning Japan in his response. “Given the size of our
foreign exchange  reserves , we will continue to go out and invest
overseas and import more from abroad,” Li said.  The  yuan  has strengthened about 14 percent against the yen
over the past three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A weaker currency can make a nation’s exports more
competitive.  Yen Effect  Li Keqiang, who holds a doctorate in economics from Peking
University, studied under Li Yining, according to Robert Lawrence Kuhn, author of “How China’s Leaders Think.”  Li Yining, Li Keqiang and  Li Yuanchao , a member of the
Communist Party’s Politburo, co-authored a 1991 book titled
“Strategic Options for Prosperity,” according to Li Yining’s
biography on the website of Peking University’s Guanghua School
of Management. The three men are not related. A fourth co-author
was Meng Xiaosu.  Li Keqiang is set to succeed Premier  Wen Jiabao  during this
month’s meeting of the National People’s Congress in Beijing
which will complete a once-a-decade power handover.  Li Yining also said at today’s briefing that financial
risks are the biggest threat to the economy and upward
inflationary pressure exists.  Separately, Zhou Xuedong, governor of the Nanjing branch of
the People’s Bank of China, told reporters in Beijing today that
the weaker yen may impact China’s exports and adds “imported
pressure” on inflation.  Currency Wars  Yi said that in terms of monetary policies and other
mechanisms, China “will take into full account the quantitative
easing policies implemented by central banks of foreign
countries,” Xinhua reported March 2.  Speaking in Beijing yesterday, Yi reiterated that he hopes
monetary authorities worldwide will adhere to the Group of 20
consensus and avoid currency wars, which “will have no
winners.” Finance ministers and central bankers from G-20
nations meeting in Moscow last month sharpened their stance
against governments trying to influence exchange rates as they
sought to tame speculation of tit-for-tat competitive
devaluations.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from William Bi and Feifei Shen
in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  