-- China Widens Yuan Investment Program in Liberalization Move
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-03-07T07:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/china-banks-insurers-given-rqfii-access-in-program-expansion.html
Chinese regulators expanded a
program allowing institutions to raise  yuan  offshore for
investment in the mainland, a step that moves the nation closer
to a freely traded currency and may bolster confidence in the
stock market.  Financial institutions registered in  Hong Kong  and the Hong
Kong units of Chinese banks and insurers will be allowed to join
units of Chinese brokerages and fund-management firms in the
 Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors program,
according to a statement posted on the  China  Securities
Regulatory Commission’s website yesterday. The regulator also
expanded the range of products participants can invest in beyond
exchange-traded stock funds and bonds.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  said today it would be “very
interested” in participating in the program. The expansion
comes as legislators meet this week at the annual National
People’s Congress in Beijing, during which a new generation of
Communist Party leaders headed by  Xi Jinping  assumes oversight
of the world’s second-largest economy. The party pledged in
November to make the  exchange rate  more market-based and promote
freer movement of capital in and out of the country for
investment purposes.  “The move to open channels for foreign portfolio investors
will benefit the Mainland market, bringing in more demand for
equities and bonds,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a report today. “It
will put some more upward pressure” on yuan and offshore yuan
rates, he wrote.  Index Futures  China approved the RQFII program in December 2011. A total
of 27 offshore units had been awarded 70 billion yuan ($11.2
billion) of quota to invest, according to the CSRC  statement . Of
that amount, 27 billion yuan had been invested in bonds, and 43
billion yuan in exchange-traded funds, the CSRC said.  Participants will now be able to invest in stock-index
futures, where before they were limited to equities and bonds,
the statement said. RQFII funds will also be able to take part
in initial public offerings, convertible bond sales and share
placements, according to the CSRC.  “The amendment relaxes the RQFII asset allocation
restriction, which allows institutions to decide on types of
product on their own depending on market conditions,” the
regulator said. “The CSRC will continue to expand the scale of
the trial to attract more long-term foreign funds, to ensure the
reform and opening of  capital markets  and its steady
development.”  Standard Chartered  The expansion of the RQFII scheme will permit the
introduction of a broader range of yuan-based investment
products,  John Tsang , Hong Kong’s financial secretary, and Alexa Lam, deputy chief executive officer of the city’s Securities and
Futures Commission, said in separate statements today. The
amended rules now allow all Hong Kong-licensed asset-management
companies to participate, Tsang said.  “If the CSRC can increase the RQFII quota and change the
asset mix rule to allow more investment into the equity market,
investors in Hong Kong and overseas will greatly welcome this,”
 Benjamin Hung , Standard Chartered’s chief executive officer for
Hong Kong, told reporters today. The bank “will also be very
interested in participating,” he said.  Eligible participants from Hong Kong should be registered
there and have the city as its “major base of operations,” the
CSRC said. London-based  Standard Chartered  garnered about 18
percent of its 2012 revenue from Hong Kong, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The lender is the third-largest underwriter of
yuan-denominated, or Dim Sum, bonds, the data show.  Increased Quota  The first batch of yuan QFII funds, which raised 20 billion
yuan, were required to invest at least 80 percent of assets in
bonds, with the rest going into equities or kept as cash.  In April, the government announced further RQFII quota of
50 billion yuan for exchange-traded funds to invest in the
domestic A-share market. Available RQFII quotas were boosted to
270 billion yuan in November and  Guo Shuqing , chairman of the
China Securities Regulatory Commission, said on Jan. 14 that the
ceiling can be raised by 10 times.  “The RQFII expansion is a long-term positive for the
yuan,” Tommy Ong, a Hong Kong-based senior vice president of
treasury and markets at DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Ltd., said by phone
today. “Not only will that boost investor demand for the
currency, it’ll also provide a tool for the Chinese government
to test the impact of foreign capital on capital markets.”  Yuan Appreciation  After keeping the exchange rate stable for a decade, China
allowed its currency to strengthen 21 percent from July 2005 to
July 2008, including an initial, single-day gain of 2 percent.
Appreciation was then halted for almost two years to help
exporters weather a global recession and the currency has
advanced almost 10 percent against the dollar since controls
were loosened on June 19, 2010.  Yi Gang, a deputy governor at the People’s Bank of China,
said cross-border yuan flows are “totally controllable” when
asked if they would be affected by the RQFII expansion. Yi spoke
to reporters at meetings of the Chinese Political Consultative
Conference in Beijing today.  The central bank’s next step in overhauling the foreign-
exchange system will focus on convertibility, Governor  Zhou
Xiaochuan  said Nov. 17 in Beijing. Premier  Wen Jiabao , who steps
down at the NPC, pledged this week to expand cross-border use of
the yuan and encourage foreign investment as the government
allows a 50 percent jump in the  budget deficit  to spur economic
growth.  Allowing more participants into the RQFII program increases
the prospect of more international inflows that will bolster the
nation’s stock market. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has fallen
4.7 percent from a nine-month high reached on Feb. 6 as the
government moved to enforce curbs on property ownership.  “The new policy is in the right direction,” Du Liang, an
analyst from Shanxi Securities Co. in Beijing, said by phone
today. “They are trying to increase demand for local shares.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 