-- China Repo Rate Falls to 5-Week Low as Zhou Says Policy Stable
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-03-07T09:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/china-repo-rate-falls-to-5-week-low-as-zhou-says-policy-stable.html
China’s benchmark money-market rate
fell to a five-week low on speculation the central bank will
refrain from tightening policy in the short term.  The monetary stance is “stable overall” and able to
support the nation’s economic-growth target for this year,
People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday at
the National People’s Congress meeting in Beijing. China will
complete a once-in-a-decade leadership handover this month with
 Xi Jinping  taking over as president and  Li Keqiang  as premier.  “Policy makers still remain accommodative,” said Hu Yifan, chief economist and head of research at Haitong
Securities Co. in Hong Kong. “Inflation is still very low and
the new leadership will take off very soon and keep policies
supportive of the economy in the beginning of the year.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, fell 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage
point, to 2.53 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It
touched 2.49 percent earlier, the lowest level since Jan. 29.  The rate has fallen 190 basis points this week as PBOC data
released March 5 showed local banks bought a record net 684
billion  yuan  ($110 billion) of foreign currencies in January, an
indication of larger capital inflows.  The monetary authority conducted 5 billion yuan of 28-day
 repurchase agreements  today at a yield of 2.75 percent,
according to a statement posted on the central bank’s website.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell three basis
points to 3.22 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  