-- China Vanke Markets Debut Dollar Bond Sale Amid Government Curbs
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-03-07T04:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/china-vanke-markets-debut-dollar-bond-sale-amid-government-curbs.html
China Vanke Co. (200002)  is marketing its
debut sale of U.S. dollar-denominated bonds after Fitch Ratings
Ltd. said the country’s largest property developer by market
value is better placed than its peers to cope with government
measures to cool house prices.  China Vanke is offering five-year notes at a yield of about
220 basis points more than Treasuries, a person familiar with
the deal said. The notes are expected to carry a BBB rating from
Standard & Poor’s, one level lower than the Shenzhen-based
borrower’s corporate credit grade, according to a March 4
statement from S&P. Five-year BBB rated dollar bonds from Asian
companies offer an average spread of 221 basis points, according
to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  Cities with “excessively fast” price gains must raise
down-payment requirements and interest rates on second-home
mortgages, China’s cabinet said on March 1, as policy makers in
the world’s second-biggest economy seek to curb house-price
increases. Larger nationwide players including Vanke will
probably be less affected by the new guidelines given their
broad project mix, geographical coverage and high margins,
according to Fitch.  “The curbs, if implemented strictly, will affect every
property developer,” said Annisa Lee, a Hong Kong-based credit
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “But Vanke is one of the
largest in the country so the proposed bond should get done
based on current pricing guidance.”  Average yield premiums Chinese companies pay for dollar
debt rose to a 15-week high of  403 basis points  on March 4,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Bond Risk  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd.’s $750 million of
4.875 percent securities due February 2017, rated BBB by S&P,
offered 181.8 basis points more than Treasuries as of 12:24 p.m.
in Hong Kong, ING Groep NV prices on Bloomberg show.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 1 basis point to 103.5 basis points
as of 8:50 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The benchmark is on track for its lowest close
since Jan. 7, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index slid 2 basis points to 111.5
as of 9:28 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show. The gauge
is dropping for a seventh straight day, a streak of declines
that has taken it to the lowest close since March 2011,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped 1 basis point to
111 basis points as of 11:27 a.m. in Sydney, according to
National Australia Bank Ltd. The measure has fallen 16.5 basis
points this year, according to NAB and CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  