-- Chong Hing Bank Management Active in Seeking Options for Owners
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-03-07T12:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/chong-hing-bank-management-active-in-seeking-options-for-owners.html
Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111) , the Hong Kong
lender partly owned by the Liu family, is active in helping its
owners find opportunities, Chief Executive Officer Lau Wai-man
said, after his predecessor’s exit sparked takeover speculation.  An acquirer could be found for all or part of the bank,
depending on the current shareholders’ decision, Lau said. Chong
Hing said Nov. 28 that Liu Lit-chi, the 73-year-old former CEO
and a member of the founding family, would step down after more
than 50 years at the bank.  The shares jumped 11 percent the next day, after Lau, who’s
not related to the founders, was named to take over. Family-
owned banks in Hong Kong have drawn interest from buyers
including  China Merchants Bank Co. (3968) , which paid $4.7 billion in
2009 for the Wu family’s Wing Lung Bank Ltd. Liu Chong Hing Bank
was founded in 1948, and dropped the family name in 2006.  “We have been active,” Lau said in a briefing today when
asked whether the lender’s stance toward a possible sale had
changed. “As the management of Chong Hing, we seek to help our
shareholders to get good opportunities, and that includes
chances for an acquisition, cooperation or mergers.”  The number of publicly traded family-run banks in Hong
Kong, China’s biggest offshore  yuan  market, has fallen to four
from six more than a decade ago as Wing Lung and Asia Financial
Holding Ltd.’s banking unit were acquired. Bank of East Asia
Ltd., Dah Sing Banking Group Ltd. and  Wing Hang Bank (302)  Ltd. are
also family run.  “I think it’s more likely for Chong Hing to be put up for
sale as a whole,” Ivan Li, deputy head of investment advisory
at Kim Eng Securities Hong Kong Ltd., said by telephone today.
“Getting a partial stake in a small Hong Kong bank wouldn’t
help much for a Chinese bank that wants to expand overseas via
Chong Hing, or a foreign bank that wants to tap into China.”  Foreign Expansion  China’s cash-rich lenders are seeking growth abroad.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest
lender, in 2000 paid HK$1.8 billion ($232 million) for Union
Bank of Hong Kong. Six years later  China  Construction Bank
Corp., the second largest, bought Bank of America Corp.’s Hong
Kong and Macau unit for HK$9.7 billion.  “It’s most appropriate” for Chinese banks looking to
expand abroad “to merge or cooperate with Hong Kong banks, at
least in terms of the integration of culture,” Lau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  