-- Cinedigm Sees Profit Growth in Film Distribution, Software
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-07T21:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/cinedigm-sees-profit-growth-in-film-distribution-software-units.html
Cinedigm Digital Cinema Corp. (CIDM) , a
provider of theater projection equipment, forecast operating
profit of as much as $50 million from its software, services and
content businesses during the next four to five years.  The company also is shopping for small film and television
libraries it can distribute through agreements with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iTunes and streaming services such as Amazon.com Inc., Chief
Executive Officer Chris McGurk said today on a conference call.  Cinedigm is focusing on the newer businesses as cinema
operators complete their conversion to digital projection
systems. The switch to digital from film will let New York-based
Cinedigm provide live entertainment to theaters and give small
production companies an inexpensive way to distribute their
movies to cinemas and home-entertainment systems, McGurk said.  The company plans to build its independent-movie
distribution business to 20 to 25 films a year, he said.
Cinedigm has acquired about 15 films since it entered the market
last year. One of those, “The Invisible War,” about sexual
assault within the U.S. military, received an Oscar nomination
for best documentary.  The forecast McGurk gave analysts and investors today is
$40 million to $50 million in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, for the units. For its
fiscal year that ended in March 2012, Cinedigm reported adjusted
Ebitda of $5.7 million for the so-called non-deployment units,
and forecast $6.7 million to $7.7 million for the current year.  Cinedigm fell 4.4 percent to $1.52 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have gained 8.6 percent this year, as the
Nasdaq Composite Index has risen 7 percent.  Last week, the company announced a $195 million refinancing
that lowered interest expenses, saving about $6 million in the
first year. The new debt is secured by fees cinema operators pay
Cinedigm for helping arrange loans to pay for installing digital
equipment, McGurk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  