-- Citigroup Tops on Diversity as Berkshire Lags Field, Report Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-03-07T19:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/citigroup-tops-on-diversity-as-berkshire-lags-field-report-says.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  are
among the most inclusive U.S. companies for women and minorities
while  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  has made less
progress, according to a report by Calvert Investments Inc.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  also received high
marks based on an analysis of diversity practices at companies
in the Standard & Poor’s 100 Index, the Bethesda, Maryland-based
mutual fund said today in a statement. Berkshire was among the
lowest-rated partly because it doesn’t consider diversity when
selecting board members, according to the report.  While corporations have become more diverse over the past
two years, women and minorities still hold relatively few
leadership roles, Calvert said. Women made up 19 percent of
director positions last year, up from 18 percent in 2010, and
represented 8 percent of the highest-paid executives, according
to the report.  “It is important to recognize that much hard work remains
to be done,” Barbara J. Krumsiek, Calvert’s chief executive
officer, said in the a statement. “Absent a real push to put
more women on boards and into executive suites, the progress on
diversity will end up falling far short of what needs to be
done.”  The report used 10 criteria to rank companies, including
the number of diversity programs, prevalence of women and
minorities in the highest-paid roles, how firms disclose
employee demographic information and whether they have family-
friendly benefit programs.  ‘Wasted’ Talent  Berkshire Hathaway, an Omaha, Nebraska-based holding
company with more than 70 operating subsidiaries, has two female
directors on its 12-member board, according to its 2012 annual
report. Christine De Groot, associate sustainability analyst at
Calvert and one of the report’s authors, said in a conference
call today that “there’s no evidence that diversity is a
priority for the company at all. In fact, the company takes an
active stance against diversity in the board room.”  Berkshire Hathaway didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on the report.  Buffett, 82, Berkshire’s CEO, has been outspoken in support
of advancing women’s role in the workplace. At a 2011
conference, Buffett said that for most of its history the U.S.
wasted women’s talents by restricting their career opportunities
and failing to take advantage of their abilities.  “It’s incredible what happened,” Buffett said Oct. 4,
2011, at Fortune’s Most Powerful Women Summit in Laguna Niguel,
 California . “We wasted half our talent.”  More than half of S&P 100 companies had no women or
minorities among their highest-paid senior executives last year,
according to Calvert. Ninety-eight companies had females on
their boards and 86 had minority directors, according to the
report.  Calvert used publicly available information, including
regulatory filings and company websites, to evaluate diversity
at each company, according to the report. It also contacted
corporations for information on their diversity initiatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  