-- Clegg Confidants Told of Huhne Actions, E-Mails Suggest
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-07T15:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/clegg-confidants-told-of-huhne-actions-e-mails-suggest.html
People close to U.K. Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  were told as early as 2011 that the then
energy secretary,  Chris Huhne , forced his ex-wife to lie for him
over a speeding ticket, according to e-mails released after a
court case.  Huhne’s former wife, Vicky Pryce, was found guilty today of
perverting the course of justice for taking Huhne’s penalty
points for speeding in 2003, when the couple were married, so he
could avoid disqualification. After Huhne left her for an aide,
Pryce sought revenge by telling the story to the Sunday Times
newspaper. Huhne pleaded guilty to the same charge last month
and resigned from the House of Commons as a lawmaker for Clegg’s
Liberal Democrat party. He quit his Cabinet post after being
charged in February 2012, saying he was innocent.  The e-mails may raise renewed questions about Clegg’s
attitude toward allegations of wrongdoing within his party.
Women activists suggested last month that the Liberal Democrats
had tried to cover up accusations of sexual harassment by Chris Rennard, an upper-house lawmaker who was once the party’s chief
executive officer.  “I have told VC, MiriamC, MOak ... and a few other Lib Dem
Lords and others working close to NC,” Pryce said in an e-
mailed response to questions by Sunday Times journalist Isabel
Oakeshott dated April 26, 2011, that was among those released
following the verdict at Southwark Crown Court in London. VC is
Business Secretary  Vince Cable , MiriamC is Clegg’s wife, MOak is
upper-house lawmaker Matthew Oakeshott, a cousin of the
journalist, while NC are the initials of the Liberal Democrat
leader.  Cable ‘Horrified’  In another e-mail to Isabel Oakeshott on April 9, 2011,
Pryce referred to Cable and his wife and when they knew of the
allegations.  “Actually I had told Vince and Rachel about points before
when the three of us were having supper about a month ago --they
were horrified at the time but VC has probably forgotten it by
now. He was v tired that night,” Pryce wrote.  A spokesman for the Liberal Democrats, who asked not to be
named in line with the party’s normal practice, said that Cable,
his wife and Miriam Clegg were clear that the allegation had not
been raised with them, and that nobody in Clegg’s team had a
recollection of Pryce doing so.  ‘No Recollection’  “Vince and Rachel have no recollection of the issue of
points being raised with them over the course of dinner with
Vicky Pryce on Jan. 28, 2011,” Cable’s office said in an e-
mailed statement. “They have consulted their personal records
which confirm that the issue first came to their attention in
May 2011 when the story broke in the press.”  The jury in the Pryce case reached a verdict today after a
retrial, ordered when a first jury failed to agree last month.  Pryce also questioned in the e-mails how Huhne, a
multimillionaire, had been able to make his money and buy real
estate, when he had largely worked as a journalist and a member
of the European Union’s parliament.  “How did CH make his money and manage to build a property
portfolio on mainly a journalistic and MP salary???” she wrote
in an e-mail to Oakeshott on March 5, 2011. “Facts, from public
sources should be easy to come by, dodgy investments in mining
companies etc.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  