-- CME Swap-Data Routing Plan Backed by CFTC Over Rivals’ Objection
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-07T01:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/cme-swap-data-routing-plan-backed-by-cftc-over-rivals-objection.html
CME Group Inc. (CME)  won regulatory
approval to have information about swaps routed to its own
database over the objections of the Depository Trust and
Clearing Corp. and banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted 4-0 to grant
Chicago-based CME, owner of the world’s largest futures
exchange, the authority. New York-based DTCC, operator of a
rival database, has said it might sue the CFTC if the CME’s
proposal was approved.  “For all swaps cleared by the clearing house, and
resulting positions, the clearing house shall report creation
and continuation data to CME’s swap data repository for purposes
of complying with applicable CFTC rules governing the regulatory
reporting of swaps,” the CFTC said yesterday in a statement.  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 regulatory overhaul, gave the CFTC and
Securities and Exchange Commission authority to write rules
requiring swap data to be reported to the agencies and the
public. The law, enacted in response to the 2008 credit crisis,
set up so-called swap data repositories as record-keepers for
information about buyers and sellers, volume and prices.  “We are very pleased with the CFTC’s approval of our rule,
which provides clarity on the issue and certainty for market
participants,”  Michael Shore , a CME Group spokesman, said in an
e-mail. “We are eager to continue clearing swaps and reporting
cleared swaps in the most efficient way.”  The DTCC has said the CME plan fails to comply with more
than a year of CFTC rulemaking and would lead to worse oversight
of the market because data will be fragmented.  ‘Cripple’ Choice  The CME rule “will cripple market participant choice, is
anti-competitive and compromises regulators and market
participants’ ability to understand, assess and manage systemic
risk effectively,” Larry Thompson, DTCC’s general counsel, said
in an e-mailed statement. He said DTCC and other market
participants are considering their possible responses.  JPMorgan in a Jan. 11 letter to the CFTC said the CME
proposal is an anticompetitive arrangement between clearing and
data record-keeping. The proposal also will hurt the Dodd-Frank
Act goal of increasing swaps-market oversight, Alessandro Cocco,
a JPMorgan managing director, said in the letter.  “CME’s proposed rule would spread swap data across
numerous” databases, resulting in less transparency, he wrote.  Scott O’Malia , a Republican CFTC commissioner, abstained
from the vote because he said the agency’s underlying
regulations should be amended. “My preferred approach, an
approach that was not presented to the commission as an option
on which to vote, would have been to re-propose” the agency’s
regulations, he said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  