-- Cobham CEO Targets Civil Purchases as Defense Spending Fades
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-07T10:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/cobham-targets-1-2-billion-of-civil-purchases-as-defense-fades.html
Cobham Plc (COB)  Chief Executive Officer
Bob Murphy said the world’s largest maker of airborne refueling
kit has 800 million pounds ($1.2 billion) set aside for civil-
sector acquisitions to help offset declining military sales.  Revenue from commercial activities including the supply of
parts to Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  jetliners rose 7 percent last
year, while U.S. defense and security sales fell 8 percent as
the Pentagon cut spending, Wimborne, England-based Cobham said.  “We will continue to invest in carefully selected, value-
enhancing acquisitions,” Murphy told reporters. “You’ll continue
to see us shaping our portfolio more toward commercial.”  Cobham, which gets 40 percent of revenue from U.S. defense
activities, last year extended a cost-cutting plan while buying
satellite-equipment supplier Thrane & Thrane to tap new markets
and boost access to  China , where military sales are barred by an
arms embargo. The Pentagon is slowing spending after the White
House and Congress failed to agree a formal budget for the year.  Murphy said high valuations for aerospace assets mean
Cobham may seek deals in adjacent markets. The company currently
derives 34 percent of sales from civil markets.  “We think there are businesses that have good exposure to
growing markets that do not have the premium multiples we see in
commercial aerospace,” he said, adding that Cobham may return
cash to shareholders should it fail to secure acquisitions.  Growth Markets  Sales this year are expected to decline in a low-to-mid
single digit range after the order intake fell 16 percent in
2012, the company said in a statement. Orders in the U.S. will
continue to slide next year, Murphy said.  Cobham sees growth potential in markets including  India ,
where it is part of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.’s
bid to supply A330-based  air force  refueling planes, and  Brazil ,
where it’s supplier on Embraer SA’s KC-390 transport aircraft.  Business in  Europe , like the U.S., is expected to be flat
or declining, Murphy said.  Cobham was trading 2.9 percent higher at 235.80 pence as of
10:47 a.m. in London. The stock has gained 6.8 percent this
year, valuing the company at 2.54 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  