-- Colombia Yields Plunge on Fitch Outlook, Rate View; Peso Gains
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-03-07T15:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/colombia-yields-plunge-on-fitch-outlook-rate-view-peso-gains.html
Yields on Colombia’s peso bonds fell
the most in seven weeks a day after Fitch Ratings said it may
raise the country’s foreign debt rating and on speculation the
central bank will further reduce borrowing costs.  Yields on bonds maturing in 2024 dropped seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to a record low 4.86 percent
at 10:44 a.m. in Bogota,  according to the central bank. The
decline was the biggest on a closing basis since Jan. 16. The
price rose 0.793 centavo to 144.133 centavos per peso.  Fitch raised its outlook yesterday on the Andean nation’s
foreign debt rating to positive from stable on rising
international reserves and dropping debt levels. Colombia has
entered a “sustainable low inflation phase” that allows policy
makers to concentrate on spurring economic growth, Finance
Minister Mauricio Cardenas said in a March 5 phone interview.
Annual inflation decelerated in February to 1.83 percent, the
slowest since 1955, the government reported that day.  “The Fitch announcement is injecting optimism in the
market at a time when there is concern about slowing growth,”
Daniel Velandia, the head analyst at brokerage Correval SA, said
in a phone interview from Bogota. “Inflation is also a big
driver as it changes the view of those who weren’t expecting any
more rate cuts.”  Velandia said he changed his forecast after the inflation
report and now expects a 25 basis point reduction to 3.5 percent
at Banco de la Republica’s March 22 meeting. The central bank
has lowered its policy  rate  six times beginning in July to 3.75
percent, the lowest level among major Latin American economies.  Fitch rates Colombia BBB-, the lowest investment-grade
level. The announcement came after the close of the market.
Standard & Poor’s raised its outlook on Colombia’s BBB- rating
to positive in August.  The peso appreciated 0.2 percent to 1,804.23 per U.S.
dollar today, paring its drop this year to 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  