-- Commercial Paper Market Contracts Most in Two Years, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2013-03-07T16:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/commercial-paper-market-contracts-most-in-two-years-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  commercial paper  contracted by the most in more than two
years as U.S. money-market funds reduce purchases of the short-
term IOUs.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
plunged $42.5 billion to $1.02 trillion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the sixth decrease in seven weeks, the Federal
Reserve said today on its website. The decline was the biggest
since the week ended Dec. 1, 2010 when the market fell $44.3
billion, and the lowest level outstanding since Nov. 21.  Demand from money-market funds, among the biggest buyers of
commercial paper, has declined this year, while companies have
been able to issue longer-term debt in the corporate-bond market
at about record-low borrowing costs. Total assets in the funds
have  decreased  to $2.663 trillion in the week ended Feb. 27 from
$2.716 trillion for the period ended Jan. 9, according to the
 Investment Company Institute .  “The largest factor has been a decline in money-market
funds,”  Howard Simons , strategist at Bianco Research LLC in
Chicago, wrote in an e-mail. “Second, the continued compression
in credit spreads has encouraged borrowers to lock in funding in
the bond market.”  Commercial paper sold by non-U.S. financial institutions 
dropped $13.7 billion to $205.2 billion outstanding, the lowest
level since the week ended Nov. 21, while the  amount issued by
U.S.-based banks  fell $9.4 billion to $308 billion, the least
since the period ended Dec. 19, according to the Fed.  “U.S. commercial banks have substantially reduced their
reliance on short-term financing,” Barclays Plc analysts led by
 Joseph Abate  wrote in a report today. “They have replaced CP
and large time deposits with proportionally more retail deposit
funding, which is seen as more stable and less flight-prone.”  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  