-- Consumer Borrowing in U.S. Rises by Most in Five Months
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-03-07T20:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/consumer-borrowing-in-u-s-rises-by-most-in-five-months-1-.html
Consumer credit  in the U.S. rose in
January by the most in five months as Americans took out loans
for auto purchases and tuitions.  The $16.2 billion increase followed a revised $15.1 billion
advance in December that was larger than initially reported, the
 Federal Reserve  said today in  Washington . The median  forecast  of
27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a $14.7 billion
gain in January.  Non-revolving debt , which includes financing
for auto purchases and college, climbed $16 billion.  Employment gains, rising stock prices and stable home
values may be making households more willing to borrow, helping
sustain the  consumer spending  that accounts for about 70 percent
of the economy. Cheaper financing is underpinning purchases of
big-ticket items like motor vehicles.  “There’s been some repair to household balance sheets in
the last few years,” Terry Sheehan, an economist at Stone &
McCarthy Research Associates in Skillman,  New Jersey , said
before the report. The firm is the second-most accurate consumer
credit forecaster over the past two years. “Consumers certainly
have a little more leeway in their borrowing, and with greater
employment prospects we have certainly seen a greater ability to
borrow.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for consumer credit
ranged from gains of $10 billion to $20 billion after a
previously reported $14.6 billion advance in December.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed to another record
after a report today showed jobless claims dropped to a six-week
low. The Dow rose 0.3 percent to 14,331.52 at 3:08 p.m. in  New
York .  Jobless Claims  First-time jobless claims unexpectedly fell by 7,000 to
340,000 in the week ended March 2, according to data from the
Labor Department in Washington. The median forecast of 50
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an increase to
355,000. The four-week average dropped to a five-year low.  The Fed’s report on borrowing doesn’t track debt secured by
real estate, such as home mortgages and home equity lines of
credit.  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, rose by $106
million after a $3.2 billion decrease in December.  The January increase in non-revolving credit followed an
$18.3 billion gain in the prior month that was the biggest since
November 2001, when automakers lured buyers back to showrooms
with zero-percent financing after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.  School Loans  Lending by the federal government, which is mainly for
educational loans, rose $25.9 billion in January before seasonal
adjustment, today’s report showed.  The gain in non-revolving borrowing also reflects the
recent strength in  motor vehicle sales . Cars and light trucks
sold at a 15.2 million annual rate in January after 15.3 million
a month earlier, according to Ward’s Automotive Group. November
through February marked the strongest four months for the  auto
industry  in five years.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  had its best February sales in six years,
with deliveries up 9.3 percent, while  General Motors Co. (GM)  posted
a 7.2 percent increase.  “The recovery in  home prices  is building customer
confidence, credit is available and affordable, and consumers
appear to be taking higher payroll taxes in stride, at least
when it comes to replacing older vehicles,” said Kurt McNeil,
vice president for U.S. sales and service at GM, during a March
1 sales and revenue call.  Aging Autos  The average age of cars and light trucks has reached a
record high, according to data compiled by Polk, an auto
industry information provider, which may be prompting consumers
to replace their vehicles.  Sustained job growth may be boosting Americans’ willingness
to borrow and spend. The economy created 157,000 jobs in January
and may have added another 165,000 jobs in February, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The Labor
Department will release the figures tomorrow.  Another report today showed household wealth in the U.S.
climbed in the fourth quarter, propelled by a gain in home
prices that is helping repair family finances.  Net worth for households and non-profit groups increased by
$1.17 trillion from October through December, or 1.8 percent
from the previous three months, to $66.1 trillion, the Federal
Reserve said today from Washington in its flow of funds report.  Household wealth is approaching its pre-recession level,
helping to limit the impact from higher fuel costs and payroll
taxes. The average price of a gallon of  gasoline  was $3.72
yesterday compared with a recent low of $3.22 on Dec. 19,
according to AAA, the largest U.S. motoring group.  At the start of the year, Congress and President  Barack
Obama  allowed the  payroll tax  that funds  Social Security  to
revert to its 2010 level of 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  