-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Improves to Highest Level This Year
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-03-07T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-improves-to-highest-level-this-year.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
for a fifth week, reaching the highest level this year as
improving stock and home prices gave households a lift.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index improved to minus 32.4
in the week ended March 3 from minus 32.8 in the prior period.
The share of Americans with a positive view of the U.S. economy
held at its highest level since early 2008 and more people said
it was a good time to buy needed goods and services.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied to an all-time
high this week and residential real-estate  values  in 2012
climbed by the most in six years, giving a boost to household
wealth that may help sustain spending. An improving job market
will also be critical to supporting confidence as the highest
gasoline prices in four months and a bigger payroll tax hurt
disposable income.  “The rise in equity prices continues to bolster  consumer
confidence  despite a number of economic headwinds,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “The
risk going forward is the lagged impact on confidence and
spending due to tax hikes, which will disproportionately burden
lower-income groups.”  Another report today showed the number of Americans who
filed for  unemployment benefits  declined to a six-week low,
pointing to further improvement in the labor market.  Fewer Claims  First-time jobless claims unexpectedly fell by 7,000 to
340,000 in the week ended March 2, the lowest since mid January,
according to data from the Labor Department in Washington. The
 median  forecast of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an increase to 355,000. The four-week average dropped to a
five-year low.  A Labor Department report tomorrow will show employment
climbed by another 163,000 workers in February, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Figures
from the Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute
yesterday pointed to a 198,000 gain in private employment, which
excludes government agencies.  Stocks rose on the improving employment picture. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.1 percent to 1,543.56 at
9:40 a.m. in New York. The Dow closed yesterday at a record
14,296.2.  The Bloomberg gauge assessing Americans’ views on the
current  state of the economy  was little changed at minus 57
after rising to minus 56.9 in the prior period, which was its
highest level since March 2008. Twenty-two percent had a
positive view of the economy, matching readings last week and in
November that were highest since March 2008.  Spending Outlook  The  buying-climate  index improved to minus 40, the highest
this year, from minus 41.3 the prior week. Thirty percent said
it was a good time to buy things that they want or need, the
highest level since December.  The comfort index’s measure of  personal finances  was little
changed at minus 0.2 compared with minus 0.1 in the prior
period.  Improved attitudes on the economy may reflect a rebound in
the housing market. A pickup in demand is driving prices higher,
and the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S.
cities increased 6.8 percent in December from the same month in
2011, the biggest year-to-year gain since July 2006.  Job prospects may also be brightening consumers’ moods.
Employers hired a net 157,000 workers last month following
revised gains of 196,000 and 247,000 in December and November
that were bigger than initially estimated, Labor Department
figures show.  Payroll Tax  Even as improvements in the labor market help consumers,
the payroll tax that funds Social Security reverted to its 2010
level of 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent as of January. An American
who earns $50,000 is taking home about $83 less a month as a
result.  Higher fuel costs may also be thwarting bigger gains in
spending.  The price  of a gallon of regular gasoline has climbed
above $3.70 a gallon after hitting a low of $3.22 on Dec. 19,
according to figures from AAA, the largest U.S. motoring group.  As consumers pocket less disposable income, they could
decrease their spending on products like Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV’s beers, which include the Budweiser and Stella Artois
brands.  “We do expect U.S. volumes to be impacted in the first
quarter due to short-term pressure on consumer disposable income
from higher payroll taxes,  delayed tax refunds, and gas
prices,” Carlos Alves de Brito, chief executive officer of the
world’s biggest brewer, said in a Feb. 27 conference call.  “What we’re saying is that we’ll see some softness in the
first quarter.”  Lowest Earners  Still, today’s report showed confidence among Americans who
earn the least is at its highest in about five years. The
sentiment gauge for households with incomes less than $15,000
improved to minus 41.6, the highest level since December 2007,
from minus 46.9 in the prior period.  The measure for households who earn more than $100,000
slipped to 1.6 from 2.4. It has held above zero for five
straight weeks.  Single Americans are more positive about the economy than
they’ve been in almost five years after a seven-point gain this
week, and confidence among young adults remains near last week’s
seven-month high.  Women’s comfort is at its highest level in 11 months.  Geographically, the index climbed to its highest level
since May 2009 among Americans in the West.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate. The percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  If you’d like to receive a copy of the comfort results on a
weekly basis, please contact  BloombergNewsPR@bloomberg.com   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  