-- Continental Maintains 2013 Forecast Even as Demand Drops
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-03-07T11:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/continental-forecasts-first-quarter-sales-drop-as-demand-falls.html
Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-
largest maker of auto parts, stuck with its 2013 forecasts even
as the region’s auto market declines in the first quarter more
than industry executives had anticipated.  The manufacturer today reiterated targets to increase sales
this year 5 percent and post adjusted earnings before interest
and taxes above 10 percent of revenue. The shares rose as much
as 5 percent to their highest in more than five years.  Continental, also the region’s second-largest tiremaker,
has partly avoided the effects of Europe’s recession by
following  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Daimler
AG (DAI)  into growing markets such as  China  and the U.S. A focus on
high-value parts such as fuel-injection technology, safety
sensors and emergency braking systems has also won high-end
customers willing to pay more for the products.  “Continental offers products in the areas of safety and
emission reduction, which are exactly the areas carmakers need
to invest in as they are compelled by regulations,” said Sascha Gommel, a Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG analyst. “There’s
practically an oligopoly in electronic braking systems, for
example, as there are only a few suppliers in this high margin
business.”  The shares  surged  as much as 4.72 euros to 98.61 euros,
their highest level since Nov. 9, 2007, and were up 3.8 percent
as of 12:22 p.m. in  Frankfurt  trading. The stock has increased
11 percent this year, valuing the Hanover, Germany-based company
at 19.5 billion euros ($25.4 billion).  Acquisition Opportunities  Continental is looking for acquisitions, with a focus on
opportunities outside Europe to expand the non-automotive
segment of the company’s business, Chief Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart told reporters today in Frankfurt. Purchases could be
in the range of about 1 billion euros, he said.  Automakers said this week at the Geneva auto show that
European demand in January and February dropped more than they
first anticipated, with the market set to decline across the
region for a sixth straight year. Sales in January plunged to
the lowest level on record for that month, according to industry
group ACEA.  Continental forecast first-quarter revenue will decline 1
percent to 3 percent as auto production drops 12 percent in
 Europe . The slowdown has led the manufacturer to cut production
temporarily for a limited number of employees at four German
sites, the CEO said.  First-Quarter Drop  “This year, the downturn in the first quarter cannot be
offset by growth in other regions,” he said. “For the
remainder of the year, we expect a pick up in consolidated
sales, particularly in the latter half of 2013.”  Full-year adjusted  earnings  before interest and taxes
increased 16 percent to 3.52 billion euros, with the fourth-
quarter figure rising 5.9 percent to 861 million euros, the
company said. Sales in 2012 rose 7.3 percent to 32.7 billion
euros, Continental reported key preliminary earnings for 2012 on
Jan. 14.  Continental proposed a record dividend for 2012 of 2.25
euros per share, up from 1.50 euros a year earlier. This equals
a payout ratio relative to the net income attributable to the
shareholders of 24 percent, Degenhart said.  The manufacturer is still working on reducing debt stemming
from 13.5 billion-euro loan for the 2007 purchase of  Siemens
AG (SIE) ’s VDO car-electronics unit. Net debt declined almost 1.5
billion euros to 5.3 billion euros at the end of 2012, with the
German company aiming to decrease debt further this year.  Refinancing  Continental refinanced debt in January through a
syndicated-loan agreement with about 30 German and international
banks. The new loan totals 4.5 billion euros and replaced a loan
that was due to mature in April 2014.  Continental may start in July to repurchase one or more of
the bonds maturing in 2015 or later, Chief Financial Officer
Wolfgang Schaefer said. The decision depends on the costs and
interest structure at the time. Continental has 750 million
euros in bonds maturing in 2015 and 625 million euros in 2016.  Continental had no significant currency impact between the
 U.S. dollar  and the euro last year as the company is naturally
hedged, Schaefer said at the press conference. Continental’s
purchases in dollars, such as raw materials and electronic
parts, are more or less equal to sales earned in the currency.
The burden from buying electronic parts in yen has eased this
year compared to last, the CFO said.  The company’s biggest shareholder is family-owned
industrial-bearing maker Schaeffler AG, with a 49.9 percent
stake resulting from a failed hostile takeover in 2008.  “We are working very constructively and successful with
Schaeffler,” Degenhart said today. Continental and
Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Schaeffler cooperate on about 30
projects, he said. “We treasure the benefits of having a major
shareholder that pursues strategic interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  