-- Croatia Solves Banking Row With Slovenia, Clears Way to EU Entry
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-03-07T08:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/croatia-solves-banking-row-with-slovenia-clears-way-to-eu-entry.html
Croatia and  Slovenia  solved a
banking dispute stemming from the breakup of Yugoslavia,
clearing the way for Slovenia to ratify its neighbor’s European
Union entry planned for July.  The countries agreed to approach the  Bank for International
Settlements  for a final settlement in a dispute stemming from
the breakup of the Yugoslav-era predecessor of Slovenia’s Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d.. Meantime, Croatia will suspend lawsuits
from Croatian savers who lost deposits, according to
announcement in Zagreb today. Croatian Premier Zoran Milanovic
and Slovenian counterpart Janez Jansa are expected to sign the
agreement on March 11.  The plan clears the way for Slovenia to ratify its
neighbor’s accession to the EU in July. The two former Yugoslav
republics have been haggling for years over 270 million euros
($351 million) that  Croatia  wants Slovenia to pay in
compensation for the lost deposits. Slovenia, an EU member that
controls NLB, has threatened to veto Croatia’s accession if the
claims are not withdrawn.  “The republic of Croatia will ensure the stay of all
judicial proceedings,” according to a copy of the agreement
obtained by Bloomberg before the announcement.  Of the 27 EU members, Slovenia is the only yet to start
ratification. Twenty-two states have done so, Germany, Denmark,
Belgium and the Netherlands have started the process..  Slovenia is struggling with a political crisis as it
battles recession and the threat of becoming the sixth euro
member to need a bailout. Parliament on Feb. 27 voted to replace
Jansa with Alenka Bratusek, the leader of Positive Slovenija,
who has to form a new government and have it approved by
lawmakers by mid-March.  The two nations asked the Basel-based BIS once before to
mediate in the conflict. The bank in 2010 rejected a
arbitrator’s role, saying it could not bring any added value to
negotiations.  The agreement also paves the way for NLB, Slovenia’s
largest bank, to start operating in Croatia, after being banned
over the issue.  Another 130,000 Croat savers, who after the breakup of
former  Yugoslavia  chose not to transfer their claims to the
Croatian government, are separately seeking about $204 million
from the Ljubljana-based bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  