-- Cyprus Holds Constructive Talks With Bailout Troika, Sarris Says
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-03-07T17:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/cyprus-holds-constructive-talks-with-bailout-troika-sarris-says.html
The Cypriot government held
constructive talks with international creditors today and is
working to reach a bailout agreement as soon as possible,
Finance Minister Michael Sarris said.  “We are seeking ways to cut spending and raise revenue to
ensure the sustainability of our debt,” Sarris told reporters
in Nicosia after attending a meeting with President Nicos Anastasiades and officials from the European Commission,
 European Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund , the so-
called troika that oversees euro-area bailouts.  Cyprus’s new government, voted in on Feb. 24, has revived
talks on a bailout that could equal the size of its 18 billion-
euro ($23.6 billion) economy. Cyprus became the fifth euro-area
country to seek financial assistance after its banks suffered
losses of 4.5 billion euros in  Greece ’s sovereign debt
restructuring.  Topics broached today included options that have come up in
public discussions on how to ensure Cyprus’s debt
sustainability, including state asset sales and the possibility
of raising the corporate  tax rate  to 12.5 percent from 10
percent, a Cypriot official said on condition of anonymity
because the talks are in progress. Asset sales would be carried
out in the next couple of years, the official said.  Sarris renewed Cyprus’s opposition to imposing losses on
depositors in the country’s banks.  ‘Huge Dangers’  “I personally believe and most of them know that such a
move -- even discussing a haircut, something that hasn’t
happened anywhere -- carries huge dangers,” he said. “Here in
Cyprus we have paid a high price already just because there’s
talk about this issue.”  The euro area has so far refused to exclude the possibility
of imposing losses on bank-account holders in Cyprus as a way to
prevent its debt from becoming unsustainable following a rescue.
This element isn’t part of existing aid packages for Greece,
Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain .  Revenue from investments in the  energy industry  can help
the economy, Sarris said. There will be no further wage or
pensions cuts and selling any stake in the Cyprus Electricity
Authority is off the table, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  