-- D.E. Shaw & Co. Hires Tudor’s Ubide, New York Fed’s Sack
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-03-07T15:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/d-e-shaw-co-hires-tudor-s-ubide-new-york-fed-s-sack.html
D.E. Shaw & Co., the $28 billion
multistrategy hedge fund, hired Angel Ubide from Tudor
Investment Corp. and Brian Sack from the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York as global economics directors.  Ubide, 45, and Sack, 42, will serve as senior vice
presidents and co-directors of global economics in the New York-
based firm’s discretionary  macro  investing unit, D.E. Shaw said
in a statement posted on the firm’s website. The unit is
overseen by Max Stone, a managing director and member of the
firm’s five-person executive committee.  “Our macro team casts a wide net in terms of asset class
and geography,” Stone said in the statement. “Having these two
talented individuals’ insights strengthens our capabilities in
several dimensions as we source and analyze trades in global
markets.”  D.E. Shaw’s Oculus and Heliant funds, both macro
strategies, climbed 13 percent and 17 percent last year through
October, respectively, even as the industry on average struggled
to make money.  Macro funds , which are designed to profit from
global macroeconomic trends, posted industrywide losses in 2011
and 2012 as fund managers were blindsided by government
intervention in markets across the world.  Tudor Alumnus  Ubide was director of global economics at Tudor, Paul Tudor Jones’s $12.1 billion Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund,
where he worked for more than a decade, D.E. Shaw said in the
statement. Before joining Tudor, he was a staff economist at the
International Monetary Fund and an associate at McKinsey & Co.
Inc. Ubide is currently a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington . He will
split his time between D.E. Shaw’s Washington and New York
offices.  Sack was most recently an executive vice president at the
New York Fed, where he earlier served as head of its markets
group, the firm said. Prior to that, he was a vice president at
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, an economic modeling and forecasting
firm, and deputy director of its Monetary Policy Insights
service. He will split his time between D.E. Shaw’s  Boston  and
New York offices.  David Shaw, a former Columbia University computer science
professor, founded D.E. Shaw in 1988. The firm has 1,000
employees and offices in North America,  Europe  and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  