-- Dead Man Spurs Methadone Probe at Bain’s CRC Clinic in Baltimore
-- B y   S y d n e y   P .   F r e e d b e r g
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/dead-man-spurs-methadone-probe-at-bain-s-crc-clinic-in-baltimore.html
Maryland  state regulators are
investigating an addiction-treatment clinic owned by Bain
Capital Partners LLC after the methadone-related death of a
Baltimore man.  The probe is focused on the Pine Heights Treatment Center
in Baltimore, one of dozens of clinics operated by Bain’s CRC
Health Corp., the largest methadone-treatment provider in the
U.S. It was triggered by a complaint from the public, said Dori
Henry, a spokeswoman for the state Alcohol and Drug Abuse
Administration. She declined to comment on the investigation’s
details.  The complaint alleges that Warren Lumpkin, 34, a forklift
operator, died on Jan. 4 after ingesting methadone that was
given to him by a CRC patient, according to a copy obtained by
 Bloomberg News . An autopsy found that “methadone intoxication”
contributed to his death, records show.  Lumpkin’s ex-wife, Sabrina M. Lumpkin, who filed the
complaint, said in it that he wasn’t a patient at the CRC
clinic. He had a friend who was, and that friend gave half a
dose of methadone from the clinic to Lumpkin, according to the
complaint.  “I have contacted many city agencies to see why this had
been able to happen and why no one is responsible for his
death,” Sabrina Lumpkin wrote in the complaint. “So I am
hoping that you can help me or look into this matter in hope
that this does not happen to someone else’s loved one.”  Company’s Position  CRC declined to comment on Lumpkin’s death, citing patient
privacy rules, said Kristen Hayes, a spokeswoman for the
Cupertino, California-based company. She said the company is
committed to preventing “diversion” of methadone. CRC clinics
won’t send methadone home with any patient who’s suspected of
misusing it, she said.  “We support prosecution of individuals who illegally
traffic and redistribute their medication,” Hayes said in an e-
mail. Alex Stanton, a spokesman for Boston-based  Bain Capital ,
didn’t respond to a request for comment yesterday.  CRC operated 57 clinics in 15 states last year. In
methadone maintenance  treatment , which has been used for decades
to help addicts abate withdrawal symptoms from heroin or other
opiates, patients take a daily dose of the synthetic narcotic.
Initially, dosing takes place at a clinic, under a nurse’s
supervision. In time, patients qualify for carryout doses under
federal and state rules that normally require them to attend
counseling and test clean for illegal drugs.  Carryout Doses  Bloomberg News reported last month that investigators in
 Indiana ,  Kentucky , Virginia and  West Virginia  have linked
diverted methadone that turned up in illegal street sales or
deaths to carryout doses that CRC clinics distributed to
patients. Former CRC employees said in the article that their
caseloads were sometimes so high they didn’t have time to
provide adequate counseling or check on patients.  Philip Herschman, CRC’s chief clinical officer, called the
article “misleading and biased” and said it didn’t help
efforts to provide care to millions of Americans.  Take-home dosing is highly regulated and CRC meets rigid
rules in deciding which patients get carryout doses, Herschman
said. Safeguards include lockboxes and spot-checks, in which
patients are called back to clinics to account for their take-
home bottles, he said. Most methadone overdose deaths stem from
physicians’ prescribing the drug as a painkiller, not from its
use in addiction treatment, he said.  Calling Officials  In Baltimore, on the day after her ex-husband’s funeral,
Sabrina M. Lumpkin said she began calling public officials,
trying to figure out how he got the methadone that the state
medical examiner says contributed to his death.  She says she asked the state to investigate after
contacting CRC’s Pine Heights clinic.  “Somebody in your clinic is giving out their methadone,”
she said she told a clinic staffer. “They told me it was a
police matter and there’s nothing they could do.”  Lumpkin died at St. Agnes Hospital in Baltimore. His cause
of death was hardening of the arteries and methadone
intoxication, according to a death certificate signed by Ling
Li, the assistant medical examiner who conducted his autopsy. Li
left the manner of death -- be it accident, homicide, suicide or
natural causes -- as undetermined. An investigation by the state
medical examiner’s office is under way, she said.  At the hospital on Jan. 4, Lumpkin’s friend -- the CRC
patient -- told a doctor that she had given half her methadone
dose to Lumpkin the night before, according to Sabrina Lumpkin’s
complaint and to interviews with Lumpkin’s parents, Kathy and
James S. Lumpkin.  CRC operates three clinics in Maryland with almost 1,300
patients, about half of them on Medicaid, the public health
program for the poor, said Henry, the state spokeswoman.  Maryland’s drug-abuse agency regulates 60 methadone clinics
with about 20,000 patients. It’s rare for the agency to
investigate a clinic in response to a public complaint, Henry
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sydney P. Freedberg in Miami at 
 sfreedberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 