-- Delhaize Cuts Dividend, Sees ‘Moderate’ Margin Pressure in U.S.
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-03-07T09:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/delhaize-cuts-dividend-sees-moderate-margin-pressure-in-u-s-.html
Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the Belgian food
retailer that gets 64 percent of revenue from the U.S., lowered
its dividend for the first time in 10 years after saying U.S.
margins will continue to shrink this year because of price cuts.  Delhaize investors will see their  payout  reduced by 20
percent to 1.40 euros a share, which exceeds last year’s profit
of 1.04 euros a share and compares with 1.52 euros forecast by
Bloomberg research and analysis. A decline in the U.S operating
margin will “moderate” this year after shrinking 1.8
percentage points to 3.3 percent in the fourth quarter, the
Brussels-based company said in a presentation today.  “The split of EBIT and dividend is the news and both are
as disappointing as expected,” Andrew Gwynn, an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas in  London , wrote in an investor note. “The
guidance reads like a bit of warning to us.”  Delhaize’s U.S. operating margin will contract to 3.5
percent of revenue from 3.8 percent last year, according to the
average of 16 analyst estimates compiled by the company. They
had projected a U.S. margin of 3.6 percent in the fourth
quarter.  The grocer extended price cuts last year as it sought to
halt a slide in sales at the Food Lion supermarkets in the
southeastern U.S., fend off competitors such as ShopRite to its
Hannaford banner in the northeast and win back shoppers lost to
discounter Colruyt NV in its Belgian home market. Cost savings
and narrowing losses at Bottom Dollar Food and Sweetbay will
“partly” fund additional price cuts this year, Delhaize said
in a statement.  Debt Falls  Delhaize rose as much as 6.2 percent to 39 euros in
Brussels  trading , after earlier dropping as much as 4.5 percent.
The shares traded at 38.55 euros, or 4.9 percent higher, at 9:54
a.m. local time.  Net debt fell to 2.06 billion euros from 2.65 billion euros
a year earlier. Delhaize repeated its forecast for annual free
cash flow of an average of 500 million euros in the three years
through 2015.  The repositioning of an additional 180 Food Lion stores
will begin in the second quarter, Delhaize said. So far, about
62 percent of the 1,127 stores have been included in the brand
overhaul and permanent price cuts for dairy and frozen foods as
of late October helped to generate same-store sales growth in
those 703 supermarkets in the fourth quarter, Delhaize said on
Jan. 17.  Bottom Dollar Food, Delhaize’s discount store format in the
Philadelphia and Pittsburgh areas, won’t be profitable before
2015, Chief Financial Officer Pierre Bouchut said on a
conference call in January. The closure of 34 unprofitable
Sweetbay stores in February was ‘a first step to stop the
bleeding” pending a “more structural solution” for the
Florida banner, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  