-- Delhaize Gains as Lower Debt Eases Rating Threat: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-03-07T16:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/delhaize-gains-as-lower-debt-eases-rating-threat-brussels-mover.html
Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the Belgian food
retailer that gets 64 percent of revenue from the U.S., rose to
an 11-month high in Brussels as a decline in net debt eased
concern the company may lose its investment-grade credit  rating .  Delhaize climbed 1.61 euros, or 4.4 percent, to 38.35 euros
on Euronext Brussels, the highest closing price since April 3.
The shares have gained 27 percent so far this year, the  best
performance  in the Bloomberg Europe Food Retailers Index.  Lower inventories in the U.S. helped to cut net debt to
2.06 billion euros ($2.67 billion), or about 2.9 times earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization when
adjusting for leases, the Brussels-based company said today in a
statement. Delhaize also lowered its  dividend  for the first time
in 10 years and forecast capital spending will drop about 5.5
percent.  “The group is clearly focused on maintaining its financial
strength,”  Pascale Weber , an analyst at KBC Securities NV in
Brussels who recommends buying the shares, wrote in a note. “We
are comforted by the fact that the improving U.S. sales trends
continues in the first quarter.”  The top priority is to accelerate revenue growth while
maintaining discipline in spending and on costs, Chief Executive
Officer Pierre-Olivier Beckers told reporters in Brussels today.
Delhaize already said on Jan. 17 that it halted a slide in U.S.
same-store sales following price cuts and a brand overhaul
covering 62 percent of the 1,127 Food Lion stores so far and
which will be extended to an additional 180 stores as of May.
The grocer plans to open 200 new stores this year, in “a sign
of vitality,” Beckers said.  Cash Flow  The company reiterated its forecast for annual  free cash
flow  of an average of 500 million euros in the three years
through 2015.  While its  profit margin  in the U.S. will continue to shrink
this year because of additional price cuts, cost savings and
narrowing losses at the Bottom Dollar Food and Sweetbay banners
should help to contain the decline, Delhaize said today.  The closure of 34 unprofitable Sweetbay supermarkets in
 Florida  will boost U.S. earnings by about 20 million euros this
year and losses at Bottom Dollar Food, Delhaize’s discount
format in the Philadelphia and Pittsburgh areas, will
“progressively disappear” by 2015, Chief Financial Officer
Pierre Bouchut said on a conference call on Jan. 17.  ‘Not Unhappy’  Delhaize’s  U.S. operating margin  will contract to 3.5
percent this year from 3.8 percent last year and 4.8 percent in
2011, according to the average of 16 analyst estimates compiled
by the company. It was 3.3 percent in the fourth quarter.
Analysts also project the decline in Delhaize’s so-called
underlying operating profit will slow to about 3.7 percent after
a 17.5 percent drop in 2012.  “If we had seen anything that we are not comfortable with
in the consensus, we would have mentioned this,” Beckers told
analysts on a call today. “So you can conclude that we are not
unhappy with what we see.”  The Belgian grocer has a Baa3 long-term credit rating at
Moody’s Investors Service, the lowest investment grade, and an
equivalent BBB- at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. Both
ratings companies assigned a stable outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  