-- Senate Armed Services Leader Levin Won’t Seek Re-Election
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-03-08T16:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/democratic-u-s-senator-levin-of-michigan-won-t-seek-re-election.html
Senate Armed Services Committee
Chairman  Carl Levin  of Michigan said he won’t seek a seventh
term, becoming the fourth Senate Democrat to announce plans to
retire after 2014.  Levin, 78, said yesterday in a statement that he wants to
spend his last two years in Congress “without the distraction
of campaigning for re-election.” He said he will work to
improve military readiness and combat “the use of secret money
to fund political campaigns.”  The decision by Levin, re-elected in 2008 with 63 percent
of the vote, improves Republicans’ chances of picking up the
Senate seat, depending on who decides to run. President  Barack Obama  carried Michigan in November by 54 percent to Republican
nominee Mitt Romney’s 45 percent.  “‘An open seat is a better opportunity for Republicans
than facing Levin,” said  Nathan Gonzales , political editor for
the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in Washington. “But
we have to see who the nominees are. The burden of proof is on
the Republicans to make it a race.”  Spencer Abraham, who was defeated by Democratic Senator
Debbie Stabenow after serving one term, is the last Republican
to represent Michigan in the Senate. He was elected in 1994.  “Republicans are going to have to find a quality
candidate” to win in Michigan, Gonzales said.  Levin’s announcement prompted the Cook Political Report,
also based in Washington, to change its rating for the Michigan
Senate race from “solid Democratic” to “lean Democratic.”  ‘In Play’  Levin’s retirement “puts Michigan in play,” Cook senior
editor  Jennifer Duffy  said in an e-mail.  Duffy said possible candidates include Democratic U.S.
Representatives  Gary Peters  and Dan Kildee and Detroit
businesswoman Denise Ilitch. Possible Republican candidates are
U.S. Representatives Justin Amash, Candice Miller and Mike Rogers, and state Attorney General Bill Schuette.  Democrats may try to persuade former Governor Jennifer Granholm to run, though she may not be “the strongest candidate
they have,” Duffy said.  Abraham was the only Michigan Republican elected to the
Senate since 1972, when Robert Griffin won a second term. Six
years later Levin defeated Griffin.  “Their track record isn’t too good, and they don’t have
any obvious candidates right now,” said  Bill Ballenger , editor
of Inside Michigan Politics. Still, he said Republicans “do a
lot better” in an election when the presidency isn’t at stake,
and 2014 will be such a year.  Lautenberg, Rockefeller  Besides Levin, Democratic senators  Frank Lautenberg  of New
Jersey,  Jay Rockefeller  of West Virginia and  Tom Harkin  of Iowa
have said they won’t run again. Democrats control 55 votes in
the 100-seat Senate.  Two Republicans in the Senate, Mike Johanns of Nebraska and
 Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia, have announced they won’t seek re-
election in 2014.  Democrats will have 21 seats up for re-election in the
Senate next year, compared with 14 for Republicans. Last year,
Democrats picked up two Senate seats, although they were
defending 23 compared with 10 for the Republicans.  Obama praised Levin in a statement yesterday that said,
“If you’ve ever worn the uniform, worked a shift on an assembly
line, or sacrificed to make ends meet, then you’ve had a voice
and a vote in Senator Carl Levin.”  Republican Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, a member of the
armed-services panel, in a statement praised Levin’s “steady
and principled leadership” for keeping the panel a “haven of
comity and bipartisanship in an increasingly polarized
Washington.”  Democrats’ Recruiting  Colorado Senator Michael Bennet, chairman of the Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee, said in an e-mailed statement
that he was confident Democrats “will recruit a great
Democratic leader who will continue to fight for the values and
priorities Senator Levin advocated for all these years.”  “We fully expect to keep Michigan blue in November 2014,”
Bennet said.  Brad Dayspring , a spokesman for the Senate Republican
campaign effort, said in an e-mail that Levin’s retirement
“offers us a real pickup opportunity.”  Levin is Michigan’s longest-serving senator and the younger
brother of Representative  Sander Levin , 81, the top Democrat on
the House Ways and Means Committee.  Tougher Enforcement  The senator, chairman of the Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations, said he would use the panel to prod the  Internal
Revenue Service  into tougher enforcement of rules governing
nonprofits that engage in political activity. Some political
groups have organized as social welfare organizations, allowing
them to spend money on campaigns without disclosing donors.  He said he wants to end “egregious tax loopholes” that
increase the  budget deficit  by hundreds of billions of dollars
and “add to the tax burden of ordinary Americans who have to
pick up the slack.”  He led an investigation that reported in 2005 that former
Chilean dictator  Augusto Pinochet  and his family stashed as much
as $15 million in hidden accounts at Citigroup Inc. and the
former Washington-based Riggs Bank.  Levin was among 23 senators who opposed the 2002 resolution
that authorized President  George W. Bush  to invade Iraq to oust
 Saddam Hussein . Levin maintained that Bush had failed to build
an international coalition to share the military burden.  Troop Withdrawals  As the  Iraq war  became unpopular he pushed for troop
withdrawals, saying military stability could be achieved only by
a political settlement among the Kurd, Sunni and Shiite
factions.  Now, Levin supports Obama’s goal of completing the
withdrawal of U.S. forces from Afghanistan.  “I also believe we need to pursue the rapid transfer of
responsibility for Afghan security to the Afghans,” Levin said
in yesterday’s statement. “As our troops come home, we must do
a better job of caring for those who bear both the visible and
invisible wounds of war.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  