-- Market Record Shows How to Get to Dow 36,000
-- B y   J a m e s   K .   G l a s s m a n
-- 2013-03-07T16:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/dow-36-000-is-attainable-again.html
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  set
a record this week, but it’s still far from the mark that
economist  Kevin Hassett  and I forecast in our 1999 book, “Dow
36,000.”  We wrote in the  introduction  that “it is impossible to
predict how long it will take” to get to 36,000. Then, in the
same paragraph, we rashly made a guess anyway: “between three
and five years.”  Today, the far edge of that time frame is clearly in reach.
From its low of 6,547 on March 9, 2009, the Dow has  risen  117
percent. Another 117 percent in four years would put it at
31,022, just 16 percentage points shy of the magic number.  When we wrote our book, we expected that the stock market,
as represented by the 30 blue chips of  the Dow , would rise to
36,000 for two reasons.  First, investors had mistakenly judged the risk in stocks
to be greater than it really was. Here, we drew from the work of
 Jeremy Siegel  of the Wharton School of the  University of
Pennsylvania . He showed that, over long periods, stocks were no
more volatile, or risky, than bonds.  We saw indications that the risk aversion of investors was
declining -- as we believed it should. Lower perceived risk
would mean higher stock valuation measures: rising price-to-
earnings ratios, for instance.  Second, we assumed that real U.S. gross domestic product,
the main driver of corporate profit growth, would rise at 2.5
percent a year -- a bit below the historic post-World War II
rate, but still a decent clip. We warned, however, that small
changes in growth rates could have big effects on stock prices.  After 1999  What’s happened  since 1999 ?  First, investors have become more frightened of stocks, not
less -- as reflected in a higher equity risk premium, the excess
return that investors demand from stocks over bonds.  These fears may be perfectly reasonable. We wrote our book
before the Sept. 11 attacks, the dot-com debacle, the 38 percent
decline in stocks in 2008, the “flash crash” of 2010 that sent
the Dow down 1,000 points in minutes, the Japanese tsunami and
the euro crisis. There’s a good case to be made that, because of
the instant interconnections wrought by new technology,
unprecedented “black swan” events are increasing and  markets 
are becoming more volatile as a result.  The heightened fears of investors are reflected in lower
valuations. Currently, for example, the forward P/E ratio (based
on estimated earnings for the next 12 months) of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index is about 14. In other words, the earnings yield
for a stock investment averages 7 percent (1/14), but the yield
on a 10-year Treasury bond is only 1.9 percent -- a huge gap.
Judging from history, you would have to conclude that bonds are
vastly overpriced, that stocks are exceptionally cheap or that
investors are scared to death for a good reason. Maybe all
three.  One way stocks could jump to 36,000 quickly would be for
fears to subside and P/E ratios to rise. Assume that earnings
yields fall to 5 percent. That would mean P/E ratios would go to
20, a boost of 50 percent in stock prices, assuming constant
earnings.  The second thing that’s been unexpected since our book came
out is that U.S. growth has drastically slowed. Instead of the
historic rate of 3 percent, or our projected rate of 2.5
percent, actual annual real GDP increases from the end of 1999
to the end of 2012 averaged just 1.8 percent. Inflation was
lower than normal, too, so the nominal rate of growth was only
about 4 percent, instead of about 6 percent.  Growth Matters  If you knock two percentage points off nominal growth a
year -- and assume that this lower growth continues -- then the
value of a business, which is determined by the present value of
all the profits it will ever earn, will be dramatically
depressed.  Let’s set investor fears aside for a moment. For investment
gains over the long term, there is absolutely no substitute for
faster  economic growth .  To get it, we need policy changes that will create a better
environment for businesses to increase revenue, profits and
jobs: a rational tax system that keeps rates low and eliminates
special deductions and credits; immigration laws that encourage
the best and the brightest to move here and stay; entitlement
reform to bring down costs and provide incentives for productive
seniors to keep working; sensible environmental, workplace and
financial regulation that allows entrepreneurship to thrive; a
K-12 education system that boosts student achievement and holds
teachers, administrators and politicians accountable …  Chime in and make your own list, because it’s time to focus
on what counts in an economy: growth. Even with relatively high
 risk aversion  (let’s say, what we have now), faster growth would
significantly increase stock prices.  How fast can the U.S. grow? Four percent is attainable, but
I’d settle for 3 percent. Get there quickly, and we’ll get to
Dow 36,000 quickly, too.  (James K. Glassman is executive director of the George W.
Bush Institute. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
James K. Glassman at  jglassman@bushcenter.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 