-- Draghi Says ECB Sees ‘Downside Risks’ on Economic Growth
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-03-07T14:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/draghi-says-ecb-sees-downside-risks-on-economic-growth.html
 European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi comments comments on inflation and the economic
outlook for the euro-area.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Frankfurt
today after policy makers kept  interest rates  unchanged at a
record low of 0.75 percent.  On rate cuts:  “We always think and study and reflect, but we are not
committing to or planning anything special. Yes, we have
discussed the possibility. We wouldn’t precommit to anything as
specific as a rate cut in the future.”  On possibility of a deposit rate cut:  “ We have looked at that. We don’t commit to do anything.
The unintended consequences of a measure like that can be
serious as it has been shown in other monetary jurisdictions by
similar experiences. So, all in all, I think in the past I’ve
used the word unchartered waters if we are to get to that
mode.”  On exchange rates:  “The exchange rate is not a policy target for us. The
nominal and real exchange rates are by and large continue to be
near their long term averages. The exchange rate is very
important for growth and price stability. We stick with the G20
consensus.”  “We will continue to look at that as part of our overall
assessment of the current situation.”  On Italy:  “Markets after some excitement after the elections have
now reverted back more or less to where they were before. I
think markets understand that we live in democracies. All in
all, right now markets were less impressed than politicians and
you.”  “Much of the fiscal adjustment Italy went through will
continue going on an automatic pilot. All this happens in a
general environment where we have many signs that confidence to
financial markets of euro area is returning.”  “When I spoke about positive contagion I didn’t mean
contagion from financial markets to the real economy -- this is
obviously still lagging. If we look at contagion, you’ve seen
the contagion to other countries has been muted this time.”  “You know the rules: the ball is in the government’s
hands.”  “OMT remains, it is a very effective back stop and it is
there. But as I said, the ball is in the government’s hand”  “I can tell you that Italy, like all countries, should
continue on the structural reform path.”  On trade agreement:  “We don’t discuss trade but the culture of the governing
council of the ECB is one to say a free trade area would be a
source of job and growth creation. Some v good work is being
done there by others.”  “Unemployment is a tragedy and youth unemployment is an
even bigger tragedy.  ‘‘It has to do with labor legislation on these countries.
Labor legislations in these countries has put all the weight of
flexibility on the young people.’’  ‘‘Price stability in the best way to support the real
economy and jobs. We view maintaining price stab in both
directions as the best way to support the real economy and job
creation and growth.’’  ‘‘Our monetary policy will remain accommodative for as long
as needed and we will stay in full allotment mode.’’  On lack of funding:  ‘‘We have addressed this squarely and have resolved it.’’  On  risk aversion :  ‘‘It is quite clear that with a deteriorating economy the
non- performing loans increase and risk aversion goes up. We are
thinking 360 degrees and we will continue reflecting. Any sign
of overcoming this fragmentation through higher cross country
credit flows is a good sign. The system is fragmented so any
sign of overcoming this fragmentation by higher cross country
flows is a good sign.’’  On Ireland:  ‘‘The Irish government has undertaken very significant
progress, very significant results on several fronts and I never
tire of saying so.’’  ‘‘Further action is needed, especially on the banking side,
on the banking front.’’  On Cyprus:  ‘‘There is good progress. We have to keep in mind the
solution has to reflect two equally important dimensions: One is
debt sustainability and the other is financial stability. Cyprus
is a small economy, but the systemic risks may not be small. At
the same time, our union is not a transfer union. It’s very
important that the Cyprus government takes this opportunity to
revisit anti-money laundering legislation.’’  Dutch bank nationalization:  ‘‘The goal of this was to ensure the stability of the Dutch
banking system.’’  On troika  ‘‘I call this the angst of the week. Each week or every two
weeks we have a new angst. My suggestion to you is if you get
gossip just come over and check with us. The troika functions
very well. Neither the ECB nor the commission were born with
troika.’’  ‘‘The troika set up to cope with an emergency. The ECB
works very, very well with the IMF and the Commission. In all
frankness we haven’t taken any decision under political pressure
of any kind.’’  ‘‘Our alleged lower political independence is going to be
another angst.’’  On SSM:  ‘‘It’s going on. I don’t see any news or any reason to be
worried about the progress our legislators are undertaking. We
are moving forward, I don’t see much of an issue there.”  “Many people tend to underestimate the amount of political
capital that European leaders have invested in the euro.
Fragmentation is not worsening it’s actually improving it’s
receding. Data about the spreads of the lending rates, the
dispersion in the lending rates, the dispersion in the funding
rates.”  “If you compare the last 6 months they are all on the
decrease. The dispersion is now lower as it was in the first six
months of last year. We see signs that it’s improving. You have
to assess these improvements against the background of a very
weak economy, of course. These improvements are bound to be
gradual, slow but they are there.”  On monetary policy:  “Fragmentation has been for quite a while, although it is
receding, an obstacle to our monetary policy. You should
remember that the fragmentation started with the sovereign debt
crisis that later propagated to the banking sector.”  “You know the rules of OMT, OMT cannot be used to enhance
the return to the market.”  On inflation:  “The underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be
subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area remain firmly
anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates
below, but close to, 2 percent.”  “The ongoing decline in annual inflation rate mainly
reflect the energy and food components. Inflation expectations
are well anchored and in line with price stability over the
medium term.”  “The governing council’s assessment risks to the outlook
for price development continue to be seen as broadly balanced
over medium term.”  “The economic analysis indicates that price developments
should remain in line with price stability over the medium term.
A cross-check with the signals from the monetary analysis
confirms this picture.”  “So far we see the inflation expectations are firmly
anchored.”  “We don’t observe much of a change in the price of
insuring against either inflation or deflation.”  “It’s not a very liquid market so we have to take these
observations with some caution. If we mean by deflation a
generalized falling prices across sectors, we have not seen
that.”  “We have seen lower prices for certain products, certain
sectors and certain countries and higher prices in other
countries and this is part of the overall rebalancing of euro
area and this by and large should be taken as a good sign.”  On economic development:  “Later in 2013, economic activity should gradually
recover, supported by a strengthening global backdrop our
accommodative monetary policy stance. Necessary balance sheet
adjustments in the public and private sectors will continue to
weigh on economic activity.”  “This repayment reflects improvements in financial market
confidence over the last few months and receding fin markets
fragmentation.”  “Our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative with
the full allotment mode of liquidity provision. Recent data and
indicators indicate economy should start stabilizing over first
part of the year.”  “The improvements in financial markets since July of last
year and the continued implementation of structural reforms
should work their way through the economy. The projected path of
the recovery has remain broadly unchanged.”  “The governing council continue to see downside risks
surrounding economic outlook to the euro area. The ongoing
decline in annual inflation rates mainly reflect the energy and
food components. Risks relate to possibility of weaker  domestic
demand and exports, slow implementation of structural reforms.”  “The underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be
subdued. Annual growth in MFI loans to households moderated
slightly. To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect the
current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk and
the ongoing adjustment of the financial and non-financial
balance sheets.”  “Available info on the access to financing of non-
financial corporates indicate tight credit conditions for small
medium sized enterprises.”  “In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary
policy to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is
essential to reduce fragmentation in credit markets and to
strengthen resilience of banks where needed.”  “The future SSM is one of the main building blocs together
with a single resolution mechanism.”  “While the accommodative monetary policy stance will
continue to support recovery in euro area, it’s essential that
fiscal and structural reforms strengthen the prospects” for
recovery in the medium term.  “The downward revision is due to a carry-over from a weak
fourth quarter from last year.”  “The recover path is by and large unchanged.”  “The funding for sovereigns is also quite well advanced
with respect to last year. Target 2 balances continue by and
large to improve. LTRO repayment is another sign of return of
confidence. The net injection was something like 500 billion so
about 40 percent of that has been repaid.”  “All this points out to less fragmentation. There is
increased cross border activity by other euro area countries and
the rest of the world. There are flows from core to non-core
countries. The large companies by and large have no problem in
financing and funding themselves. The SMEs do and this
continues.”  “In the medium term we continue seeing the beginning of a
gradual recovery.”  “Our policy stance is accommodative and we will remain in
full allotment mode as long as needed. We think that this will
indeed have a positive contribution when all this will find its
way through economy.”  “It is important by the national governments to continue
with structural reforms. Some countries, especially ones which
have front loaded fiscal adjustment, will see a gradual
reduction in contradictory effect of fiscal consolidation. This
will also contribute to this recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  