-- Draghi Keeps Gradual Recovery Faith as ECB Cuts Forecasts
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-03-07T15:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/draghi-keeps-faith-in-gradual-recovery-as-ecb-trims-forecasts.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi stuck to his view that the euro region will
gradually recover later this year even as officials trimmed
their economic forecasts and considered cutting interest rates.  “Later in 2013 economic activity should gradually recover,
supported by a strengthening global backdrop and our
accommodative monetary policy stance,” Draghi told a press
conference in  Frankfurt  after the ECB left its  benchmark
interest rate  at 0.75 percent, a record low. While officials
discussed cutting borrowing costs today, the “prevailing
consensus was to leave the rates unchanged,” Draghi said.  Uncertainty caused by the stalemate in last month’s Italian
election, where anti-austerity parties won more than half the
vote, has renewed concern that the euro area may struggle to
overcome the sovereign debt crisis and exit recession.  The ECB today predicted the 17-nation economy will shrink
0.5 percent this year, more than the 0.3 percent contraction
forecast three months ago. The estimate for 2014 growth was
reduced to 1 percent from 1.2 percent. The central bank also cut
its 2014 inflation projection to 1.3 percent from 1.4 percent.
It aims to keep inflation just below 2 percent.  High Bar  The inflation outlook is “broadly balanced,” Draghi said,
even though the risks to the economy are on the downside.  “The ECB is now projecting lower growth than any other
institution and has lowered the inflation projection for 2014,”
said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-rate strategy at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The fact that it still decided
against a rate cut underscores that the bar is higher than many
assume.”  The euro climbed as Draghi spoke and traded at $1.3096 at 4
p.m. in Frankfurt compared with $1.3020 beforehand. While the
euro has risen 8 percent since July, it has dropped about 4
percent since the start of February.  The central bank’s new forecasts assumed an exchange rate
of $1.35 for this year and next.  The ECB president omitted from his  opening remarks  a
statement made last month that the euro’s appreciation posed a
downside risk to inflation. The exchange rate is broadly in line
with its long-term averages, he said later.  Earlier, the Bank of England held its  bond-purchase program 
at 375 billion pounds ($565 billion) and kept its key rate at
0.5 percent.  Berlusconi’s Return  Italian bond yields jumped after anti-austerity parties led
by former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and comedian-turned-
politican Beppe Grillo won about 55 percent of the vote in
last month’s election. That triggered fears of a new wave of
market turmoil across the euro region that would send borrowing
costs surging from  Rome  to Madrid and Dublin.  “Markets understand that we live in democracies,” Draghi
said, adding that overall, confidence is returning to the euro
area. “Fragmentation is not worsening it’s actually improving,
it’s receding” and the recovery path is “largely unchanged,”
he said.  The yield on  Italy ’s 10-year bond dropped to 4.62 percent
today from 4.9 percent on Feb. 26. Spain’s 10-year yield has
declined to 4.90 percent from 5.37 percent in the same period.  Concerns that record-low rates aren’t being properly
transmitted in some nations has stoked speculation that the ECB
may introduce additional measures to encourage bank lending to
small and medium-sized companies.  “We always think and study and reflect, but we are not
committing to or planning anything special,” Draghi said,
adding the ECB’s monetary policy “will remain accommodative for
as long as needed.”  “Draghi remains dovish,” said Anders Svendsen, an
economist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “But more weakness
is needed to make the ECB cut rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  