-- Draghi Says Effect of Italy Vote Limited as Fiscal Rigor Endures
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-07T15:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/draghi-says-effect-of-italy-vote-limited-as-fiscal-rigor-endures.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi said the effect of  Italy ’s inconclusive election on
financial markets was limited as Prime Minister Mario Monti’s 
economic reforms will survive the political impasse.  “After some excitement after the elections, markets have
now reverted back more or less to where they were before,”
Draghi told reporters in  Frankfurt  today. “Much of the fiscal
adjustment Italy went through will continue going on automatic
pilot.”  Italian bond yields initially surged after the Feb. 24-25
vote that left the Democratic Party with a majority in the lower
house of parliament, with comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo and former premier Silvio Berlusconi winning blocking
minorities in the Senate. The two men, who both campaigned
against the austerity imposed by Monti, captured about 55
percent of the vote.  Italy’s 10-year bonds gained for a third day with the  yield 
falling 4 basis points 4.62 percent at 3:15 p.m. in Rome. Still,
that is 16 basis points higher than before elections.  Crisis Respite  Italy has enjoyed a respite from the region’s debt crisis
amid the austerity measures Monti passed in his 15-month tenure
and the ECB’s pledge to defend the euro and to aid countries in
distress. Monti, whose coalition got about 10 percent of votes
and came in fourth place, said yesterday that he won’t back a
new government that would threaten the country’s fiscal
commitments to the Europe Union.  “Italy, like all the other countries, should first
continue on the structural reform path that is the only way to
restore growth,” Draghi said. The country should also “build
on the very significant consolidation that it has reached --that
is very important because that is what gives credibility in the
markets and therefore lower spreads.”  Monti raised taxes and overhauled the pension system and
labor laws, helping to bring the budget deficit to the EU’s
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product. His policies led
to a plunge in Italy’s bond yields from a euro-era record 7.48
percent, while deepening the fourth recession since 2001 and
fueling the popular anger that boosted support for Grillo and
Berlusconi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  