-- Draghi’s Introductory Remarks at ECB Press Conference: Text
-- B y
-- 2013-03-07T13:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/draghi-s-introductory-remarks-at-ecb-press-conference-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the introductory remarks of European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today.  ECB policy makers left the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.75 percent.  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on
the outcome of today’s meeting of the Governing Council.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided
to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. HICP inflation
rates have declined further, as anticipated, and fell below 2%
in February. Over the policy-relevant horizon, inflationary
pressures should remain contained. The underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. Inflation
expectations for the euro area remain firmly anchored in line
with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to,
2% over the medium term. Overall, this will allow our monetary
policy stance to remain accommodative.  Available data continue to signal that economic weakness in the
euro area has extended into the beginning of the year, while
broadly confirming signs of stabilisation in a number of
indicators, albeit at low levels. At the same time, necessary
balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will
continue to weigh on economic activity. Later in 2013 economic
activity should gradually recover, supported by a strengthening
of global demand and our accommodative monetary policy stance.
In order to support confidence, it is essential for governments
to continue implementing structural reforms, to build further on
the progress made in fiscal consolidation, and to proceed with
financial sector restructuring.  With regard to the liquidity situation of banks, counterparties
have so far repaid €224.8 billion of the €1,018.7 billion
obtained in the two three-year longer-term refinancing
operations (LTROs) settled in December 2011 and March 2012. In
net terms, this implies that, of the increase in the outstanding
volume of bank refinancing through the ECB’s monetary policy
operations of around €500 billion between mid-December 2011 and
early March 2012, about €200 billion have now been repaid. These
repayments reflect improvements in financial market confidence
over the last few months and receding financial market
fragmentation. We are closely monitoring conditions in the money
market and their potential impact on the stance of monetary
policy and the functioning of the transmission of our monetary
policy to the economy. Our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative with the full allotment mode of liquidity
provision.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis.  The GDP outcome for the fourth quarter of 2012 was weak, with
Eurostat’s second estimate indicating a contraction of 0.6%
quarter on quarter. The decline was largely due to a fall in
domestic demand but also reflected weak exports. As regards
2013, recent data and indicators suggest that economic activity
should start stabilising in the first part of the year. A
gradual recovery should commence in the second part, with export
growth benefiting from a strengthening of global demand and
domestic demand being supported by our accommodative monetary
policy stance. Furthermore, the improvements in financial
markets since July last year and the continued implementation of
structural reforms should work their way through to the economy.
At the same time, necessary balance sheet adjustments in the
public and private sectors, and the associated tight credit
conditions, will continue to weigh on economic activity.  This assessment is also reflected in the March 2013 ECB staff
macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
average annual real GDP growth in a range between -0.9% and -
0.1% in 2013 and between 0.0% and 2.0% in 2014. Compared with
the December 2012 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections,
the ranges have been revised slightly downwards. The revision
for 2013 mainly reflects a more negative carry-over effect from
the outcome for real GDP in the fourth quarter of 2012, while
the projected path of the recovery has remained broadly
unchanged.  The Governing Council continues to see downside risks
surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area. The risks
relate to the possibility of weaker than expected domestic
demand and exports and to slow or insufficient implementation of
structural reforms in the euro area. These factors have the
potential to dampen the improvement in confidence and thereby
delay the recovery.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 1.8% in February 2013, down from 2.0% in January.
The on-going decline in annual inflation rates mainly reflects
the energy and food components of the  price index . Looking
ahead, while the monthly pattern of headline inflation rates may
be somewhat volatile, underlying price pressures should remain
contained given the environment of weak economic activity in the
euro area. Inflation expectations are well-anchored and in line
with price stability over the medium term.  The March 2013 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the euro
area foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 1.2% and
2.0% in 2013 and between 0.6% and 2.0% in 2014. In comparison
with the December 2012 Eurosystem staff macroeconomic
projections, the ranges are broadly unchanged.  In the Governing Council‘s assessment, risks to the outlook for
price developments continue to be seen as broadly balanced over
the medium term, with upside risks relating to stronger than
expected increases in administered prices and indirect taxes, as
well as higher  oil prices , and downside risks stemming from
weaker economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, monetary figures for January
2013 support our assessment that the underlying pace of monetary
expansion continues to be subdued. The annual growth rate of M3
remained broadly unchanged at 3.5% in January, after 3.4% in
December 2012. The annual rate of growth of the narrow monetary
aggregate, M1, increased to 6.7% from 6.3% in December 2012. The
deposit base of MFIs in a number of stressed countries
strengthened further in January.  The annual growth rate of loans (adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation) to non-financial corporations stood at -1.5% in
January, after -1.3% in December 2012. The annual growth in MFI
loans to households moderated slightly to 0.5%, from 0.7% in
December. To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect the
current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk and
the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector
balance sheets. At the same time, available information on the
access to financing of non-financial corporates indicates tight
credit conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises.
In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy to
the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential
to continue reducing fragmentation of euro area credit markets
and strengthening the resilience of banks where needed. Decisive
steps for establishing an integrated financial framework will
help to accomplish this objective. The future Single Supervisory
Mechanism (SSM) is one of the main building blocks, together
with a Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM). Both are crucial
elements for moving towards re-integrating the banking system.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with  price stability  over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  While the accommodative monetary policy stance will continue to
support the recovery in the euro area, it is essential
that fiscal and structural policies strengthen the prospects for
economic growth over the medium term. As regards fiscal
policies, the European Commission’s 2013 winter forecast
reflects progress in reducing fiscal imbalances in the euro
area. The euro area-wide general government deficit is expected
to have declined from 4.2% of GDP in 2011 to 3.5% of GDP in 2012
and is projected to be reduced further to 2.8% of GDP this year.  Governments should build on this progress with a view to further
restoring confidence in the sustainability of public finances.
At the same time, fiscal consolidation must be part of a
comprehensive structural reform agenda to improve the outlook
for  job creation , economic growth and debt sustainability. In
the view of the Governing Council, it is of particular
importance at this juncture to address the current high long-
term and youth unemployment. To this end, further product and
labour market reforms are needed to create new job opportunities
by supporting a dynamic, flexible and competitive economic
environment.  We are now at your disposal for questions. 