-- The Best Way Yet to Proclaim Love for a Tax Cheat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-03-07T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/the-best-way-yet-to-proclaim-love-for-a-tax-cheat.html
Ernst & Young LLP received the usual
kid-glove treatment given to too-big-to-fail enterprises when it
reached a  settlement  with the U.S. Justice Department over
illegal tax shelters it sold more than a decade ago. The
government chose not to prosecute the Big Four accounting firm,
and Ernst is getting off by writing a relatively small check.  The $123 million that Ernst must pay is equivalent to the
fees it charged for the tax shelters in question. About 200
Ernst clients used the shelters to try to avoid more than $2
billion in taxes. The firm doesn’t even have to pay interest on
the ill-gotten proceeds, under the deal revealed last week.  Two Ernst tax specialists were sentenced to prison, while
two others had their convictions reversed last year on appeal.
Ernst was required to admit that some of its personnel engaged
in criminal wrongdoing. All in all, the firm came out fine. The
public had forgotten about the investigation years ago.  Yet there was one area where Ernst made out beyond all
reason: A veritable love letter at the bottom of the  statement
of facts  that Ernst and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the
Southern District of New York agreed to as part of their accord.
It said: “The wrongdoing in this case by a small group of
professionals at E&Y represented a deviation from the more than
100-year history of ethical and professional conduct by E&Y and
its partners.”  To which one can only respond: What? I asked Julie Bolcer,
a spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney, what the factual basis was
for the statement. She declined to comment. Amy Call Well, an
Ernst spokeswoman, declined to answer the same question.  The best way to show the sentence’s problems is with a
timeline. My space is limited. So rather than cover 100 years, I
decided to go as far back as the merger between Arthur Young &
Co. and Ernst & Whinney that created  Ernst & Young  in 1989. The
firm has been in trouble over ethical violations and
professional misconduct on a regular basis ever since. To wit:  1990  -- The Securities and Exchange Commission  barred  Ernst from
accepting new public-company audit work in the New York region
for 45 days, after accusing it of professional  misconduct  during
its audits a decade earlier at Norwalk, Connecticut-based U.S.
Surgical Corp.  1991  -- The SEC  sued  Ernst over auditor-independence  violations ,
after finding that RepublicBank Corp., an audit client, lent
millions of dollars to the firm’s partners and to tax-shelter,
real-estate partnerships in which they invested. The case was
 settled  in 1995. A judge ordered Ernst to comply with the SEC’s
independence rules.  1992  -- Ernst paid  $400 million  to resolve government claims
related to the 1980s savings-and-loan crisis.  1999  -- Ernst paid $335 million to  settle  investor lawsuits over
its certifications of fraudulent financial statements at Cendant
Corp. The SEC later suspended  two  Ernst  partners , saying they
aided the company’s securities-law violations.  2003  -- Documents in an Arkansas court case showed that Ernst
and other Big Four accounting firms had routinely  overbilled 
clients for travel expenses by charging them full fare for
airline tickets while pocketing large rebates they had
negotiated in volume-discount contracts with carriers. Ernst
reached an $18 million class-action  settlement  and said it
stopped the practice.  -- Former Ernst partner Thomas Trauger was  arrested  on
charges of obstructing government investigations. He later
pleaded guilty and was sentenced to a year in prison for
destroying documents related to the firm’s audits of NextCard
Inc., a credit-card issuer. Two other former Ernst auditors
entered guilty pleas in related cases.  -- Richard Bobrow, Ernst’s global chief executive, left the
firm after his attempts to conceal his wealth during divorce
proceedings backfired. The partnership’s innermost financial
details were disclosed after the  New York Times  asked a judge to
make the records public. Bobrow was in the job for about a year.  --  Sprint Corp.  replaced Ernst as its auditor after the
Internal Revenue Service began reviewing tax shelters the firm
sold to top Sprint executives, who were forced out by the
company’s board earlier that year.  2004  -- The SEC  barred  Ernst from accepting new public-company
audit clients for six months over auditor-independence
violations, after uncovering a revenue-sharing agreement Ernst
had with PeopleSoft Inc. when it was the company’s auditor.  -- Ernst agreed to pay  $125 million  to settle banking
regulators’ claims over its audits of Hinsdale, Illinois-based
Superior Bank FSB, which collapsed in 2001.  2007  -- Ernst was censured by the SEC and paid $1.6 million to
settle the agency’s claims of professional  misconduct  and
auditor-independence violations related to its audit work for
PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  2008  -- The SEC censured Ernst and two partners for  professional
misconduct  over a business relationship between the firm and a
director on the boards of three Ernst audit  clients , including
Best Buy Co. Ernst paid $2.9 million to settle the SEC’s claims
of auditor-independence violations.  2009  -- A jury  convicted  former Ernst attorney and partner James Gansman on six felony counts of tipping his girlfriend about
acquisition targets of Ernst clients. Gansman was sentenced to a
year in prison.  -- Ernst paid $109 million to settle investor lawsuits over
its audits for HealthSouth Corp., which disclosed a huge
accounting fraud in 2003.  -- The SEC fined Ernst $8.5 million and disciplined six
partners, including the former head of Ernst’s national office,
for  professional misconduct  in approving fraudulent financial
statements at Bally Total Fitness Holding Corp.  2010  -- The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  censured 
Ernst audit manager Jacqueline Higgins for “improper removal,
addition, and backdating of audit documentation prior to a board
inspection.”  2012  -- The accounting oversight board  censured  Ernst and fined
the firm $2 million for auditing-standard violations at Medicis
Pharmaceutical Corp. Four Ernst auditors also were sanctioned.  -- The Senate Permanent  Subcommittee  on Investigations
released a report that  criticized  Ernst’s tax advice for audit
client Hewlett-Packard Co., saying it was clear that some H-P
transactions approved by Ernst had been done in an attempt to
circumvent U.S. tax laws.  -- The SEC  suspended  Ernst auditor Wendy McNeeley for
professional misconduct during the 2004 audit of AA Capital
Partners Inc.  Aside from those episodes (and a bunch of others I left
out, such as the firm’s see-no-evil  audits  for Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.), it surely is accurate to say that most of
Ernst’s thousands of employees usually act ethically and
professionally. It’s also true that the Justice Department was
wrong to make the sweeping generalization that it did on Ernst’s
behalf. The firm has so many well-known blemishes on its record
that this couldn’t have been an oversight of ignorance.  It would be nice to believe the prosecutors were on the
public’s side here. Unfortunately it seems they were more
concerned about protecting Ernst than they were anyone else.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 