-- East Europe to See Sluggish Growth This Year, Institute Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-03-07T16:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/east-europe-to-see-sluggish-growth-this-year-institute-says-1-.html
Economic growth in eastern  Europe 
will improve “marginally” this year as austerity measures in
the euro area damp private investment and domestic demand, the
Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies said.  Many of the region’s countries are being “held hostage to
the excessive fiscal austerity pursued in the euro area and the
sluggish progress on the part of its policy makers,” the
institute said in an e-mailed statement today. “Any significant
improvement will be unlikely before 2014.”  Economic growth is set to decelerate in Poland and Slovakia
to 1.5 percent and 1 percent, respectively, as high unemployment
and stagnating wages suppress private consumption, the institute
said. Countries that are less reliant on the euro area, such as
 Russia , Kazakhstan and  Turkey , will probably outperform their
regional peers, helped by their flexibility over the timing of
fiscal consolidation, it said.  The economy in the 17 member states of the euro area shrank
0.6 percent last year, according to the European Commission.
That has further curbed eastern Europe’s exports, which have
been declining for two years across most of the region’s
countries.  Exports Slump  “Exports have slowed pretty much everywhere,” Vasily
Astrov, an economist at the institute, told reporters in Vienna.
“The recession in the euro area is of course a crucial factor,
as it’s the most important trade partner of many eastern
European countries.”  The recession predicted by the European Commission in the
currency bloc will continue to weigh down on the 10 new member
states of the European Union, whose combined economic output
will expand 1.2 percent this year, up from 0.9 percent in 2012,
according to the institute. The Baltic states of Estonia,
Lithuania and  Latvia , which have closer ties to Russia, will be
the exception in posting faster growth, it said.  A “more deeply rooted” recovery is expected for 2014, in
line with projections for the euro area. Government-sponsored
infrastructure projects with support from the EU will play an
important role in the rebound, the institute said.  “Even under the most optimistic scenario,” the region
won’t replicate growth rates sustained prior to 2008, the
institute said. Previous sources of growth, like foreign
capital, have become scarce, it said.  European banks have in recent years reduced their balance
sheets in the region while increasing their assets in western
Europe, Olga Pindyuk, an economist at the institute, said. Prior
to 2008, banks had expanded rapidly in the east by issuing new
loans, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  