-- Economic Fallout From Sequester Cuts May Widen Amid Bottlenecks
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2013-03-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/economic-fallout-from-sequester-cuts-may-widen-amid-bottlenecks.html
It didn’t take long for
sequestration to bite.  Lines more than doubled at some of the nation’s largest
airports on the first weekend after the across-the-board
spending cuts took effect on March 1. Importers of tomatoes,
peppers and eggplants braced for delays at border crossings as
the Department of  Homeland Security  cut overtime to save money.  The impact is almost certain to grow after agencies begin
to furlough workers, which requires a one-month notice. If there
are further logjams at border crossings, at terminals for air
passengers and at food plants that don’t have enough inspectors,
the ripple effects could reduce economic growth and hurt jobs
and profits more than has been generally estimated. That’s a
possibility that seems to have been ignored on  Wall Street ,
where the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  surpassed its 2007 record
on March 5.  Macroeconomic forecasts of sequestration’s impact don’t
take into account the ripple effects from actions that interrupt
business activity. Based simply on the drop in  government
spending , the  Congressional Budget Office  estimates that there
will be 750,000 fewer jobs and that the economy will be 0.6
percentage point smaller with sequestration than without it in
2013. Business interruptions might push those estimates higher.  There could be a domino effect, as often happens in  air
travel , in which a delay in one location cascades into delays or
cancellations far from the source of trouble.  ‘Very Fast’  Because the economy remains soft, there’s probably enough
extra capacity in most production and transportation networks to
compensate for government-induced holdups, says Yossi Sheffi,
director of the Center for Transportation and Logistics at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology . But if systemic delays do
break out, they tend to grow “very nonlinearly, very fast,”
Sheffi says.  The lack of flexibility in the sequestration act makes
matters worse. Agencies are mandated to cut across the board.
They can’t move money between line items except with case-by-
case written permission from the House and Senate Appropriations
subcommittees that oversee them. At the  Federal Aviation
Administration , for example, “air traffic organization” is a
separate line item from “finance and management.”  So the FAA can’t keep traffic control towers open by
dipping into the finance and management budget without committee
chiefs’ approval. And because the parts of the Department of
Transportation financed by trust funds are exempt from
sequestration, the FAA is absorbing 60 percent of the cuts
despite being only 20 percent of the Transportation budget,
Administrator Michael Huerta testified in Congress last month.  Transport Delays  That’s why the slowdowns at airports and border crossings
experienced in early March could be just a foretaste of worse to
come. “We have a very watchful eye on what’s happening,” says
James Welch, chief executive officer of trucker  YRC Worldwide
Inc. (YRCW)   U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection  said on March 4 that
reduced staffing contributed to wait times of more than two
hours on 70 flights at  New York ’s John F. Kennedy International
Airport and 55 at Miami International Airport. Its hands tied by
law, the Department of Homeland Security can’t unilaterally
shift  funds  from elsewhere to relieve bottlenecks in the line
item called “inspections, trade and travel facilitation at
ports of entry.”  Food Supplies  Food inspection is another obstacle with potentially far-
reaching consequences. Meat, poultry and egg processors are
prohibited from operating without the presence of federal
inspectors. A 15-day furlough may cost the industry more than
$10 billion in production losses, and workers may lose more than
$400 million in wages, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in
a Feb. 5 letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairwoman
Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat.  Even housing is likely to be hurt if cutbacks at the
 Federal Housing Administration  slow the processing of FHA
mortgage loan guarantees. Since 2008 the agency has backed more
than a quarter of mortgages.  Markets and many economists have taken sequestration in
stride so far, with some dismissing the Obama administration’s
warnings of trouble as scare tactics.  Bhaskar Chakravorti, an economist at Tufts University’s
Fletcher School, says he’s more worried about the long-term
damage to U.S. competitiveness from cuts in education and
scientific research than he is about short-term blockages.  Political Paralysis  An index of U.S. policy uncertainty created by Spanish bank
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  spiked in December during
fiscal cliff negotiations but plunged in February to below its
nine-year average.  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist of JPMorgan Chase &
Co., says he left choke-point effects out of his calculations of
sequestration’s impact because he doesn’t think they will be big
enough to matter.  “I think it will be an inconvenience more than anything,”
Feroli says. Air travel delays, for example, will annoy people
without showing up in measured gross domestic product declines,
he says.  That remains to be seen. When airports were shut down
briefly after the terror attacks of 2001, “all the supply
chains went crazy,” says Arnold Maltz, a professor of supply-
chain management at  Arizona  State University. “It took people
months to recover from that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Coy  in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  