-- Hedge Fund Investors Returning to Europe as Crisis Concerns Fade
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-03-07T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/hedge-fund-investors-returning-to-europe-as-crisis-concerns-fade.html
Hedge-fund investors are returning
to  Europe  after concluding that the sovereign debt crisis has
eased enough for traders to make money in the region again,
according to a survey by  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Net demand among clients for hedge funds focused on Europe
climbed to positive 26 percent from negative 2 percent a year
ago, the biggest swing in sentiment of 13 geographic regions
tracked by the Zurich-based bank. The figure is derived by
subtracting the number of investors who say they intend to
redeem money from hedge funds from those who say they plan to
add assets, Credit Suisse said in a report today.  Clients have become more comfortable about investing in
Europe after Mario Draghi said in July he would do all he could
to save the currency bloc. The president of the European Central
Bank’s pledge eased concerns about a sovereign default and
revived interest from investors eager to avoid missing out on a
rally in asset prices, Credit Suisse said.  “Nobody feels it is over, but as it continues to move in
the right direction, people are coming back,” Robert Leonard,
Credit Suisse’s global head of capital services, said in an
interview. “The change is indicative of that fact that last
year, people were really underweight developed Europe.”  While worries that  Greece ,  Portugal  or Spain will default
on their debt have diminished, political uncertainty remains one
of the top concerns of global hedge fund investors, Credit
Suisse found. Such anxiety returned last month when Italian
voters failed to give any political party enough support to form
a government, renewing concerns about whether the country will
adhere to austerity measures set by European officials.  Emerging Markets  Credit Suisse surveyed investors from the middle of
December through the middle of January, before the Italian
election results were announced on Feb. 25, Leonard said. The
political stalemate has driven up relative funding costs for
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese companies, with the  spread 
between their bond yields and those of their counterparts in
Germany and France widening, according to Bank of America Corp.  Credit Suisse found investor appetite remains greatest for
funds focused on  emerging markets , at 42 percent, and on the
Asia-Pacific region. Net demand for hedge funds investing in
North America fell to 14 percent from 28 percent, the bank said.  Global hedge-fund assets may rise 10 percent to $2.42
trillion by the end of the year, with net inflows and positive
investment performance leading to the gain. The firm based its
findings on a survey of more than 550 clients with about $1.03
trillion invested in hedge funds.  Equities Targeted  Clients plan to add the most money this year to hedge funds
that trade  stocks . The bullish view on equities has proved
correct so far in 2013 after the  U.S. Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU)  climbed to a record this week.  Investor concern that so-called tail-risk events, such as a
European default or a budget impasse in the U.S., will trigger a
sell-off in equities has diminished. Clients have concluded that
hedge funds will be able to select winning and losing companies
in 2013, as stocks no longer trade in lockstep with each other,
Credit Suisse’s Leonard said.  “Correlations are coming down and it’s becoming a much
better environment for stock pickers,” he said.  The bullish view on stock-focused hedge funds marks a
reversal from seven months ago. A July survey by the same bank
found 26 percent of clients said they planned to cut their
allocation to long-short equity funds in the third quarter.
Equity hedge funds  underperformed  the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  and other market benchmarks on average in 2010, 2011 and
2012, prompting some investors to retreat from the pools.  Investors are still becoming increasingly bearish on so-
called managed futures hedge funds, which typically use computer
algorithms to follow trends in asset prices.  Such hedge funds have  lost  money on average over the past
two years, as market sentiment swung from positive to negative
based on the perceived health of Europe. Net investor demand for
managed future funds plunged to 7 percent from 37 percent a year
ago, Credit Suisse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  