-- Egyptian Police Officers Protest Against Politicization
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-03-07T17:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/egyptian-police-officers-protest-against-politicization.html
Hundreds of Egyptian policemen
staged protests across the country and refused orders to work
over what they say is the politicization of the force.  In upper  Egypt ’s Menya province, officers demonstrated
after what they said were attempts to have them favor the Muslim
Brotherhood party, which backed President Mohamed Mursi’s
election last year. They called for the dismissal of the
minister of the interior and the purging of corruption within
the ministry.  “Minister leave, we want change,” state-run Ahram gate
cited them as chanting.  Members of Central Security Forces in the city of Mansoura
refused to work for a third day, the state-run Middle East News
agency reported. Around 8,000 officers and recruits across 34
Central Security Forces (CSF) camps in Sinai and the  Suez Canal 
joined the strike yesterday, protesting against what they
describe as “inhumane and degrading” working conditions,
state-run Ahram Online said.  The police protests follow a week of violence in Port Said,
where at least two policemen were killed and hundreds injured
during clashes with protesters. Unrest has persisted across
Egypt since the 2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak , adding
to the president’s challenges in reviving a battered economy.  State security officers refused to protect Mohamed Mursi’s
residence in the Nile Delta city of Zagazig, the president’s
hometown, demanding that they be armed while on duty and
threatened to call a strike across the city tomorrow, Ahram
Online said.  In response, the  Interior Ministry  said it’s “objective”
and stands “at equal distance from all political parties and
forces”, in an e-mailed statement today.  While Mursi and his Islamist supporters say parliamentary
elections starting next month will help restore stability, the
broadest opposition bloc, the National Salvation Front, has
refused to take part.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  