-- Egypt Clashes Resume as Soccer Fans Prepare for Court Verdict
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-03-07T15:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/egypt-clashes-resume-as-soccer-fans-prepare-for-court-verdict.html
Egyptian protesters clashed with
security forces in Cairo and Port Said, where soccer fans are
preparing for a March 9 court verdict that may add to the
tensions.  The court is due to rule on 52 defendants charged with
involvement in deadly soccer riots in Port Said last year, the
country’s worst sporting violence. When 21 supporters of the
local team were sentenced to death in the same case in January,
it led to a wave of protests that prompted President Mohamed Mursi to declare a curfew in Port Said and two other Suez Canal
provinces.  Violence has erupted there again in the past week.
Television footage today showed police using tear gas and
protesters throwing rocks. At least 223 people were injured in
clashes in the cities of Port Said, Mansoura and Mahalla last
night, state-run Middle East News Agency reported today.  Protests and violence have destabilized  Egypt  since the
overthrow of  Hosni Mubarak  in February 2011, keeping investors
and tourists away and leaving the economy growing at the  slowest
pace  in two decades. Mursi’s plan to hold parliamentary
elections starting next month was dealt a blow yesterday when a
court suspended the vote.  The riot in Port Said stadium took place in February 2012
at a match between local team al-Masry and Cairo-based al-Ahly.
The Ahly supporters are calling for more death sentences and
have also warned that they will rally on Saturday when the
verdict is due.  The head of security in Port Said was replaced yesterday
after the latest unrest. The National Salvation Front, the main
opposition bloc, called for an end to violence against
protesters in the city. In an e-mailed statement today the group
blamed Mursi and his government for a “decline in the security
and economic situation across the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  