-- Egypt Stocks Gain Most in 2 Months on Bets Ruling Eases Tensions
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-03-07T13:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/egypt-stocks-gain-most-in-2-months-on-bets-ruling-eases-tensions.html
Egypt ’s benchmark equities index
climbed the most in more than two months amid bets a court
ruling that halted parliamentary elections would allow time for
a resolution to the country’s political crisis.  The EGX 30 Index increased 2 percent, the most since Jan.
2, to 5,365.62 at the close in Cairo, making it the second-best
performer behind Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  among 93 gauges tracked
by Bloomberg.  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , which merged with
Russia’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  in 2011, climbed the most since
November. Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE, the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, advanced the most in almost two
months.  Stocks gained after the country’s Supreme Administrative
Court ordered the suspension of the legislative vote that was
due to start next month until the elections law is reviewed by
the  Constitutional Court . Islamist President Mohamed Mursi’s
decision last month to call for the poll was rejected by his
secular opposition, which vowed to boycott the vote and escalate
protests leading up to it.  “Investors are regaining some confidence after the recent
sell-offs, especially after the court ruling on the elections,”
said Mohamed Radwan, head of equities at Pharos Holding for
Financial Investment in Cairo. “The fact that elections were
halted gives more room for reconciliation between the different
political parties and for more stability going forward.”  Dispute Resolution  The bourse suspended trading of Orascom shares pending a
response to its inquiries after they soared as much as 8.6
percent. The Algerian government will resolve its ownership
dispute with the company over local mobile service operator
Djezzy by signing an agreement with VimpelCom next week,
Echorouk newspaper reported today, citing unidentified people.  VimpelCom spokesman  Bobby Leach  declined to comment and
Algerian Finance Ministry Communications Director Hamidou
Benomari said there’s “nothing new” in the talks.  Ezz Steel (ESRS) , the country’s biggest publicly traded
steelmaker, said neither the company nor any of its units will
be affected by the sentencing of its ex-chairman, Ahmed Ezz, to
37 years in prison on profiteering charges. The former executive
was given the prison term for activities related to the
company’s acquisition of stakes in  El Ezz Aldekhela. (IRAX)  The shares
advanced 0.9 percent to 9.26 pounds.  Orascom Telecom Holding closed 5.1 percent higher at 4.3
Egyptian pounds. Commercial International Bank gained 2.8
percent to 32.56 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  