-- Telecom Italia Posts 1.6 Billion-Euro Loss After Writedown
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-03-08T09:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/telecom-italia-s-2012-loss-narrows-writes-down-goodwill.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ,  Italy ’s biggest
phone company, reported a 2012 loss after taking a bigger-than-
expected goodwill writedown of more than 4 billion euros ($5.2
billion).  The net loss was 1.6 billion euros, compared with a loss of
4.8 billion euros in 2011, the Milan-based company said
yesterday. The writedown was related to the purchase of Olivetti
in 1999 and the acquisition of Telecom Italia Mobile minorities
in 2005, Telecom Italia said.  As competition and contracting economies in  Europe  hurt
sales and profitability at the region’s former phone monopolies,
Telecom Italia has announced dividend cuts and is working on
asset sales. Its  Telecom Italia Media SpA (TME)  unit this week agreed
to sell the La7 television channel to  Cairo Communication SpA. (CAI) 
Telecom Italia is also considering disposing of a stake in its
fixed-line network to reduce borrowings and raise money for
investments.  “The market is probably ready to reconsider the value of
Telecom Italia’s shares,” Stefano Vulpiani, an analyst at
Instituto Centrale delle Banche Popolari Italiane SpA, said by
telephone.  Telecom Italia shares rose 2.4 percent to 59.2 cents at
10:43 a.m. in Milan, paring the drop to 13 percent this year and
giving the company a market value of 11.1 billion euros.  The writedowns “were made necessary by the persisting
recessionary tensions and the challenging global macroeconomic
climate” and “in no way compromises the company’s debt-
reduction strategy,” Chairman Franco  Bernabe (BNBC)  said in a
statement.  Debt Reduction  Telecom Italia reiterated its forecast for 2013 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to drop by
a low-single-digit percentage, excluding currency swings,
acquisitions, disposals and non-organic income, and for revenue
on that basis to be stable.  The company said on Feb. 8 that it planned to cut its
dividend after Ebitda fell 4.2 percent to 11.7 billion euros
last year, missing analyst estimates. Telecom Italia proposed a
dividend of 2 euro cents per common share, in line with analyst
estimates.  Telecom Italia, which had adjusted net debt of 28.3 billion
euros at the end of 2012, released the earnings details after
market close yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  