-- Emerging-Market Central-Bank Concerns Exaggerated, Capital Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-03-07T18:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/emerging-market-central-bank-concerns-exaggerated-capital-says.html
Concern that emerging-market central
banks are becoming less independent is unjustified, except in
 Hungary , where the new governor may implement the government’s
“growth agenda,” Capital Economics said.  Government officials in  Russia ,  Turkey , Thailand and Poland
have recently called for lower interest rates, raising concern
that politicians are seeking to undermine the autonomy of
monetary policy across developing nations. Those concerns are
probably “misplaced,” William Jackson, an economist at London-
based Capital, wrote in an e-mailed note today.  While the global economic slowdown has prompted calls by
several politicians for looser monetary policy, they may only be
voicing their “grievances” because they can’t influence
interest-rate policy, according to Capital. The efforts haven’t
increased inflation expectations, gauged by the break-even
inflation rate, derived from inflation-linked bond yields,
Jackson said.  “The financial markets don’t appear to be too fazed by
politicians’ calls for rate cuts,” Jackson wrote. “The bigger
picture remains that emerging-market central banks are far more
independent and credible than a couple of decades ago.”  The appointment of Cabinet ministers to head central banks
doesn’t threaten independence in itself, he said.  Mexico ’s
Agustin Carstens, who moved from the Finance Ministry to the
central bank in 2010, is “widely respected” by investors,
Jackson wrote.  Even so, the appointment of former Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  to lead Hungary’s central bank is a threat to
credibility, because he signaled he may disregard the bank’s
inflation-targeting mandate, Jackson wrote. The selection of
Matolcsy was controversial because his “unorthodox” fiscal
policy “damaged investor confidence,” according to Jackson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  