-- Emerging Stocks Drop From 2-Week High as ECB Holds Rates
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-03-07T22:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/emerging-stocks-drop-from-two-week-high-before-policy-meetings.html
Emerging-market stocks fell from a
two-week high, led by technology companies, after the European
Central Bank left rates unchanged as it assesses  Italy ’s threat
to the economic recovery. Brazilian equities advanced.  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI)  led declines after the  Philippines ’ biggest
developer said it sold shares at a discount. Samsung Electronics
Co., which said it will buy 3 percent of troubled Japanese
electronics maker Sharp Corp., dropped the most in five weeks.
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA drove gains in  Brazil ’s
 Bovespa Index (IBOV)  as controller  Eike Batista  signed a financing deal
with Grupo BTG Pactual.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.2 percent to
1,057.92 in New York, snapping a two-day gain. The ECB kept its
benchmark interest rate at 0.75 percent today. While officials
discussed cutting borrowing costs as Italy’s elections caused
uncertainty, the consensus was to leave rates unchanged, ECB
President Mario Draghi said. The Bank of England left its four-
year-old bond-purchase program unchanged.  “Some people were hoping for some more ’help’ from the
ECB,”  Slim Feriani , the London-based chief investment officer
of Advance Emerging Capital Ltd., said by e-mail. “They’re
between a rock and hard place and they probably are weighing the
pros and cons of whether to cut now, mainly to help the euro, or
keep the little ammunition left for rainier days.”  Unemployment Benefits  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund  gained 0.3 percent to $43.75. The number of Americans who
filed for unemployment benefits fell to a six-week low, sending
the Dow Jones Industrial Average to another record high. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility
Index, a gauge of options prices on the fund and expectations of
price swings, fell 4.9 percent to 16.52.  The MSCI developing nation’s index has climbed 0.3 percent
this year, compared with a 6.5 percent gain in the  MSCI World
Index. (MXWO)  It trades at 10.7 times projected 12-month earnings,
compared with the MSCI World’s 14.1 times, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Benchmark stock indexes in  Poland ,  Serbia  and  Latvia 
declined.  Turkey ’s benchmark ISE National 100 Index lost 0.4
percent while  Russia ’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  was little changed.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index jumped 1.6 percent for the biggest
two-day gain among the world’s major stock gauges. Batista’s
companies soared after EBX Group Co. said yesterday it signed an
agreement with BTG. Oil producer OGX jumped 16 percent, the
biggest advance in the emerging markets gauge. Miner MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA gained 17 percent.  Consumer Stocks  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar,
Brazil’s biggest retailer, dropped 3 percent from a record high
as consumer stocks sank after the central bank signaled that
it’s prepared to increase interest rates. Multiplus SA, the
frequent-flier unit of Latam Airlines Group SA’s Brazil
subsidiary, slid 4.8 percent.  The  Merval Index (MERVAL)  gained 2.9 percent in Buenos Aires, the
most since Jan. 29, as shares of Petroleo Brasileiro SA advanced
for a second day.  Hungary’s  Budapest Stock Exchange Index (BUX)  gained 0.8 percent.
 OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the nation’s largest lender, rose to a two-week
high after JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its target price for the
stock by 15 percent.  In North  Africa ,  Egypt ’s  EGX30 Index (EGX30)  rallied 2 percent, the
biggest gain since Jan. 2, as investors speculated a court’s
suspension of legislative elections starting next month will
allow for reconciliation between the nation’s opposing parties.  A gauge of information technology companies in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index dropped 1.1 percent, the  most  among 10
industry groups.  Samsung Electronics (005930) , which said yesterday it
will invest 10.4 billion yen ($111 million) in Sharp, dropped
2.6 percent, halting a two-day increase.  Gold Index  The FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index added 0.7 percent.
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s largest producer of the metal,
rose 6.4 percent, the biggest gain since September 2009, paring
six days of declines. The FTSE/JSE Africa Gold Mining Index
surged 6.9 percent, the biggest gain since May 2009.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  sank 1.6 percent in
 Manila , the most among Asian benchmark indexes, after closing at
a record yesterday. Ayala Land lost 5.6 percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index fell 0.8 percent, the most since
Jan. 25, and the won weakened 0.4 percent against the dollar,
the most among 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The Shanghai Composite Index slid 1 percent on
concern regulators will restart approving initial public
offerings and data this week will show trade weakened as
inflation quickened.  E Ink Holdings Inc. (8069) , a Taiwanese maker of liquid crystal
displays, jumped 5.7 percent in Taipei to the highest since Dec.
13, before announcing revenue numbers after the market close.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 280, according to JPMorgan Chase’s EMBI
Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  