-- Hemlock Sues SolarWorld Unit for Supply Contract Breach
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-03-07T23:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/hemlock-semiconductor-sues-solarworld-unit-over-polysilicon-deal.html
Hemlock Semiconductor Corp., the
largest U.S. provider of polysilicon, sued a unit of  Solarworld (SWV) 
AG, alleging it breached a contract to buy $83 million in
material used to make solar cells.  Hemlock, a joint venture of Dow Corning Corp. and other
companies, said Solarworld’s Deutsche Solar GmbH stopped buying
polysilicon in 2012, violating a long-term supply agreement.
Deutsche Solar had sought price and quantity concessions before
stopping purchases, Hemlock said in a complaint filed today in
federal court in  Bay City ,  Michigan .  Solarworld Chief Executive Officer Frank Asbeck threatened
to put Deutsche Solar into bankruptcy if Hemlock didn’t agree to
the concessions, according to the filing.  “Mr. Asbeck further threatened that Solarworld AG would
seek to re-purchase Deutsche Solar’s assets out of bankruptcy
for a de minimis amount and proceed with its solar panel
business, thus freed of the supply agreements,” Hemlock said in
the complaint. “Asbeck stated that Hemlock would then have
little recourse but to attempt to recover against a bankrupt and
assetless debtor.”  Hemlock said the contract requires Deutsche Solar to pay
for the product it agreed to purchase, even though it hasn’t
taken delivery on it.  Germany’s Largest  Solarworld, based in Bonn, is  Germany ’s largest maker of
solar panels. Ben Santarris, a spokesman for SolarWorld
Industries America in  Portland ,  Oregon , wasn’t immediately
available to comment on the suit.  Hemlock is jointly owned by Dow Corning, Shin-Etsu Handotai
Co. and Mitsubishi Materials Corp. Jarrod Erpelding, a spokesman
for Dow Corning and Hemlock in Midland, Michigan, declined to
comment on it.  The case is Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. v. Deutsche Solar
GmbH, 13-11037, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan (Bay City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  