-- England Said to Discuss Pre-World Cup Soccer Match Against U.S.
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-07T19:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/england-said-to-discuss-pre-world-cup-soccer-match-against-u-s-.html
England ’s national soccer team may
play an exhibition game against the U.S. in America in the weeks
before next year’s  World Cup  in Brazil, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Discussions about the game are still going on and the final
decision may depend on whether the teams qualify for Brazil, two
of the people said. They spoke anonymously because negotiations
are ongoing.  U.S. Soccer President  Sunil Gulati  declined to give details
of who his federation was in discussions with although he said a
match with England would be one to savor. The game could feature
English Premier League players including Manchester United’s
 Wayne Rooney  and Liverpool’s  Steven Gerrard  as well as younger
players such as  Jack Wilshere  of Arsenal.  “That would be an interesting game,” Gulati said in a
telephone interview today. “We’re always interested in tough
games and England fits into that category.”  England, which won its only World Cup as host in 1966, has
been upset by the U.S. in previous meetings. The biggest surprise
came at the 1950 World Cup when the U.S. won 1-0 in Brazil.
Twenty years ago, England lost 2-0 in Foxborough, Massachusetts,
and later that year failed to reach the 1994 World Cup in the
U.S.  No decision has yet been made on the English national
team’s games beyond 2013, England spokesman Mark Whittle said.
The squad travels to Brazil in June for an exhibition against
the World Cup host, its first in  South America  since a 2-0 win
there in 1984.  Anniversaries  England is currently ranked fourth by ruling body FIFA
while the U.S., where soccer has less widespread appeal, is
32nd. The two countries had discussed playing a match this
year to mark the 100th anniversary of the U.S. soccer federation
and England’s 150th. An agreement couldn’t be reached on a date
and the U.S. will instead honor its centenary with a game
against  Germany  in  Washington  in June.  In 2005, England won 2-1 in Chicago, and beat the U.S. 2-0
in London three years later. In 2010, the teams played out a 1-1
draw in their opening game of the World Cup in  South Africa . A
match against the U.S. could net England about $1.5 million, one
of the people said.  Thirty-one nations from soccer’s six confederations are
vying to join host Brazil next year. England is second in its
qualifying group after four games, while the U.S. is last of six
teams left in the North and Central American qualification
contest after losing its opening game to  Honduras .  World Cup Qualifying  Thirteen European teams are guaranteed a spot in the
finals, while a minimum of three from the U.S.’s qualification
pool will play in Brazil.  Even though England has won seven of 10 games between the
teams, U.S. soccer fans have fond memories of playing against
England. The 1950 win came against a team that included greats
such as Billy Wright and Tom Finney. Joe Gaetjens got the goal
in  Belo Horizonte , the only other time the competition was
played in Brazil.  Alexi Lalas and Thomas Dooley scored in the 2-0 exhibition
win in Foxborough in 1993 that led to former England manager
Graham Taylor being criticized by the U.K. press. A headline in
the Sun newspaper read: “Yanks 2 Planks 0”.  “England shouldn’t have lost to the  United States ,”
Taylor said in a telephone interview today. “The fact is any
other day we would’ve got five but we didn’t, and you go back to
1950 and England with all those top names lost. These things
happen. We still have the same thing with our media that the
England team shouldn’t lose to anyone, and when they do the
manager gets the blame.”  Taylor said that even though England hasn’t repeated its
success of 1966, the country’s soccer history ensures its appeal
endures.  “England is given the reputation as the home of
football,” he said. “That appeals to many other nations who
feel they must play England, and beat England.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  