-- Merck Research Chief Replaced by Former Amgen Scientist
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-03-07T21:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/merck-research-chief-replaced-by-former-amgen-scientist.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  hired  Roger Perlmutter ,
Amgen Inc.’s former top scientist, to replace Peter Kim as head
of research after several of the drugmaker’s experimental
medicines suffered setbacks during testing.  Perlmutter, 60, will take the post April 15, and Kim, 54,
will retire in August after a decade as head of research and
development,  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck said
today in a statement.  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, said last month
it was delaying an experimental osteoporosis medicine and in
December ended work on a once-promising cholesterol drug. In
June the company failed to win clearance for a therapy aimed at
slowing the growth of sarcoma. The lack of new drugs contributed
to a 2 percent revenue decline last year after Merck’s asthma
treatment Singulair faced generic competition.  “We expect Peter Kim’s retirement and Roger Perlmutter’s
appointment to be relatively well-received by investors,” said
 Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co., in a note
to clients. “This likely is a first important step toward
rejuvenating the perception of Merck’s pipeline.”  Merck spent $50 billion on research and gained regulatory
approval for seven new drugs and vaccines, costing an average of
$7.3 billion for each new drug brought to market while Kim
served as development chief -- one of the worst ratios in the
industry, Chris Bowe, an analyst at Informa-Scrip Intelligence,
said in a report.  Top Approvals  Despite the setbacks, Kim’s tenure also included approval
of Merck’s top-selling drug Januvia, a diabetes treatment that
brought in $4 billion in  sales  last year, and the cervical
cancer vaccine Gardasil, the first inoculation to protect
against cancer.  Perlmutter joined  Thousand Oaks , California-based  Amgen (AMGN) ,
the world’s biggest biotechnology company, in 2000 and led the
development and approval of therapies such as the anemia drug
Aranesp, psoriasis medication Neulasta and Prolia, which treats
osteoporosis in menopausal women. Perlmutter retired as
executive vice president for research and development in
February 2012 and spent a year as a consultant to the company.  Merck fell 1 percent to $43.27 at 4 p.m.  New York  time. The
drugmaker gained 16 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  