-- MetLife Places 2,600 Staff in North Carolina Amid Cuts
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-07T18:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/metlife-places-2-600-staff-in-north-carolina-amid-cuts.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, is shifting workers to North Carolina as Chief
Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  seeks to reduce costs.  Administrators for the U.S. retail business will be in
Charlotte, while some technology and operations employees will
be based in Cary,  John Calagna , a MetLife spokesman, said today
in a phone interview. MetLife will have 2,600 employees in the
state by 2015, Governor Pat McCrory said in a statement.  Kandarian is targeting $600 million of cost cuts, mostly in
the U.S., at the New York-based insurer as low  interest rates 
weigh on profits. MetLife had 64,000  employees  as of Dec. 31.,
down from 67,000 a year earlier. The move creates a central
location for employees who run the U.S. retail business, and a
new technology hub, Calagna said.  “We want to be able to have our teams who are working
together actually be together and collaborate, and we’re looking
to have fewer real-estate locations,” he said.  The insurer is leaving buildings in Lowell, Massachusetts;
Somerset, New Jersey; and Aliso Viejo, California, Calagna said.
It’s reducing space in cities including Boston; Bloomfield,
Connecticut; Irvine, California; Johnstown, Pennsylvania; and
Warwick, Rhode Island.  MetLife gained 1.4 percent to $37.05 at 1:16 p.m. in New
York, and has advanced 12 percent this year. The Charlotte
Observer reported earlier on MetLife’s plans.  North Carolina  The insurer already has an auto and home operation in  North
Carolina . Calagna said he didn’t know how many employees would
transfer to the state and how many would be new hires.  Charlotte, in southwestern North Carolina, is home to  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and Duke Energy Corp. Cary, west of the capital
city of Raleigh, is near schools including Duke University and
North Carolina State University.  Demand for  office space  is rising in the Charlotte area,
where the vacancy rate fell to 12.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, down from 12.9 percent a year earlier, according to
CoStar Group Inc., a Washington-based research company. Asking
rents rose 2.2 percent to $19.39 per square foot in the fourth
quarter from $18.98 a year earlier, according to CoStar.  American International Group Inc., the insurer that repaid
a U.S. bailout in December, is also seeking to cut costs by
shifting employees to lower-cost locations, CEO  Robert Benmosche 
said in a Bloomberg Television interview last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  