-- EU Drops Collusion Probe of Europe’s Biggest Phone Companies
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-03-07T16:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/eu-closes-preliminary-probe-into-e5-group-of-phone-companies.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
and three other European phone companies no longer face a
European Union probe over possible collusion when they held
talks on technical standards.  An agreement by the companies to transfer responsibility
for standard setting to other trade groups including the mobile
carriers’ association  GSMA  was “a positive step that reduces
the risk of standard-setting work affecting competition
negatively,” the Brussels-based European Commission  said  in a
statement today. The other companies involved were  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT) ,  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   “We welcome the EU commission’s decision,” Philipp Blank,
a spokesman for Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom, said in an e-mail.
“The meetings and discussions were always transparent and
closely involved the commission.”  In March last year, the five carriers and the GSMA were
asked to supply information to European Union regulators about
their talks on technology standards. The CEOs of the companies,
four of which are former state monopolies, met for the first
time in Paris in October 2010. The discussions focused on
operating systems and capacity to handle surging data traffic on
wireless networks as consumers use technology from companies
such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and mobile devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone.  ‘Remain Watchful’  “The commission’s policy is to ensure that standardization
processes led by major telecom operators are not being used
strategically to foreclose other companies,” the authority said
today. “The commission will remain watchful of how
standardization processes evolve in this sector.”  Current market dynamics “require that open standards are
developed more rapidly than in the past, so that the European
telecommunications industry -- large and small companies -- can
hold their own amid global competition,” Blank said.  Deutsche Telekom advanced 0.1 percent to close at 8.29
euros in  Frankfurt . Telefonica climbed for the sixth day in
seven, gaining 1.3 percent to 10.75 euros. Telecom Italia rose
2.9 percent to 57.8 cents in Milan. Vodafone fell 0.8 percent to
178.60 pence in  London  and  France Telecom  slid 0.2 percent to
7.62 euros in Paris.  “We’re happy that the commission has validated, from a
regulatory standpoint, the work that has been done since 2010
between the five big European carriers and the GSMA, following
France Telecom’s initiative,” Sebastien Audra, a Paris-based
France Telecom spokesman, said in a statement.  Amanda Andrews, a spokeswoman for Newbury, England-based
Vodafone, and Miguel Angel Garzon, a spokesman for Madrid-based
Telefonica, couldn’t immediately comment. A Telecom Italia
representative declined to comment.  ‘Positive Move’  “This is a positive move for telecom operators,” Borja Mijangos, a Madrid-based analyst at Interdin Bolsa in Madrid,
said by telephone. Still, he said “EU regulators should
increase their focus on allowing telecom companies to boost
their return on investment instead of just increasing
competition.”  European telecommunications companies are preparing to ask
the commission to allow more mergers within individual countries
in exchange for their backing for the regulator’s push to
develop a regional market, people familiar with the matter said
last month. The proposal will outline the need to reduce
fragmentation in fixed-line and wireless markets, the people
said.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , who
scrutinizes large deals in the 27-nation bloc, said last month
that consolidation couldn’t be justified by increased investment
if it also meant higher prices and less choice for consumers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  