-- EU Parliament Goes Too Far With Banker-Bonus Cap
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-07T00:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/eu-parliament-goes-too-far-with-banker-bonus-cap.html
It was plausible until recently to
think that the European Parliament, the directly elected arm of
the European Union’s system of government, was created mainly
for comic effect. Not any longer.  The Parliament’s assertion of power over the regulation of
bankers’ pay has shown that Europe’s legislature now matters, as
it should.  Complaints about Europe’s so-called democratic deficit have
rung true for years. Policies affecting every aspect of life in
the EU’s member nations emanated from the European Commission
(the EU’s unelected bureaucracy) and the European Council (which
collects the representatives of national governments). At the EU
level, unlike within the  member states , decision makers had no
direct accountability to voters.  The European Parliament was directly  elected , but few
voters paid it much attention, and national political parties
tended to send rejects and wannabes to fill it. Real power, even
with respect to EU institutions, remained at home. The policy
areas in which the Parliament had the right to decide --
competences in the EU’s jargon -- were few.  The  Lisbon treaty , which came into force at the end of
2009, marked a decisive change. It gave the Parliament new
powers, including the final say on the EU’s budget, and greatly
increased the areas of competence in which the Parliament would
decide EU legislation on an equal footing with the national
leaders and ministers in the Council.  Flexing Muscles  The Parliament’s 754 legislators have flexed their muscles
with increasing confidence ever since. Their victory over
capping bankers’ bonuses -- achieved despite strong opposition
from British ministers -- sets a new benchmark.  It also highlights some dangers. Let’s not dwell on the
fact that this notable parliamentary success advanced a bad
policy -- one that is unlikely to stop banks from taking
excessive risks and that removed focus from a better policy
alternative, namely increasing capital-adequacy ratios.
Democratic governments don’t always get things right.  The main issue is that the policy affects one member of the
EU, the U.K., far more than the others, because most bankers in
 Europe  who earn very large bonuses are based in  London . The cap
is being adopted over that country’s protests. The question this
raises is deep and difficult. It has been posed since the
European project began and is still waiting to be answered: What
is the right division of competences between national
governments on one side and the EU on the other?  The answer can’t be fixed for all time and depends on how
far Europe’s voters consider themselves citizens of the EU as
well as of their own countries. Formally, they are already both,
but when it comes to vital national interests, cultural and
emotional commitments matter more than what it says on an EU
passport. Europe’s economic travails have revived anti-EU
sentiment across the union. The cultural conditions for closer
political union aren’t in place.  The Parliament’s role in all this is delicate. No longer a
sideshow, it is in a position to move integration forward
through its actions and by commanding respect. Yet if it chooses
to press on issues that divide rather than unite the EU, it may
have the opposite effect.  That’s why the EU’s parliament should use its newly won
powers judiciously. It should listen to voters -- as it rightly
claims it has in the case of bankers’ pay -- but also tread
carefully on questions that set one government or group of
governments against the others. It should strive where possible
both to reflect and to shape an EU-wide consensus. Where that
can’t be done, it should back off.  Democratic Deficit  The Lisbon treaty rightly called for national parliaments
to play a bigger role in holding EU institutions to account.
That’s an equally valid way to fill the democratic deficit, and
one better suited to the current mood. It should be pursued in
addition to, not instead of, moves to strengthen the Parliament
in Brussels.  The economic crisis will reshape the EU, for good or ill.
Greater fiscal integration, as we have argued, is vital to make
a success of the single currency. This in turn requires aspects
of closer political union that the European Parliament can help
to legitimize. But the case for the EU to leave decisions to the
national governments wherever they can is strong.  The EU’s formal commitment is to the creation of an “ever
closer union.” Aiming for a “more perfect union,” however, would
be better.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 