-- EU’s Reding Says U.S. Tech Giants Can’t Sidestep Rules
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-03-07T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/eu-s-reding-says-u-s-tech-giants-can-t-sidestep-rules.html
U.S.-based technology firms  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and other non-European companies
that offer services in the European Union must abide by its
overhauled data-protection rules, according to the bloc’s
justice chief.  The same limits have to apply to all companies that do
business in the 27-nation area, EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding said in a speech in Brussels today. Consumers in Europe
need to know that their data is processed in line with European
rules “that reflect the fact that data protection is a
fundamental right,” Reding said.  Reding presented plans in January 2012 to entirely reform
the data-protection rules that apply to the bloc’s 27 member
nations. She has insisted from the start that the rules, once
they received the backing by EU lawmakers and ministers and can
be enforced, would also apply to U.S. companies such as Facebook
and Google. The new protections would “refresh” an existing EU
data-protection law which dates back to 1995, Reding said today.  “The reasoning is simple: if companies outside Europe want
to take advantage of the European market with its potential 500
million customers then they have to play by the European
rules,” Reding said in the speech.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , and Facebook
are among several U.S. Internet companies that have faced
scrutiny in the EU for possible privacy-rule violations over
their use of personal data. Data-protection officials from 30
European countries have pushed Google, Microsoft and Yahoo! Inc.
to limit the amount of time they store search records. The same
group criticized Menlo Park, California-based Facebook for
policy changes that may have harmed users’ privacy rights.  ‘Overly Strict’  Google and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  were among companies to warn the
EU in 2011 against “overly strict” data-privacy curbs that may
harm technology development in the region. Reding said today she
won’t accept any attempts to water down the proposed rules.  “Those who want to maintain a high level of protection in
 Europe  have recognized the need to move fast,” said Reding.
“Those who want to lower the level of protection in Europe have
tried to slow the file down. I will not let this happen.”  The plan is to give people more control over their personal
data and allow for the first time all EU data protection
watchdogs to fine companies as much as 2 percent of yearly
global sales for “intentionally or negligently” violating the
rules. Included are also plans to create a harmonized approach
by the separate watchdogs in the EU to avoid lengthy proceedings
by the end of which companies are faced with varying decisions
from regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  