-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-03-07T16:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is a transcript of
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s comments from his
monthly news conference in Frankfurt today:  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK: OK. Ladies
and gentlemen, the vice president and I are very pleased to
welcome you to our press conference. We’ll now report on the
outcome of today’s meeting of the Governing Council.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analysis, we
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. HICP
inflation rates have declined further, as anticipated, and fell
below 2 percent in February. Over the relevant policy horizon,
inflationary pressures should remain contained.  The underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be
subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area remain firmly
anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates
below, but close to, 2 percent over the medium term. Overall,
this will allow our monetary policy stance to remain
accommodative.  Available data continued to signal that economic weakness
in the euro area has extended into the beginning of the year,
while broadly confirming signs of stabilization in a number of
indicators, albeit at low levels. At the same time, necessary
balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will
continue to weigh on economic activity.  Later in 2013, economic activity should gradually recover,
supported by a strengthening of global demand and our
accommodative monetary policy stance. In order to support
confidence, it is essential for governments to continue
implementing structural reforms, to build further on the
progress made in fiscal consolidation, and to proceed with
financial sector restructuring.  With regard to the liquidity situation of banks,
counterparties have so far repaid 224.8 billion of the 1,018.7
billion obtained in the two three-year long-term refinancing
operations, LTROs, settled in December 2011 and March 2012. In
net terms, this implies that, of the increase in the outstanding
volume of bank refinancing through the ECB’s monetary policy
operations of around 500 billion between mid-December 2011 and
early March 2012, about 200 billion have now been repaid.  These repayments reflect improvements in financial market
confidence over the last few months and receding financial
market fragmentation. We are closely monitoring conditions in
the money market and their potential impact on the stance of
monetary policy and the functioning of our transmission of our
monetary policy to the economy. Our monetary policy stance will
remain accommodative with the full allotment mode of liquidity
provision.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with the economic analysis. The GDP outcome for the
fourth quarter of 2012 was weak, with Eurostat’s second estimate
indicating a contraction of 0.6 percent quarter on quarter. The
decline was largely due to a fall in domestic demand, but also
reflected weak exports.  As regards 2013, recent data and indicators suggest that
economic activity should start stabilizing in the first part of
the year. A gradual recovery should commence in the second part,
with export growth benefiting from a strengthening of global
demand and domestic demand being supported by our accommodative
monetary policy stance.  Furthermore, the improvements in financial markets since
July last year and the continued implementation of structural
reforms should work their way through the economy. At the same
time, necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and
private sectors -- and the associated tight credit conditions --
will continue to weigh on economic activity.  This assessment is also reflected in the March 2013 ECB
staff projections for the euro area, which foresee average
annual real GDP growth in a range between minus 0.9 percent and
minus 0.1 percent in 2013 and between 0.0 percent and 2.0
percent in 2014.  Compared with the December 2012 Eurosystem staff
macroeconomic projections, the ranges have been revised slightly
downwards. The revision for 2013 mainly reflects a more negative
carryover effect from the outcome for real GDP in the fourth
quarter of 2012, while the projected path of the recovery has
remained broadly unchanged.  The Governing Council continues to see downside risks
surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area. The risks
relate to the possibility of weaker than expected domestic
demand and exports and to slow or insufficient implementation of
structural reforms in the euro area. These factors have the
potential to dampen the improvement in confidence and thereby
delay the recovery.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual
HICP inflation was 1.8 percent in February 2013, down from 2.0
percent in January. The ongoing decline in annual inflation
rates mainly reflects the energy and food components of the
price index.  Looking ahead, while the monthly pattern of inflation -- of
headline inflation rates may be somewhat volatile, underlying
price pressures should remain contained, given the environment
of weak economic activity in the euro area. Inflation
expectations are well-anchored and in line with price stability
over the medium term.  The March 2013 ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the
euro area foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 1.2
percent and 2.0 percent in 2013 and between 0.6 percent and 2.0
percent in 2014. In comparison with the December 2012 Eurosystem
staff macroeconomic projections, the ranges are broadly
unchanged.  In the Governing Council’s assessment, risks to the outlook
for price developments continue to be seen as broadly balanced
over the medium term, with upside risks relating to stronger
than expected increases in administered prices and indirect
taxes, as well as higher oil prices, and downside risks stemming
from weaker economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, monetary figures for
January 2013 support our assessment that the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. The annual growth of
M3 remained broadly unchanged at 3.5 percent in January, after
3.4 percent in December 2012. The annual rate of growth of the
narrow monetary aggregate, M1, increased to 6.7 percent from 6.3
percent in December 2012. The deposit base of MFIs in a number
of stressed countries strengthened further in January.  The annual growth rate of loans to non-financial
corporations stood at minus 1.5 percent in January, after minus
1.3 percent in December 2012. The annual growth in MFI loans to
households moderated slightly to 0.5 percent, from 0.7 percent
in December.  To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect the
current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk, and
the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector
balance sheets. At the same time, available information on the
access to financing of  corporates indicates tight credit
conditions for small- and medium-sized enterprises.  Excuse me. In order to ensure adequate transmission of
monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area
countries, it is essential to continue reducing fragmentation of
euro area credit markets and strengthening the resilience of
banks where needed. Decisive steps for establishing an
integrated financial framework will help to accomplish this
objective.  The future single supervisory mechanism is one of the main
building blocks, together with a single resolution mechanism.
Both are crucial elements for moving towards re-integrating the
banking system.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  While the accommodative monetary policy stance will
continue to support the recovery in the euro area, it is
essential that fiscal and structural policies strengthen the
prospects for economic growth over the medium term. As regards
fiscal policies, the European Commission’s 2013 winter forecast
reflects progress in reducing fiscal imbalances in the euro
area. The euro area-wide general government deficit is expected
to have declined from 4.2 percent of GDP in 2011 to 3.5 percent
of GDP in 2012 and is projected to be reduced further to 2.8
percent of GDP this year.  Governments should build on this progress with a view to
further restoring confidence in the sustainability of public
finances. At the same time, fiscal consolidation must be part of
a comprehensive structural reform agenda to improve the outlook
for job creation, economic growth, and debt sustainability.  In the view of the Governing Council, it is of particular
importance at this juncture to address the current high long-
term and youth unemployment. To this end, further product and
labor market reforms are needed to create new job opportunities
by supporting a dynamic, flexible and competitive economic
environment.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  STAFF: Alessandro Meli (ph), first (inaudible) first
question, please.  QUESTION: Good afternoon. I’m Alessandro Meli (ph) with
Sole 24 Ore. I would like to have your comments on the
uncertainty created by the recent Italian elections, where most
voters voted for parties that reject the fiscal discipline that
you advocate. Also, the political system seemed to be
dysfunctional. There is no government, for instance, at the
moment that could apply for the OMT, if the need arose. That’s
the first question.  The second question is about the difficulty of credit in
reaching the real economy, especially small- and medium-sized
enterprises. And you mentioned the need for integrating the
financial system better. I was wondering if, on a shorter term,
the ECB is considering other options, like changing collateral
requirements or even a scheme akin to the Funding for Lending of
the Bank of England.  DRAGHI: Thank you. On the first question, as you’ve seen
markets after some excitement, immediately after the elections,
have now reverted back more or less to what they were before. I
think markets understand that we live in democracies. We are 17
countries. Each country has at least two sets of elections,
political, national, and regional. So it makes 24 elections over
a time span of about three, four years. So I think that’s
democracy, and it’s very dear to all of us.  All in all, right now, markets were less impressed than
politicians and you. Also, you have to consider that much of the
fiscal adjustment Italy went through is now -- will continue
going on, on automatic pilot. And so also the -- if you consider
this year, the net supply of government bonds is considerably
less than last year’s. If I’m not mistaken, it’s about 30
billion euros. So it’s about much -- it’s very much a matter of
rolling over.  Also, all this happens in an environment, in a general
environment where we have many signs that confidence to
financial markets of the euro area is returning. And if I have
to use a word, which I used in the past -- namely contagion --
by the way, I saw that it’s been misinterpreted. I meant
contagion between financial markets, not when I spoke about
positive contagion, not positive contagion from the financial
markets to the real economy, where I’ve always been very careful
in explaining that we are actually lagging on that.  But if we look at contagion, you’ve seen, certainly, that
the contagion to other countries has been muted this time,
contrary to what might have happened about a year-and-a-half
ago, and this is another positive sign.  On OMT -- I mean, the rules OMT are what they are. So we
will see, and it’s not in our capacity. It’s entirely -- the
ball is entirely with the governments. I’ve seen this on and on
and on. OMT remains -- is in place. It’s a very effective
backstop, and it’s there. But you know the rules. And as I said,
the ball is in the governments’ hands.  Now, on credit and fragmentation, no, we are not at this
point in time thinking. We obviously -- we always think and
study and reflect, but we are not committing or planning
anything special. I may say a few more things about credit and
fragmentation later, but I’d just respond to your specific
question.  Thank you.  STAFF: Jeff Black, Bloomberg, please?  QUESTION: Good afternoon, Mr. Draghi.  DRAGHI: Good afternoon.  QUESTION: Given that you have actually revised downwards
the economic outlook, I just wonder if, first of all, you
discussed a rate cut today and if everybody on the council was
in agreement that you shouldn’t change them today?  And, secondly, given that the confidence recovery hasn’t as
yet filtered in any meaningful way into the hard data -- I mean,
we saw German factory orders today which was much worse than
expected. Are you prepared to say we’re ready to cut, if this
does not filter through soon?  And my second question is, to go back to the transmission
mechanism, which you have described as the number-one challenge,
while the OMT has helped the sovereign bond market, it hasn’t
helped, for example, corporate lending, as my colleague referred
to. So if you haven’t got anything up your sleeve to repair the
transmission mechanism for small companies, small businesses,
again, how long will you wait until you decide to take some
action there? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. Thank you. First question is, yes, we
have discussed the possibility of doing it, so there was
discussion. The prevailing consensus was to leave the rates
unchanged. We -- second question is we wouldn’t -- I wouldn’t --
we wouldn’t pre-commit, as you know, to anything specific as --
as a rate cut in the future.  But certainly, let me just go through quickly the outlook
and the narrative behind this. As I -- as I said in introductory
statement, the downward revision is due to a carryover from a
weak fourth quarter of last year. But the recovery path is, by
and large, unchanged. And the inflation projections are
basically in line with our medium-term price stability
objectives, and inflationary expectations are solidly anchored.  We are actually seeing a dichotomy between the hard data,
which as you said a moment ago are on average disappointing, and
a broad indicator of soft data, of survey data, sentiment data,
which almost uniformly are positive.  We also continue seeing mostly positive signs on the
financial markets, which witnessed the return of confidence I
was mentioning before. Again, funding for banks proceeds well.
I’ve said, I think, in introductory statement that we’ve -- we
observed a significant strengthening of the deposits even in the
banks located in distressed countries.  The funding for sovereigns is also quite well-advanced with
respect to last year. TARGET2 balances continue, by and large,
to improve. LTRO repayment is another sign of return of
confidence. By the way, just in introductory statement, I want
you to indicate also the net injection. You remember, the
injection of the two LTROs was roughly more than 1 trillion,
barely more than a trillion, but that was the gross injection.
The net injection was something like 500 billion. And so about
40 percent of that has been repaid, which also -- this squares
with the fact that overall balance sheet of the ECB has shrunk
now to the minimum, what it was a year ago in March last year,
and the access of the banks of the Eurosystem to the Eurosystem
credit facility keeps on going down.  So all this points out to less fragmentation. There is
increased cross-border activity by other euro area countries and
from the rest of the world. The net external asset position of
the euro continues to improve. And there are flows from core to
non-core countries.  When we talk about credit, you are right, SMEs. There is a
lot of heterogeneity here between countries and between
companies. The -- the large companies, by and large, had no
problem in financing and funding themselves. The SMEs do. And
this continues.  So this shows that the situation is still fragile, and it’s
fragile more, I would say, in the real economy. And we have to
distinguish here, the outlook for the short term shows weak
consumption, weak investment overall, and weak domestic demand,
high unemployment. But in the medium term, we continue seeing
the beginning of a gradual recovery, which is basically caused
by three factors -- first, stronger world demand, namely
exports; second, our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative as long as needed, and we will remain in full
allotment mode and fixed-rate full allotment mode as long as
needed.  So we see -- we think that this will, indeed, have a
positive contribution, as I said, when all this will find its
way through the economy. We see also less fragmentation, but
it’s certainly important to continue -- by the national
governments to continue with structural reforms.  Also, let me add another factor. Some countries, especially
the ones who have front-loaded the fiscal adjustment, will
actually see a gradual reduction in the contractionary effects
of the fiscal consolidation, and that’s going to be another
reason which gradually, by year end, probably, will also
contribute to this recovery.  I think you asked -- I think I answered all your questions.
Please?  STAFF: (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION: Good afternoon. Two questions. Regarding the
inflation expectations, projections, on average, we have 1.6 for
this year and 1.3 for next year. So how do you explain us that
this is in line with the definition of price stability, which is
below, but close to 2 percent? Is 1.3 still in this range of
definition? Or, I mean, the (inaudible) what is the credibility
of the ECB regarding this objective?  And second question. Can you here rule out that there is no
discussion in this house about the role of the ECB in the
troika, which is to redefine or maybe quit it?  DRAGHI: Yeah, I gave you ranges for inflation projections
for the coming year. We all know exactly -- and I think we have
to look through the medium term. So far, we see that our
inflationary expectations are firmly anchored. We saw that
basically that that is in line with our medium-term objectives
of price stability, but we will monitor the situation very, very
carefully.  On the troika thing, it’s just -- let me tell you that,
because it’s just a -- I mean, I’ve got to start with a joke,
because I call it this the angst of the week. Each week, we have
an angst. You remember the angst about the enormous size of the
balance sheet of the ECB after the two LTROs. Well, you see
what’s happening now; it’s shrinking fast.  So each week or about, it’s every two weeks, we have a new
angst. And so my suggestion to you is, once you get this from
gossips coming from friendly fire, just come over and check with
us before you write something that may not exist.  Now, the troika functions very well. We have to look -- the
situation is an emergency situation, has been an emergency
situation now for several years. Neither the ECB nor the
commission were born with the troika. The troika was an
organizational arrangement that had been set up to cope with
this emergency.  The troika has to look at the whole of Europe, and we
believe that the ECB has some value added and some specific
competence in the sector of its competence, namely, the
financial sector. That’s where the ECB can actually give some
value-added. Together, we’ll -- and works very well, by the way,
very, very well with the IMF and the commission.  But we should keep in mind, we don’t sign the memoranda. We
act in liaison. The MOUs are signed by the IMF and the
commission. We act in liaison. So in -- also, our monetary
policy responsibilities would demand for us to be part of this
team.  Now, if this is used to put in question, as it’s been done,
by the way, to put in question -- into question the independence
of the ECB, the political independence of the ECB, I can tell
you, in all frankness -- and I’m speaking for myself, but I
certainly can speak also for the executive board and Governing
Council, that we haven’t taken any decision under pressures or
political pressures of any kind.  So that’s what -- and I think both myself and the board and
the Governing Council have given plenty of evidence of our
political independence, because that’s going to be another
angst, by the way, our -- our alleged -- our alleged lower
political independence, and that’s just -- let me respond to
this angst, as well. Thank you.  STAFF: OK (OFF-MIKE) and then we’ll go to (OFF-MIKE) in
that row.  QUESTION: Hello, Mr. Draghi. Considering the recent rally
in -  DRAGHI: Yes, yes. That’s OK.  QUESTION: - stock markets, do you see a risk at the moment
that -- that the cheap money in the system is fueling an asset
price bubble? And my second question is going back to your staff
projections. Is inflation or deflation the bigger risk at the
moment? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Now, the second question is -- I’d answer first the
second question. We -- we don’t observe much of a change in the
price for ensuring against either inflation or deflation. It’s
been -- obviously, it’s not a very liquid market, so one has to
take these observations with some caution. And it at times is
also volatile, but that’s one thing.  The other thing is that if -- if we mean by deflation a
generalized fall in prices across sectors and a self-feeding
fall in prices, we have not seen that.  We have seen lower prices for certain products, certain
sectors, and certain countries, and higher prices in other
countries, by the way. And this is part of the overall
rebalancing of the euro area and should be taken, by and large -
- not in all cases, but, by and large, should be taken as a good
sign.  The other question about, do we fear there’s a bubble, it’s
very hard to respond to this question, because you’re asking me
whether the stock prices that we’re seeing now are right or
wrong. Very hard to say.  Much of this, however, has to -- much of this -- at least
as far as euro area is concerned -- has to do with the return of
confidence. But the stock prices went up all over. And in other
countries, like, for example, in U.S., this has -- might have to
do with the increased prospects for a recovery. So I’ll say the
question is too difficult to be answered in a clear, unambiguous
way.  Thank you.  STAFF: (OFF-MIKE) and Brian? Could you pass over there,
please?  QUESTION: Good afternoon. I’m Bart Reiner (ph) from RTL
News (ph) from the Netherlands. I have a couple of questions
about Dutch bank SNS Reaal. First, what’s your opinion about
nationalization? Was it wise to -- in your opinion, to burn all
the shares and the subordinated bonds? And, second, were you
informed in advance by Minister Dijsselbloem that he would
perform this unique decision? Because it’s never done before in
Europe.  DRAGHI: OK, let me say that this -- we -- first of all, by
and large, I don’t comment on nationalization of banks. But if I
have to judge the goals of this was -- the goal of this was to
ensure the stability of the Dutch banking system. The
government’s comprehensive reform agenda must continue. So this
is -- this is what I -- what I say.  The ECB was not informed. And, third, the ECB in other
occasions has maintained that the bail-in (ph) of creditors
would be an effective way to support the capital position. So
bail-in (ph) for the ECB is a good thing, by and large, provided
it doesn’t affect financial stability.  So in all these -- in all these issues, you have to find an
equilibrium between, on the one hand, debt sustainability, not
using taxpayers’ money, and at the same time -- so bail-in (ph)
people -- and at the same time, financial stability. Thank you.  QUESTION: Brian Blackstone with the Wall Street Journal.  DRAGHI: Hi.  QUESTION: You mentioned that you’re always thinking and
studying about ways to improve the monetary transmission. Could
you give us a sense of what you’re thinking about, what you’re
studying, what kinds of things out there could improve the
transmission? Because your tone today just kind of sounds like
there’s not a lot left in the ECB’s toolkit. What types of
things are you thinking about could help and you’re just waiting
for maybe more evidence that the transmission is broken before
you do it?  And, secondly, you’ve made references in the past to the
June E.U. summit and the unity of purpose of European leaders.
After the Italian elections and some of the uncertainties about
the single supervisor, the banking union, French industry
minister talking about the ECB should be monetizing debt, do you
sense some cracks in this sense of unity that you’ve talked
about last year? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. I’ll answer immediately the second
question. No, I don’t. I mean, the unity of purposes of the
leaders of the European Council has not been affected at all by
all the developments that you mentioned. You may have -- for
example -- discordant views within a certain government, by the
way, views that have been immediately corrected by the finance
minister, immediately by this government.  You can have -- I’m not sure. When you refer to uncertainty
about the single supervisor -  QUESTION: Well, is there any -  DRAGHI: What’s this, new?  QUESTION: Has legislation been approved? Is there any -- is
there any movement towards it? Does the ECB -  DRAGHI: Yeah.  QUESTION: - have a legislative framework (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: Yeah. Yeah. It’s going on. It’s going on. It’s -- I
can talk at great length about the SSM, as I now do in each
press conference, but I don’t see any news or any reason to be
worried about the progress that our legislator, are undertaking,
are having in their discussions about the SSM and progress that
our preparatory work is actually having. So we’re moving
forward. I don’t see much of an issue there.  So the unity of purpose is not in question. And as I said
on another occasion, there was -- I mean, many people tend to
underestimate the amount of political capital that European
leaders have invested in the euro. And they often do at their
own cost.  The other question was about what we -- what we do about
fragmentation. You said -- at least you sounded as if
fragmentation is worsening. It’s not worsening. It’s actually
improving. It’s receding. And, again, if I can give you a few
data, that would be good.  Well, it’s -- well, I’ve given you a few data about the
return of confidence, but there are also data about the spreads
of the -- of the -- I mean, the -- yeah, the spreads of the
lending rates, the dispersion in the lending rates, the
dispersion in the funding rates, and if you compare the last six
months with the previous six months, they are all on the
decrease.  In other words, the dispersion between the lending rates of
different countries, the median dispersion, is now lower than it
was in the first six months of last year. Now, not by as much as
the dispersion for the -- on the funding side. That has gone
down much more. But still we see signs that that is improving.  Now, you have to assess these improvements against the
background of a very weak economy, of course. So you can see
that where credit remains tight, as I’ve said, where credit
flows are weak, so these improvements are bound to be gradual,
slow, but they are there, and they are -- by and large, they
continue.  No, I don’t have in mind anything specific that I can
discuss today, but it’s something -- it’s certainly an issue
that’s very close to the Governing Council’s heart, if I can use
this word for Governing Council central bankers, but it’s been
really -- it’s been close now for quite a time. We consider it
important for the transmission of our monetary policy. Thank
you.  STAFF: (OFF-MIKE) Irish Times and (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION: Hello. Suzanne Lynch (ph) here from the Irish
Times. Just a question on Ireland. Christine Lagarde said this
morning in an interview -- she raised concerns about a certain
complacency in relation to Ireland. And a risk of relapse
(inaudible) do you share this concern? And do you think Ireland
does need some kind of support mechanism to help exit the
bailout? And is OMT a suitable instrument for that?  DRAGHI: I’ll respond first to the second question. You know
the rules of OMT. You know that OMT cannot be used to enhance
the return to the market. But in principle, there are rules that
are there, and countries that comply with these rules are
eligible.  The Irish government has undertaken a very, very
significant progress and very significant results on several
fronts, and I never tire of saying so. There are -- further
action is needed, especially on the banking side, on the
financial sector front. And I think that’s what probably Madam
Lagarde was suggesting to the Irish government. It’s not time to
rest. It’s not time to be complacent, but continue the effort
with the same effectiveness that has characterized the action of
this -- of the Irish government in the past.  STAFF: Sebastian (ph)?  QUESTION: Sebastian (ph) (OFF-MIKE) I have a question
regarding Cyprus. There have been reports about further capital
flight during February from the banks in Cyprus. How do you
consider the situation there? Is the flight of deposits
concerning with regard to the financial stability in the
country? And to what -- can you give us an idea, to what extent
the Governing Council will accept an increasing amount of ELA
(ph) to fill up the funding gap at Cyprian banks? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Now, what I can say is that there is good progress.
In terms of exactly assessing the progress, I would suggest you
read the Eurogroup statement, the second statement, hinting at
the possibility there will a program by the second part of
March.  We have to keep in mind that the solution has to reflect
two equally important dimensions. One is the debt
sustainability, and the other one is financial stability. And
the Eurogroup should -- is actually working on both of them
quite actively.  The -- there are two considerations to make. The Cyprus
economy is a small economy, but the risks -- the systemic risks
may not be small. At the same time, our union is not a transfer
union. So we have to keep this in mind.  Finally, let me touch on something that it’s not exactly in
the -- in the -- in the -- under the competence of the ECB, but
I think I judge it to be very, very important. It’s very
important that the Cyprus government takes this opportunity to
revisit the anti-money laundering legislation, not so much in
terms of legislation, but actually accepting an international
oversight on how effectively this legislation has been
implemented.  Thank you.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) Market News. And then Michael Steen,
FT, please.  QUESTION: (inaudible) Market News. Mr. Draghi, you’ve
repeatedly emphasized the importance of the transmission
mechanism, as have a number of your colleagues in the past. Can
we infer from that that you would actually implement additional
non-standard measures to help improve that transmission
mechanism before cutting rates again? Because what would be the
point if it doesn’t actually reach the real economy?  My second question is, you said that you had no immediate
plans to launch policy to -- policies to kick-start lending to
the real economy, but that you’re studying options. I’m
wondering, in those studies, are you focusing particularly on
policies that would see the ECB work in tandem with the
governments or at least seek indemnities? Or are you studying --
are you focusing more on options in which the ECB would go
alone? Thank you very much.  DRAGHI: Well, you’re asking questions I really can’t
answer. What I can say is that the fragmentation has become --
well, has been now for quite a while -- although, as I said,
it’s receding -- or has been an obstacle to our monetary policy.
Having said that, if you think deeply about that, you would be
bound to conclude that it’s the outcome of many, many factors,
most of which the ECB can do very, very little about.  You should remember that the fragmentation started with the
sovereign debt crisis that later propagated to the banking
system. And so I said many times that there are three reasons
why banks don’t lend. One of them is lack of funding. And we
have addressed this squarely, and I think we’ve resolved that.  The second thing is lack of capital or, put it differently,
the quality of the assets that the banks have in their balance
sheets. There isn’t much we can do about that, as I -- as I
think I said last week, the ECB is not in the business of
cleaning banks’ balance sheets. So that’s the second reason.  The third reason is about risk aversion. And now it’s quite
clear that with a deteriorating economy, the nonperforming loans
increase and the risk aversion by the banks goes up and further
restricts lending.  Now, on that front, it’s -- as I said, we are really
thinking 360 degrees, and so we will -- and we’ll continue
reflecting. But if we go back to when things were normal, we
certainly remember that -- well, right now, right now, what
banks do is they look at the yields they can get on government
bonds, and then they buy bonds or lend to the private sector at
a much higher rate than the government bonds yield. So credit is
either very unduly expensive often, given the quality of the
client, or it’s not there, either.  So in other times, in other times, you had the banks of
other parts of the euro area which would jump in to this and
having an opportunity to either buy government bonds themselves
or other countries so that their yields will go down and the
domestic banks then would have more incentive to lend to the
private sector or, more rarely, the other -- the other
countries’ banks would lend directly to the SMEs.  Now we don’t see that. Why is that? Because it’s
fragmented. The system is fragmented, so we see -- so any sign
of overcoming this fragmentation through higher cross-country
credit flows is a good sign towards a better transmission of our
monetary transmission into lending rates, into the real economy.  Thank you.  STAFF: Michael Steen -- Michael, just in front, Michael.  QUESTION: Michael Steen, Financial Times. Mr. Draghi, you
just said that we know the rules on OMT. I don’t think I’m alone
in saying actually I don’t think we do. The only thing I’m aware
of that you’ve published is a 440-ish-word statement that you
read out to us in September. And other than that, it feels a bit
like we pieced it together slowly and slowly.  So would you consider giving us -- at some point, a written
full, you know, point-by-point, this is how it works, this is
what a country must do? Or is this a deliberate policy to keep
it a little bit vague?  DRAGHI: No, I’m not sure -- I’m not sure I understand your
question. I mean, I think by now -- by now, in fact, you’ve
stopped asking questions about how the OMT works, because you
understood how it works. I mean, we’ve gone through all the
conditions that would make a country eligible for OMT, and we
said that this would be a necessary, but not a sufficient
condition for the ECB to step in, and we listed the conditions.
We said that -- we specified the role of the SSM, of the IMF,
and so on -- I don’t want to go through this again and again.  QUESTION: OK. Yeah.  DRAGHI: If you’re referring to the legal documentation,
that’s a different thing. We’re still working on it.  QUESTION: OK.  DRAGHI: And it’s coming out, but it’s -- but that’s it.
But, I mean, in terms of how it works -  QUESTION: Well, I mean, I think I have a broad
understanding, but, for example -  DRAGHI: No, well, I’m surprised it’s still so broad.  QUESTION: But, for example, on the question of whether a
country can use it when it’s returning to the bond markets or
not, I’d have to go back and check your exact words, but at one
point, it sounded like that it was valid for countries that were
returning to the market, but you just said just now that
actually it’s not something that should be used to enhance a
return to the market.  DRAGHI: Exactly. Exactly. Countries should be on the market
by themselves. So they should be on the market by themselves. To
be on the market, I think I clarified what we mean, being able
to issue along the yield curve, being able to issue to a certain
fairly broad category of investors, so -- and being able to
issue certain quantities.  That is -- the OMT had never been thought or created to
support countries in their access, in their return to the
market, or access to the market. OMT was meant -- you remember -
- it’s an effective backstop that will remove and has removed
the tail risks from the euro area.  QUESTION: OK, thanks. My other question, quickly -  DRAGHI: Ah, OK.  QUESTION: Just to return to a former angst of the week,
which I don’t think you’ve mentioned today, is the euro. Is the
-- the current level of the euro OK? Has the risk of
appreciation receded? Have you got any comment on that? Thanks.  DRAGHI: Well, I -- I mean, let me just go through something
that must be dear to your heart. I won’t read it all, but I say
the G-20 communique says, we reiterate our commitments to move
more rapidly towards more market determined exchange rate
system, exchange rate flexibility to reflect underlying
fundamentals and avoid persistent exchange rate misalignments
and, in this regard, work more closely with one another so we
can grow together.  Also, ministers committed not to comment on that. And so I
won’t -- I won’t be the first to violate this -- this
commitment. But as I said, the exchange rate is not a policy
target for us. The nominal and real effective exchange rates are
-- by and large continue to be along their long-term averages.  However, the exchange rate, as we’ve seen, by the way, in
the last -- in the last fourth quarter of last year, when we
found -- when we had a weaker fourth quarter, the exchange rate
is very important for growth and price stability. And so we will
continue to look at that. It certainly is part of our overall
assessment of the current situation. But as I said, we stick
with the G-20 consensus on that.  QUESTION: Thanks.  STAFF: (inaudible)  DRAGHI: By the way, I won’t repeat my statement about the
fruitless chatter. That was the other part, if (inaudible)
comment on other people’s statements on exchange rates. Thank
you.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: Thank you. I just want to come back to inflation.
As the midpoint of the projections are well below the 2 percent
and this might increase discussion whether the ECB should be
more worried about deflation than inflation, could you just tell
us a little bit more about the profile of inflation during the
next two years? What do you expect? When will it hit its low?
And when will it be at or above 2 percent again? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, I think the introductory statement says
something about the macroeconomic projections on the -- of
inflation. It says ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the
euro area foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 1.2
percent and 2.0 percent in 2013 and between 0.6 percent and 2.0
percent in 2014.  So in comparison with December 2012, Eurosystem staff
macroeconomic projections, the ranges are broadly unchanged. The
risks continue to be broadly balanced over the medium term, with
upside risks relating to stronger-than-expected increases in
administrative prices, indirect taxes, oil prices, and downside
risks stemming from weaker economic activity.  And also, let me add what I said before, which is not --
doesn’t apply mechanically to our situation today, but I also
said that the exchange rate, if the sustained appreciation of
the exchange rate has the potential to alter our risk assessment
about inflation. Thank you.  QUESTION: Mr. Draghi (inaudible) I have two questions. My
first question is about a possible free trade area agreement
between the United States and the euro zone, which is in the
works apparently. I’d like to know what the -- what the ECB
makes of it, whether this is something that is -- has been
discussed, and whether it could substantially boost growth
prospects for the euro area?  And my second question touches upon, again, the Italian
elections. You said the OMT is there and the election outcome is
democracy. But it’s difficult to ignore that market participants
and observers are wondering whether political developments in
Italy might hamper the effectiveness of the ESM and the OMT by
making it difficult for a government to sign the memorandum of
understanding. So I’d like to know what your stance is on this
issue and whether this is an issue that’s been discussed. Thank
you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. The first question is really -- we don’t
discuss this. We don’t discuss trade. But the -- I’d say the
culture of the Governing Council of the ECB is one that, if I
were to guess my colleagues’ minds, would say that the free
trade area would be a source of growth and job creation.  Of course -- and I think it’s very -- some very good work
is being done there by others -- of course, everything ought to
be also consistent with the multilateral commitments and
engagements in which we are -- all of us are.  On the second point, I’m not sure I understand. I think
this is another angst. In other words, you’re asking me to
respond to something that doesn’t exist. And so I have no
response on that. It’s -- we know what the OMT is. We know the
rules. It’s there, and that’s it. Thank you.  STAFF: Jack Ewing, International Herald Tribune?  QUESTION: Mr. Draghi, you mentioned in your statement youth
unemployment. Given that inflation is now well below your
target, is there perhaps more room within your price stability
mandate to pay more attention to macroeconomic factors, like
unemployment and growth, as some other major central banks are
doing? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. The -- on another occasion, on another
occasion, I remarked that the very high level of youth
unemployment -- by the way, unemployment is a tragedy, and the
youth unemployment is an even bigger tragedy, as we see today.
But we should ask ourselves why the -- why the unemployment is
so high, mostly young people? And the answer often, why it’s not
uniformly high, as it should be in a situation of such weak
demand?  And the answer is, it has to do with labor legislations in
these countries which has been -- have basically put all the
weight of flexibility upon the young people. And there is very
little the ECB can do about that.  But more -- on the more general question you asked, we view
that maintaining -- we view maintaining price stability in both
directions as the best way to support the real economy and job
creation and growth. And, of course, as I’ve said before, we
have to resolve, address, and see what we can do, and it’s not
clear we can do much, but we have to address the problem of
transmission of our monetary policy through the real economy.  As I said before, our monetary policy will remain
accommodative as long as needed in -- and then will stay in the
full allotment mode, and we’ll also monitor carefully our
markets, credit markets and Eonia market, both spot and forward.
Thank you.  STAFF: (inaudible) and then we’ll go to (inaudible)
afterwards.  QUESTION: Thank you (inaudible) last month, you said that
on the Irish promissory note, the last word has not been spoken
so far. So I wonder, when will we hear the last word?  DRAGHI: We have -- we have a review, a periodic review of
compliance with article one, two, three by all countries. If I’m
not mistaken, the review should happen year end. But the
Governing Council will decide in complete independence when to
have this review or review of similar situations at any time, if
we want.  I don’t have a date immediately, anyway, to tell you now. I
think there is a date when this is certainly going to be done,
and I believe it’s the year end, but I can let you know for
sure.  STAFF: (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION: (inaudible) Mr. Draghi, I want to come back to
Italy. Given the instability after the Italian election, are you
afraid Italy might leave the way of austerity?  And second question is, how big is the likelihood in your
eyes that Italy can leaving the euro zone after a referendum or
something else?  DRAGHI: Well, you see, I -- you’re asking me if I’m afraid.
You’re asking me how likely it is. I cannot answer to these
questions, but I can tell you that Italy, like all the other
countries, should continue on -- first, on the structural reform
path, which is the only way that can restore growth, and,
second, build on the very significant fiscal consolidation that
has reached. That is -- that is very important, because that’s
what gives credibility in the markets, therefore, lowers
spreads, and, therefore, in the end, lower lending rates,
therefore, more credit to the economy and more job creation. And
this is the path.  Thank you.  STAFF: We have the last question to (inaudible) CNBC,
please. Over here.  QUESTION: Mr. Draghi, you talked about the risks that euro
exchange rate can pose to your growth and inflation outlook. Can
I just confirm that -- again, that at the levels that we’re
seeing in the euro exchange rate right now, you’re not seeing
any major risks to your growth and inflation outlook?  And my second question would be whether the Governing
Council has actually discussed a cut in the deposit rate and
what you think the biggest risks are, if you implemented a
negative deposit rate? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. As you can imagine, I can’t respond to
the first question. We never really comment on exchange rates,
even less so about levels of exchange rate, whether a certain
level is appropriate or not.  The second -- the second question is -- I mean, the answer
to the second question is -- is the following. We’ve looked at
that. And we’ve looked at that. And we don’t -- I mean, we don’t
commit to do anything. The unintended consequences of a measure
like that can be serious, as it has been shown on other -- in
other monetary jurisdictions by similar experiences.  So all in all, I think in the past I’ve used the words
uncharted waters, if we are to get into that -- to that mode.
Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  