-- Dow Average Reaches Another Record; Yen Drops, Oil Gains
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-03-07T21:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/euro-strengthens-spain-bonds-gain-before-ecb-dow-futures-rise.html
Stocks rose, with the Dow Jones
Industrial Average reaching a third straight record, as U.S.
jobless claims dropped. The euro gained as the European Central
Bank said the economy may stabilize this year, while  Japan ’s yen
weakened to 95 per dollar for the first time since 2009.  The Dow rose 0.2 percent to 14,329.49 and the Standard &
Poor’s 500  Index (MXAP)  gained 0.2 percent at 4 p.m. in New York.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa extended its two-day rally to 5.2 percent, the
most since July. U.S. Treasuries fell for a fourth day. The euro
climbed 1.1 percent to $1.3105, rebounding from its 2013 low,
while the yen weakened against all 16 major peers. Spain’s 10-
year bond yield fell 11 basis points to 4.89 percent as the
nation sold debt. Natural gas jumped more than 3 percent to lead
gains in commodities.  The S&P 500 climbed to within 1.4 percent of its 2007
record as jobless claims unexpectedly fell by 7,000 to 340,000
last week, bolstering optimism before tomorrow’s monthly
employment report. The ECB kept its benchmark interest rate at a
record low today and President Mario Draghi said data suggests
the economy will stabilize in the first half of this year.  “This is now two straight days we’ve had a positive
reading on the labor market and one of the big concerns in the
market has been whether this is jobless prosperity and ergo can
it continue?”  Uri Landesman , president of New York-based hedge
fund Platinum Partners, which manages about $1.2 billion, said
by telephone. “I’m still skeptical but the data the last two
days would support the fact that it’s not jobless prosperity,”
he said. “The data’s been strong and if the bulls are still in
control of the market, that should take us through resistance.”  Dow Record  The Dow rose 0.3 percent yesterday to extend an all-time
high as an ADP Research Institute report indicated faster-than-
forecast growth in jobs and the Federal Reserve’s Beige Book
said the economy was growing. Data tomorrow may show U.S.
employers added 165,000 people to payrolls in February and the
unemployment rate held at 7.9 percent, according to the median
economist forecast.  Bank of America Corp. advanced 2.9 percent and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. added 1.2 percent to pace gains in  financial shares ,
which led an advance among seven of the 10 main industry groups
in the S&P 500. After markets closed, the Fed said 17 of the 18
largest U.S. banks could withstand a deep recession and maintain
capital above a regulatory minimum. Only Ally Financial Inc.,
the auto lender majority-owned by
U.S. taxpayers, fell below a 5 percent Tier 1 common ratio, a
regulatory minimum and measure of financial strength.  Boeing Jumps  Boeing Co. jumped 2.5 percent after winning orders for 27
jets in the past week. Emirates, the largest operator of the
Boeing 777 aircraft, said the company is getting closer to
offering a new version that will seek to defend its lead against
Airbus SAS in the wide-body market.  Trading volume  for S&P 500 stocks was about 11 percent
below the 30-day average. Ciena Corp. jumped 17 percent, the
most in 18 months, and JDS Uniphase Corp. surged 7.6 percent as
Ciena posted quarterly earnings that topped estimates. Time
Warner Inc. climbed 2.4 percent after saying it will spin off
its magazine business. PetSmart Inc. tumbled 6.6 percent as
forecasts for earnings and sales growth missed projections.  The yield on 10-year Treasury notes climbed for a fourth
straight day, rising six basis points to 1.995 percent, the
highest since Feb. 20. The U.S.  Dollar Index (DXY) , a gauge of the
currency against six major peers, slipped 0.4 percent to 82.10
today after reaching its strongest level in more than six months
yesterday.  Dollar Correlation  For the first time in four years the dollar is
participating in a rally that has sent stocks higher as traders
in the $4-trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market bet the world’s
largest economy will only strengthen. That’s unusual because the
greenback has tended to move in the opposite direction to
equities in recent years as investors sought a haven from the
global financial crisis, sovereign bailouts in  Europe  and slower
growth.  “This is potentially a clear turning point for the U.S.
dollar,” said John Horner, a currency strategist in Sydney at
Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s top foreign-exchange trading firm
as measured by Greenwich Associates. “We’re now starting to get
toward the point where good U.S. data is good for the U.S.
dollar and good for U.S. markets, and that’s a quite different
scenario to what we’ve seen over the past few years.”  Household Wealth  Household wealth in the U.S. climbed in the fourth quarter
to the highest level in five years, propelled by a gain in home
prices that is helping repair family finances. Net worth for
households and non-profit groups increased by $1.17 trillion
from October through December, or 1.8 percent from the previous
three months, to $66.1 trillion, the Federal Reserve said today.  Concern about Europe’s debt crisis eased as the Spanish
Treasury met its maximum target at a debt auction in  Madrid 
today. Demand for the 2018 note was 2.32 times the amount sold,
up from 2.24 last month. The 10-year benchmark yield was 4.917
percent, down from 5.202 percent on Feb. 21, the Bank of Spain
said. That’s the  lowest  yield since November 2010.  The advance in Spanish bonds pushed the 10-year yield to
the lowest since January.  Portugal ’s  10-year yield  fell 22 basis
points to 5.93 percent, also the least since January, after the
nation’s credit rating outlook was raised to stable from
negative by S&P, which said European lenders will probably
extend support to the government and make the nation’s fiscal
tightening “more sustainable.”  U.K. Easing  U.K. 10-year bond yields rose six basis points to 2.01
percent while the pound slipped more than 1 percent against the
euro, Swedish krona and Danish krone. The Bank of England’s
Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor Mervyn King maintained
its target for quantitative easing at 375 billion pounds ($565
billion). The decision was forecast by 29 of 39 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey, with the remainder having predicted an
expansion of at least 25 billion pounds.  The euro’s advance lifted it from yesterday’s low of
$1.2965, the weakest level since Dec. 11. The 17-nation currency
appreciated 1.9 percent to 124.33 yen and climbed 1.1 percent to
87.29 British pence. ECB President Mario Draghi stuck to his
view that the euro region will gradually recover and said the
bank’s monetary policy “will remain accommodative for as long
as needed.”  ‘Ongoing Contraction’  The euro’s rise is unsustainable as investment dwindles and
countries in southern Europe struggle to revive growth and
reduce unemployment, saidJulian Callow, chief international
economist at Barclays Plc. The euro, which traded as strong as
$1.3117 today, should be at $1.15, Callow said in an interview
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Michael McKee.  “We’re still in a significant fiscal contraction in the
euro zone,” Callow said. “There’s still a lot of deleveraging
in the private sector if you look at the figures for bank
lending, which is contracting very sharply still in southern
Europe. That goes hand in hand with an ongoing contraction in
the investment cycle.”  The euro-zone economy will shrink 0.3 percent in 2013,
marking the first back-to-back annual contraction since the
single currency’s birth in 1999, the European Commission
forecast last month. A report today showed the French
unemployment rate rose to a 13-year high of 10.6 percent in the
fourth quarter as companies eliminated tens of thousands of jobs
to cope with a stalled economy.  Aggreko Rally  Aggreko Plc (AGK)  jumped 10 percent in  London , the most since
2008 on a closing basis, after the world’s largest provider of
mobile power supplies reported higher annual profit and forecast
“double digit” average revenue growth over the next five
years. Adidas AG climbed 6.6 percent to a record as the second-
largest sporting-goods maker forecast an increase in earnings.  Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer, plunged 13
percent, the most in almost four years, after cutting its
second-half dividend by 44 percent. National Express Group Plc
slid 11 percent as the rail and bus operator’s biggest investor,
Elliott Advisors, sold a 9.9 percent stake.  Sugar, natural gas and lean hogs jumped more than 2.8
percent to lead gains in 20 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P
GSCI Index. Natural gas surged 3.2 percent to a 13-week high of
$3.582 per million British thermal units after government data
showed U.S. inventories fell by more than forecast last week as
cold weather boosted demand.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 0.3 percent,
retreating from 19-month high reached yesterday, as Chinese and
South Korean stocks slumped. The yen weakened after Bank of
Japan’s Masaaki Shirakawa’s final meeting amid speculation his
successor will expand monetary stimulus and debase the currency.  China Watch  China ’s exports probably grew 8.1 percent last month,
slowing from January’s 25 percent gain, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed before tomorrow’s trade report.
The Shanghai Composite Index slid 1 percent and South Korea’s
 KOSPI (KOSPI)  lost 0.8 percent, declining for the first time in three
days.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.2 percent. The
Bovespa index advanced 1.6 percent today, adding to yesterday’s
3.6 percent rally, as companies owned by the Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista  gained after he signed a financing
arrangement with Grupo BTG Pactual. Shares on the  Nairobi
Securities Exchange (NSEASI)  jumped 0.9 percent, climbing for a sixth
day. The counting of presidential votes continues in  Kenya , with
partial results showing Uhuru Kenyatta, a deputy prime minister,
in the lead.  The South Korean won weakened against all 16 major peers
except the yen. The UN Security Council voted unanimously to
impose tougher sanctions on North Korea for conducting a nuclear
test explosion in violation of its previous prohibition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  