-- Ex-Legal & General Trader Gets 2 Years for Insider Tips
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-03-07T17:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/ex-legal-general-trader-gets-2-years-for-insider-tips.html
A former  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) 
equities trader was sentenced to two years in prison for passing
inside information on block trades 28 times to an independent
stockbroker, giving the U.K. finance regulator the first jail
term tied to its largest-ever  insider-trading  case.  Paul Milsom, 45, pleaded guilty in January to one count of
passing inside information from October 2008 until March 2010 to
Graeme Shelley, an independent broker who previously worked at
Novum Securities Ltd. Milsom gave Shelley tips about large share
orders Legal & General was about to make so the broker could
place spread bets and trade contracts for difference, according
to the U.K. Financial Services Authority. Milsom will have to
serve about half of the sentence.  Judge Jeffrey Pegden at Southwark Crown Court told Milsom
today that his actions were “deliberate, planned and dishonest
and you took certain measures to hide your criminal conduct.”  Shelley was charged with insider trading in companies
including broadcaster  ITV Plc (ITV)  and hasn’t yet entered a plea. He
is scheduled to appear at the same court on April 9.  The case is part of the investigation into the front-
running of block trades, known as Operation Tabernula, Latin for
little tavern. The regulator charged five other individuals last
year in the case, which it has called its “largest and most
complex insider dealing investigation to date.”  The FSA arrested seven people, including employees of
Deutsche Bank AG and Moore Capital Management LLC, and raided 16
addresses in London and southeast  England  in March 2010 as part
of the probe. Milsom was arrested in February last year. The
first five defendants who have been charged haven’t entered
pleas.  Cooperation, Confiscation  Milsom received about 40 percent of the profits and Shelley
took the rest, Neil Saunders, a lawyer for the FSA, said. Milsom
made about 165,000 pounds ($248,400) in profit from the tips to
Shelley, and more than 80,000 pounds from tips to another
individual, who wasn’t identified at the hearing.  Saunders told the judge that Milsom agreed to cooperate at
the earliest possible stage and will pay a confiscation order of
245,657 pounds.  Legal & General said previously that they assisted the FSA
and that Milsom wasn’t in control of any client funds.  Simon Ray, a lawyer for Milsom, said his client is
remorseful and has spent the time since his arrest arranging his
finances so he could pay back the full amount that he made. He’s
lost the job he “loved” and many of his friends, Ray said.  “Whilst he can’t change history, he’s done all he can to
put things right,” the attorney said.  Frank Disclosure  Pegden said he took into account that Milsom “made the
fullest possible and the frankest possible disclosure” to the
FSA and accepted responsibility for the crime.  The FSA linked Milsom to Tabernula after they searched
Shelley’s home and office in 2010. One of the documents seized
was a handwritten note detailing the trades he was making, with
the letters ‘MP’ on the pages, Saunders said. The regulator said
the only “obvious connection” was to Legal & General, and the
only person who had dealt with all of the trades was Milsom.  Within days of Milsom’s arrest, he hired the law firm
Corker Binning and reached out to the FSA about cooperating. He
told them about the tips he’d made to the second individual.  Milsom, who had worked for Legal & General for 12 years,
had used pay-as-you-go phones to communicate with Shelley over
17 months. In all, the scheme netted around 402,000 pounds. The
two would meet at pubs in  London ’s financial district, where
Shelley would withdraw cash from nearby banks to pay him,
according to the regulator.  The block trades being placed by Legal & General were
sometimes as much as 900 percent of the previous day’s volume,
the FSA said at a previous hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  