-- Ex-Wife of U.K. Politician Huhne Guilty of Obstruction
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-03-07T17:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/ex-wife-of-u-k-politician-huhne-guilty-of-obstruction.html
Vicky Pryce, the ex-wife of former
U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne , was found guilty of
perverting the course of justice after taking points on her
driving license for a speeding offense Huhne committed.  Pryce, 60, and Huhne, 58, were charged last year by
prosecutors after it was alleged he was caught speeding in 2003
and coerced Pryce to take the penalty points so he could avoid
disqualification. Huhne, the first serving British Cabinet
minister to be charged with a serious criminal offense in modern
times, pleaded guilty last month.  Huhne left Pryce for an aide following the exposure of his
affair in 2010 and Pryce sought revenge by telling the story to
the Sunday Times newspaper. Prosecutors learned of the speeding
incident from the media coverage and charged both of them in
February 2012.  “It is important that everyone should act within the law -
- whoever they are,” Malcolm McHaffie, deputy head of special
crime at the  Crown Prosecution Service , said in a statement.  No Illusions  Huhne wasn’t sentenced pending the result in Pryce’s trial,
in which she used a “marital coercion” defense. Pryce faced a
retrial after the original jury in the case failed to reach a
verdict. Judge Nigel Sweeney told the former Liberal Democrat
lawmaker to expect a jail term at a hearing last month.  “She must be under no illusions that my granting of bail
indicates any watering down of that provisional approach,”
Sweeney said today, referring to his remarks that Huhne faces a
probable jail term.  Pryce, a senior managing director at  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN) ,
said she is disappointed with the verdict, her lawyer,  Robert
Brown , told reporters outside the court.  E-mails released following the verdict suggested people
close to U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , the head of the
Liberal Democrats, were told as early as 2011 Huhne forced his
ex-wife to lie for him over the speeding ticket.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  