-- Texas Instruments Raises Lower End of Sales, Profit Forecasts
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-03-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/texas-instruments-raises-low-end-of-forecasts-for-sales-profit.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog chips, raised the lower end of its forecasts for
first-quarter sales and profit, as customers increase orders
ahead of a projected rebound in electronics demand.  Earnings will be 28 cents to 32 cents a share on sales of
$2.8 billion to $2.91 billion, the Dallas-based company said
yesterday in a statement. On Jan. 22, Texas Instruments said
profit would be 24 cents to 32 cents on revenue of $2.69 billion
to $2.91 billion, and analysts on average predicted 29 cents and
$2.81 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments has thousands of customers across the
electronics industry, from radar-equipment suppliers to
microwave-oven makers, meaning its earnings are one of the
broadest proxies for the health of the chip market. After
running down inventories last year, some companies have resumed
buying parts to ensure they aren’t caught short when demand
returns, said Tore Svanberg, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “Order rates are still improving, from obviously a low
level,” said Svanberg, who  recommends  buying the shares. “The
industrial market and especially automotive is showing some
strength. We’re still very early in the process.”  Texas Instruments  shares , which are up 14 percent this
year, rose less than 1 percent to $35.20 at yesterday’s close in
 New York . Many stocks across the analog-chip industry have
gained this year on optimism that orders will pick up starting
in the second quarter.  Industrial Applications  “In general, the stronger demand environment has
continued,” Texas Instruments Vice President  Ron Slaymaker  said
on a conference call with analysts. “Quarter-to-date orders
have been growing strongly.”  While demand remains weak for chips used in personal
computers and phone-systems equipment, orders are increasing for
chips used in industrial applications, Slaymaker said.  In the first quarter of 2012,  profit  was 22 cents a share
on sales of $3.12 billion. Texas Instruments is one of the few
companies that still give regular midquarter updates on their
progress toward earnings targets.  The company increased its quarterly dividend by 33 percent
and added $5 billion to its stock-repurchase program last month.
Texas Instruments has an indicated dividend yield of 3.2
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, among the
highest in the semiconductor industry.  The chipmaker is in the process of exiting the market for
digital chips used in smartphones and tablets, and said on Nov.
14 that it would cut 1,700 jobs as part of that shift. The staff
reduction was estimated to pare expenses by about $450 million a
year by the end of 2013, Texas Instruments said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  