-- Exxon Mobil Had No Alternative to MTBE, Witness Says
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-03-07T20:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/exxon-mobil-had-no-alternative-to-mtbe-witness-says.html
Exxon Mobil  Corp. lacked viable
options to adding MTBE to gasoline, a witness told a New
Hampshire jury that will decide whether the company is liable
for contaminating drinking water with the chemical.  The Irving, Texas-based oil company is trying to persuade a
jury that  federal law  required the use of the additive, methyl
tertiary butyl ether, to combat air pollution and that it didn’t
harm anyone in New Hampshire. The company began presenting its
case March 4 in Concord. The trial started Jan. 14.  Thomas Eizember, an Exxon Mobil executive who was in charge
of dealing with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations
in the 1990s, said it had to blend MTBE with gasoline because
other companies were adopting the chemical.  “In the Northeast in particular we don’t control our
proprietary distribution system,” Eizember told the jury today.
“We share a lot of terminals. We share almost all the
pipelines. Sharing the facilities greatly increases the
reliability, but it means I can’t do something different
necessarily than someone else is doing.”  Cross-examining Eizember, Jessica Grant, a lawyer for the
state, asked if he had been aware that another  Exxon Mobil (XOM) 
executive had warned the company in a report that if MTBE leaked
into the groundwater the costs of monitoring and cleaning it up
would be high.  “No, I was led to believe the opposite,” Eizember said.
“I wasn’t aware of any information that said we needed to take
increased remediation costs into consideration.  Adequate Warnings  Victor Dugan, a former Exxon employee, testified March 5
that MTBE was extensively researched before it was added to fuel
and that its benefits outweighed the risks. He also said
gasoline dealers and distributors were given adequate warnings
about the hazards of gasoline and how to deal with leaks.  Exxon Mobil is the last defendant in the state’s
$818 million  lawsuit  alleging oil companies knew MTBE would
contaminate groundwater and didn’t alert the state to the risks.
New Hampshire seeks damages based on the company’s share of
gasoline sales in the state, which an economist said was about
30 percent. With an estimated cost of $818 million to test,
monitor and clean up wells, New Hampshire might be seeking at
least $245 million from the company. Exxon Mobil said using
refinery data would have shown a market share as low as 6.9
percent.  Underground Leak  In  Maryland  on Feb. 26 a court of appeals reversed two jury
verdicts against Exxon Mobil. The plaintiffs won $1.65 billion
in two cases alleging financial and property damage from an
underground leak in 2006 that released MTBE into the water. The
appeals court said Exxon Mobil hadn’t made fraudulent statements
and the plaintiffs failed to show physical harm.  New Hampshire’s suit is one of scores of cases involving
MTBE filed since 2000 against refiners, fuel distributors and
chemical makers. Other MTBE lawsuits were consolidated in
federal court in New York for pretrial evidence-gathering and
motions. In 2009, a federal jury ordered Exxon Mobil to pay New
York City $104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting
wells in the city. Exxon Mobil has appealed.  In 2003, New Hampshire sued Exxon Mobil, Shell Oil Co.,
Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA,  Hess
Corp. (HES)  and Citgo Petroleum Corp. All except Exxon Mobil reached
settlements with the state.  Reduce Pollution  Exxon Mobil has argued in court that in adding MTBE to
gasoline it was complying with federal regulations, which pre-
empt state law. The additive was used to make gasoline burn more
thoroughly to reduce air pollution, as required under the 1990
Clean Air Act.  Studies by the American Petroleum Institute were cited in
court showing that at mid-to-high levels of ingestion or
inhalation MTBE elevated the risk of brain tumors, liver cancer,
blood cancer and kidney cancer in mice and rats. Exxon Mobil
said there has been no evidence that MTBE causes illness in
humans.  “There is simply no MTBE crisis,” Charles Engelmann, an
Exxon Mobil spokesman, said in an e-mail. “MTBE hasn’t been
used in the state since 2005 and there is not a single personal
injury being claimed in this lawsuit.”  MTBE is highly soluble in water and can be carried great
distances from the source of leaks. It leaked from gas stations,
vehicle junkyards, underground storage tanks and pipe fittings,
the state said.  The state estimated that about 40,000 New Hampshire wells
are contaminated with MTBE and that 5,590 have levels determined
to be unfit for drinking.  The case is New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarahearle.nh@gmail.com ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  