-- F-Secure Chief Takes On Dropbox Seeking Growth in Cloud
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-03-07T13:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/f-secure-chief-takes-on-dropbox-seeking-growth-in-cloud.html
F-Secure Oyj (FSC1V) , the Finnish security-
software maker expanding into online-storage services, is set to
gain customers as more companies let employees use their own
mobile devices for work, its chief executive officer said.  “It’s a fantastic thing for us,” Christian Fredrikson
said in an interview at the company’s Helsinki headquarters
yesterday. “We have the package ready, now we need to expand.
It’s a business where we need to have tens of millions of users
to become relevant, instead of the millions we have now.”  F-Secure is relying on its 25-year expertise in security
software to challenge online-storage leaders such as Dropbox
Inc. as businesses seek reliable ways for sharing files across
computing devices. Cloud storage is a focus as F-Secure tries to
revive sales growth, which has  slowed  for four quarters.  Organizations face security issues as BlackBerrys and other
uniform devices supplied by employers are replaced by a myriad
of different handsets, tablets and software applications.
Policies regarding employees’ own devices will take shape this
year in a way that balances user freedom and company asset
protection, research company IDC said in January.  F-Secure is expanding beyond security software, which has
been its bread and butter since the company was founded in 1988
by Risto Siilasmaa, now its chairman and also that of mobile-
phone maker  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  The company’s security knowhow and sales
channels via phone operators help it survive among hundreds of
competitors, Fredrikson said.  Dropbox, based in  San Francisco , has passed the 100 million
user mark, and technology giants including Google Inc. have also
started their own storage and file-sharing services.  AT&T, BT  F-Secure sells its cloud service through phone carriers
such as the U.S.’s AT&T Inc., and last month it added  BT Group
Plc (BT/A)  as a provider in the U.K. Fredrikson declined to comment on
its licensing fees for different products.  “The basic idea is that it’s secure and very consumer
friendly, so that the consumer actually takes our product to the
workplace,” said Fredrikson, who started as CEO in January last
year. “It can’t just be safe and boring and pushed top-down,
the product needs to be brilliant and I believe we have that.”  Shares of F-Secure gained 0.6 percent to 1.63 euros at 3:19
p.m. in Helsinki. They had  declined  19 percent in the past year
through yesterday. Trading volume exceeded 100,000 shares, more
than the three-month daily average.  Support Lacking?  Analysts at Evli Bank Oyj raised their  recommendation  on F-
Secure shares today to reduce from sell, citing growth potential
in mobile security. Still, the fees F-Secure charges are likely
to decline, they said.  “We don’t see major near-term growth drivers,” Evli’s
Antti Kansanen and Mika Karppinen said in a note. “We remain
cautious on the content cloud launches, as operators’ push for
the products seem to be lacking.”  F-Secure’s sales increased 8 percent to 157 million euros
($204 million) last year, the 10th consecutive year of growth,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company last month
forecast sales growth of more than 5 percent for this year.  “Wherever smartphone usage grows, that’s where we’ll find
paying customers,” Fredrikson said. “We see our current sales
growth only satisfactory, our target is to build for double-
digit growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  