-- FastJet Sues African Airline Ally Over Kenyan Market Access
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-07T16:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/fastjet-sues-african-airline-ally-over-access-to-kenyan-market.html
FastJet Plc (FJET) , seeking to become the
first pan-African discount airline, is suing the chief executive
officer of its sister carrier in the U.K. courts over access to
the licenses it needs to expand flights into  Kenya .  FastJet, which currently operates only in Tanzania, filed
the suit against Donald Smith, head and partial owner of Five
Forty Aviation Ltd. That’s after Smith last month withdrew the
right to use the Fly540 brand, saying he was owed $7 million in
unpaid bills and hadn’t received required safety information.  London-based FastJet, which began commercial flights Nov.
27, combined with Five Forty Aviation of Nairobi in June to gain
access rights in Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania and  Angola . The all-
share deal was brokered by mining group  Lonrho Plc (LAF) , which now
owns 56 percent of FastJet, and backed by Stelios Haji-Ionnou,
founder of  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,  Europe ’s No. 2 discount airline.  “FastJet is adamant that Mr Smith has been paid his full
consideration and we will now ask the High Court of Justice to
rule on this,” Chairman David Lenigas said today. “We sincerely
hope that the process will be dealt with speedily so that the
unnecessary and apparently contrived confusion surrounding
control of the Kenyan operations can finally be put to rest.”  Obligations Unfulfilled  While FastJet says it controls 99 percent of Fly540 Kenya,
Smith contends that it reneged on the deal and that no ownership
change took place, leaving him with a near 51 percent stake.  “Not all obligations of the deal have been fulfilled,” he
said in an e-mail. “Aspects such as the payment of intra-company
debt as well as the issuance of my shares remain outstanding.”  FastJet said yesterday it will add two more routes to its
network, lifting capacity by 50 percent, with flights from the
Tanzanian tourist hub of Kilimanjaro to the island of Zanzibar
and to Mwanza on Lake Victoria, starting March 18. The services
will be operated by its fleet of three leased Airbus SAS A319s.  The airline filled 81 percent of seats last month, carrying
26,387 people on its initial two routes from Dar es Salaam to
Mwanza and Kilimanjaro.  FastJet rose as much as 7.9 percent before closing 5.9
percent higher at 2.68 pence in  London , valuing the company at
55.5 million pounds ($83 million). The stock has declined 30
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  