-- FHA Pullback Boosts Mortgage Insurers Once Seen Failing
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-07T21:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/fha-pullback-boosts-mortgage-insurers-once-seen-failing.html
The once-moribund private  mortgage
insurance  industry is increasing market share and raising cash
as it presses its advantage in lobbying Congress to consider
changes that would reduce the role of the Federal Housing
Administration, its dominant government rival.  Now, as FHA has raised premiums to help cover a $16.3
billion budget shortfall, insurers have made inroads into the
market, increasing their share to 35 percent of policies in the
fourth quarter, up from 26 percent in the first, according to
Inside Mortgage Finance. The FHA and the Department of Veterans
Affairs account for the rest.  Insurers including Radian Group Inc. and  MGIC Investment
Corp. (MTG)  that within the past year debt traders viewed as likely to
default, are positioning themselves for growth as lawmakers and
regulators consider shifting housing risk from the government to
private capital. In the Senate, the senior Republican and the
Democratic chairman of the banking committee have pledged to
work together to shrink FHA’s role, as the insurers lobby to
level the playing field with the government.  “What we’re really looking for is at least parity with
FHA, so FHA isn’t more dominant in the marketplace,” Teresa Bryce Bazemore, president of Philadelphia-based Radian’s main
insurance unit, said in an interview in  Washington  after
testifying on Feb. 28 at a Senate hearing on the agency’s
financial problems. “I don’t think you can ever expect a
government agency to be as nimble as a private entity.”  Insurer Rally  Mortgage insurers have rallied this year on bets the
companies can continue to increase sales as the U.S. scales
back. MGIC, based in  Milwaukee , has rallied 85 percent since
December.  Radian (RDN)  is up 53 percent and  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) ,
which also offers life insurance and long-term care coverage,
advanced 28 percent. The firms are poised to make further gains
in market share as FHA is set to increase the annual cost of
insuring loans by another 10 basis points as of April 1.  Private guarantors wrote new policies on $175 billion in
mortgages in 2012, more than double the year before, according
to data from newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. The industry
currently insures about $900 billion in loans, while FHA’s
portfolio is $1.1 trillion.  Investors have increasingly been betting on mortgage
insurance as the  housing market  recovers.  Arch Capital Group
Ltd. (ACGL)  said Feb. 8 it reached a $300 million deal to enter the
mortgage guaranty business by acquiring assets from bankrupt
insurer  PMI Group Inc. (PPMIQ)  New insurer NMI Holdings Inc. raised $550
million in private capital last year to back home loans.  Private Capital  “We are extremely pleased to be able to provide a strong
source of private capital to a U.S. mortgage insurance market in
great need of capacity,” Constantine Iordanou, chief executive
officer of Arch, said in a statement announcing the deal. Arch
will benefit from “significant opportunities in the U.S.
mortgage insurance marketplace,” he said.  MGIC said yesterday it raised about $1.1 billion selling
stock and notes. It fell 12 percent to $4.92 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York trading after rising from 84 cents in August. Radian, which
raised $689 million last week, fell 5.6 percent to $9.37. It’s
rallied from $2.02 in May.  “It’s a bet on housing, but it’s also a bet on a return to
normalcy in the mortgage market,” said Jasper Burch, an analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd. “The new business that these guys are
writing is well above historical standards.”  Lobbying Washington  Mortgage guarantors are working in Washington to ensure
their voices are heard as regulators and lawmakers craft
policies that could sustain their industry’s recent gains.
Bazemore and other executives will be back on Capitol Hill March
13, testifying at a hearing in the Republican-led House of
Representatives billed as a look at  “the competitive
advantages the FHA has relative to private mortgage insurers and
how those advantages contribute to the crowding out of private
capital in housing finance.”  The mortgage insurance business “is at a crossroads,”
said Basel Petrou, managing partner of  Federal Financial
Analytics Inc. , a Washington-based consultant to financial
services companies. “In terms of those companies with legacy
books, they are turning the corner in terms of their operations,
and there are new entrants in the market, so the concept of
private insurance as a viable alternative continues and should
go forward.”  To be sure, the industry is struggling amid losses on
policies sold prior to the housing crash. MGIC hasn’t reported a
yearly profit since 2006. Radian Group recorded losses in five
of the past six years.  Bankruptcy Protection  PMI Group filed for bankruptcy protection in November 2011
after the  Arizona  Department of Insurance took over the main
unit as claims on soured mortgages drained capital.  Triad
Guaranty Inc. (TGIC)  also had to stop selling new policies when capital
ran short, and  Old Republic International Corp. (ORI)  has scaled back
from the market.  Essent Guaranty Inc., a new mortgage insurer whose backers
include Goldman Sachs Group Inc., later bought assets from Triad
and began writing policies in 2011. Genworth announced plans in
January to distance its unprofitable mortgage insurer from units
that sell life insurance and long-term care coverage. The move
may also allow outside investors to bet directly on the guaranty
business, Richmond, Virginia-based Genworth said at the time.  The losses the industry suffered as a result of the crisis
show private mortgage insurance was working as it was designed,
said Clifford Rossi, a former risk manager and managing director
at Citigroup Inc. who now teaches at the University of
 Maryland ’s Robert H. Smith School of Business.  Still Standing  “The last companies still standing may have a very
compelling argument that here you had an industry that did it
exactly the way you would think private capital should be
designed,” Rossi said in an interview. Some “companies went
out of business and there was not a taxpayer dollar that
subsidized them.”  Opportunities for mortgage insurers are already growing as
FHA raises the premiums it charges borrowers to insure their
loans in a bid to offset its losses. The agency’s market share
dropped to 43 percent last year from the peak of 71 percent in
2009 after a series of premium increases, according to Inside
Mortgage Finance.  In Congress, South Dakota Democrat Tim Johnson, the
chairman of the Senate Banking Committee Chairman, and Mike Crapo of  Idaho , the committee’s senior Republican, have pledged
to work together on a bipartisan bill that would further scale
back FHA’s footprint. In the Republican-controlled House,
leaders on the Financial Services Committee are working on their
own version.  Government Guarantees  Under consideration are policies that would reduce the
share of the government guarantee on an FHA loan, which now
stands at 100 percent, possibly through a risk-sharing
arrangement with private guarantors. Lawmakers are also
considering policies that would limit FHA’s role to providing
insurance to low- or moderate-income borrowers. Currently,
borrowers at any income level can qualify for FHA coverage.  “In this time of budgetary struggles, asking taxpayers to
subsidize higher-income and wealthy borrowers through government
mortgage insurance seems like curious public policy,” Bazemore
told the Senate Banking Committee Feb. 28.  Mortgage guarantors aren’t limiting their focus to FHA.
Banking regulators including the Federal Reserve and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. are writing the so-called Qualified
Residential Mortgage rule mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act,
requiring banks to retain a slice of mortgages deemed risky. The
industry is lobbying for insured mortgages to be exempted, which
would be a change from an initial draft.  Basel Pushback  The industry is also pushing back against a regulatory
proposal to implement Basel III bank capital standards without
specific allowances for private insurance as a risk mitigant.
Industry groups say this would require banks to hold more
capital against privately insured loans than against FHA loans,
pushing more business to FHA.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the U.S. regulator of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, is now prodding the two companies to
create new risk-sharing arrangements of their own. Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac acquire mortgages and package them into
securities on which they guarantee payments of principal and
interest. President  Barack Obama  and Congress have pledged to
eventually wind down and replace them, an outcome that is likely
to include an expanded role for private mortgage guarantors.  Risk Sharing  Mortgage insurers currently provide coverage on loans with
down payments below 20 percent that are backed by the two
government-sponsored enterprises. In a March 4 speech to
business economists in Washington, FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would each attempt to
execute $30 billion in new risk-sharing transactions this year.  “We have specified that each enterprise must conduct
multiple types of risk-sharing transactions to meet this
target,” DeMarco said, according to prepared text of the
speech. “For example, we expect to see transactions involving
expanded mortgage insurance, credit-linked securities,
senior/subordinated securities; and perhaps other structures.”  Mark DeVries, an analyst at Barclays Plc, raised his
ratings on MGIC and Radian to overweight from underweight based
in part on the likelihood that a housing finance overhaul will
include an expanded role for private insurers.  “There seems to be a broad consensus from both parties in
Washington that the federal government needs to continue to
reduce its role in the mortgage markets, making room for sources
of private capital like the mortgage insurance industry,”
DeVries wrote in a March 5 research note. “Whatever solution
Congress finds for the GSEs will likely involve a continued role
for the private mortgage insurers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  