-- Fight for Best New Band Pits Haim Against Django Django
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2013-03-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/fight-for-best-new-band-pits-haim-against-django-django.html
For those looking for bands of the
future, two words. Django Django.  The group has just started its U.S.  tour  after headlining
concerts made up of stars-to-be in its U.K. homeland.  When not indulging in awards ceremonies (a final reminder
to buy those albums you didn’t receive for Christmas), the music
industry spends the traditionally quiet months at the start of
the year talking up those acts that may win prizes in future.  Lists are made and exclusive gigs featuring the likes of
Django Django are packed with excitable taste-making hipsters,
primed to go out and spread the word.  In the U.K., the BBC “ Sound of 2013 ” polls industry
professionals who weigh the music they like and knowledge of
what sells.  Django Django  released its self-titled debut album in 2012.
Mixing off-kilter dance grooves and prog-rock tendencies, it
gained decent reviews and modest success. A year of touring has
paid off. Live, the quartet now has the dorky dynamism of LCD
Soundsystem at its prime with the added appeal of early Pink
Floyd-style experimentation.  The geek-funk fun is driven by David MacLean’s drumming,
aided by additional cowbells, wood blocks, bongos, scrapers,
pingers, zingers and a ludicrous number of tambourines.
Keyboards riff and gurgle while the vocal harmonies and guitar
lines recall the psychedelic otherness of the Incredible String
Band. Grab a ticket for the American tour while you can.  L.A. Band  Other acts to watch include  Haim , which won the 2013 BBC
poll. The Los Angeles band is made of three multi
instrumentalist sisters with a healthy Fleetwood Mac fixation.
Possessing the musical technique to please the purist muso, the
easy melodies to catch the pop aficionados and the sassy
charisma to fill the blogs and magazines, Haim may yet give the
newly reformed Mac a run for its money.  Compared with Haim’s brilliance, the other bands on the BBC
list appear a little parochial.  Chvrches  makes weighty synthpop
full of fuzzy sounds and Gothic gloom. Lauren Mayberry adds
breathy vocals and a pretty face. The much vaunted melodies try
extraordinarily hard and fail to convince.  Far more enticing is  Alunageorge , whose kooky take on R&B
is as light and delightful as a Tim Burton-baked meringue. A
recent London gig showcased Aluna Francis’s vocals. Her playful
style is a welcome relief from the belter-weight hollerings that
dominate soul.  All sparkling white and exposed midriff, she doesn’t quite
manage to make the tiny stage her own, leaving instead bandmate
George Reid, dressed in a checked shirt, to get the hipsterly-
contrary cat-calls. Prodding away at a keyboard, Reid conjures
up deft pop hooks and beats like the XX on anti-depressants.  Peace, Palma  Peace  and  Palma Violets  are two bands whose suggested
future successes have already been proclaimed as evidence that
2013 will see a resurgence in guitar-based music.  Such predictions looked far-fetched when both bands
recently played on the same bill. Peace occasionally transcends
the cliches of its skinny jeans and leather jackets to sound
like a moody Coldplay with Keith Moon on drums.  Flashes of inspiration, a Michael Jackson disco beat and
some Vampire Weekend guitars, suggest Peace may yet do something
interesting.  London band Palma Violets has received potentially lethal
amounts of hype thanks to a combination of devilish youth,
raucous gigs and a scuzzy garage-rock sound. It has all the
hallmarks of a cult group: “Chicken Dippers” sounds plucked
straight from the soundtrack of a Quentin Tarantino South-London
escapade.  What works in hormonally overloaded basements is noisily
vapid in the larger  O2 Brixton Academy . For all the shouty
vocals and punk swagger, the songs are as bubblegum as they
come.  The Django Django North America shows this month continue
at  Brooklyn ’s Music Hall of Williamsburg tonight and also
include dates in  Chicago  and Los Angeles. Information:
 http://www.djangodjango.co.uk/live/   Haim has just announced concerts in the U.K.,  Germany  and
the U.S. in April and May. Information:  http://haimtheband.com/   (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  London Weekend  by Farah Nayeri and
 Mark Beech ;  Warwick Thompson  on London theater;  Jason Harper  on
cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 