-- Terrell Owens Adviser Banned After NFL Players Lose $40 Million
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-03-07T17:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/finra-bars-florida-broker-after-nfl-players-lose-40-million-1-.html
Jeffrey Rubin, a Florida broker, was
barred from the securities industry after more than 30 National
Football League players including Terrell Owens lost at least
$40 million on an  Alabama  casino project that went bankrupt.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street’s
self-funded overseer, said in a  statement  today that one of
Rubin’s clients put the majority of his cash into the project
and lost about $3 million. Finra didn’t say which players were
involved. Owens, the former Dallas Cowboys wide receiver, and
Jevon Kearse, the former Philadelphia Eagles defensive end
nicknamed “The Freak,” were among those who lost money,
according to their lawyers.  “This case demonstrates how broker misconduct can target
high-income, inexperienced, and vulnerable investors,” Brad Bennett, Finra’s head of enforcement, said in the statement.
“Jeffrey Rubin took advantage of professional athletes who
placed their trust in him.”  Rubin, 38, agreed to the ban without admitting to Finra’s
charges. Patricia Christiansen, Rubin’s lawyer in West Palm
Beach,  Florida , declined to comment.  Owens sued Rubin in Broward County in January, saying the
broker introduced him to the failed casino project. Michael
Simon, the player’s lawyer in Boca Raton, said Rubin didn’t tell
investors that the electronic bingo machines planned for the
development weren’t allowed in Alabama.  “It should have never been promoted to any NFL player or
any investor,” Simon said. “It was illegal.”  Andrew Kagan, Kearse’s lawyer in Fort Myers, said he has
represented about 30 players who lost money on the failed
project.  “Jeff was getting a finder’s fee for putting people in
it,” Kagan said. “The guys didn’t even know how much was put
in, when it was put in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  