-- Fireball Risk Forces Total to Revamp Site Near Nuclear Plant
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-03-07T14:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/fireball-risk-forces-total-to-revamp-site-near-nuclear-plant.html
Total SA (FP)  was ordered to modify an
oil-storage site in the vicinity of a nuclear plant in northern
 France  to avert the risk of an explosive fireball knocking out
the reactor’s safety systems.  The move follows in the wake of the nuclear disaster at
Fukushima in  Japan  two years ago, which prompted France’s atomic
regulator  Autorite de Surete Nucleaire , or ASN, to more closely
review the country’s 58 sites.  Should crude stored in one of Total’s tanks catch fire, a
phenomenon known as a “boilover” could occur, sending a ball
of burning oil bursting into the air, IRSN, the technical
adviser to ASN, said in a report on nuclear safety published on
its  website  yesterday. The resulting fireball could lead to the
malfunction of “important safety equipment” at the nuclear
site, its owner  Electricite de France SA  has determined,
according to the report.  ASN has ordered EDF, the biggest power producer in France,
to carry out billions of euros of measures to bolster the
defenses of reactors and other installations. France, which gets
about 75 percent of its electricity from nuclear power -- the
most in the world -- has asked EDF to add power generators and
cooling sources at plants and carry out work to strengthen the
country’s oldest reactors at Fessenheim against earthquakes.  At the northern France site, EDF and Total “have been
asked to take action to reduce the risk,” the IRSN said. The
nuclear plant at Gravelines and the fuel storage site are
located near Dunkirk on the  English Channel .  Too Close  Concerns about the proximity of Gravelines to Total’s
crude-storage site haven’t been published in previous reports by
the IRSN, a spokesman said. The IRSN has begun publishing more
details about its recommendations on safety, he said.  Total’s installation called Appontements Petroliers des
Flandres has seven crude storage tanks and is located as close
as 700 meters from EDF’s Gravelines plant, which has six 900-
megawatt atomic reactors.  When development of the atomic generators began at the end
of the 1970s, EDF installed a 20-metre hillock with ditches on
each side between the sites to protect against the risk of heat
reaching the reactors from crude storage tank fires or leakage,
the report said.  The potential risk of fireballs from boilover was only
studied by Total in 2007 when the safety of the industrial sites
was revisited, according to the authority.  EDF studies have since showed that a boilover from a full
tank of crude, which may occur 60 hours after the start of a
fire, could knock out reactor safety systems including outside
power sources, pumping and ventilation systems, IRSN said.  Different Fuel  In 2011, Total emptied the  storage tanks  at the site to the
“minimum technically possible” level to limit the risk of
boilovers and will this year modify the type of fuels stored at
the site, IRSN said.  Crude will be replaced by diesel, heating fuel and other
less viscous fuels that lessen the risk of the most “intense”
kind of boilovers, the IRSN concluded.  A spokesman from Total couldn’t provide an immediate
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  