-- Fizzled Washington Storm Showering Boston With Rain, Snow
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-03-07T18:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/fizzled-washington-storm-showering-boston-with-rain-snow.html
Boston  may get 4 to 6 inches of snow
from a wet, windy storm that has scrubbed more than 300 flights
in the Northeast and flooded the Northeast coast from Delaware
to  Massachusetts .  West of Boston and south to Providence, Rhode Island, 6 to
8 inches (15 to 20 centimeters) may fall, according to the
National Weather Service in Taunton, Massachusetts. One to 3
inches may accumulate in New York City after dark.  “It is not going to be snowing or raining heavily the
entire time,” said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with AccuWeather
Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania . “Temperatures are going to
play a big role in how much snow accumulates. At least during
the daylight hours it may have a tough time accumulating on the
roads.”  High winds contributed to the cancellation of 396 airline
trips as of 1 p.m. New York time, according to  FlightAware , an
airline tracking service in Houston. Of those, 150 were at
LaGuardia Airport, 92 at  Newark  Liberty International in New
Jersey and 40 at Boston’s Logan International.  In addition, flights to Newark were being delayed as long
as 1 hour and 41 minutes because of high wind, according to the
 Federal Aviation Administration ’s website.  Thousands Canceled  More than 4,000 flights were canceled across the U.S. from
March 4 through yesterday as the storm moved out of the Plains
and Midwest, dropping 9.2 inches of snow at  Chicago ’s O’Hare
International Airport, as much as 24 inches in the mountains of
West  Virginia  and about 5 inches in Fairfax County, Virginia,
just outside of  Washington .  The system will be followed by milder weather in the
Northeast, Kines said.  “If we can make it through Friday, we have some good
weather coming,” Kines said.  The high temperature in Boston is expected to reach 48
degrees Fahrenheit (9 Celsius) by March 11, according to the
weather service. In  New York  it should reach into the 50s in
Central Park over the weekend and be 55 degrees on March 11.  An expected heavy snowfall for Washington and Baltimore
that closed federal offices yesterday failed to materialize. A
layer of warm air over Washington and central  Maryland  kept the
snow light and made sure a steady rain was mixed in, Calvin
Meadows, a meteorological technician for  the National Weather
Service  in Sterling, Virginia, said.  Shore Flooding  The storm has caused moderate flooding along the New Jersey
coast, where a coastal flood warning remains in effect until
tomorrow at 9 a.m., according to Mitchell Gaines, a weather
service meteorologist in Mount Holly, New Jersey.  “The worst of the coastal flooding has occurred but there
could be some minor coastal flooding events over the next 24 to
36 hours,” Gaines said by telephone.  Water was reported on streets in Monmouth and Ocean
counties in New Jersey and Sussex County in  Delaware , he said.  The Massachusetts coast faces a day of above-normal tides
and the threat of flooding of homes and roads along its east-
facing shoreline, said Scott Kaplan, a meteorologist with
 Hometown Forecast Services Inc.  in Nashua, New Hampshire.  “A dangerous coastal flood situation is taking shape for
this morning through Friday’s high tides along the eastern
Massachusetts coast,” the National Weather Service said. “Some
evacuations may be needed as a precaution.”  Flooded Roads  Police in Marshfield, Massachusetts, on the coast about 30
miles south of Boston, patrolled flooded areas of the Brant Rock
in Humvees, while at least two roads in the town of Hull were
impassable because of water, according to the town’s emergency
management department.  The next high tide is expected at 7:37 p.m. in Marshfield,
where National Guard troops are standing by to assist, according
to  the police department .  “The next two high tide cycles will likely cause
significant flooding,” the department said on its website. “We
stress the need for people to avoid the area around Brant Rock
during the storm.”  Block Island, off Rhode Island, may experience coastal
erosion because the shoreline was weakened by  Hurricane Sandy  in
October, according to the weather service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  