-- French Unemployment Climbs to 13-Year High as Growth Stalls
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-03-07T09:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/french-unemployment-climbs-to-13-year-high-as-growth-stalls.html
French unemployment climbed to a 13-
year high in the fourth quarter as companies eliminated tens of
thousands of jobs to cope with a stalled economy.  The  jobless rate  based on International Labor Organization
standards rose to 10.6 percent from a revised 10.2 percent in
the previous three months, national statistics office Insee in
Paris said today. Excluding  France ’s overseas territories, the
rate was 10.2 percent, compared with a median forecast of 10.1
percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  Faced with an economy that fell back into recession early
last year and risks doing so again, companies such as  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Renault SA and Alcatel-Lucent are slashing
payrolls. That’s adding pressure on President  Francois Hollande 
who is trying to retain support of unions while attempting to
revamp  Europe ’s second-largest economy in the wake of the
region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “Unemployment will likely rise further in coming months,
with the peak only coming at the end of the year or early next
year,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at  ABN Amro  in
Amsterdam. “The economy may gain some traction in the second
half but it’s unlikely to be enough to induce companies to start
hiring in a serious way.”  Hollande, elected last May, has said he aims to revive
growth and reduce joblessness by the end of his five year
mandate by improving French competitiveness.  His Socialist government yesterday endorsed a plan to
overhaul French labor law to add flexibility in legislation that
lawmakers will vote on later this month.  ‘Preserve Jobs’  This proposal “is a win-win for companies faced with
difficulties that need to re-organize,” Prime Minister Jean- Marc Ayrault told journalists after a cabinet meeting. “This
legislation will preserve jobs.”  There are some signs that Hollande is managing to retain
the support of unions as he attempts to repair French
competitiveness.  Renault SA (RNO)  won backing of two main unions
yesterday for a plan that will eliminate almost a fifth of its
French workforce over the next three years, freeze wages for
2013 and increase working time.  Unions who oppose the new labor legislation had fewer than
10,000 people at protests in Paris earlier this week, prompting
Le Figaro newspaper to call the opposition movement a “flop”
in a front page headline.  Even so, it may take years before the French economy starts
to benefit from Hollande’s reform push, which includes a cut in
payroll taxes and reduction in  government spending .  Unpopular President  Meanwhile, his poll numbers are dropping. His approval
rating fell by five points to 30 percent this month, making him
the most unpopular head of state since 1981, according to a TNS-
Sofres poll published Feb. 28. His predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy 
had a 37 percent rating at the same point in his presidency in
March 2008.  The European Commission forecast last week that the French
economy will expand 0.1 percent this year, far short of the
government’s 0.8 percent goal. Slower growth also means France
will miss its target of reducing its budget shortfall to 3
percent of gross domestic product in 2013. The Commission said
it expects the French  budget deficit  at 3.7 percent of GDP and
unemployment at 10.7 percent this year.  “High deficits and unemployment are accelerating” the
drop in support for Hollande, said Carine Marce, a political
analyst at TNS Sofres. The economic news suggests “he can’t
keep up with his promises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  