-- German Factory Orders Unexpectedly Fall on Euro-Area Weak
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-03-07T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/german-factory-orders-unexpectedly-fall-on-euro-area-weak.html
German factory orders unexpectedly
fell in January as the sovereign debt crisis curbed demand in
the euro area.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
decreased 1.9 from December, when they rose a revised 1.1
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
forecast a 0.6 percent gain, according to the median of 41
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . In the year, workday-
adjusted orders dropped 2.5 percent.  The Bundesbank expects the German economy to rebound in the
current quarter after contracting 0.6 percent in the final three
months of 2012. Confidence among entrepreneurs and investors
jumped in February and retail sales rose the most in more than
six years in January. At the same time, the euro area,  Germany ’s
largest export market, is in a recession and the  European
Central Bank  predicts only a gradual recovery later this year.  “There is still uncertainty with regards to the sovereign
debt crisis in  Europe ,” said  Alexander Krueger , chief economist
at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf. “But especially in Germany
there’s an optimistic vibe and I’m sure this will help the
economy return to growth.”  Factory orders from the euro area slumped 4.1 percent in
January, driving a 3 percent decline in export demand, today’s
report shows. Domestic sales dropped 0.6 percent. Orders for
intermediate, investment and consumer goods all fell. December
orders were revised up from an initially reported 0.8 percent
increase.  Bulk Orders  The number of bulk orders in January was significantly
below average, the ministry said. Still, “the drop in orders at
the beginning of this year signals that the manufacturing
industry hasn’t overcome its weak phase yet,” it said.  Germany exports about 40 percent of its products to the
euro area.  The 17-nation euro economy will shrink 0.3 percent this
year, according to the ECB’s December forecasts. It will update
its projections today when policy makers gather in Frankfurt for
their monthly meeting.  “Although the first signs of economic stabilization are
emerging, we expect at least the first half of the year will
remain very challenging,”  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  Chief Executive
Officer Frank Appel said on March 5. “We do expect an
improvement in the second half of the year.”  Some German companies are compensating for weaker demand in
Europe with shipments to faster-growing regions.  Henkel AG (HEN3) , the German maker of Loctite glues and Persil
detergent, said yesterday it expects higher profitability and
sales to rise as much as 5 percent this year as gains in
 emerging markets  help reduce the company’s reliance on Europe.  “A lot points to a strong rebound after the slump in the
fourth quarter,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “There’s a good chance Germany
will lead the euro-area economy back to growth this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  