-- German Factory Orders Fall as Euro Crisis Curbs Demand
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-03-07T12:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/german-factory-orders-fall-as-euro-crisis-curbs-demand-economy.html
German factory orders unexpectedly
fell in January as the sovereign debt crisis curbed demand in
the euro area.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
declined 1.9 percent from December, when they rose a revised 1.1
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
forecast a 0.6 percent gain, according to the median of 41
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . In the year, workday-
adjusted orders dropped 2.5 percent.  The Bundesbank expects the German economy to rebound in the
current quarter after contracting 0.6 percent in the final three
months of 2012. Confidence among entrepreneurs and investors
jumped in February and retail sales rose the most in more than
six years in January. At the same time, the euro area,  Germany ’s
largest export market, is in a recession and the European
Central Bank predicts only a gradual recovery later this year.  “After a long series of encouraging sentiment indicators,
today’s new orders are a disappointment” and “a painful
reminder that the crisis is not over yet,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels. “While the
solid labor market and a sharp increase in retail sales in
January already confirmed the growth-supportive role of
consumption, the strengthening of industrial activity remains a
very gradual and choppy one.”  Market Reaction  The euro and European stocks climbed before the ECB
announces its interest-rate decision at 1:45 p.m. in  Frankfurt .
The euro increased 0.4 percent to $1.3022 at 1:12 p.m. in
Frankfurt, and the  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index rose 0.2 percent. In
the U.S., futures on the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which
closed at a record high yesterday, advanced 0.2 percent and S&P
500 futures gained 0.1 percent.  The Bank of England held its bond-purchase program at 375
billion pounds ($565 billion) and kept its key rate at 0.5
percent today. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  -- set for a change in
leadership -- left an asset-purchase fund unchanged at 76
trillion yen ($810 billion) and rejected a call for an immediate
start to open-ended buying.  Elsewhere, the Swiss central bank said it spent 188 billion
francs ($199 billion) in 2012, more than the previous year, to
enforce the cap on its currency to protect the economy.  Bulk Orders  In Germany, factory orders from the euro area slumped 4.1
percent in January, driving a 3 percent decline in export
demand, today’s report shows. Domestic sales dropped 0.6
percent. Orders for intermediate, investment and consumer goods
all fell. December orders were revised up from an initially
reported 0.8 percent increase.  The number of bulk orders in January was significantly
below average, the ministry said. Still, “the drop in orders at
the beginning of this year signals that the manufacturing
industry hasn’t overcome its weak phase yet,” it said.  Germany exports about 40 percent of its products to the
euro area.  The 17-nation euro economy will shrink 0.3 percent this
year, according to the ECB’s December forecasts. It will update
its projections today.  “Although the first signs of economic stabilization are
emerging, we expect at least the first half of the year will
remain very challenging,”  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  Chief Executive
Officer Frank Appel said on March 5. “We do expect an
improvement in the second half of the year.”  French Unemployment  Unemployment in  France , the euro area’s second-largest
economy, climbed to a 13-year high in the fourth quarter, data
released by the national statistics office showed today. The
jobless rate, based on International Labor Organization
standards, rose to 10.6 percent from a revised 10.2 percent in
the previous three months.  Some German companies are compensating for weaker European
demand with shipments to faster-growing regions.  Henkel AG (HEN3) , the German maker of Loctite glues and Persil
detergent, said yesterday it expects higher profitability and
sales to rise as much as 5 percent this year as gains in
 emerging markets  help reduce the company’s reliance on  Europe .  “A lot points to a strong rebound after the slump in the
fourth quarter,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “There’s a good chance Germany
will lead the euro-area economy back to growth this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  