-- Giants’ Coughlin Says NFL Will Adapt to Running Quarterbacks
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-07T17:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/giants-coughlin-says-nfl-will-adapt-to-running-quarterbacks.html
New York Giants coach Tom Coughlin
said he expects that National Football League defenses will
adapt to the running threat of quarterbacks such as Robert Griffin III, Colin Kaepernick and Russell Wilson.  Griffin, Kaepernick and Wilson all had record-setting
performances in leading their teams to the playoffs last season,
countering what Coughlin said is “normally a taboo” against
running quarterbacks in the NFL.  “Defenses will be better prepared for that next year,”
Coughlin, who has won two Super Bowl titles in nine seasons as
coach of the Giants, said today in an interview on ``Bloomberg
Surveillance'' with  Tom Keene  and Michael McKee. “As a matter 
of fact, we’ve studied it since the end of the regular season.”  While Griffin, 23, had the highest passer rating for a
first-year quarterback in NFL history, he also rushed for a
rookie-record 815 yards for the Washington Redskins before
tearing a ligament in his right knee.  Wilson, 24, had 489 rushing yards for the Seattle Seahawks,
and his versatility helped him record the second-highest rookie
quarterback rating in league history and tie Peyton Manning’s
first-year record for touchdown passes with 26.  Kaepernick, 25, helped the San Francisco 49ers reach the
Super Bowl after taking over as a starter midway through his
second NFL season. He rushed for 415 yards during the regular
season while starting only seven games and set an NFL
quarterback record by rushing for 181 yards in a playoff win
over the Green Bay Packers.  Manning Style  The three provide a stark contrast to the Giants’ Eli Manning, a two-time Super Bowl winner and prototypical
quarterback who passes from the pocket. Manning scrambled for a
total of 30 yards last season. Coughlin said it remains to be
seen how much of a long-term impact a quarterback who runs the
read-option system of offense will have in the NFL.  “A huge chunk of your salary cap, and rightfully so, is in
your quarterback position,” Coughlin said. “And your
quarterback has so much knowledge and so much time spent in
preparation, you can’t afford to not have your general, your
leader, out on the field.”  Coughlin, who this week released a book titled “Earn the
Right to Win,” said he believes restricted free agent wide
receiver Victor Cruz will re-sign with the Giants and that he’s
eager to see whether the fast-paced offense favored by new
Philadelphia Eagles coach Chip Kelly can have the same success
in the NFL as it did at the University of Oregon.  “It makes you prepare for that, the up-tempo type of a
thing,” Coughlin said. “We’re going to have to see.”  Giants’ Odds  The Giants have the best odds of winning the Super Bowl
among the four teams in the National Football Conference’s East
division, at 20-1, while the Eagles are a 50-1 longshot,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The Dallas
Cowboys have 25-1 odds and the Redskins, who are unsure when
Griffin will return, are listed at 30-1. The Giants’ title
chances rank 11th among the NFL’s 32 teams.  Coughlin, who has an 83-61 record in New York, is the
oldest active coach in the NFL and will be 67 when the 2013
season kicks off. He said in his book that he hasn’t thought
about retiring anytime soon.  The oldest coaches in NFL history were George Halas and
Marv Levy, a pair of Hall of Fame members who both stayed in the
league until they were 72.  “You’ve got to try to stay young at heart,” said
Coughlin, who will be entering his 18th season as a head coach.
“I surround myself with enough young coaches and staff to keep
me constantly informed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  