-- MGIC Raises $1.1 Billion Amid Bets on Mortgage Insurance
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-07T14:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/mgic-raises-1-1-billion-amid-betson-mortgage-insurance.html
MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  raised $1.1
billion selling stock and bonds as the insurer bolsters the
 unprofitable  unit that backs home loans.  MGIC sold $450 million in convertible senior notes and 135
million shares of stock for $5.15 apiece, the Milwaukee-based
company said late yesterday in a  statement . The shares slid 7.8
percent to $5.17 at 9:41 a.m. in New York. They closed at $5.34
on March 5, before MGIC said it was offering shares.  Chief Executive Officer Curt Culver, 60, is raising cash
after a measure of risk relative to capital exceeded limits set
by some regulators. MGIC is benefiting as investors bet mortgage
insurers can sell profitable coverage as real estate prices
rebound and the U.S. reduces its role in the housing market.  “There seems to be a broad consensus from both parties in
 Washington  that the federal government needs to continue to
reduce its role in the mortgage markets, making room for sources
of private capital like the  mortgage-insurance  industry,” Mark DeVries, an analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote in a note.  Radian Group Inc. (RDN) , the largest U.S. mortgage insurer,
raised $689 million after commissions and expenses selling
shares and notes last week. Shares of the Philadelphia-based
firm have  advanced  57 percent this year as MGIC has nearly
doubled.  Arch Capital Group Ltd. (ACGL)  reached a $300 million deal
last month to buy mortgage-insurance assets from  PMI Group Inc. (PPMIQ)   MGIC’s ratio of risk to capital at its main insurance unit
was 44.7-to-1 as of Dec. 31, the insurer said Feb. 28, when it
reported fourth-quarter results. The measure exceeds the 25-to-1
risk limit set by some state regulators, after the insurer was
 unprofitable  for six straight years. The shares traded for more
than $70 in 2006.  Radian’s Record  Radian was unprofitable in five of the past six years, as
losses from backing home loans mounted amid a real estate slump.
Mortgage insurers cover losses when homeowners default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs. PMI filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in 2011 and  Triad Guaranty Inc. (TGIC)  has also been forced
to stop selling new policies.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managed the MGIC offerings. The
insurer initially planned to sell 135 million shares and $350
million of notes. Underwriters have an option to purchase about
20.3 million more shares and $50 million more of notes, MGIC
said.  The convertible senior notes have a 2 percent interest rate
and mature in April 2020. Proceeds from the offering will be
used for general corporate purposes, “which may include
increasing the capital of the company’s insurance subsidiary”
and boosting liquidity, MGIC said in yesterday’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  