-- Glencore Said to Raise $7.5 Billion Oil Financing With Vitol
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-03-07T18:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/glencore-said-to-raise-7-5-billion-rosneft-oil-loan-with-vitol.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and Vitol
SA, the two biggest oil traders, raised $7.5 billion in loans to
fund a $10 billion crude-purchase deal with  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) ,
according to three people with knowledge of the deal.  The five-year debt will be marketed to a wider group of
lenders next week and may be increased to $10 billion, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private. Specially-created companies will raise the loan, which
will be backed by a portion of future  oil production  of Moscow-
based Rosneft, the people said.  Bank of America Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc and Societe
Generale SA are helping to market the debt as bookrunners, the
people said. Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc., BNP Paribas SA
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are also participating at the same
level, the people said.  A Moscow-based official at Rosneft, and a spokesman for
Glencore in Baar,  Switzerland , who both asked not to be named
citing company policy, declined to comment on the deal. Patrick
Handley, a London-based spokesman for Vitol, also declined to
comment on the financing.  Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest oil company, signed oil supply
contracts with the two commodity companies for 67 million tonnes
of crude, according to a statement yesterday. The state-run
company will receive a payment of as much as $10 billion before
it starts supplying the oil, it said.  Banco Santander SA, Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan
Stanley joined the deal as mandated lead arrangers, one of the
people said. ABN Amro Bank NV, Barclays Plc, Lloyds Banking
Group Plc, Rabobank International and UBS AG are lead arrangers,
the person said. Deutsche Bank is agent.  Rosneft raised a total of $31 billion from banks for the
purchase of TNK-BP, the largest acquisition financing for a
Russian company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Glencore  fell  0.6 percent to 385.1 pence by the close in
London trading, valuing it at 27.3 billion pounds ($41.1
billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  