-- Global Food Prices Seen Stable in February by FAO as Dairy Rose
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-07T11:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/global-food-prices-seen-stable-in-february-by-fao-as-dairy-rose.html
World food prices  were stable in
February for a second month, as increasing dairy and cooking oil
costs were compensated by declines in grains and sugar, the
 United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization said.  An index of 55 food items tracked by the FAO was at 210.2
points last month, little changed from 210.4 points in January,
the Rome-based FAO wrote in an online  report . The index has
moved within a 0.6-point range in the past three months. Food
prices were still 2.5 percent lower than a year earlier, when
the index averaged 215.6 points, and were down from a record
237.9 points in February 2011.  “It’s interesting how commodities are moving in different
directions,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , an economist at the FAO, said
in a phone interview before the report. “It should force people
to look less at the average number that the index gives, and pay
more attention to individual commodities and trends.”  Dairy prices climbed 2.4 percent last month as hot, dry
weather in southern Pacific countries reduced production, the
FAO said. The agency’s index of oils and fats increased 0.4
percent amid expectations palm oil output will slow. Weakening
demand for  soybean oil  in biodiesel kept the oils index from
rising further, the FAO said.  The FAO’s gauge of world grain prices fell by 0.8 percent
to 245.3 points. Wheat futures declined 8.3 percent last month
on the  Chicago  Board of Trade as snowfall in recent weeks
improved soil moisture in some areas affected by drought. Rough
rice prices added 1.8 percent in Chicago.  “Wheat prices eased in recent weeks, reflecting improved
crop prospects in the U.S.,” the FAO said in the report. “The
increase in rice prices was mostly a reflection of policy
support in Thailand and India and a tightening of supplies in
the U.S.”  An index of sugar prices dropped 3.2 percent to 259.2
points, the lowest level since July 2010, on expectations of a
world production surplus. The index for meat prices was
unchanged at 177.7 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  