-- Goldman Hires Morgan Stanley Asia Banking Head Kate Richdale
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2013-03-07T07:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/goldman-hires-morgan-stanley-asia-investment-bank-head-richdale.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  hired Kate Richdale from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to head investment banking services
for  Asia  excluding  Japan  as the Wall Street firm looks to
strengthen client relationships in the region.  The 13-year Morgan Stanley veteran will be responsible for
covering clients, according to a memo obtained by  Bloomberg
News . Richdale, who was head of investment banking for Asia-
Pacific at Morgan Stanley, was also made a partner at Goldman
Sachs, according to the document. Edward Naylor, a Hong Kong-
based spokesman at the bank, confirmed the memo’s contents.  Richdale’s departure follows Morgan Stanley’s deferral of
bonuses for some senior bankers and traders over three years, a
person briefed on the matter said in January. Goldman Sachs paid
employees more in 2012 than the previous year on average, as
revenue surged 19 percent and it cut staff by 3 percent.  She will report to Dan Dees and Matthew Westerman, Goldman
Sachs co-heads of  investment banking  for the region, according
to the memo. Tim Leissner, former Asia head of investment
banking services, was promoted to vice chairman of investment
banking for the region, Naylor said.  Richdale will join the firm in June and be based in Hong
Kong, according to the memo. She had been head of Asian
investment banking at Morgan Stanley since March 2011 and her
previous roles at the New York-based bank included chief
executive officer for Southeast Asia, the document showed.  Asian Cuts  Morgan Stanley cut about 15 percent of its investment
banking positions in Asia starting in mid-January, involving 55
to 60 bankers in the business that was overseen by Richdale, two
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  The company today confirmed Richdale’s departure and named
Dieter Turowski and Shane Zhang as co-heads of Asia-Pacific
investment banking, according to a memo obtained by Bloomberg
News. Hong Kong-based spokesman  Nick Footitt  confirmed the
content of the document. Turowski was most recently global co-
head of natural resources and Zhang was co-head of  China 
investment banking.  Goldman Sachs allocated $12.9 billion for compensation in
2012, up from $12.2 billion in 2011, even as the New York-based
bank employed 900 fewer people.  The two Wall Street firms slipped in the rankings for
managing Asian stock offerings last year as the volume of sales
slumped to a four-year low amid an economic slowdown in China,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Morgan Stanley was ranked fourth in underwriting equity,
equity-linked and rights offers in the region excluding Japan,
declining from second in 2011, while Goldman Sachs was fifth,
down from first, the data show. UBS AG topped the list.  Goldman Sachs was the top merger adviser for Asia excluding
Japan for the past two years, while Morgan Stanley ranked third
in the same period, according to the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  