-- Goldman Sachs to Name New Managing Directors Every Two Years
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2013-03-07T16:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/goldman-sachs-to-name-new-managing-directors-every-two-years.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
largest  U.S. bank  by assets, will name new managing directors
every two years instead of annually as it overhauls a process
adopted 17 years ago.  After recipients are announced at the end of 2013, the firm
won’t select managing directors until 2015, the firm wrote in an
internal memo.  David Wells , a spokesman for the New York-based
bank, confirmed the contents of the memo.  Goldman Sachs created the managing director title in 1996
to recognize top employees who weren’t yet partners. The firm
promoted 266 employees to managing director in 2012, up from 261
a year earlier. About 7.2 percent of the bank’s employees hold
the title.  “A biennial process will allow us to invest more in the
managing-director selection process so that it will continue to
be a disciplined and rigorous exercise,” the bank said in the
memo. “This will help to ensure that the managing director
title remains as aspirational as it should be for our top
performers.”  Business Insider reported the change earlier today.  Managing directors typically receive a base salary of
$500,000, lower than the $900,000 granted to partners. Both also
get bonuses that can boost their total compensation into the
millions of dollars.  The first class of 87 managing directors included William C. Dudley, now president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York ; Clifford S. Asness, who left in 1998 to start hedge fund
AQR Capital Management LLC; and Richard J. Gnodde, who was named
co-head of global  investment banking  at Goldman Sachs in May
2011.  “The number of managing directors at Goldman Sachs has
grown as a percentage of our population since the first class,
reflecting the growth of our business and the expansion of our
global footprint,” the firm said in the memo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  