-- Goodyear Workers’ Clash Leaves 19 French Police Injured
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-03-07T16:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/goodyear-workers-clash-leaves-19-french-police-injured.html
Nineteen police officers were
injured after clashes today with workers at  Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Company (GT)  protesting the closing of a plant in  France .  Six of the police officers were taken for medical
treatment, while one protester was arrested, the Paris police
press office said. The protesters were throwing stones and other
projectiles at the law enforcement officers, the police said.
They were demonstrating in front of Goodyear’s French
headquarters in Rueil-Malmaison, a western suburb of Paris.  Last month, the 1,173 workers at Goodyear whose jobs are at
risk demonstrated with their spouses and children in the town of
Amiens, in northern France, where the U.S.’s largest tire-maker
plans to close a plant. In a statement today, Goodyear said it
condemns the “acts of violence.”  With the number of French jobless at a 15-year high --
leaving about 3.17 million people seeking employment -- labor
unrest is turning into one of the biggest threats to the
government of Socialist President  Francois Hollande . Hollande,
who promised to reverse the trend of rising joblessness by year-
end, may be set to acknowledge that it’s a pledge he may not be
able to keep.  The CGT union condemned the “outburst of police
violence,” it said in an e-mailed statement today. “Six
employees have been injured, two of whom got a two-week medical
leave,” the main union at the Goodyear plant said.  Planned auto factory closings elsewhere in the region have
also stoked rising social tensions, as long-time workers face
unemployment with no clear prospects for finding another job.  Ford Clash  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest carmaker, has
barely produced any vehicles since Jan. 16 at its factory in
Aulnay, on the outskirts of Paris, which is slated to close by
2014. A group of about 300 workers is blocking production and
the head of plant was held for a few hours last October.  The head of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s factory in Genk,  Belgium , was
also held for about an hour last month by a group of workers
opposed to a plan to close the plant, which employs 4,300.  Goodyear announced plans on Jan. 31 to shut the Amiens
factory, citing the failure of five years of negotiations with
the main CGT union at the plant to increase productivity.
Goodyear currently employs about 3,000 people across the country
and there’s no set date for the closing, spokeswoman Mathilde
Davadant said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  