-- Guggenheim Names Silverman Global Head of Real Estate
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-03-07T16:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/guggenheim-names-silverman-global-head-of-real-estate.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC, the $170
billion asset-management firm whose executives have a stake in
the Los Angeles Dodgers, named Henry Silverman to oversee its
real estate and infrastructure business after hiring him last
year from private-equity firm  Apollo Global Management LLC. (APO)   Silverman, a former chief operating officer at Apollo
before joining Guggenheim as vice chairman, will be responsible
for managing and coordinating all of the firm’s real estate
businesses, Guggenheim said today in a statement. The firm is
also creating a team that will invest in energy-related
infrastructure assets in the U.S.,  Canada ,  Mexico  and the
Caribbean, according to the statement.  Silverman, 72, was Apollo’s operating chief from 2009 to
2011, and served as director and vice chairman of the board, as
well as a member of the firm’s executive committee. Prior to
Apollo, Silverman was chairman of the board and chief executive
officer of Cendant Corp. and its predecessor, Hospitality
Franchise Systems, which owned hotels. Silverman was also
chairman of Realogy Holdings Corp., a residential real estate
broker that was spun off from Cendant.  Guggenheim, which is hiring executives as it expands into
businesses from digital media to hedge funds, last year was in
talks to buy Deutsche Bank AG’s four money-management units
before the deal fell apart. Guggenheim later hired executives
from Deutsche Bank’s RREEF investment unit, including William
Reid, Michael Madia, Justine Gordon, Vince White and James
Gabriel. The new North American infrastructure team, which will
raise money from clients on a deal-by-deal basis, will be led by
Reid.  SEC Investigation  Guggenheim in January hired Ross Levinsohn, former interim
chief executive officer of Yahoo! Inc., to oversee a newly
formed digital media unit. In addition to the $2.15 billion
purchase of the Dodgers by Guggenheim Baseball Management
announced in March, Guggenheim in September agreed to buy Dick
Clark Productions, which produces “New Year’s Rockin’ Eve” and
“The Golden Globes,” along with Mandalay Entertainment and
Mosaic Media Investment Partners LLC.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating whether junk-bond pioneer Michael Milken acted as
an adviser to Guggenheim in violation of a lifetime ban from the
securities industry, a person with knowledge of the matter said
last week. Guggenheim has said Milken isn’t involved in
management of the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  