-- Libor, Euribor Antitrust Probes at ‘Advanced Stage,’ EU Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-07T17:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/libor-euribor-antitrust-probes-at-advanced-stage-eu-says-1-.html
European Union antitrust probes into
possible fixing of the Libor and Euribor benchmark lending rates
are “at an advanced stage,” an EU official said today.  Regulators suspect that “major banks and brokers
manipulated the relevant benchmarks to their benefit,” Eric Van
Ginderachter, the European Commission’s director of cartels,
said at a Brussels conference. The probes are “clearly a top
priority” for the antitrust authority, he said.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays (BARC)  Plc,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  have all said
they were quizzed by the EU over benchmark interest rates. The
EU is investigating possible rigging of the London Interbank
Offered Rate, or Libor, as well as Euribor and Tibor rates that
may have affected derivatives denominated in yen, euro and Swiss
francs.  Financial regulators in the U.K. and the U.S. have already
imposed more than $2.5 billion in fines on Barclays,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
RBS, and are investigating other companies. Any EU antitrust
fines will cover all the companies involved at once, EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said last month.  The EU can levy fines of as much of 10 percent of a
company’s yearly global revenue for each cartel in which they
participate. Interest-rate derivatives markets were worth $20
trillion in 2011, according to Almunia. He said last week that
companies involved in cartel probes such as Libor can request a
settlement which would allow them to reduce a fine by as much as
10 percent.  Van Ginderachter said increasing numbers of companies are
show interest in settling cartel probes. Regulators won’t
negotiate on fines or on infringements of competition rules, he
said. Recent settlement talks have taken from 10 months to 16
months to conclude, he said.  Officials are prepared to ditch settlements and adopt a
more adversarial approach if progress isn’t being made, Van
Ginderachter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 