-- Libyan Lawmaker Resigns After Violence Triggered by Purge
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2013-03-07T16:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/libyan-lawmaker-resigns-after-violence-triggered-by-purge.html
A senior Libyan lawmaker resigned
after gunmen blockaded the National Congress and chased
parliamentarians trying to debate legislation that would purge
former regime officials from office.  Mohammed Toumi said he was stepping down as Chairman of the
congressional 19 Committee, which proposed the law, in an
interview in Tripoli today. The 12-hour siege by armed
protesters ended early yesterday.  As written, the so-called Isolation Law would apply to the
government, the civil service, the security services and
judiciary, as well as the state-owned oil industry, and force
about 30 parliamentarians to resign. Prime Minister Ali Zaidan
and Mohammed Magariaf, the parliamentary Speaker whose car was
riddled with bullets by unknown gunmen on March 5, would be
forced to quit because of their work as diplomats under the late
Muammar Qaddafi. Lawmakers are due to vote on the proposed law
on March 10. Voting has already been postponed twice.  The draft law is a focal point for anger in Libya, mired in
unrest two years after the ouster of Qaddafi. The Muslim
Brotherhood’s Justice and Construction party, the second largest
party in congress, and many independent lawmakers, support the
law. It is opposed by the center-right National Forces Alliance,
congress’s largest party, whose leader, Mahmoud Jibril, a former
rebel Prime Minister, would also be barred because of his work
as an economics adviser to Qaddafi.  Congress was meeting at the meteorological center, south of
the capital, when the gunmen began their blockade. Protesters
are already occupying the National Congress building and also
their second-choice legislature, the Rixos hotel.  Militia Blockade  As the debate began, militia and protesters blockaded
routes out, with teams of gunmen entering the complex and giving
chase to congress members. Lawmaker Juma Asayah was injured
jumping over a wall as the session was suspended.  The Ministry of Interior and Justice condemned the attacks
in a news conference yesterday.  Toumi said he favors a law with fewer exclusions. Both the
19 Committee, named for the number of its congress members, and
the congress itself had yet to agree on amendments, he said.  The blockade and attempted murder of Magariaf has led some
lawmakers, including Toumi, to consider suspending congress
altogether.  “We do not have the required protection,” he said. “We
can’t work in such an environment.” He blamed the government
for failing to provide security forces to protect lawmakers of
the 200-strong congress.  Shredded Tires  Photos released of Magariaf’s armored Toyota SUV show it
was struck by at least a dozen shots. It also showed shredded
tires and multiple bullet strikes, including five impacts
against the bullet-proof glass of the rear window where he sat.  “If you worked with the regime, you have the ideas of the
regime,” said Dr Mohammed Sammu, an independent lawmaker from
Tripoli in an interview. “We ask you now, you can be with us,
but don’t lead us.”  Congress member Zeinab El-Tarqi said the Isolation Law was
wrong to target all officials, regardless of whether they
committed illegal acts. “This is wrong,” she said. “We should
isolate behavior, not persons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  