-- Abortion War Renewed as Arkansas Passses Toughest Limits
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-03-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/idaho-judge-strikes-down-state-ban-on-late-abortions.html
An Idaho ban on abortions after 20
weeks was overturned just as Arkansas lawmakers passed a more
restrictive law opponents vowed to fight, intensifying a renewed
debate over reproductive rights that has involved at least 10
states.  U.S. District Judge Lynn Winmill in Boise on March 6
granted a mother’s request to strike down the state’s ban and
denied a prosecutor’s request to dismiss her challenge, saying
the law was an unconstitutional obstacle to women’s rights. In
Arkansas on the same day, a near-ban on the procedure from the
12th week of pregnancy onward was approved by legislators who
overrode a veto by Governor Mike Beebe, a Democrat. The  American
Civil Liberties Union  pledged to sue to block the law in the
coming weeks.  “This has no chance of surviving a careful constitutional
challenge,” said Steve Sheppard, associate dean of the
 University of Arkansas  School of Law in Fayetteville, in a phone
interview. “Obviously, you have to protect the rights of women,
and this does not.”  At least five other U.S. states have faced court challenges
over laws tightening abortion restrictions in the past few
years. In December, a state judge in Atlanta blocked a Georgia
law limiting the availability of mid-term abortions. That same
month,  Oklahoma ’s supreme court struck down laws expanding rules
for doctors prescribing pregnancy-ending drugs and requiring
women seeking abortions to have ultrasound scans.  Most Restrictive  The ACLU said the Arkansas measure is the most restrictive
since  Guam  tried to ban abortion in 1990. Lawyers for  women’s
rights  groups argued the new law has no chance of being upheld,
because it so clearly contravenes legal precedent.  “The chances are zero,” said Stephanie Toti, senior staff
attorney for the New York-based Center for Reproductive Rights.
“It’s clearly unconstitutional--open and shut--because it
violates the rights of a woman in Roe v. Wade. The state can’t
ban an abortion prior to viability,” generally recognized as 24
weeks, she said. “Most states have declined” to pass such a
law “because it’s so obvious it will be overturned.”  Toti said the second-most stringent law is in  Arizona ,
which imposes a 20-week limit. That law is under legal attack.  Designed by the states, U.S. abortion law has become a web
of conflicting statutes, according to data compiled by the
 Guttmacher Institute  of  New York , which promotes sexual and
reproductive health.  Thirty-nine states require a licensed physician to perform
abortions, eight states restrict insurance coverage, 26 states
have waiting periods, 38 states require parental involvement for
a minor, 46 states allow individual health care providers to
refuse to participate, and 17 states require counseling, the
data show.  ‘Unconstitutional Law’  “The ACLU will challenge this dangerous and
unconstitutional law in court to put this private decision back
in the hands of a woman and her family,” Elissa Berger, the
civil liberties group’s advocacy and policy counsel, said in a
statement following the Arkansas legislature’s action.  At least 10 states have sought to ban abortions after the
20th week of pregnancy, around the time women commonly receive
ultrasounds to screen for fetal anomalies. A federal appeals
court in  San Francisco  is considering a challenge to the Arizona
law.  States including Texas and  Indiana  have passed laws cutting
funding to  Planned Parenthood  because the group performs
abortions in addition to providing  health services  to women.
Those measures have also been challenged in the courts.
Mississippi’s last abortion clinic is suing the state over
regulations that it contends will force it to close.  Legalized Abortion  In the Idaho case, the judge cited the 1973 U.S. Supreme
Court decision in Roe v. Wade, which legalized abortion. He also
cited a 1992 decision in which the court found that while a
woman’s right to an abortion isn’t absolute, states couldn’t
impose an undue burden or a substantial obstacle to a woman
seeking an abortion.  “The state’s clear disregard of this controlling supreme
court precedent and its apparent determination to define
viability in a manner specifically and repeatedly condemned by
the supreme court evinces an intent to place an insurmountable
obstacle in the path of women seeking non-therapeutic
abortions,” Winmill wrote in the decision.  “An outright ban on abortions at or after 20 weeks’
gestation places, not just a substantial obstacle, but an
absolute obstacle, in the path of women seeking such
abortions,” he said.  Unemployed Mother  Jennie Linn McCormack, an unemployed Idaho mother of three
who became pregnant in 2010 while unmarried, was charged under
the state law after taking drugs bought off the Internet to
abort her fetus. If convicted, she would have faced as long as
five years in prison.  She sued to strike down the law, with the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in San Francisco upholding a lower-court decision that
allowed her to do so.  In Arkansas, the state’s Republican-controlled House of
Representatives voted 56-33 to override Beebe’s veto of its
abortion bill, a day after the Republican-led Senate acted on
the law that makes exceptions only in cases of rape, incest, or
to save the life of the mother or if there are lethal fetal
disorders.  Beebe told lawmakers the measure was unconstitutional, the
 Associated Press  reported. Supporters said that shouldn’t stop
them from acting.  “Not the governor, nor anyone else other than the courts,
can determine if something is constitutional or
unconstitutional,” State Representative Bruce Westerman, a
Republican, said in urging his colleagues to override Beebe’s
veto, according to AP.  ‘Stand Up’  Stacey Hall, spokeswoman for Beebe, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message yesterday seeking comment on the
law.  Bart Hester, a Republican from Cave Springs,  Arkansas , and
a co-sponsor of the law, said he wasn’t sure it would survive a
constitutional challenge.  “As legislators, we have to stand up for what the people
of Arkansas want, and the people of Arkansas are overwhelmingly
pro-life,” he said in a phone interview.  The case is McCormack v. Hiedeman, 4:11-cv-00433, U.S.
District Court, District of Idaho (Boise).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at   jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net . 