-- IIF Urges Nations to Coordinate Policies to Avoid Currency War
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-03-07T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/iif-urges-nations-to-coordinate-policies-to-avoid-currency-war.html
Japan  and the world’s other largest
economies need to coordinate policies and avoid targeting
exchange rates to diminish the risk of inflaming a currency war,
the  Institute of International Finance  said.  “Japan’s turn towards aggressive monetary easing needs
explicit international policy coordination, particularly in
commitment not to target exchange rates,” the Washington-based
 association  of the biggest commercial and investment banks said
today in a statement. “Otherwise the risk is obvious -- an
inadvertent stumble into ‘currency wars.’”  The institute indicated support for the stance of Group of
Seven and Group of 20 economies to avoid targeting  exchange
rates  and let markets set currency levels, as expressed by
global finance chiefs in Moscow last month. That view was
reiterated by  Lael Brainard , the U.S. Treasury Department’s
undersecretary for international affairs, in a speech in
Washington March 5.  The yen has fallen about 13 percent in the past three
months as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledges to end deflation and
revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  The institute’s report on  capital markets  today mentioned
Japan’s efforts among major uncertainties for the global
economy, along with Italy’s inconclusive Feb. 24-25
parliamentary election, U.S.  federal budget  cuts, and Chinese
real-estate price increases and credit growth. The banking group
also cautioned central banks against extending monetary stimulus
longer than needed.  “The longer central bank liquidity is relied upon to hold
things together, the more excesses and distortions are being
accumulated in the financial system,” the group said in its
report today. “An eventual unwinding of these excesses will
become a destabilizing risk event.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 