-- Mugabe Seizing Impala Assets Impales Bonds: South Africa Credit
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-03-07T13:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/impala-bonds-dive-on-zimbabwe-asset-seizure-south-africa-credit.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.’s (IMP) 
yields climbed to within two basis points of a record after
Zimbabwe said the company’s unit in the nation must cede 51
percent ownership to the country without compensation.  Yields on the second-biggest platinum producer’s rand-
denominated convertible debt due in February 2021 rose 14 basis
points to 5.23 percent yesterday, after Zimbabwe backtracked on
a pact to pay the company for the assets. The rate compares with
a two basis-point drop in average dollar yields of companies in
the JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEMBI Metals & Mining  index .  Impala, which owns 87 percent of  Zimplats Holdings Ltd. (ZIM) , on
Jan. 11 signed terms to sell a majority stake to black
Zimbabweans and the government for $971 million. On March 1,
President  Robert Mugabe  said the country, which has the world’s
largest known platinum and chrome reserves after  South Africa ,
shouldn’t pay for a stake in Zimplats because all natural
resources belonged to the state. The announcement meant Impala’s
holding in the unit has to be ceded without payment,
Indigenization Minister  Saviour Kasukuwere  said in an interview
yesterday.  “There are extraordinarily high risks doing business in
Zimbabwe,” Ryan Wibberley, a trader at Investec Asset
Management, said by phone from  Cape Town . “The government takes
these companies to the brink.”  Seize Land  Kasukuwere’s comments come a day after Johannesburg-based
Impala, the world’s second-biggest platinum producer, said about
27,948 hectares (69,061 acres) of the company’s land, equating
to 50 percent of Zimplats’ mining claims, would be seized by the
state, following a March 1 decree in the Government Gazette.  The companies are taking legal advice, Impala said in a
March 5 statement.  The impact of the Zimbabwean government’s actions on Impala
will be limited and will mainly affect the share price rather
than the bonds, according to Rashaad Tayob, a portfolio manager
who oversees fixed-interest investments among $6.2 billion of
assets at Cape Town-based Abax Investments.  “The biggest component of Impala is its local
operations,” he said in a phone interview yesterday, referring
to the world’s biggest platinum mine, which lies north west of
Johannesburg. “Even before the bonds were issued, there was
already a lot of speculation and uncertainty about what would
happen. A lot of that risk was already priced in.”  Stocks Drop  On Feb. 15, Impala said it sold 2.67 billion rand ($294
million) of convertible rand-denominated bonds and $200 million
of dollar debt due in February 2018. It pays a 5 percent coupon
on the rand debt and 1 percent on the dollar securities, which
are both convertible into shares at a premium of 35 percent to
the market value of the stock.  The shares  fell 19 percent this year to 134.61 rand by the
close in Johannesburg yesterday, compared with a  3 percent gain 
in the FTSE/JSE Africa All Share index.  Impala’s profit declined 78 percent for the six months
through December, missing analysts’ estimates, because of a six-
week strike at its South African operations, while costs per
refined ounce surged 52 percent. The price Impala got for
platinum in the period fell 7.9 percent to $1,541 an ounce from
a year earlier.  “ Zimbabwe  isn’t the only reason for the share-price
drop,” Wibberley said. “You have a lot of shareholders who
went through a lot of pain last year and held on. Then they
issue a convertible bond and the shareholders hold on. Then
their results came out and they hold on. And then there’s just
one more thing and then they let go.”  Rand Decline  Calls to the phone of Zimplats Chief Executive Officer Alex Mhembere in Harare weren’t answered.  The rand slipped 0.4 percent to 9.1608 per dollar by 3:28
p.m. in Johannesburg. That extended its decline this year to 7.5
percent, the worst performer this year among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg this year.  Yields on  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) ’s convertible bonds due
December 2015 fell 66 basis points, or 0.66 percentage point to
12.11 percent yesterday, while the rate on South Africa’s rand
debt due in December 2018 was unchanged at 6.09 percent.  Zimbabwe’s so-called indigenization laws, passed in 2011,
compel all foreign- and white-owned businesses to sell or
surrender controlling stakes to black Zimbabweans or the
government. The country, which has been ruled by a coalition
government since 2009, is due to hold elections after a March
referendum on a new constitution.  While Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Congress-Patriotic
Front is backing the indigenization laws Prime Minister  Morgan
Tsvangirai , who leads the Movement for Democratic Change, has
criticized them.  “There will be greater clarity on the indigenization after
the referendum,” Stephen Meintjes, head of research at
stockbroker Imara S.P. Reid, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Things will calm down and sobriety will return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  