-- Linde Profit Misses Estimates as European Steel Demand Slows
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-03-07T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/linde-profit-misses-estimates-as-european-steel-demand-slows.html
  Linde AG (LIN) , tied with  Air Liquide SA (AI) 
as the world’s biggest industrial gas company by sales, reported
fourth-quarter profit that missed analyst estimates as slowing
demand in  Europe  stunted growth.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization rose 14 percent to 967 million euros ($1.3
billion), the Munich-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts had predicted 976 million euros. Linde proposed an
annual dividend of 2.70 euros a share.  Linde has doubled its North America gases sales with the
$3.8 billion purchase of Lincare in August and the acquisition
of  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) ’s home care business in
January. Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Reitzle said in
October he will seek further savings in purchasing,  information
technology  and the cylinder and liquefied gas supply chain.  “We have been able to hold our own, although the climate
has worsened in the course of the year,” Chief Executive
Officer Wolfgang Reitzle said in the statement. “Even though
conditions are unlikely to improve, we are sticking to our
targets.”  Rival Air Liquide said last month that fluctuating global
market conditions may mean it reviews its target of boosting
sales by 8 percent to 10 percent through 2015. The development
of cheap shale gas in  North America , and of coal in  China , as
well as an “upheaval” in nuclear energy, may force the Paris-
based company to follow customers such as steelmakers and
chemical producers that are shifting production to low-cost
regions, its Chief Executive Officer Benoit Potier said.  Linde’s quarterly sales increased 18 percent to 4.22
billion euros, in line with estimates. Net income gained 8.8
percent to 346 million euros, beating the 333 million-euro
estimate of the Bloomberg survey. It reiterated a target of 4
billion euros in operating profit this year, while seeking
between 750 million euros and 900 million euros in further
savings by 2016.  Return on capital employed will be at least 14 percent from
that year, with Ebitda of at least 5 billion euros. Linde said
today.  The plan will be completed by the successor to CEO Reitzle,
who said March 3 he will not seek to extend his contract beyond
May 2014. The search for a successor has been whittled down to
two external candidates, Supervisory Board Chairman Manfred Schneider said at the same time.  An estimated 7.67 trillion cubic feet of U.S. natural gas
was extracted using fracking in the U.S. last year. That’s 17
times more than a decade earlier, according to the Energy
Information Administration, which forecast production will reach
13.6 trillion cubic feet in 2035, accounting for 49 percent of
gas output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  