-- India Forms Panel to Consider Wheat Exports From State Reserves
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-03-07T05:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/india-forms-panel-to-consider-wheat-exports-from-state-reserves.html
India , the world’s second-biggest
wheat  grower , formed a ministers’ panel to consider additional
exports from state inventories to make room for a near-record
harvest starting next month.  The panel will include Food Minister K.V. Thomas, Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram and Agriculture Minister  Sharad
Pawar , Thomas told reporters in New Delhi today after a cabinet
meeting that considered a proposal to permit exports of 5
million metric tons from state reserves. The ministers will meet
later today, Pawar told reporters.  Shipments from India are adding to global supplies even as
 Australia  predicts a 13 percent increase in its harvest, snow
water replenishes U.S. soil moisture, the biggest shipper, and
 Argentina  eases curbs on exports. Sales from India may reach 10
million tons in the year from April 1, according to New Delhi-
based National Centre for Agricultural Economics and Policy
Research. That along with forecasts for record rice inventories
among the biggest exporters may contain world  food costs  that
have tumbled 12 percent from an all-time high in 2011.  “India has got four to five months for exports until the
northern hemisphere crop comes into the market in August and
September,” said Vijay Iyengar, managing director of Agrocorp
International Pte., a Singapore-based trader. “Countries in
 Asia ,  Africa  and the  Middle East  will buy Indian wheat.”  Record harvests expanded state wheat stockpiles in India by
32 percent to 31 million tons at the start of February, forcing
the government to allow shipments of 4.5 million tons by state
companies since July. The food ministry first proposed
additional exports in January.  Middle East, Africa  Exports from India may total 5 million tons in the year
ending March 31, with sales mostly to  Southeast Asia , the Middle
East and Africa at prices ranging from $305 a ton to $315 a ton,
displacing supplies from Ukraine and Australia, Veena Sharma,
secretary of the Roller Flour Millers Federation of India, said
yesterday. The country is boosting shipments as prices trade
near eight-month lows after crops improved globally.  Futures have fallen 28 percent in  Chicago  since reaching a
four-year high of $9.4725 in July. The contract for May delivery
rose 0.3 percent to $6.8575 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade at 11:03 a.m. in Mumbai. Prices fell to $6.80 yesterday,
the lowest since June 22.  “The global wheat price looks bearish, so India should
export as early as possible,” said Vandana Bharti, assistant
vice president at New Delhi-based SMC Comtrade Ltd. “Though it
is bearish globally as it will add to the surplus, the Indian
market looks bullish.”  Farmers in India will harvest 92.3 million tons starting
April 1, near the record 94.9 million tons a year earlier,
according to the farm ministry. The government plans to boost
purchases from farmers to 44 million tons this year from 38.1
million a year earlier, the food ministry said Feb. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  