-- Indian Bonds Halt Three-Day Advance as Debt Supply Set to Rise
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-03-07T11:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/india-10-year-bond-yield-drops-to-one-week-low-as-rate-cut-seen.html
Indian  bonds  halted a three-day
advance on speculation a record sovereign borrowing program for
the year starting April 1 will damp demand for existing notes.  The government plans to complete 60 percent to 65 percent
of its annual debt-sales target by September, a Finance Ministry
official with knowledge of the matter said. Bonds erased an
earlier gain as investors expect cash supply in the financial
system to decline starting next week as companies pay quarterly
taxes, said R.S. Chauhan, chief dealer of fixed-income and
currencies at  State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur. (SBBJ)   “Steady debt supplies and strained liquidity will keep
yields at higher levels,” said Mumbai-based Chauhan.  The yield on the 8.15 percent securities maturing in June,
2022 was little changed from yesterday at 7.86 percent after
touching 7.85 percent earlier, according to the central bank’s
trading system.  The calendar for bonds sales may be set by the ministry and
the central bank in the third week of March, the official said.
The government will probably have a 750 billion rupee ($13.7
billion) cash balance at the start of the next fiscal year after
reining in spending, the official said.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, who unveiled the
annual budget on Feb. 28, set a borrowing goal of 6.29 trillion
rupees in the year through March 2014, 13 percent more than in
the preceding period.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose one basis
point to 7.59 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  