-- India’s Wheat Shipments Are Seen at Record on More Sales
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-03-07T15:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/india-s-wheat-shipments-are-seen-at-record-on-more-sales.html
Wheat exports from  India , the
world’s second-biggest producer, may surge to an all-time high
next year after the government approved additional shipments to
make room for a near-record harvest starting next month.  A panel of ministers headed by Farm Minister Sharad Pawar
authorized the export of 5 million metric tons from state
reserves by private companies, Food Minister K.V. Thomas told
reporters in New Delhi today. That’s in addition to 4.5 million
tons already approved for shipment by government-run companies
since July, he said.  India’s shipments are adding to global supplies even as
 Australia  predicts a 13 percent increase in its harvest, snow
replenishes soil moisture in the U.S., the biggest shipper, and
 Argentina  eases export curbs. Sales from India may reach 10
million tons in the year from April 1, according to the New
Delhi-based National Centre for Agricultural Economics and
Policy Research. That, along with forecasted record rice
inventories in the biggest exporters, may restrain world food
costs that tumbled 12 percent from an all-time high in 2011.  “India has got four to five months for exports until the
Northern Hemisphere crop comes into the market in August and
September,” said Vijay Iyengar, managing director of Agrocorp
International Pte., a Singapore-based trader. “Countries in
Asia,  Africa  and the Middle East will buy Indian wheat.”  More exports of wheat by state-run trading companies may be
allowed “as we want to establish our brand,” Thomas said. The
government fixed a minimum price of 14,800 rupees ($271.88) a
ton for exports and private traders need to buy the grain from
2011-12 crop supplies kept in warehouses in Punjab state, he
said.  Asian Sales  Exports from India may total 5 million tons in the year
ending March 31, with sales mostly to Southeast Asia, the Middle
East and Africa at prices ranging from $305 to $315 a ton,
displacing supplies from Ukraine and Australia, Veena Sharma,
secretary of the Roller Flour Millers Federation of India, said
yesterday. The country is boosting shipments at a time when
prices are trading near eight-month lows after crops improved
globally.  Futures have fallen 27 percent in  Chicago  since reaching a
four-year high of $9.4725 a bushel in July. The contract for May
delivery rose 0.6 percent to $6.88 a bushel on the Chicago Board
of Trade by 9:33 a.m. Prices fell to as low as $6.80 yesterday,
the lowest since June 22. The global wheat harvest may climb 4.3
percent to 690 million tons this year, the United Nations’ Food
& Agriculture Organization said today in a report, as European
farmers expanded acreage while yields rebound in  Russia .  Global Price  “The global wheat price looks bearish, so India should
export as early as possible,” said Vandana Bharti, assistant
vice president at New Delhi-based SMC Comtrade Ltd. “Though it
is bearish globally as it will add to the surplus, the Indian
market looks bullish.”  India’s wheat production may total 92.3 million tons in the
year ending June, near the record 94.9 million tons a year
earlier, according to the farms ministry. State wheat stockpiles
in India expanded 32 percent to 31 million tons at the start of
February. The government plans to boost purchases from farmers
to 44 million tons in the marketing year starting April 1 from
38.1 million a year earlier, the food ministry said Feb. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  