-- Indonesia Holds Rate as Inflation Limits Room to Spur Growth
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-03-07T09:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/indonesia-holds-rate-as-inflation-limits-scope-to-support-growth.html
Indonesia kept  interest rates 
unchanged for a 13th consecutive meeting as accelerating
inflation reduced scope for the central bank to lower borrowing
costs and support slowing economic growth.  Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution and his board held
the  reference rate  at a record-low 5.75 percent, the central
bank said in Jakarta today. The decision was predicted by all 21
economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News .  Higher power tariffs, an increase in minimum wages and a
weakening rupiah have contributed to inflation pressures in
Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy, limiting room for monetary
stimulus. The central bank, which faces a leadership transition
when Nasution’s term ends in May, is also grappling with a
current-account deficit and an export slump.  “As long as there’s no improvement in the current-account
deficit and the rupiah remains under pressure, the central bank
will be constrained in cutting rates to stimulate the economy,”
said Juniman, chief economist at PT Bank Internasional  Indonesia 
in Jakarta. “The new central bank chief will need to balance
containing inflation while keeping the expansion robust.”  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,694 per dollar as of 3:45
p.m. in Jakarta, according to the prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. In the past year, the currency is the
worst performer in Asia after the yen and the Indian rupee among
11 most active Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Guard Rupiah  The yield on the government’s 11 percent debt due October
2014 dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
4.27 percent as of 3:04 p.m. in Jakarta, the lowest level since
February 2012, prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association
show.  Bank Indonesia  will guard the rupiah and keep it in line
with its fundamentals, the central bank said today. The current-
account deficit will probably narrow this quarter, it said.  The central bank needs to remain alert and monitor
inflation trends, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said March 1,
after consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in 20 months in
February on higher food costs and power tariffs. Policy makers
may take action on the benchmark rate if the currency’s
depreciation causes inflation to accelerate, Sarwono has said.  Consumer prices climbed 5.31 percent last month from a year
earlier, after gaining 4.57 percent in January. Bank Indonesia
expects inflation to remain in a range of 3.5 percent to 5.5
percent in 2013 and 2014, it said today.  New Team  Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has nominated
Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  as the next central bank
chief. A parliamentary committee agreed this week to put
Martowardojo through a fit-and-proper test, after rejecting him
as a candidate for the same post in 2008. Nasution’s term ends
May 23.  The government will cooperate with Bank Indonesia to manage
inflation, Martowardojo said today.  Indonesia’s  gross domestic product  increased 6.11 percent
in the three months through December from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau said Feb. 5, compared with 6.16 percent the
previous quarter.  The economy may grow 6.2 percent this quarter, the central
bank said today, adding that growth in 2013 may be at the lower
end of its forecast range of 6.3 percent to 6.8 percent. There
are signs of investment moderating since the fourth quarter,
Bank Indonesia said.  “We maintain our view that the BI rate will remain
unchanged through 2013, given the central bank’s bias to support
investment, despite rising inflation risks,” said  Prakriti Sofat ,
a regional economist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore .  Policy makers have signaled the need to boost short-term
borrowing costs to spur capital inflows. Bank Indonesia raised
the rate it pays lenders on overnight deposits in August to 4
percent from 3.75 percent.  “The deposit facility may be increased once, by a quarter
of a percentage point, by the end of second quarter,” said
 Helmi Arman , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Jakarta. “The
 reference rate  will be left unchanged unless the rise in non-
 core inflation  starts to generate second-round effects to core
inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  