-- Intellectual Ventures, Home Depot: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-07T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/intellectual-ventures-home-depot-intellectual-property.html
Intellectual Ventures , the Bellevue,
Washington-based company started by former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  chief
technology officer  Nathan Myhrvold , said it has settled a patent
dispute with Lattice Semiconductor Corp.  According to a March 6  joint company statement , Lattice has
become a licensee to IV’s portfolio of almost 40,000 IP assets.  Hillsboro, Oregon-based Lattice was the target of a 2010
patent case filed in federal court in Delaware. The other three
defendants were  Microsemi Corp. (MSCC)  of  Aliso Viejo , California, and
 Xilinx Inc. (XLNX)  and  Altera Corp. (ALTR) , both of San Jose, California.
Microsemi and Intellectual Ventures settled their dispute in
January, according to a joint statement from those two
companies.  The case is Intellectual Ventures LLC v. Altera Corp.,
1:10-cv-01065-LPS, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Home Depot Sued by PayOne Over Patent-Infringement Claims  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  was sued by PayOne Corp. over claims the
largest U.S. home-improvement retailer is infringing patents for
the processing of payment transactions and validating subscriber
lines.  PayOne, formerly known as PaymentOne, wrote to Atlanta-
based Home Depot in November to notify the company of the
infringement, according a complaint filed March 5 in federal
court in San Jose, California.  Home Depot infringed a patent at issue by offering PayPal’s
In-Store Checkout System as a payment option, according to the
complaint. PayOne, based in San Jose, owns a system that allows
consumers to charge digital purchases to mobile, broadband or
home phone bills, according to its website.  Home Depot spokesman Steve Holmes said yesterday he hadn’t
seen the suit yet.  In dispute are patents 7,848,500, 7,848,504 and 8,379,815.
Two of those parents are also at issue in a case PaymentOne
filed against Zong Inc. of Palo Alto, California in May 2011.
Zong, which offered mobile payment systems, was acquired by  EBay
Inc. (EBAY)  in August 2011.  The case is PaymentOne Corp. v. Home Depot Inc., 13-cv-
00993, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Jose). The case against Zong is PaymentOne Corp. v. Song Inc.,
5:11-cv-02186-HRL, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  Samsung’s $1 Billion Fight With Apple Spurs U.S. Lobbying Push  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  has doubled mobile-phone sales in
the U.S. since 2008. As the company faces anti-dumping measures
and a protracted court battle with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , its U.S. lobbying
bill is growing even faster.  Samsung boosted spending on lobbyists to $900,000 last year
from $150,000 in 2011 as it tries to influence the federal
government on issues ranging from  intellectual-property 
infringement to telecommunications infrastructure, regulatory
filings show. The company also hired  Sony Corp. (6758)  veteran Joel
Wiginton to run a new government-relations office in Washington.  The higher spending comes as the South Korean company is
embroiled in patent disputes with Apple on four continents as
the two struggle for dominance in an industry expected to double
to $847 billion in sales by 2016. In a U.S. lawsuit, Apple was
initially awarded $1 billion in damages after a jury decided
Samsung copied the iPhone maker’s designs for mobile devices.  Last year’s lobbying expenditure was the biggest for
Samsung in a single year, according to a U.S. government
database of lobbying disclosure filings dating to 1999. The
previous high was $370,000 in 2008.  In a statement, Samsung said the expanded effort is “a
prudent step as part of day-to-day business operations, our
growing presence outside of our headquarters country, and our
commitment to transparency.” The company declined to comment
further on its lobbying expenditures.  Samsung’s increased spending is small compared with some
rivals, though it’s growing faster than many. Apple spent $2
million on U.S. lobbying last year, down 13 percent from 2011,
and Sony spent $3.3 million, a decrease of 10 percent, according
to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a Washington group that
tracks lobbying.  Google Inc. boosted its spending 88 percent last year to
$18.2 million, while lobbying expenses at  Facebook Inc. (FB)  jumped
to $4 million from $1.4 million in 2011, according to the
center.  The greater focus on lobbying by technology companies
reflects the growing importance of U.S. laws and regulations to
the industry as Congress considers issues from patents to
 Internet privacy  to copyright infringement, said  Mark Lemley ,
who teaches  patent law  at  Stanford Law School  in California.  The bulk of Samsung’s U.S. lobbying money last year,
$760,000, went to the Washington-based law firm  Akin Gump 
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, according to the filings. The firm
also lobbied on behalf of AT&T Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd.,
filings show. Akin Gump declined to comment.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Amazon Persuades Court to Dismiss Multi Time Machine’s Suit  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest online retailer,
defeated a trademark-infringement claim brought by a Los
Angeles-based jewelry distributor.  Multi Time Machine Inc. sued Amazon.com in federal court in
Los Angeles in November 2011. The California company said that
when customers searched for its watches in Amazon’s database,
what came up instead were the names of rival companies’
products.  This was an unauthorized use of its trademarks, Multi Time
Machine said, claiming that it was harmed and the public was
confused by its actions.  The court disagreed with the infringement allegations. U.S.
District Judge Dean D. Pregerson said that Multi Time Machine
had failed to present any evidence of customer confusion, and
the trademarks the watch company claimed were infringed are
“conceptually weak,” and not entitled to protection under U.S.
trademark law.  He said Seattle’s Amazon.com was persuasive in showing that
the marks “are at best subjective and more likely
descriptive.” The watches whose trademarks Multi Time Machine
claimed were infringed are sold as “MTM Special Ops” and “MTM
Military Ops” timepieces.  The court dismissed the case and awarded costs of the
litigation to Amazon.com.  The case is Multi Time Machine Inc. v. Amazon.com Inc.,
2:11-cv-09076-DDP-MAN, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California ( Los Angeles ).  Diamondback Tactical Sued by Gun Manufacturer Over ‘Diamondback’  Diamondback Tactical LLP, a maker of armor systems, was
sued in a trademark dispute by  Diamondback Firearms LLC  of
Cocoa, Florida.  According to the complaint filed March 4 in federal court
in Orlando, Florida, Diamondback Tactical, a gun manufacturer
from Spindale, North Carolina, has been threatening to sue the
Florida company for infringement. The suit is related to
allegations the armor-maker has made, claiming its “Diamondback
Firearms” marks are being infringed.  Diamondback Firearms asked the court to declare that its
use of “Diamondback” doesn’t infringe. The company argued in
its pleadings that there are at least 20 other U.S. trademarks
that use the term, and that Diamond Tactical doesn’t have
exclusive use of the mark.  The Florida company also asked the court to order
Diamondback Tactical to quit claiming the gun manufacturer
infringes its trademarks.  Diamondback Tactical didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment on the suit.  The case is Diamondback Firearms LLC v. Diamondback
Tactical LLP, 6:13-cv-00360-GKS-KRS, U.S. District Court, Middle
District of Florida (Orlando).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Lawyer Dismisses Defamation Suit He Filed Against His Critics  A Chicago-based IP lawyer who brought a defamation suit
brought against two named and 10 unnamed defendants who
criticized the handling of a copyright suit has dismissed the
case.  John L. Steele’s suit, originally filed in state court in
Florida and moved to federal court March 1, accused the
defendants of libel made “under the disguise of such childish
and unsophisticated pseudonyms as ‘die troll die,’” according
to court papers. They also were accused of calling him “one of
the vilest porn copyright trolls of today.”  Steele said in his pleadings that such statements “if made
under the light of day,” would “prompt loved ones to suggest
(or intervene and force) intensive psychological therapy.”  He objected to their criticism of his handling of
copyright-infringement cases in which he represents makers of
adult films that are copyright holders to the films.  He filed his dismissal March 6, without giving any
response.  The case is John L. Steele v. Paul Godfread, 1:13-cv-20744-
JAL, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 