-- IPO’s Money-Back Guarantee Shows Bovespa Slump: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i ,   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-07T14:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/ipo-s-money-back-guarantee-shows-bovespa-slump-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian equity sales have slowed
so much that Louis Dreyfus Holding BV, the world’s second-
largest sugar-cane processor, is dangling a money-back guarantee
to investors who buy shares in its initial public offering.  Biosev SA (BSEV3) , Dreyfus Holding’s Sao Paulo-based unit, unveiled
the deal sweetener to spur demand eight months after its first
attempt to raise $579 million failed. Just three Brazilian
companies did IPOs in 2012, the fewest in nine years, with two
of those pricing shares below their target.  Mexico  had six in
the same period, the first time since 2003 that  Brazil  didn’t
lead  Latin America  in IPOs.  The money-back guarantee is unprecedented in Brazil,
according to the stock market regulator.  David Menlow , president
of Green Brook, New Jersey-based IPOFinancial.com, said he’s
never seen a deal like this in his 24 years analyzing initial
public offerings across global markets. Biosev is seeking to tap
a stock market that is the fifth-worst performer in the world
this year, dragged down by government intervention in industries
including utilities, oil and banking.  “It sounds like a sign of desperation from a company that
wants to do an IPO in a moment that’s clearly not favorable,”
Saulo Sabba, who helps manage 350 million reais ($178 million)
at Faros Investimentos, said in a phone interview from  Rio de
Janeiro . “I’ve never heard of anything like this.”  Sabba said he doesn’t plan on buying shares in the IPO.  Put Options  The benchmark Bovespa index has dropped 3.3 percent in 2013
as President  Dilma Rousseff ’s stepped-up control of the economy
fails to rekindle growth. Latin America’s biggest economy
expanded 0.9 percent in 2012, the national statistics agency
said March 1. That’s less than half the government’s forecast of
3.5 percent at the start of last year and is the slowest pace
among major developing nations, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Biosev will issue shares and Louis Dreyfus will sell put
options that allow investors to return the stock to the
Amsterdam-based company in 15 months for the offering price plus
interest, according to a preliminary prospectus. The company’s
board of directors will determine the share price, while the
price of the put options will be established as bankers gauge
investor demand, according to the prospectus.  Brazil IPOs  Two companies have done IPOs in Brazil this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Senior Solution SA priced shares at
11.50 reais yesterday after market close, below the expected
range, according to the regulator’s website. Linx SA  priced 
shares at 27 reais in an IPO last month, the top of its expected
range, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL) , the oil-rig operator controlled by
billionaire  John Fredriksen , offered a similar structure on a
secondary share offering in Oslo in March 2012. The shares have
fallen 8.2 percent since the $1 billion offering, lagging behind
the 10 percent rally in  Norway ’s benchmark OBX index.  Banco BTG Pactual SA is managing the Biosev offering. A
Pactual official didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on
the share sale structure. Officials for Biosev and Louis Dreyfus
declined to comment on the deal.  The Bovespa index’s 15 percent decline since President
Dilma Rousseff took office in January 2011 is the steepest among
major stock benchmarks in the Western Hemisphere, as concern
mounted that interventionist policies including forcing state-
controlled oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  to charge below-
market gasoline prices will hurt corporate profits while failing
to boost the economy. A press official at Brazil’s  Finance
Ministry  declined to comment.  Shelved IPO  A press official at Brazilian exchange operator BM&FBovespa
SA declined to comment on the market’s performance. The
company’s chief executive officer, Edemir Pinto, told reporters
last month between 40 and 45 companies were “ready” to do
IPOs.  Biosev’s net debt equals 4.1 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, more than any
other listed Brazilian sugar company. The producer shelved an
initial share sale last year citing “economic uncertainties”
in the financial markets, according to a July regulatory filing.
The company was trying to raise as much as 1.14 billion reais at
the time by selling the shares for as much as 20.50 reais each.  Required Sale  Having failed in its first attempt, offering a minimum
return could help boost demand, said Eduardo Carlier, head of
core equities at Schroder Investment’s Brazilian unit.  “It all depends on how confident the company is that
there’ll be demand for the shares,” Carlier said by phone from
 Sao Paulo . “If there are doubts, than offering to protect the
initial investment for a certain period of time may help put
investors at ease.”  Biosev has a deadline in 17 months that it established with
controlling shareholders to do an IPO in Brazil or New York.
Under the terms of the agreement signed in 2009, Biosev must
sell at least a 25 percent stake for $300 million or more,
according to a statement attached to the prospectus filed with
securities regulators.  Even with the money-back guarantee, the deal won’t be
attractive if the company doesn’t show evidence that it can
create value in the future, said Eric Conrads, a portfolio
manager who oversees $750 million in Latin American stocks at
ING Investment Management.  ‘Too Risky’  “I’m a bit skeptical,” Conrads, who said he’s never seen
such an IPO provision in his 16 years of trading Latin American
stocks, said in a phone interview from  New York . “If the
pricing were attractive, you wouldn’t need to place put
options.”  Offering put options is risky because there are too many
variables that are beyond the company’s control that might make
it difficult to buy out shareholders looking to sell back,
according to Sabba.  “It doesn’t make any sense,” he said. “If the market
goes down in the next year and half, how will they pay for the
buyback? I think it’s too risky. Even if their business goes
well, some external factor might push shares lower. It’s
something they can’t control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  