-- Iran Delays Issuing $10 Billion in Bonds for Oil: Mehr
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-03-07T10:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/iran-delays-issuing-10-billion-in-bonds-for-oil-mehr.html
Iran’s plan to issue $10 billion in
bonds to raise money for energy projects is on hold for several
months, state-run  Mehr  news agency reported.  The bonds sales, which had been included as a funding plan
in a draft budget presented by the government of  Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad  on Feb. 27, is delayed by “at least four months,”
Mehr said yesterday without citing anyone. Iranian media
reported on Feb. 3 that the country was to initiate the
borrowing in the new Iranian year starting on March 21.  The budget plan has yet to be approved by parliament and
given that the permit handed to state-run National Iranian Oil
Co. for issuing the bonds is only valid for this Iranian year
the plan is unlikely to be validated before July, Mehr said.  The news follows an announcement earlier this week that a
group of private companies that export Iranian crude, helping
the government bypass international trade and financial
sanctions, has  stopped  its activity, Mehr said, without saying
whether the two developments are linked.  Iran is under U.S. and European Union sanctions over its
nuclear program and the measures have limited the Persian Gulf
country’s oil exports and complicated the repatriation of cash
from oil sales. EU countries have halted oil imports from the
Islamic republic since July and additional U.S. measures that
came into force last month are further restricting the
government’s access to foreign currencies.  The private sector has sold no oil in the past two months,
Hassan Khosrojerdi, head of the Iranian Oil, Gas & Petrochemical
Products Exporters’ Association said in a separate Mehr  report 
on March 5. He cited “managerial obstacles” inside NIOC. The
association of Iranian oil-product exporters has signed an
agreement with  Iran ’s central bank and Oil Ministry to ship as
much as 500,000 barrels a day, Khosrojerdi had said in July.  Given complications created by sanctions “regulations
should have been simplified to allow for the private sector to
export the oil,” Hamid Hosseini, a member of the exporters’
association’s board of director said in the same Mehr report.
NIOC “was unwilling to show any leniency for the private sector
to cooperate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  