-- Iron Peaked After Restocking Rally, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-03-07T13:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/iron-peaked-after-restocking-rally-morgan-stanley-says.html
Iron ore will decline over the rest
of the year as supply increases and a rally spurred by
restocking in leading global importer  China  ends, according to
Morgan Stanley.  The price probably peaked at about $159 a metric ton last
month and will average $133 this year, analysts Joel Crane and
 Peter Richardson  said in a report today. The consensus forecast
for 2013 is $121, a figure that’s “overly negative,” they
wrote. Global seaborne supply will rise 9.1 percent this year,
topping an 8.3 percent gain in demand, Morgan Stanley estimates.  Morgan Stanley joins analysts from Deutsche Bank AG to Bank
of America Corp. in forecasting lower iron-ore prices. The
steelmaking commodity rallied 68 percent since September as
economic growth in China accelerated and port inventories in the
country reached a three-year low. The surge was caused by
changes in demand, market speculation and “unreasonable”
pricing methods, China’s top planning body said.  “The latest data points for steel inventories with traders
and mills show that stocks have experienced a typical, seasonal
rebuild,” the Morgan Stanley analysts wrote. “The spot  iron
ore  price likely peaked last month.”  Iron ore with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin rose 0.3 percent to $146.30 a dry ton today,
according to data from The Steel Index Ltd. The global benchmark
reached $158.90 on Feb. 20, the highest since Oct. 13, 2011. It
bottomed at $86.70 on Sept. 5.  China’s Economy  Chinese steelmakers restocked iron ore during the winter
and increased purchases as confidence in the economy improved,
the National Development and Reform Commission said in a
statement on its website. The three largest mining companies and
some traders either delayed or controlled deliveries to make up
for previous losses, creating a false impression of short
supply, according to the NDRC. Some mining companies also bought
iron ore from the market to drive up prices, it said.  In response,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  said it produced record
volumes of iron ore in the second half of 2012, all of which it
sold and delivered to the market.  Vale (VALE)  SA, the biggest iron-ore
producer, declined to comment on the NDRC statement in an e-
mailed reply to questions. A London-based official for Rio Tinto
Group, the second-largest exporter, declined to comment. The
three companies together supplied 63 percent of the world’s
seaborne iron ore last year, Morgan Stanley figures show.  ‘Very Liquid’  “This is 600 Chinese mills versus 1,500-plus miners and
the market is actually very liquid,” Melinda Moore, a bulk-
commodities analyst at Standard Bank Plc in  London , said by
phone today. “I don’t expect it to have an impact on price.
It’s hard to know what the NDRC are trying to achieve with this
because markets work as markets work.”  The raw material may average $142 a ton in the first
quarter, $135 in the second, $125 in the third and $130 in the
final three months, the Morgan Stanley analysts said. That
compares with the consensus outlook of $127, $122, $117 and
$117, they said.  “We think the calendar-year consensus forecast is overly
negative,” they wrote in the report, according to which prices
are easing, not collapsing. “The level the market is willing to
pay for iron ore exposure is far below our expectations.”  Iron ore may drop to $115 a ton by year end, Deutsche Bank
said March 1. The commodity may tumble to $70 in the three
months through September after trading between $130 and $160
through June,  Tom Price , a Sydney-based UBS AG analyst, said
Feb. 26.  More Supply  Vale said Feb. 28 that while first-half prices may be
better, they “may suffer a bit” in the second because of
supply increases, according to Jose Carlos Martins, head of
ferrous and strategy. The Rio de Janeiro-based company reported
a record quarterly loss that day.  Swaps show expectations for lower prices this year. The
March contract fell 0.5 percent to $144.75 a ton as of 10:46
a.m. in London, with September’s trading at $124.75 and
December’s at $120.75, according to GFI Group Inc.  Prices tend to ease after the first quarter once mills
conclude restocking, National Australia Bank Ltd. said in a
March 4 report. The so-called temporary factors underlying the
recent rally should taper off, causing prices to drop, it said.  Inventories at Chinese ports rose for a second week to 68.9
million tons on March 1, according to data from researcher
Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. Stockpiles fell to
66.89 million tons on Feb. 1, the lowest level since January
2010, and remain 30 percent lower than a year ago.  “Indicators of iron ore inventory at the ports show stocks
remain well below normal levels, which will continue to provide
support,” the Morgan Stanley analysts said. “Chinese steel
production remains strong, and will grow 2.6 percent.”  Iron ore is measured in dry tons, or metric tons less
moisture. At Tianjin, moisture can account for 8 percent to 10
percent of the weight. Australia and  Brazil  are the world’s two
biggest exporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  