-- Mirren’s Cool Queen Upstaged by Corgis; Minnelli Shines
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-03-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/mirren-s-cool-queen-upstaged-by-corgis-minnelli-shines.html
Shakespeare gave us a queen driven
to murder and madness. Racine gave us a queen whose incestuous
longings ended in suicide. Peter Morgan’s Queen Elizabeth II
drinks tea.  Since the beginning of her reign in 1952, the queen has
continued the royal tradition of short weekly informal meetings
with prime ministers. The monarch’s role is to gain information
and offer advice. Morgan’s play “The Audience,” starring  Helen Mirren  in  London , takes an educated and often amusing guess at
the content of some of those meetings.  Margaret Thatcher  (Haydn Gwynne) blows a fuse about an
unflattering newspaper article.  Gordon Brown  (Nathaniel Parker)
blusters pompously about a personal snub from President  Barack
Obama .  David Cameron  asks about the Duchess of Cambridge’s baby
scan.  The queen is portrayed on stage as wise, witty, astute,
businesslike, dignified and caring. That’s great for fans of the
monarchy, not so great for fans of theater. When she confronts
Sir Anthony Eden (Michael Elwyn) with his lies to her about the
Suez crisis, and suggests that he negotiate with the Egyptian
government, he refuses. End of story.  Imagine if she’d offered a glimpse of her garters to get
what she wanted like, say, Cleopatra. Or incited Prince Philip
to plunge a bloody dagger into Sir Anthony, viz. Lady Macbeth.
Now that would have been something.  Instead she seems a bit vexed, and he leaves.  It’s still a great part for Mirren, who played the same
role in Peter Morgan’s screenplay “The Queen.”  Wasp Waist  The episodic material is not arranged chronologically, so
in the blink of a quick-change we watch her transform from a
young brunette with a wasp waist into a gray thick-set old lady,
and then back again. Mirren’s physicality is something
astonishing.  Greater even than this is her comic timing.  John Major 
tells her that his government is in meltdown.  “I’d like to help you,” she says kindly. “Why don’t you
resign?”  The prime ministers are all very fine, especially Richard
McCabe as Harold Wilson, who is shown as the Queen’s favorite.
They end up bantering like an old married couple.  When Elizabeth appears as an 11-year-old girl (Nell
Williams), and the mature monarch then unburdens herself to the
child, things are not so successful. As “interior monologue”
devices go, it’s pretty clunky.  Director Stephen Daldry keeps the pace swift, even when the
talky material runs out of steam in Act 2. Designer Bob Crowley
creates a simple backdrop of palace rooms receding through
doorways, which works well.  And there’s a big “aah” moment when two frisky corgis
appear. Long live the queen. Rating: ***.  Queen Liza  A different monarch -- cabaret queen Liza Minnelli -- gave
a tremendous set at the Royal Festival Hall. Backed by a snazzy
seven-piece band, she delivered all the old favorites:
“Cabaret,” “ New York , New York,” “Liza With a Z.”  Her voice was croakier, her breath shorter; she had to sit
down a lot. It didn’t matter. The energy was phenomenal, and the
mystery that is a Minnelli performance -- turning vulnerability
and emotional nakedness into a hundred-minute spell over the
audience -- was as strong as ever.  The concert was shoe-horned in as part of a great yearlong
festival of 20th-century music called “The Rest Is Noise.” Did
the gig have anything to do with “Berlin in the 1930s” as
advertised? Not much. Did anyone mind? Not a bit. Rating: *****.  Soprano Shines  Just a quick mention of a singer appearing at  Covent
Garden . South African soprano Amanda Echalaz has the kind of
luscious voice backed by horsepower that makes an ideal Tosca,
and the subtle stage skills as well. Her voice glides through
the orchestra like a diamond-cutter; her repulsion and
fascination with the sadistic Scarpia (Michael Volle, superb)
electrifying. She sings the role until March 16.  Rating: ***** for Echalaz; **** for the opera.  “The Audience” is at the Gielgud Theatre.
 http://www.theaudienceplay.com  or +44-844-482-5130  For information about “The Rest Is Noise” festival:
 http://therestisnoise.southbankcentre.co.uk . Liza Minnelli is
next appearing in New York March 13 and 14. Information:
 http://www.officiallizaminnelli.com   “Tosca” is in repertory at the Royal Opera until March 26.
Amanda Echalaz sings the title role until March 16.
 http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000  Muse highlights include  London Weekend  by Farah Nayeri and
 Mark Beech ;  Robert Heller  on rock music;  Jason Harper  on cars
and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 