-- Italian Banks’ Bad Loans Seen Rising as Gridlock Hampers Growth
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-03-07T23:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/italian-banks-bad-loans-seen-rising-as-gridlock-hampers-growth.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s biggest banks, may struggle to boost profit as
political gridlock threatens to increase borrowing costs, worsen
an economic contraction and drive up bad loans.  The Italian benchmark 10-year bond yield climbed as much as
0.44 percentage point and an index of the country’s  financial
shares  dropped as much as 11 percent after last week’s general
election left Italy’s largest political parties groping to form
a government amid a four-way parliamentary split.  The disarray may impede economic growth as the longest
 recession  in 20 years and tougher rules from regulators,
including the  Bank of Italy , are already forcing banks to set
aside more money against doubtful loans, said Jacopo Ceccatelli,
a partner at JC & Associati SIM, a Milan-based financial
advisory firm.  Banco Popolare SC (BP) , Italy’s No. 4 bank by assets,
said March 4 it will report a bigger loss for 2012 than analysts
estimated because of higher losses at its consumer credit unit.  “Given the worsening of the economic environment and the
pressure from the Bank of Italy to raise bad-loan coverage, I
expect Italian banks’ profitability and capital generation to
continue to deteriorate,” Ceccatelli said. “The political
uncertainty may add further pressure on banks as the increasing
spreads affect the lenders’ funding costs and the value of their
sovereign-debt holdings.”  UniCredit, Intesa  UniCredit may post a fourth-quarter net loss of 173 million
euros ($227 million) when the Milan-based bank publishes results
on March 15, according to the average of 25 analysts surveyed by
the bank, after a  profit  of 114 million euros in the year-
earlier period. Loan-loss provisions are seen rising 48 percent
to 2.2 billion euros, the survey found.  Intesa, also based in Milan, will probably report a
quarterly loss of 70.3 million euros on March 12, according to a
Bloomberg News  survey  of seven analysts. The lender posted a
10.1 billion-euro loss in the final three months of 2011, after
writing down goodwill on acquisitions.  Officials at UniCredit and Intesa declined to comment.  The Italian economy contracted 2.2 percent in 2012 and is
expected to shrink 1 percent this year, the Bank of Italy
estimates. Italian firms and families are struggling to repay
debts and find new credit as unemployment rises and austerity
measures put in place by the caretaker government of  Mario Monti 
curb economic activity.  The jobless rate reached the highest in more than 13 years
in December and  consumer confidence  fell in January to the
lowest level since at least 1996.  Bad Loans  Italian corporate and household non-performing loans rose
to a record in December, reaching 125 billion euros, according
to data from the Italian Banking Association. Banks’ gross non-
performing loans as a proportion of total lending increased to
6.3 percent from 5.4 percent a year earlier.  France’s  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , which owns a retail bank and
consumer credit unit in Italy, and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  reported
higher bad-loan provisions from their Italian branch networks in
the fourth quarter.  Italy’s central bank has increased inspections and is
urging banks to take more provisions. “In periods of market
tension, the intensity of supervision cannot be relaxed,”
Governor  Ignazio Visco  said in a speech on Feb. 9.  “The Bank of Italy review of the top 25 banks likely means
an increase in non-performing loans coverage” in the fourth
quarter, Francesca Tondi, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in
a report March 6. “We think 2013 accounts will also be affected
by still-growing NPLs and the need for more coverage.”  Sovereign Debt  UniCredit shares as much as  doubled  in Milan trading, and
Intesa  surged  as much as 73 percent, after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi ’s July pledge to do “whatever it takes”
to defend the euro. Those gains began to erode over the past
month as Italian government borrowing costs increased in the
run-up to the elections.  “Any renewed rise in funding costs would be the
equivalent of a tightening in monetary conditions, with the
potential to slow the economy,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts
including Yiagos Alexopoulos and Christel Aranda-Hassel said in
a note last week.  Italian banks tied their fortunes more closely to the
financial strength of the state in 2012, increasing holdings of
the country’s sovereign debt by 58 percent to 331 billion euros.
Italy has 2 trillion euros of debt, more as a share of its
economy than any developed nation other than  Greece  and  Japan .  Election Stalemate  Following last week’s elections, Pier Luigi Bersani is
struggling to create the consensus needed to form a government
after efforts to draw Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement into an
alliance with his  Democratic Party  were rebuffed. Grillo’s
upstart, anti-austerity campaign took votes from both Bersani
and three-time premier  Silvio Berlusconi , leaving no single
force in a position to govern and raising speculation a new vote
will be needed to break the deadlock.  In 2011, euro break-up risks and frozen bank funding forced
then Prime Minister Berlusconi to resign in favor of Mario
Monti’s unelected government.  The events in Italy have affected borrowing costs beyond
Italy. Relative yields on bonds sold by financial companies from
Greece,  Spain , Italy,  Portugal  and Ireland jumped 11 percent
since Feb. 25 to an average 357 basis points on March 4,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Periphery
Financial  index . The spread over benchmark  government bonds  fell
to 348 basis points on March 6.  The difference between their funding costs and those of
financial firms in the region’s so-called core nations,
including Germany and  France , is holding near the widest since
Dec. 28, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Non-
Periphery Financial index. A basis point is a hundredth of a
percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  