-- Italy Government Led by Non-Politician Looms: Election Scenarios
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-03-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/italy-government-led-by-non-politician-looms-election-scenarios.html
Below are some possible scenarios
and some frequently asked questions about the formation of the
new Italian government following the inconclusive vote on Feb.
24-25. Pre-election favorite Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani won the lower house by less than a half percentage
point, while falling short of a majority in the Senate.  Anti-establishment 5 Star Movement led by former comedian
Beppe Grillo captured more than a quarter of the popular vote.
Grillo and former three-time premier Silvio Berlusconi both won
a blocking minority at the Senate.  What happens now?  -- The new parliament is scheduled to meet for the first
time on March 15 to begin electing presidents for both the
Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. This normally takes three to
four days.  How is the prime minister designated?  -- Once the leaders of parliament are in place, the
president of the republic holds a round of consultations with
political leaders. He can then give a mandate to someone,
usually the head of the coalition winning the most votes in the
Chamber of Deputies, to try to form a government. That leader
then can assess if he can win a majority in both chambers before
accepting the mandate.  -- If that leader fails to assemble a majority, the
president can give the mandate to someone else, even a non-
politician. If no one is in a position to assemble a majority,
the president can call early elections. The president can’t
dissolve parliament in the last six months of his mandate, which
applies to President Giorgio Napolitano, whose term ends in May.  -- If the designated leader is able to build a majority, he
can accept the mandate and is sworn in as prime minister.
Confidence votes are then held within 10 days in both houses to
install the government. It can take a month from the election
before a  government is formed . Napolitano has signalled so far
that it would be better to avoid a new vote and he won’t appoint
a prime minister unless he believes there is a majority after
consulting with parliamentary groups.  What are the possible scenarios?  -- A broad coalition including Bersani’s Democratic Party
(PD) and Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party (PDL). The PD has
ruled out a pact alliance with Berlusconi, who said parties need
to agree on reforms and send a message of stability.  -- Minority government: Bersani, who’s said he has the
right to get the first chance, is given an exploratory mandate
from Napolitano to form a government and seeks support from
other political forces in parliament on a program of reforms.
Grillo has said his party won’t back any political government
and would weigh support on legislation vote by vote. Bersani,
once sworn in, could win external support from Grillo in the
Senate’s confidence vote, which would lead to a minority
government. Prime Minister Mario Monti has said his bloc would
only support governments committed to European Union discipline.  -- Non-Politician: Napolitano after consultations
acknowledges Bersani doesn’t have enough support and passes the
mandate to a non-politician. Napolitano could also reach out to
a non-politician should Bersani lose a confidence vote.
Napolitano engineered the current technical government, asking
Monti to step in when Berlusconi resigned in November 2011.
Monti’s administration was backed by Bersani, centrist parties
and Berlusconi, until the latter withdrew support in December.
Outgoing Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri, Development
Minister Corrado Passera and Bank of Italy Governor Ignazio Visco have been identified in Italian newspapers as possible
candidates. Grillo has already also said his party won’t support
any government, whether led by a politician or an outsider.  -- New elections: Napolitano, whose mandate expires on May
15, resigns early and Monti remains in office until a new
president is elected and a new premier appointed. The new
president would begin consultations and could dissolve
parliament and call elections. The Italian constitution bars the
president from calling elections in the last six months of his
term, meaning Napolitano can’t call a new vote.  -- Extension of Monti: Consultations between the new
president and political parties, for which there are no time
limits, are extended and Monti remains in power for a few months
until a solution is found. This option, called “prorogatio” in
Latin, wouldn’t require a confidence vote. Monti, who said it’s
up to Napolitano to decide, would have limited powers, while
parliament would have full legislative powers. The Dini
government in 1996 remained in charge for 127 days under a
prorogatio.  Why is the confidence vote crucial?  -- Any government, including non-political governments,
must win confidence votes in both chambers to come into power.  -- Bersani’s bloc won 345 deputies out of 630 in the lower
house, meaning it will win a confidence vote in the chamber.  -- In the 315-seat Senate, where no coalition obtained a
majority, winning a confidence vote is more difficult because
abstentions are counted as no votes. The designated premier
needs to win support of a majority of senators present. The
minimum  threshold  needed to hold a vote is half of senators,
including four senators for life, plus one, excluding those on
leave or absent for justified reasons.  -- Bersani could win a confidence vote if Grillo’s 54
senators walked out of the Senate, lowering the needed majority.
He would still need support from Monti’s 19 senators. Grillo’s
senators-elect have signaled they may use this strategy if a
Bersani legislative program is acceptable to the 5 Star
Movement. If Berlusconi’s senators leave the Senate as well,
there wouldn’t be a quorum, preventing a vote. In that case
Bersani would need about 13 other senators, possibly Grillo’s,
to enter the Senate. Normally if the quorum isn’t reached after
a few attempts the session is suspended and rescheduled. Still,
in this case it would clearly indicate Bersani is unable to form
a government.  When will the new president of the republic be elected?  -- President Napolitano’s term expires on May 15 and under
Italy’s constitution, both houses of parliament must meet April
15 to elect his successor. Three delegates per regional
assembly, for a total of 58, are also eligible to vote, bringing
the total to about 1,000 delegates.  -- The election, which can take a few days, is held in a
roll call vote. To win in the first three rounds a candidate
must secure two-thirds of votes. From the fourth round an
absolute majority is enough for victory.  -- The election of the president is normally part of
negotiations among political parties. A compromise may be more
difficult to reach this time given that any alliance may be
short-lived. Bersani’s bloc, including ally Nichi Vendola, and
Monti’s centrists have enough delegates to elect a new president
from the fourth round, according to  calculations  by Luiss
professor Roberto D’Alimonte for newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore.  What are markets expectations?  -- A return to the polls in the near term is “unlikely as
the mainstream parties will not risk giving the 5 Star Movement
an opportunity to increase its popularity further,” Eurasia
Group analysts Wolfango Piccoli and Peter Ceretti said in a note
Feb. 26. Bersani “will most likely receive a mandate to try to
form the next government,” while a grand coalition or a
minority government will hardly make any meaningful progress on
structural reforms, they said.  -- A temporary grand coalition is “the most market-
friendly scenario,” Barclays Plc economists including Fabio Fois and Giuseppe Maraffino wrote in a March 1 note. New
elections might be held by the end of this year, beginning of
next, they said. A Bersani government backed by “tacit” Grillo
support would help Italy escape the uncertainty related to new
elections, while it might hinder progress on structural reforms,
they said. New elections under the current law would be “the
least favorable outcome.” A deterioration of sentiment leading
to a bailout request from Italy is unlikely, they said.  -- The probability of a broad coalition is 70 percent,
Mediobanca analysts led by Antonio Guglielmi said in a note Feb.
26. A Bersani-led government with the support of Grillo has 15
percent probability, Mediobanca said, while new elections are
only 11 percent likely. “Any PD-PDL government would be short
lived with or without contribution from Monti,” they said.  -- The most likely outcome “is that some type of elected
or unelected caretaker government will be formed to deliver a
narrow remit in advance of a second election later this year,”
Capital Economics said in a March 5 note. Bond yields will
probably continue to rise, due to further likely fiscal slippage
and the possibility of more populist economic policies
eventually being adopted, they said.  -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s “baseline case is the
formation of an institutional government supported by a broad
coalition of political forces,” according to a March 6 note.  A
new vote could take place in June 2014, to coincide with the
European Parliament elections, they said. A PD-led government
with external support from Grillo is “slightly less likely and
less positive” for government bonds.  -- There’s a chance that PD and 5 Star Movement can reach a
deal to enable creation of another technocratic government in
Italy, Medley Global Advisors said in a client note March 5.  What to watch:  -- Monti has invited Bersani, Grillo and Berlusconi to his
office in Rome for “an exchange of opinion” before the March
14 meeting of the European Union council. This may also be a
chance to discuss possible strategies and alliances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  