-- Mitsubishi UFJ Said to Approach TPG About Indonesia Bank
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-03-07T09:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/mitsubishi-ufj-said-to-approach-tpg-about-indonesia-bank-stake.html
Mitsubishi UFJ (8306)  Financial Group Inc.
is among banks considering a purchase of TPG Capital’s  $1.6
billion stake  in Indonesia’s PT Bank Tabungan Pensiunan
Nasional, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, a unit of  Japan ’s largest
publicly traded lender, has sounded TPG out on its plans for the
stake, though the companies aren’t in formal talks, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the deliberations
are private. TPG, which first invested in BTPN in 2007, hasn’t
decided what to do with the holding and is considering options
including a public offering of the shares, one person said.  BTPN rose 3.8 percent to 4,825 rupiah in Jakarta trading
today, its biggest gain since December. The lender boosted its
 return on equity  to 30 percent last year, making it the second-
most profitable Indonesian bank on that basis, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “BTPN is a very attractive bank,” said Jovent Giovanny,
Jakarta-based analyst at PT Indo Premier Securities. “TPG has
brought a lot of value to the bank.”  Any potential acquirer may wait until after regulators rule
on a $6.8 billion takeover of PT Bank Danamon  Indonesia  by
 Singapore ’s DBS Group Holdings Ltd., one person familiar with
the matter said. That acquisition, the largest of an Indonesian
lender, was announced in April 2012 and has been delayed amid
the release of new rules that restrict foreign bank ownership.  Japan Deals  A purchase of TPG’s entire stake in BTPN would mark the
largest investment in an Indonesian bank since the Bank Danamon
bid, the data show. Japanese companies, seeking access to
faster-growing markets, have announced at least $16.4 billion of
acquisitions in  Southeast Asia  in the past five years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Other lenders from Japan and Southeast Asian countries
including Indonesia have also expressed interest in the stake,
one person said without identifying the companies. BTPN shares
have advanced 38 percent in the past year. TPG may not
immediately exit the investment, this person said.  “Japanese megabanks are looking closely at Indonesian
banks and searching for investment opportunities,” Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “The middle
class is growing in the country, and lending demand,
particularly for  car loans , is expected to increase rapidly.”  Yuji Okumura, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Mitsubishi UFJ,
declined to comment on its interest in BTPN. Siobhan Zheng, an
outside spokeswoman for TPG, couldn’t immediately be reached.  Stock Rally  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG, which manages $55 billion of
capital, and its Indonesian partner Northstar Pacific Partners
bought 71.6 percent of BTPN in May 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Less than a year later, BTPN raised 763.7
billion rupiah, or about $83 million at the time, in an initial
public offering in Jakarta, the data show.  Originally a lender to retired civil servants, BTPN has
rallied almost 10-fold since its first day of trading on March
14, 2008. The company has a market value of 28.5 trillion rupiah
($2.9 billion).  BTPN, with 19,000 employees and more than 1,000 branches,
boosted profit 41 percent to 1.98 trillion rupiah last year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Earnings have jumped more than
fivefold since 2008, the first full year after TPG made its
initial investment.  Any lender seeking to buy more than 40 percent of an
Indonesian bank must meet capital adequacy requirements and be
committed for a “certain period of time,” according to
regulations released in July by the nation’s central bank. The
acquirer also needs to show good corporate governance for three
consecutive assessment periods over a five-year span, the bank
said, without specifying the length of each period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in  Hong Kong  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in 東京 at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  