-- ITV Can Block Internet Streaming by TVCatchup, EU Court Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-03-07T16:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/itv-can-block-internet-streaming-of-its-shows-eu-top-court-says.html
ITV Plc (ITV) , owner of the U.K.’s most-
watched commercial TV station, won the backing of the European
Union’s top court to block online streaming company TVCatchup
retransmitting its programs, in a case broadcasters said may
pave the way for more lawsuits.  Television broadcasters have the final say when their work
is retransmitted by another company, the  EU Court of Justice 
today  ruled  today. Companies such as TVCatchup “can’t escape
the authorization of the copyright holders.”  A ruling against TVCatchup was inevitable and it “would
have been a real shock had it gone the other way,” Rebecca
Swindells, a lawyer at Field Fisher Waterhouse, said in a phone
interview. “Damages could be quite substantial” after today’s
decision against companies such as TVCatchup.  The case, which was triggered by a dispute pending at a
London court, establishes the scope of broadcasters’ rights
under EU copyright rules and whether these include the right to
prohibit broadcasts by a service such as TVCatchup. The English
tribunal sought the EU court’s advice in 2011 and will be bound
to give a ruling in the case in line with today’s decision.  The ruling “makes it clear that, subject to some limited
defenses, broadcasters and content producers should be able to
prevent unauthorized streaming of free to air channels,” ITV
and commercial stations Channel 4 and Channel 5 said in a joint-
statement.  ‘Unlicensed, Illegal’  They said they “reserve the right to pursue any site or
service we believe to be infringing our copyright or using our
content in an unlicensed, illegal capacity.”  TVCatchup had rejected claims that live streams of the
companies’ free-to-air broadcasts was a “communication to the
public” of copyrighted works and violated EU law. TVCatchup
argued that it is only providing a technical means for people in
the U.K. to see streamed programs that they are legally entitled
to watch based on their U.K. TV license.  TVCatchup “is here to stay,” Bruce Pilley, a director of
the London-based company, said in a statement on its website.
“Whatever the outcome of the ECJ, TVCatchup has already emerged
as the clear victor from years of legal wrangling, and has
established itself as the de facto online broadcast platform for
Web, tablet, mobile and numerous other applications.”  The case is:  C-607/11 , ITV Broadcasting Limited e.a. v.
TVCatchup Limited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  