-- J.C. Penney Cutting 2,200 Jobs as Sales Plunge
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-03-08T21:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/j-c-penney-cutting-2-200-jobs-as-sales-plunge.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  is cutting an
additional 2,200 jobs to trim costs as Chief Executive Officer
 Ron Johnson ’s revamp of the department-store chain causes sales
to plunge.  The positions to be eliminated include back-office
administrators in stores and district offices as well as store
leadership positions, Joey Thomas, a spokesman, said in an e-
mail yesterday. About 10 percent of J.C. Penney’s 1,100 stores
cut their headcounts because of sales volume shifts, he said.  Johnson said last week that 19,000 J.C. Penney employees
have lost their jobs in the past year as his turnaround
struggles to gain traction. The retailer’s revenue fell 25
percent to $13 billion in the year ended Feb. 2, the lowest
since at least 1987. Customers have been alienated by marketing
missteps, a failed attempt to transition away from sales and
coupons and Johnson’s plan to turn most stores into collections
of boutiques.  “As with any reduction in force, we do our best to absorb
those impacted into other positions if they choose to do so,”
Thomas said. “Impacted team members were given 30 days notice,
so their last day would not be effective until April 6. Those
who are benefits eligible will receive a severance package and
outplacement assistance,” he said.  J.C. Penney gained 2 percent to $15.11 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have lost 23 percent this year, after a 44
percent plunge in 2012.  Johnson said on the company’s Feb. 27 earnings call that
frequent rumors about job cuts are hard on the retailer’s teams.  ‘Really Rumored’  “This idea that we’ve got massive headcounts reductions on
the way is just really rumored, and we will tactically make
changes, but this has been much more rumor than it is fact,”
Johnson said on the call in response to a question about
workforce reductions.  He mentioned the 19,000 job losses during testimony in New
York state court in  Manhattan  last week as the company defends
itself from a lawsuit by  Macy’s Inc. (M)  over Martha Stewart-branded
goods.  Former J.C. Penney CEO Allen Questrom said in a telephone
interview March 6 that he was concerned about additional job
cuts.  “Penney is an American institution, and people who work
there will have their lives affected if they lose their jobs,”
Questrom said. “That’s who I worry about.”  The retailer operates about 1,100 stores, according to a
Feb. 27 statement. J.C. Penney employed 159,000 people as of
January 2012, according  to data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  