-- J.C. Penney Former CEO Says Johnson Turnaround to Fail
-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-03-07T22:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/j-c-penney-former-ceo-says-johnson-turnaround-to-fail.html
Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson ’s revival plan for  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  won’t work, according
to former CEO Allen Questrom.  “A turnaround for Penney isn’t going to work under
Johnson, and the longer the board waits, the worse it’s going to
get,” Questrom said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Questrom, who retired from the department-store chain in
2004, joins a chorus of criticism about Johnson’s performance in
his first year as CEO. J.C. Penney last week reported that
annual revenue fell 25 percent to $13 billion, the lowest since
at least 1987. Customers have been increasingly alienated by
marketing missteps, a failed attempt to transition away from
sales and coupons and Johnson’s plan to turn most stores into
collections of boutiques.  “I would have told him, ‘You can’t take a middle-market
store in the middle of a recession and not have sales,’”
Questrom said. “It’s never worked before. If you want to do
that, you have to do it over a long period of time and certainly
not in a recession when people want value more than ever.”  Johnson,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s retail chief before joining J.C.
Penney, has revived promotions and introduced new brands,
including Canadian retailer Joe Fresh, this spring, in an effort
to rekindle growth.  Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman for J.C. Penney, declined to
comment.  Earlier this week,  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , once J.C. Penney’s
second-biggest shareholder, sold 10 million shares of the
company at $16.03 each, regulatory filings show. That’s 6.1
percent of the retailer’s common stock. Vornado, whose chairman
 Steven Roth  is on J.C. Penney’s board, lost more than $200
million on the investment.  Shares Rise  J.C. Penney rose for the first time this week today,
gaining 2.7 percent to $14.82 at the close in  New York . The
shares have slid 25 percent this year following a 44 percent
decline in 2012.  Questrom, named chairman and CEO of J.C. Penney in 2000,
was previously the CEO and chairman of Barneys New York Inc. and
Neiman Marcus Group Inc., with more than 40 years of retail
experience. He is a senior adviser to Lee Equity Partners LLC.  He said a sale of the company, mentioned as a possibility
by analysts including Citigroup Inc.’s  Deborah Weinswig  in a
note yesterday, may not be lucrative.  “If it’s in the position it is today, you’re going to get
a low price,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  