-- JPMorgan Sees Profit Gain in Helping Clients Follow New Rules
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-03-07T19:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/jpmorgan-sees-profit-gain-in-helping-clients-follow-new-rules.html
The biggest overhaul of financial
regulation since the 1930s is creating one of the largest
sources of revenue growth for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to
managing director Carlos Hernandez.  The bank said it expects the investor-services unit, one of
three parts of the corporate and investment bank, to boost
return on equity by about 4 percentage points in coming years as
the firm helps customers comply with rules governing how swaps
trades are executed, collateralized and cleared. That compares
with drops of about 2 percentage points in the CIB’s banking
section and 3 percentage points for the markets unit.  “The secular trend for these clients is the constant need
to reduce execution costs,” Hernandez, global head of investor
services, said in an interview at his office in  New York . “It’s
creating pressure from our clients to become more efficient.”  The swaps market is being regulated for the first time
after some contracts helped to amplify the credit crisis and
made it more difficult for international regulators to know how
interconnected banks had become following the 2008 failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Mandatory swaps clearing begins
March 11 for dealers including JPMorgan and their largest
customers.  Revenue Tailwinds  The rules may cost JPMorgan $1 billion to $2 billion in
revenue, according to a Feb. 26  presentation . To reduce this
loss, the fees it can charge customers to help them trade, clear
and collateralize swaps may produce new revenue of $300 million
to $500 million by 2015, the bank said.  “There will be other parts of the house that are
impacted,” such as the swaps-trading desks that will see
compression in bid-offer spreads, Hernandez said, referring to
the difference in what the bank charges to buy and sell a swap.
“The headwinds in some businesses are the tailwinds for our
investor-services business.”  JPMorgan earned $5 billion in 2008 trading over-the-counter
fixed-income derivatives, including swaps, as the collapse of
Lehman Brother Holdings Inc. that year widened bid-ask spreads.  Those days are unlikely to return as rules meant to add
transparency to swaps prices allow investors to know levels at
which derivatives are trading before they buy or sell.  Standardizing contract terms so they can be processed by
clearinghouses and requiring trades to be done on regulated
exchanges or similar systems will further cut dealer profits by
more closely aligning trading with the futures market, where
banks earn smaller fees for executing and clearing trades for
clients.  Dodd-Frank  Hernandez’s group will offer trade execution, collateral
management, clearing services, prime brokerage and fund
financing and administration, he said. The unit acts only as an
agent for its clients and doesn’t trade directly with them,
Hernandez said.  “I tell everybody it’s like flying a plane with one
passenger or 200 passengers,” he said. “Because of the fixed
costs associated with an airplane, the marginal cost of those
199 people is low.”  The Dodd-Frank Act is requiring most swaps trades in the
U.S. to be backed by clearinghouses, which require upfront
collateral. Global  bank regulations  are compelling lenders to
keep more cash and easy-to-liquidate investments on hand to
protect against losses. That may boost demand for high-grade
assets by $2 trillion to $4 trillion, according to an April 2012
report from the  International Monetary Fund .  Transforming Collateral  As much as $6.7 trillion in additional collateral may be
needed to satisfy new bank capital rules and swaps-clearing
mandates, securities-industry consultant Finadium LLC said in
December.  Scarcity of cost-effective assets to back swaps trades has
led some market users to engage in so-called collateral
transformation, in which lower-rated securities are exchanged
for cash or highly rated securities. The extent of that
transformation will depend on whether banks and money managers
believe too few assets are available to cover their swaps
positions, Finadium said.  Fees for collateral transformation are included in the $300
million to $500 million revenue estimate JPMorgan made last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 