-- JPMorgan Is Hiring Selectively in China on Demand for Offerings
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-07T03:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/jpmorgan-is-hiring-selectively-in-china-on-demand-for-offerings.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is hiring
“selectively” in  China  as the Wall Street bank sees a
resurgence in demand from companies to sell bonds and shares in
the nation, its Chinese  investment banking  unit head said.  “We are building business across the board, not only in
investment banking, but also in corporate banking, institutional
investors services, treasury services and commodities,” Fang Fang, 46, said in an interview in Beijing yesterday. “We are
seeing some very interesting talents.”  The investment bank’s profit outlook for this year is
“much better” as global investors’ sentiment toward companies
based in the country improves, Fang told reporters yesterday. A
relaxation in rules on Chinese companies seeking to raise
capital overseas bodes well for the bank, Fang also said.  JPMorgan’s plans to hire in China contrast with layoffs by
global banks elsewhere. The company said on Feb. 26 that
firmwide headcount may fall by 4,000 in 2013, mainly via
attrition, while  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are among
financial institutions that have eliminated jobs this year in a
bid to trim costs and restructure their operations.  Fang is a delegate to the Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference, which advises the country’s
legislature.  Domestic and overseas Chinese share sales slumped 46
percent to $59 billion last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. China’s domestic market has slowed as regulators
delayed reviewing new offerings. The number of listings fell to
79 last year, compared with a record 337 in 2010, the data show.  “I do feel more positive now than this time last year,”
Fang said in the interview. “We see strong demand in Chinese
issuance of debt and equity.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  