-- Kenyan Shilling Rebounds From Plunge on Manual Vote Count Switch
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2013-03-07T13:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/kenyan-shilling-advances-after-switch-to-manual-vote-result.html
Kenya ’s shilling recovered from its
biggest drop in seven months after electoral authorities
switched to a manual vote count, replacing an electronic system
that broke down and slowed the release of election results.  The currency of East  Africa ’s biggest economy gained as
much as 0.8 percent and traded 0.5 percent stronger at 86.35 per
dollar by 3:44 p.m. in Nairobi. The shilling retreated as much
as 3 percent to 88.05 yesterday, the biggest intraday slide
since Aug. 13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The mood in the market is much better,” Bernard Matimu,
chief dealer at Nairobi-based  NIC Bank Ltd (NICB) , said by phone. “We
now have a proper system of tallying and the mood in the country
is peaceful. The sentiment is positive.”  This week’s election is the first since a disputed vote
five years ago triggered violence that killed more than 1,100
people and left more than 350,000 people homeless. Kenya is the
world’s biggest exporter of black tea, supplies a third of the
cut flowers sold in the European Union and is a regional hub by
companies including  General Electric Co. (GE) , Pfizer Inc. and Huawei
Technology Co.  Uhuru Kenyatta garnered 2.66 million votes and his rival,
 Raila Odinga , obtained 2 million ballots after results from 112
of the country’s 291 constituencies were counted, the electoral
commission said today. The commission includes Kenya’s diaspora
community as a constituency.  Shares on the Nairobi Securities Exchange advanced for a
seventh trading day today, extending the Nairobi All Share
index’s 15 percent advance this year, the best performance in
sub-Saharan Africa after Nigeria and Ghana in dollar terms. Of
the index’s 61 members, 36 stocks advanced and 6 fell.  “There is confidence the election outcome will be peaceful
and fair,” Vimal Parmar, head of sub-Saharan Africa research at
Burbidge Capital Ltd., said by phone today from Nairobi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  