-- Kenya Election Vote-Count Extends to Third Day; Kenyatta in Lead
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-07T07:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/kenya-election-vote-count-extends-to-third-day-kenyatta-in-lead.html
Kenya ’s electoral authority counted
presidential votes for a third day with partial results showing
Uhuru Kenyatta, who’s charged with crimes against humanity at
the International Criminal Court, in the lead.  Kenyatta, a deputy prime minister, garnered 2.42 million
votes and Prime Minister Raila Odinga received 1.88 million,
with results from more than a third of 291 constituencies,
according to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries
Commission. The shilling gained against the dollar after the
authority switched to manual counting, replacing a new
electronic results-transmission system that broke down and
caused delays.  “The mood in the market is much better,” Bernard Matimu,
chief dealer at Nairobi-based  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB) , said by phone. “We
now have a proper system of tallying and the mood in the country
is peaceful. The sentiment is positive.”  Accusations by Odinga that he was robbed of the
presidential victory by Mwai Kibaki in the last election in
December 2007 sparked two months of clashes that left more than
1,100 people dead and another 350,000 homeless. The unrest
curbed growth in East Africa’s largest economy to 1.5 percent in
2008, from 7 percent the year earlier, and disrupted key trade
routes for landlocked neighbors including Uganda and  Rwanda .  “The moment the process isn’t deemed to be free and fair
and the IEBC is seen not to be managing the process properly,
the chances of the results being rejected become very high,”
Otsieno Namwaya, a Kenyan researcher for Human Rights Watch,
said by phone from Nairobi. “That would raise the chances of
violence.”  Ethnic Grievances  The 2007-08 turmoil exposed long-standing grievances
between ethnic groups mainly over the unequal distribution of
power, land and other resources.  The ICC will starting holding trials at The Hague for
Kenyatta and his running mate William Ruto in April. The two men
face crimes against humanity charges for ordering and financing
the 2007-08 clashes. They were in opposite political camps at
the last vote. Both deny the charges and have said they can
govern the country while fighting to clear their names.  Investors and foreign governments are watching to see if
tensions resurface. Kenya is the regional hub for companies
including  General Electric Co. (GE) , Pfizer Inc. and Huawei
Technology Co. and it may become an oil producer after  Tullow
Oil Plc (TLW)  discovered the first crude deposits in the nation’s
northwest a year ago.  Stock Market  There’s also been rising interest from outside investors in
Kenyan equities. Foreign participation represented about half of
share trading on the Nairobi stock exchange last year, up from
10 percent in 2007.  Shares on the Nairobi Securities Exchange gained for a
sixth day yesterday, extending the bourse’s All Share index
advance to 15 percent this year. The International Monetary Fund
says the economy may expand as much as 6 percent if peace
prevails, compared with an estimated 5 percent in 2012.  Kenya is an important security ally of the West. It has
troops participating in the United Nations-backed peacekeeping
mission in  Somalia , where the government is fighting al-Qaeda-
linked militants.  Kenyatta and Odinga have proposed similar plans to invest
in expanding the road network, electricity supplies and
agricultural production to accelerate economic growth and create
1 million new jobs a year.  The electoral authority by law has until March 11 to
declare a new president, although it may be able to make the
announcement by tomorrow, Chairman Issack Hassan said yesterday.  Aside from the president, voters chose 290 lawmakers as
well as governors, women’s representatives and senators for 47
counties and 1,450 delegates for county assemblies at the March
4 vote. Kenya enacted a constitution in 2010 that created a
devolved government to help empower marginalized communities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  