-- Kerry Hears Appeals to Do More During ‘Listening Tour’
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-03-07T15:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/kerry-gets-an-earful-of-criticism-during-listening-tour-.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry 
described his first overseas trip as the top U.S. diplomat as a
listening tour.  What he heard was disappointment from allies and others who
pressed for the U.S. to play a larger role in addressing the
crises sweeping North Africa and the  Middle East .  In London, the U.K. foreign secretary spoke of a “burning
need” for the U.S. to revive dormant Israeli-Palestinian
negotiations. In Rome, Syria’s opposition leader said he was
“tired of” hearing that terrorism concerns prevent the U.S.
from sending weapons to opponents of President Bashar al-Assad.  In Cairo, opposition politicians faulted Kerry for not
addressing more forcefully human rights issues under the new
Egyptian leadership dominated by the Muslim Brotherhood. In
Doha, Qatar’s prime minister chided the U.S. for not arming
Syrian rebels and for inaction on Israeli-Palestinian talks.  “They want a more robust U.S. policy,” said  David Schenker ,  head of the Arab politics program at the  Washington 
Institute for Near East Policy. “And they just don’t see it,
notwithstanding the appointment of a new secretary of state.”  Aaron David Miller , a vice president at the Wilson Center,
a Washington policy group, said Kerry’s first foray suggests
“that he’s going to be the manager in chief of problems, from
Syria to  Egypt  to the Russians, that have no easy solutions and
require loads of someone’s time -- just not President Obama’s.”  Kerry returned to Washington yesterday from the 11-day trip
that included stops in London; Berlin; Paris; Rome; Ankara,
Turkey; Cairo;  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia;  Abu Dhabi ; and Doha.  ‘No Howlers’  “Kerry’s got to be pretty satisfied,” with his
performance, Miller said in an e-mail. “Nothing heroic, but no
howlers or failures either.”  Kerry, in an interview with  Bloomberg News , disputed claims
that the U.S. isn’t doing enough, citing Syria in particular.  “I understand the impatience of the Syrian opposition, I
know it’s frustrating because they think that ‘plunk,’ you just
have this weapon or that weapon and it’s over,” Kerry said.
“But the fact is that the president believes that this has to
be done in a way that doesn’t create more killing before it
gives an opportunity to try to make a choice for a peaceful
resolution.”  “Maybe we need to do more to make sure people know what
we’re doing, but we’re doing a lot,” Kerry said.  The frustration of the Syrian opposition and others in
response to Kerry may also reflect the way President  Barack Obama  has centralized foreign policy decisions, Schenker said.  Lighter Footprint  “If you’re coming with a message that ‘we’re going to
review the policy and I have to take this back to Washington,’
that’s not what they want to hear,” said Schenker, a former
Pentagon policy official dealing with the Mideast during
President  George W. Bush ’s administration.  Obama’s approach to the Middle East is shaped by the desire
to leave a lighter footprint than Bush did with the 2003 Iraq
invasion, say analysts such as Michele Dunne, head of the Middle
East center at the Atlantic Council, a Washington policy group.  When the CIA, Pentagon and State Department under then-
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged the White House last
year to arm Syria’s rebels, the president said no. The
administration also hasn’t embraced other military options,
including creating a protected aid corridor or a Libya-like no-
fly zone to ground the Syrian  air force .  In Rome, Kerry countered criticism that new U.S. aid to
Syrian fighters -- medicine and ready-to-eat meals -- is
inadequate by arguing that the U.S. contribution had to be seen
in the context of all international aid going to the rebels.  Economic Strains  The region’s stew of troubles has global implications.
North Africa is becoming an incubator for terrorism, as seen by
the recent attack by Islamist groups in  Mali  that drew French
military intervention. The uncertain outcome of democratic
movements in Yemen, Libya and Egypt could lead to further
destabilization across a region crucial to global oil supplies.  Political turmoil is intensifying economic strains in
Egypt, the most populous Arab nation. Egypt’s  foreign reserves 
are down more than 60 percent from before the 2011 uprising that
ousted long-time President  Hosni Mubarak . Political tensions and
violence have kept away tourists and investors and have
prolonged talks with the  International Monetary Fund  on a $4.8
billion loan.  Egypt Aid  In Egypt, where Kerry offered President Mohamed Mursi $190
million in budget support and $60 million for an Egyptian-
American Enterprise Fund, Egyptians such as Emad Gad, deputy
director of Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies,
said Kerry should have spoken more strongly about human rights.  Gad, a former lawmaker in the now-dissolved lower house of
parliament, said Egypt’s political opposition thinks the U.S. is
siding with the Muslim Brotherhood because it “got what it
wants from the group:  Israel ’s security, preserving the peace
agreement, mediation with Hamas and guaranteeing of U.S.
interests in the region.”  Kerry’s trip was publicly dominated by the two-year-old
Syrian civil war, which has taken more than 70,000 lives and
displaced more than 1 million people. Kerry said he wanted to
hear from rebel officials at a Feb. 28 international conference
in Rome what they need.  ‘Too Little’  Syrian opposition leader Moaz al-Khatib called for
humanitarian corridors and weapons supplies, which he referred
to as “giving the Syrian people and its revolutionaries the
right to defend themselves.” When Kerry announced the U.S.
would send non-lethal aid directly to rebel fighters for the
first time and give $60 million to the political opposition,
Syrians expressed disappointment.  Abdelbaset Sieda, a former head of the Syrian National
Council, the biggest faction in the Syrian National Coalition,
said he appreciated the help “but $60 million is too little,
especially from a country like the United States.”  “We need weapons to defend civilians against the shelling
of tanks and warplanes and we need Patriots to protect civilians
against Scud missiles,” he said by phone from Irbil, Iraq.  Kerry told Bloomberg News that the U.S. decided to begin
direct aid to Syrian rebels in a “measured and thoughtful way”
that was meant to send a message.  ‘We’re Committed’  “The president is saying to President Assad, ‘look, we’re
ratcheting up and we’re committed,’” Kerry said. “You have an
opportunity here to be able to make a choice to have a peaceful
outcome.’”  ‘I don’t think we’re finished at all in terms of aiding the
opposition,’’ he added.  The administration has said that weapons provided to Syrian
rebels might strengthen radical Islamist factions such as the
al-Nusra Front, which the U.S. labels a terrorist group. That
concern has eased as the U.S. has seen “greater guarantees”
the weapons are going to moderates, Kerry said during the trip.  Still, Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani, who is also foreign minister, said at a press
conference with Kerry that U.S. concern about terrorism “was
blown out of proportion.” The Qatari leader also cited fading
Arab hopes to see a U.S. push for the Mideast  peace process .  Two-State Solution  “We felt optimistic when President Obama came to power,”
because he spoke about an effort to achieve a two-state solution
for Israelis and Palestinians, al-Thani said. Since then, he
said, “we wait for it to be activated.”  Israeli-Palestinian peace talks between the two sides have
been frozen since September 2010 and Kerry has indicated he
wants to revive them. He met briefly in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia,
with Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas , and he plans to travel
to Israel and the West Bank later this month with Obama.  In Berlin, Kerry told students Feb. 26 that he and Obama
won’t “plunk a plan down and tell everybody what they have to
do. I want to consult, and the President wants to listen.”  Kerry’s counterparts urged him to do more than just
consult. In London, British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told
him “there is no more urgent foreign policy priority in 2013
than restarting negotiations between Israelis and
Palestinians.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  