-- Keystone Pipeline Decision May Influence Oil-Sands Development
-- B y   B r a d   O l s o n   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-03-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/keystone-pipeline-decision-may-influence-oil-sands-development.html
A U.S. decision on whether to
approve  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline has the
potential to accelerate -- or slow --investments in  Canada ’s oil
sands.  A decision on the 875-mile (1,408 kilometer) U.S. portion
of the pipeline, designed to carry 830,000 barrels of crude a
day to Gulf Coast refineries, is expected later this year.
Stopping the pipeline would mean continued discounted prices for
Canadian crude, making it harder for producers to sell their
commodity at a profit and potentially slowing oil-sands
development.  Current discounts of almost $30 a barrel are
“unsustainable,”  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Chief Executive Officer Al Monaco said yesterday in a presentation at the IHS CeraWeek
energy conference in Houston. “If we can’t attract world
prices, then we will ultimately curb energy development.”  Canadian heavy-crude prices have plummeted relative to U.S.
and international benchmarks because a lack of export capacity
has created a glut in supplies. Western Canada Select, a blend
refined from  oil-sands  bitumen, has fallen 23 percent during the
past six months amid uncertainty over approvals for Keystone XL,
Enbridge’s Northern Gateway and  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners
LP (KMP) ’s TransMountain pipelines.  Slowing Development  “It’s fair to say that development has already slowed
because of the discount,” said  Robert Schulz , a business
professor at the University of Calgary who specializes in the
Canadian oil and natural gas industry. “Companies are certainly
going to wait and see what the decision on Keystone is before
moving ahead with development,” he said in an interview.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest energy company by
market value, has delayed a joint venture with Total SA and is
considering whether to cancel an oil-sands processing plant
being jointly planned with the French company, CEO  Steve Williams  said on a conference call on Nov. 1.  Environmentalists oppose Keystone XL because they say it
would speed up oil-sands development and intensify global
warming.  “Expansion depends on  tar sands  being able to reach the
high prices of overseas markets,” said Anthony Swift, a lawyer
with the  Natural Resources Defense Council . Without Keystone XL,
plans to expand oil sands “go off the rails,” he said in an e-
mail yesterday.  Rail Shipments  The U.S. State Department in a March 1 environmental
assessment report said Keystone XL would have little impact on
the pace of oil-sands expansion, a sentiment echoed by Calgary-
based TransCanada. Even if all of the pipeline projects being
proposed were delayed, oil-sands development would continue
because of the possiblity of crude exports by rail, said Alex Pourbaix, president of TransCanada’s energy and oil pipelines,
in an interview March 5.  “They may be slightly less profitable than they were
because moving that oil by rail is more expensive than moving it
by pipeline, but at the end of the day the resource is going to
get developed,” he said.  Shipping oil by rail is two to three times more costly than
by pipeline and can reach as high as $15 a barrel for some
distances, said Monaco of Calgary-based Enbridge.  Companies will likely invest about C$23 billion ($22.3
billion) this year to develop  Alberta ’s bitumen reserves, little
changed from 2012, according to the Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  