-- Keystone Fails Texas Common-Carrier Test, Court Is Told
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-03-07T16:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/keystone-fails-texas-common-carrier-test-landowners-say.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  faces court
arguments from Texas landowners that its plans for the Keystone
XL pipeline to transport Canadian tar-sands oil to coastal
refineries don’t give it the right to condemn their property.  One farmer, in an appellate hearing today in Beaumont,
Texas, seeks to build on a state Supreme Court decision and what
may be a groundswell of support for property rights and
environmental protection in a state whose laws and courts have
historically accommodated the oil and gas industry.  David Holland, whose cattle and rice farm lies next to a
cluster of refineries, argues TransCanada doesn’t qualify as a
common carrier under state law and doesn’t have a right to take
an easement for the pipeline.  “Someone just can’t avail themselves of the extraordinary
power to take someone’s property unless you can prove you fit in
with the statutory scheme,”  Terry Wood , Holland’s lawyer, told
the appellate panel. “TransCanada’s position seems to be as
long as we say it with a lot of conviction, say it repeatedly
and say it loudly, we should be able to avail ourselves” of
condemnation powers.  Lawsuits by four landowners constitute the last hurdle
blocking the  pipeline ’s southern leg from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to
the  Gulf Coast . For the northern leg across the Canadian border,
the Calgary-based pipeline and power company needs approval from
the Obama administration, which has delayed a decision amid
environmentalists’ opposition.  Major Interests  “There’s a lot of contemporary salience” for the
landowners’ fight,  Lynn Blais , who teaches environmental and
property law at the  University of Texas  in Austin, said in a
phone interview. “This is a property-rights state. But while
the courts will be sympathetic, I don’t know whether the
landowners will win. These are two of the most important
interests to appear in court in Texas -- property owners and the
oil industry.”  Holland is trying to persuade the state appeals court to
reverse a lower-court ruling accepting TransCanada’s contention
that it qualifies as a common carrier and therefore is allowed
to take land through eminent domain for a pipeline easement.  “I’ve been told from the beginning that I would lose, that
no landowner ever beats the pipeline companies in Texas,”
Holland said in a phone interview. “But the abuse has simply
gotten so bad that landowners are not taking it any more.”  Work Continues  A trial court ruled that TransCanada could start installing
the pipeline while Holland appealed. Landowners, some of whom
also claim the pipeline doesn’t qualify as a common carrier
under state law, so far have failed to stop construction of the
485-mile southern leg.  “What’s at stake here is whether the state should allow a
public agency to allow condemnation for private gain,”  Tom Smith  of  Public Citizen , a consumers’ rights advocacy group,
said in an e-mail. “TransCanada has yet to prove to the court
that they are transporting the product for the public good or
for the public for hire as required by law.”  Pipeline companies have been accustomed to “checking the
box” on a state regulatory form to claim common-carrier status
without having to prove it, said Edward Vassallo Jr., a Dallas
property-rights attorney.  “Over time, many courts made it the rule, rather than the
exception” by granting eminent-domain power to any pipeline,
utility or school that requested it, Vassallo said. “We may
start to see the pendulum swinging back.”  Requirements ‘Met’  David Dodson, a TransCanada spokesman, said before today’s
hearing that the company has met all legal requirements to prove
Keystone is a common carrier. It has “all the necessary permits
and legal authority” to finish constructing its line and is
confident it will prevail in court, he said in an e-mail.  “One can only speculate as to the consequences if existing
interstate pipelines bringing crude oil from outside of Texas to
the refineries on the Gulf Coast suddenly lost their common-
carrier status,” Dodson said. “This is a much larger issue
than a single pipeline or a single project.”  The Texas  Supreme Court  dealt the pipeline industry its
first major eminent domain setback last year.  In the so-called Denbury case, the court denied
condemnation rights to a firm that built a carbon-dioxide
pipeline for its own use.  TransCanada has argued in court filings that the relatively
narrow ruling doesn’t apply to Keystone. Opponents of the
pipeline are trying to use it against TransCanada in the current
round of court challenges.  Rejected Offer  Before they wound up in a state court last year, Holland
rejected TransCanada’s offer of $446,864 for an easement across
his farm, according to court papers.  He said he has since granted similar easements to other
pipelines for slightly higher prices that included better
environmental protections for his land.  “TransCanada isn’t willing to pay fair market value, and
they are not willing to provide landowners protection against an
obviously dangerous pipeline,” Holland said.  Holland claims Keystone improperly used common-carrier
power of eminent domain to take his property after a
condemnation proceeding valued an easement at just $20,808.  He wants the court to force Keystone to prove its common-
carrier status so it can’t take his land “without paying
anything for years,” he said.  Challenging Precedent  “What they are asking you to do is monumental, to upset
114 years of  Texas  jurisprudence on condemnation,”  Tom Zabel , a
TransCanada lawyer, told the panel today. “The Texas
Legislature said we are not going to stop these projects now to
let all these challenges play out because sometimes that takes a
year or two and we don’t want delay while we fight about it.”  Justice  Hollis Horton  of the appeals court challenged
Zabel.  “But then you’ve got a pipeline running across your
property that shouldn’t be there,” he said.  “That’s why we have damages, if we’re found to have taken
wrongful possession,” the lawyer replied.  Texas law was written to favor the development of the oil
and gas industry, which needed condemnation powers to build
pipelines, he argued.  Blais, the law professor, said state eminent-domain laws
historically favored pipelines “because there was so much oil
that needed to come and go within the state.” The rules may be
different for a foreign-owned pipeline transporting Canadian oil
to refineries for export, she said.  Family Farm  The same argument is being pushed by Julia Trigg Crawford,
another Texas landowner battling Keystone. She opposes
TransCanada’s bid to cross her family farm near Paris, in
northeast Texas.  State pipeline regulators admitted they didn’t have
jurisdiction over Keystone in her case, “but the trial court
allowed TransCanada to take the Crawfords’ private land
anyway,” Wendi Hammond, Crawford’s lawyer, said in an e-mail.  Crawford has appealed that ruling to a different state
appeals court in Texarkana. No hearing date has been set. Two
more Texas landowners are fighting TransCanada on similar
grounds.  Nacogdoches farmer  Michael Bishop  has appealed a county
court ruling allowing the company to begin construction of the
Keystone pipeline on his land, about 150 miles northeast of
Houston. TransCanada fraudulently induced him to accept a
settlement by telling him it had the right to condemn his land,
Bishop claims.  The fourth landowner, known as Rhinoceros Venture Partners,
is also fighting Keystone’s common-carrier status over the
condemnation of property near the refining-industry complex in
Beaumont, Keystone’s Gulf Coast terminus. The case was accepted
by the state Supreme Court with no hearing date yet set.  The case is  In re Texas Rice Land Partners Ltd., 09-12-
00484-cv, Court of Appeals, Ninth District of Texas (Beaumont).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Ninth Court of Appeals
in Beaumont, Texas, at  laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 