-- KPN Takes First Hurdle to Bolster Balance Sheet With Bonds
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-03-08T09:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/kpn-takes-first-hurdle-to-bolster-balance-sheet-with-bond-sale.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch carrier
partly owned by Carlos Slim’s  America Movil  SAB, took the first
hurdle to bolster its balance sheet by raising as much as 1.56
billion euros ($2 billion) in a hybrid bond sale.  KPN sold 1.1 billion euros of perpetual bonds yielding
6.125 percent that can be redeemed in 2018 and a 400 million-
pound ($601 million) tranche of 60-year notes at 6.875 percent
that can be redeemed in 2020, according to a statement from the
Hague-based company yesterday.  “What we’ve experienced during the roadshow in the past
few weeks is that investors started believing in the KPN story
again,” Chief Financial Officer Eric Hageman said in a phone
interview. “The bonds were oversubscribed by six times,” he
said, adding the company is very satisfied with the pricing.  KPN shares rose as much as 3.4 percent and advanced 3.1
percent to 2.79 euros at 10:10 a.m. in Amsterdam, extending
yesterday’s rise. The shares  plunged  in the past two years amid
stagnant revenue and abortive attempts to sell its Belgian unit
and merge its German operations with those of  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   The hybrid bond sale is part of the capital raise the
company announced on Feb. 20, consisting of a 3 billion-euro
share sale and as much as 2 billion euros of hybrid capital
instruments that are expected to receive 50 percent equity
recognition.  Slim Support  The Dutch carrier is raising funds to cope with the rising
cost of maintaining high-speed networks for devices like  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. KPN spent 1.35 billion euros acquiring wireless
spectrum in the Netherlands in December.  America Movil (AMXL)  agreed to support the capital-raising plan in
return for nominating two people to supervisory board.  “They did a good job with the bond sale and got a
reasonable price,” said Jos Versteeg, an analyst at Theodoor
Gilissen Bankiers, adding the commitment from  Carlos Slim  gives
investors confidence. “It doesn’t seem to be an issue for the
company to raise capital.”  After yesterday’s “encouraging” sale, Hageman said he
will travel to the U.S. next week as KPN is looking to raise
about 500 million euros in dollar notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  