-- KPN Joining Hybrid Bond Rush With Up to $2.6 Billion Issue
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-03-07T16:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/kpn-joining-hybrid-bond-surge-in-europe-with-2-6-billion-issue.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN)  became the seventh
European borrower to sell hybrid bonds this year as the biggest
Dutch phone company seeks to bolster its balance sheet.  KPN, part-owned by  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, is
raising as much as $2.6 billion in three currencies, said a
person familiar with the matter. Today it sold 1.1 billion euros
($1.43 billion) of perpetual bonds yielding 6.25 percent that
can be called after 5 1/2 years and 400 million pounds ($602
million) of 60-year notes at 7 percent that can be redeemed in
seven years. KPN may also sell notes in dollars.  Electricite de France SA  and Spanish power company
 Iberdrola SA (IBE)  led a record 9.3 billion euros of hybrid sales in
Europe this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
high-yielding securities, which combine characteristics of debt
and equity, appeal to investors facing record-low  interest
rates .  Telecommunications companies are using hybrids “as a means
to shore up their balance sheets and reduce debt in order to
maintain credit ratings,” said Priya Viswanathan, a credit
analyst at Societe Generale SA in Bangalore.  Stefan Simons, a spokesman at The Hague-based KPN, declined
to comment on the deal.  Hybrid notes allow companies to borrow without putting
their credit grade at risk because ratings firms count 50
percent of the bonds as equity, reducing their assessment of an
issuer’s indebtedness.  Debt Reduction  KPN  said  last month it intends to raise 4 billion euros of
equity capital to reduce net debt and support operations. The
fundraising will include a 3 billion-euro stock offering as well
as hybrid bonds, the company said. KPN, which reported debt
exceeded earnings by three times in the fourth quarter, wants to
cut the ratio to 2 to 2.5 times by the end of 2013.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded KPN to BBB- on Feb. 8, citing
weaker-than-expected profit in the fourth quarter.  KPN’s euro-denominated hybrid notes are provisionally
ranked Ba1, one step below investment grade, by Moody’s
Investors Service and a level lower at BB by  Fitch Ratings .  The bonds would look attractive at a yield of 6.5 percent,
Malin Hedman, an analyst at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam said today,
based on where  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) ’s hybrid debt is currently
trading. The Vienna-based company was the first
telecommunications firm to issue hybrid securities this year,
selling 600 million euros of 6.625 percent notes on Feb. 1.  National Grid Plc (NG/) , the operator of energy networks in the
U.K. and  North America , is also planning to sell hybrid bonds.
The utility started meeting investors in Europe and Asia on
March 4, according to people familiar with the plan. The
proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.  Pennon Group Plc (PNN)  was the first British utility to enter the
hybrid market this year, selling 300 million pounds of variable-
rate notes on March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  