-- Kuroda Seen Breaking Bank-Note Limit Buying JGBs
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a ,   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-03-07T07:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/kuroda-seen-breaking-bank-note-limit-buying-jgbs.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s new leaders will
abandon speed limits on debt purchases and scoop up longer-term
bonds to meet their inflation target, primary dealers said.  Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Barclays Plc and Bank
of America Merrill Lynch are among nine dealers expecting more
buying of long-dated Japanese  government bonds . Yields on 10-
year JGBs may be at 0.7 percent by June 30, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of the companies,
matching the lowest ever  quarter-end level . The rate touched
0.585 percent this week, the least since 2003 and about a third
of the yield on similar maturity U.S. debt.  Dealers said the BOJ will likely scrap a self-imposed limit
that its  JGB holdings , which at the equivalent of $1.3 trillion
are about the size of  Australia ’s annual economic output, don’t
exceed the value of all yen in circulation. Haruhiko Kuroda, the
nominee to succeed BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , said the so-
called bank-note rule isn’t a standard among central banks,
signaling a willingness to pilot the central bank into uncharted
waters of monetary easing.  “The BOJ will highly likely pursue much more aggressive
monetary easing, which might include a significant increase in
JGB purchases,” said Nhan Ngoc Le, interest rate strategist at
Morgan Stanley MUFG, one of 24 primary dealers obliged to bid at
government debt sales. “They have the bank-note rule, but
that’s not something that they have to stick with.”  The benchmark 10-year yield was at 0.675 percent today,
according to  Japan  Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest
interdealer debt broker. It reached 0.585 percent on March 5,
the least since June 2003 when the all-time low of 0.43 percent
was set.  BOJ Independence  Japan’s central bank law was revised in 1998 to establish a
policy-setting board that was independent of government
influence. Kikuo Iwata, a nominee for deputy governor, said in
January the law should be changed to let the government play a
bigger role in setting policy goals. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
has signaled changing the legislation remains an option.  Shirakawa, who steps down on March 19, has warned that the
perception of monetization, or financing government deficits,
could trigger runaway inflation and a surge in JGB yields. That
may imperil Japan’s ability to balance its books as its debt
service costs already consume about half of annual  tax revenue ,
even at the world’s lowest borrowing costs.  Five-year credit-default swaps that insure Japan’s
sovereign bonds fell to 62 basis points yesterday, the lowest
since November 2010, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. A drop in the contracts
signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  Sapporo, Fuyo  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Sapporo Holdings Ltd.
sold 10 billion yen ($106 million) of five-year, 0.39 percent
bonds, according to a statement yesterday from Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. The Tokyo-based beverage producer last sold similar
maturity notes in February 2012 with a coupon of 0.64 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fuyo General Lease Co. offered 10 billion yen of three-
year, 0.3 percent debt, Mizuho said in a separate statement.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Japanese
corporate bonds rather than sovereign securities was at 40 basis
points yesterday, the lowest since September 2011, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The spread for company
notes worldwide was 145 basis points, or 1.45 percentage points.  Two Channels  The Bank of Japan buys JGBs through two channels: its
asset-purchase program set up in October 2010 and outright
purchase operations, also known as rinban. The APP targets
sovereign debt maturing in one to three years while rinban
operations encompass bonds maturing in up to 30 years.  Government securities  acquired through the APP are excluded
from the bank-note rule because of the program’s “ temporary ”
nature, the central bank has said. Via rinban, the BOJ soaks up
21.6 trillion yen of government debt a year, with 90 percent
allocated to notes maturing in 10 years or less.  “The BOJ is likely to announce bond purchases of more than
10 years of maturity in April,” said  Chotaro Morita , the chief
strategist for fixed income at Barclays in  Tokyo . “The BOJ has
to work out a plan to do that and may consider combining the
rinban and asset-purchase fund.”  Barclays expects the 10-year rate to be at 0.65 percent in
June, lower than its previous estimate of 0.7 percent, according
to Morita.  Exceeding Bank-notes  The BOJ’s total bonds exceeded bank-notes in circulation
for the first time in August. As of last month, its 66.5
trillion yen in regular holdings plus 26.4 trillion yen in
securities bought through the APP compared with 82.9 trillion of
money in circulation, the latest  figures  from the BOJ showed.  Kuroda, who currently serves as president of the  Asian
Development Bank , said in parliamentary hearings on March 4 that
the bank-note rule isn’t something adopted by other central
banks and that the BOJ should consider buying large amounts of
longer-term debt.  Iwata, a professor at Tokyo’s Gakushuin University, told
lawmakers the following day that the central bank is responsible
for achieving its 2 percent inflation target and suggested that
the BOJ leadership should be prepared to resign if the target
isn’t met in two years.  His idea would mark a “big change, and markets are still
very skeptical,” said Takuji Okubo, chief economist at Japan
Macro Advisors who formerly worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  ‘Politicized’ BOJ  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher 
said Abe has “politicized” the BOJ to end deflation.  “He’s aggressive. He has basically politicized the central
bank, which worries me personally,” Fisher said yesterday in a
speech in  San Antonio . “But he wants to see this deflationary”
tendency “exorcized” and “he’s working very, very hard to
change things, and indeed the stock market has responded.”  Expanded easing may be easier said than done, according to
former BOJ policy board member Atsushi Mizuno.  “Kuroda will hit the wall of reality,” Mizuno, a vice
chairman at Credit Suisse AG in Tokyo and a member of the BOJ
board from 2004 to 2009, said in an interview yesterday.
“Increased bond buying would cause over-dependence on the BOJ
and that’s not healthy for the market. I see the risk of a JGB
bubble.”  Shirai Proposal  The central bank kept its asset-buying program unchanged at
76 trillion yen today at the conclusion of a two-day policy
meeting. A proposal by board member Sayuri Shirai to begin open-
ended asset purchases immediately rather than from next year and
combine the buying with rinban operations was voted down by the
group, the BOJ said in a statement. Policy makers next meet on
April 3 under new leadership.  The government is boosting stimulus efforts to sustain
stock gains and yen weakness. The Cabinet’s approval rate rose
to 70 percent, according to a Nikkei newspaper poll published on
Feb. 25.  The nation’s Topix Index of stocks has gained 25 percent
since Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  swept to power in elections
on Dec. 16.  The yen has tumbled 11 percent in that period and traded at
93.95 per dollar as of 4:02 p.m. in Tokyo. It was the worst
performer among the 10 developed market currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes in the past three
months, losing 12 percent.  The final reading for Japan’s gross domestic product due on
March 8 will probably show annualized 0.2 percent growth in the
fourth quarter, according to the median  estimate  of economists
in a Bloomberg poll.  Stimulus Effects  “Domestic growth is likely to pick up as economic stimulus
starts to take effect,” said Hidenori Suezawa, the Tokyo-based
chief strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Monetary easing
is likely to drive yields lower temporarily, but the sharper the
drop, the bigger the rebound would be.”  Suezawa expects the benchmark yield to rise to 0.9 percent
in the second quarter, the highest estimate among 18 that
Bloomberg compiled from the dealers.  Minutes of the BOJ’s Jan. 21-22 meeting showed that a few
board members proposed extending the maturity of bonds the
central bank buys.  Demand for super-long bonds will be tested tomorrow when
the Ministry of Finance  offers  up to 700 billion yen in 30-year
securities. The last auction on Jan. 10 drew bids valued at 3.52
times the amount on offer, the lowest since June.  “Tremendous expectations for the BOJ are completely
offsetting any upward pressure on borrowing costs,” said Shogo Fujita, the chief Japanese bond strategist in Tokyo at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. “It’s possible the BOJ will increase
purchases of bonds with maturity over 10 years under rinban.
Scrapping the bank-note rule will be a prerequisite for this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  