-- Kyl, Jones, Clifford Chance, Bracewell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/kyl-jones-clifford-chance-bracewell-business-of-law.html
Republican Whip  Jon Kyl , the senator
from  Arizona  who retired from Congress in January, is joining
Covington & Burling LLP’s global public policy and government
affairs practice.  “I gained a lot of experience from 26 years in Congress,”
Kyl said in a phone interview. “For the firm’s clientele,
having someone who understands how our government works should
be beneficial.”  Kyl will be a senior adviser to the firm until his law
license is reinstated, when he will become senior of counsel. He
will advise companies on policies related to tax, health care,
defense, national security and intellectual property, among
other matters.  Kyle sat on the Senate Finance Committee, where he was the
top Republican on the subcommittee on taxation and Internal
Revenue Service oversight. He also served as the ranking
Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee’s subcommittee on
crime and terrorism, the firm said.  Covington has been expanding its public policy practice,
notably with two hires last October. Dan Bryant, former senior
vice president of global public policy and government affairs at
PepsiCo Inc., joined in  Washington  as well as European public
policy adviser Paul Adamson in Brussels.  “Senator Kyl will be a tremendous resource for our
practice,” Bryant, who is chairman of the public policy
practice, said in a statement. “Senator Kyl is widely respected
on both sides of the aisle for his superb judgment, the breadth
of his policy expertise, and his ability to forge win-win
solutions on even the most complex and challenging issues.”  In addition to Bryant, Kyl will be working with Holly Fechner, vice chairwoman of the practice and longtime aide to
former Senator Edward M. Kennedy and former Homeland Security
Secretary  Michael Chertoff .  Covington & Burling LLP has more than 800 lawyers at nine
offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Jones Day Hires Clifford Chance India Corporate Co-Head  Jones Day has hired Sumesh Sawhney, formerly a Clifford
Chance LLP India corporate practice co-head, in the  London 
office.  “Sumesh brings with him years of experience in Indian
cross-border M&A and related corporate matters,” John Phillips,
partner-in-charge of Jones Day’s London office said in a
statement. “He is an important addition to our growing
representation of European and U.S. companies investing in
India’s fast-growing economy.”  Sawhney’s practice concentrates on India-related mergers
and acquisitions, formation of joint ventures, and cross-border
investment. Among his clients are Bayer AG, Deere & Co., Maxis
Communications Bhd, the Sun Group of the U.K., Volvo AB, and the
Omzest Group, the firm said.  “Asian economies, particularly those in India and
Southeast Asia, continue to grow, and our Singapore office
continues its expansion as  Jones Day ’s hub for work with clients
in this region,” Sushma Jobanputra, partner-in-charge of Jones
Day’s Singapore office said in a statement.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 36 offices
worldwide.  News  Swiss Lawyer Bodmer Sentenced to Time Served in Bribery Case  A Swiss lawyer who was the U.S. government’s star witness
in the bribery case against Frederic Bourke, co-founder of
handbag maker Dooney & Bourke Inc., was sentenced to time
already served in a South Korean prison and ordered to pay a
$500,000 fine.  Hans Bodmer, sentenced yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court
a decade after his arrest in the international bribery scheme,
was also ordered to make $131,906 in restitution. At a 2009
trial, Bodmer said he helped a Czech expatriate,  Viktor Kozeny ,
orchestrate a plot in Azerbaijan in which Bourke invested.  “I made a bad decision 15 years ago,” Bodmer, who pleaded
guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit  money laundering  in
2004, told U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin today. “I have
not run away. I have accepted the consequences.”  Bourke was convicted of conspiring to join a scheme to
bribe leaders in Azerbaijan in a 1998 oil deal. The  Justice
Department  points to the case as one of its top victories under
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, an anti-bribery law.  Bourke has yet to serve his one-year prison sentence. He
has asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review his conviction, which
a federal appeals court upheld in 2011.  After Bodmer was arrested in 2003 in South Korea, he was
held in prison there and in  New York  before he agreed to
cooperate with the U.S. government.  At Bourke’s trial, Bodmer testified that he helped Kozeny,
promoter of an ultimately unsuccessful deal to take control of
the Azeri national oil company, create secret Swiss accounts and
offshore companies that would pay Azerbaijan’s leaders. He said
he told Bourke about the plot in a conversation the morning of
Feb. 6, 1998.  Bourke presented proof that he wasn’t in Azerbaijan at the
time, and he has since argued that Bodmer lied on the witness
stand. Prosecutors said Bodmer may have been mistaken about the
date.  After agreeing to cooperate, Bodmer was allowed to return
to  Switzerland , where he practices law. In 2011, he was
reappointed to the board of Hyposwiss Private Bank Zurich, a
wealth manager. He left the company in November of that year.  The cases are U.S. v. Bourke, 11-cr-05390,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan), and U.S. v. Bodmer,
03-cr-00947, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Samsung’s $1 Billion Fight With Apple Spurs U.S. Lobbying Push  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  has doubled mobile-phone sales in
the U.S. since 2008. As the company faces anti-dumping measures
and a protracted court battle with Apple Inc., its U.S. lobbying
bill is growing even faster.  Samsung boosted spending on lobbyists to $900,000 last year
from $150,000 in 2011 as it tries to influence the federal
government on issues ranging from intellectual-property
infringement to telecommunications infrastructure, regulatory
 filings  show. The company also hired Sony Corp. veteran Joel
Wiginton to run a new government-relations office in Washington.  The bulk of Samsung’s U.S. lobbying money last year,
$760,000, went to the law firm  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld
LLP, according to the filings. The firm also lobbied on behalf
of AT&T Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd., filings show. Akin Gump
declined to comment.  The higher spending comes as the South Korean company is
embroiled in patent disputes with Apple on four continents as
the two struggle for dominance in an industry expected to double
to $847 billion in sales by 2016. In a U.S. lawsuit, Apple was
initially awarded $1 billion in damages after a jury decided
Samsung copied the iPhone maker’s designs for mobile devices.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Clifford Chance Absorbs Saudi Lawyers Into Practice  Clifford Chance  LLP will set up a mixed Saudi and foreign
lawyer partnership, the first arrangement of its kind, after
receiving permission from the Saudi Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, the firm announced yesterday.  The firm will integrate the corporate, finance and capital
markets practices from Al-Jadaan, the firm’s long-standing co-
operation partner in the Kingdom, while the litigation practice
will remain a niche boutique under the Al-Jadaan name.  “The decision to establish our own entity in this way is
very much a response to the growing Saudi-specific demands of
our global and local clients, who have already reacted well to
our increased investment in Saudi Arabia,” Graham Lovett,
Clifford Chance regional managing partner for the  Middle East ,
said in a statement. “The relationship with Al-Jadaan has been
extremely successful and positive and it seemed natural to build
our Saudi practice by taking our existing collaboration to the
next level.”  Al-Jadaan partners Abdulaziz Al-Abduljabbar and Khalid Al-
Abdulkareem at Al-Jadaan, will join Clifford Chance as partners.
All Al-Jadaan associates in the firm’s transactional areas,
along with some of the business services staff will also
transfer to Clifford Chance.  Mohammed Al-Jadaan, along with Yousef Al-Jadaan and
Abdullah Al-Hashim, will continue as partners with Al-Jadaan,
which will focus on litigation and mediation, legal strategies
and structuring activities in Saudi Arabia. Mohammed Al-Jadaan
will remain managing partner of Al-Jadaan and will act as a
special adviser and consultant to Clifford Chance in Saudi
Arabia.  The split structure of the firm was greeted by the
remaining Al-Jadaan boutique lawyers as a positive development.  “This ground-breaking move reconciles the ambitions of the
Al-Jadaan partners with the long term needs of our clients,”
Mohammed Al-Jadaan, managing partner of Al-Jadaan & Partners Law
Firm said in a statement.  Clifford Chance intends to recruit and develop more Saudi
associates in the office, as part of its continued growth
strategy in the Middle East, the firm said.  Clifford Chance has 3,400 legal advisers at 35 offices in
25 countries.  Bracewell & Giuliani Hires Fox as Senior Partner in London  Bracewell & Giuliani LLP hired energy finance partner Jason
Fox in London, where he will take on the role of senior partner.
He joins the firm from Herbert Smith Freehills LLP.  Fox focuses on financing for the oil and gas industry. He
has advised on more than 100 upstream oil and gas transactions
as well as other financings in the energy arena, the firm said
in a statement.  “I have known and worked with Jason for a number of years
and I am certain our clients will benefit tremendously from his
addition to the firm,” Bracewell managing partner Mark C. Evans
said in a statement.  Fox is the third partner named to Bracewell’s London office
this year. He, Julian Nichol and Alastair Young will serve as
“a cornerstone” in the firm’s expansion of its global energy
practice, the firm said.  Bracewell plans further growth in London with associates
and partners in the energy sector or supporting it, the firm
said. The London office’s primary focus is international
finance, projects, mergers and acquisitions, and other
transactional work, particularly for clients active in the
energy sector.  Bracewell & Giuliani has 470 lawyers in 10 offices in the
U.S., London and Dubai.  Litigation  Madoff Trustee’s Merkin Money Claims ‘Absurd,’ New York Says  The trustee for  Bernard Madoff ’s bankrupt firm made
“absurd” claims about money being withheld from the Ponzi
scheme’s victims while fighting to stop a $410 million
settlement, a lawyer for New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said.  Trustee Irving Picard, a partner at Baker Hostetler LLP,
said last month that the settlement, negotiated by Schneiderman
with former Madoff investor J. Ezra Merkin, will allow Merkin to
use money stolen from customers to help fend off Picard lawsuits
demanding $500 million. A lawyer for Picard called Merkin’s $410
million agreement to compensate victims, sealed in federal court
in Manhattan, “illusory.”  “That is absurd,” David Ellenhorn, a lawyer for
Schneiderman, told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff yesterday in a
court filing. While lawyers defending Merkin in other cases will
be paid, and Schneiderman will recoup $5 million for three years
of litigation against Merkin, most of the money will go to Ponzi
victims, he said.  “All of the remaining settlement funds, out of the $410
million, will be used to compensate victims of Merkin’s
wrongdoing,” Ellenhorn said. “Not one penny will revert to
Merkin.”  Paying Merkin’s lawyers who are facilitating the
settlement, which requires the former Madoff investor to give up
$410 million of his personal assets, is “required, and
appropriate,” Ellenhorn said.  Separately, Merkin said Picard is “extremely unlikely” to
win his own lawsuit against Merkin and his funds. Rakoff
shouldn’t allow the trustee to block the settlement because “in
the unlikely event” that Picard does win part of his suit,
Merkin’s funds would still be able to pay him, he said in a
filing.  Both Merkin and the attorney general made additional
filings in the case citing Picard’s “unusual” and
“extraordinary” request for an injunction to give him time to
build his own suit against Merkin.  The case is Picard v. Schneiderman, 12-cv-06733, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  