-- N.J. February Revenue Helps Cut Shortfall to $194 Million
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-03-07T16:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/n-j-february-revenue-helps-cut-shortfall-to-194-million.html
New Jersey’s February revenue came
in 9.5 percent ahead of projections, helping to narrow the
current fiscal year’s shortfall to $194 million, according to
Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff’s office.  Monthly collections were 8.3 percent higher than in
February 2012, according to data released by the treasurer’s
office. For the eight months ended Feb. 28, revenue remains 1.3
percent under Governor  Chris Christie ’s goal, the data show.  Christie, 50, a Republican seeking re-election in November,
signed a $31.7 billion budget in June that counted on revenue
increasing more than 8 percent in fiscal 2013. Midway through
the year, collections lagged targets by as much as $426 million.
Christie had said his administration would consider mid-year
budget cuts if the gap didn’t close.  “The steady gains we have been seeing over the past three
months add up to a very encouraging trend,” Sidamon-Eristoff
said in a statement today.  State-tax collections have beat Christie’s targets for
three straight months after missing projections for five in a
row. “We have a trend,” the governor told reporters in
Robbinsville today.  Income taxes, the state’s largest revenue source, led the
February growth. Collections were 5.3 percent more than
Christie’s budgeted amounts.  Christie said the most encouraging part of the revenue
report was the increase in the realty transfer tax, which is
paid when real estate transactions are completed. Collections
jumped more than 50 percent in February, a sign that a
turnaround in the housing market is starting,  Charles Steindel ,
the administration’s chief economist, said in the statement.  “We’re likely to end this fiscal year within striking
distance of where the governor’s administration said we would,”
said Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, a Republican from Little
Silver who serves as his party’s budget officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  