-- N.Y. Livery Car Groups Win Bid to Halt Taxi Hail Program
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/n-y-livery-car-groups-win-bid-to-halt-smartphone-taxi-hails-1-.html
Livery car groups in New York won a
court order temporarily stopping a pilot program that would
allow riders to hail the city’s 13,000 yellow taxis for the
first time using location-based smartphone applications.  The temporary restraining order against the  New York City
Taxi & Limousine Commission , whose drivers compete with livery
cars for fares, was issued yesterday by Judge Carol Huff in
state court in  Manhattan . The pilot had been scheduled to start
today.  “They’re supposed to pick up the next street hail”
instead of arranging fares in advance, Randy Mastro, a lawyer
for the livery groups, said of the taxis. “Only black cars with
licensed dispatchers can do that.”  The Livery Roundtable, Black Car Assistance Corp. and
several car-service firms sued the TLC in February alleging the
program violates city codes and may allow taxi drivers to
discriminate against racial minorities, based on their names or
locations, as well as the elderly, who are less likely to own
smartphones.  Full arguments in the case will be heard on March 18, Huff
said.  “Passengers can wait 10 days to enjoy the latest
technology,” TLC Commissioner David Yassky said in a statement.  Nearby Taxis  The livery groups also claim the use of smartphone apps
will distract taxi drivers and cut into the business of livery
car companies that are only allowed to pick up passengers who
pre-arrange rides and are banned from responding to hails.  Under the planned yearlong program, riders could use
downloadable smartphone apps to summon nearby taxis to their
location. App providers would have to demonstrate compliance
with commission guidelines and ensure that services are only
provided by properly licensed drivers, according to the TLC,  Michelle Goldberg-Cahn, senior counsel for the  New York 
City Law Department, said at yesterday’s hearing that the TLC is
required under its charter to explore new technologies and test
new services. The pilot would be optional for the city’s 47,000
drivers, she said.  “We understand why the court would want time to consider
this issue after first receiving voluminous legal filings from
all sides earlier this afternoon,” Goldberg-Cahn said in a
statement. “We remain confident that when the judge has had
sufficient time to consider everything, the pilot will be found
completely lawful.”  Track Drivers  Elizabeth Saylor, a lawyer for a taxi group challenging the
lawsuit, said the apps wouldn’t display riders’ personal
information, other than their location, and that the program
could track drivers who refuse electronic hails and thus improve
efforts to stop discrimination.  The program would allow taxis to respond to smartphone
hails within half a mile if riders are in Manhattan below 59th
Street. App users outside that area could hail taxis within 1.5
miles using their phones.  “We are highly confident that the court will dismiss the
petitioner’s claims and allow our passengers to start using new
technology that can potentially make hailing yellow taxis more
modern and more efficient,” the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of
Trade said in a statement.  The case is Black Car Assistance Corp. v. The City of New
York, 100327-2013,  Supreme Court  for the State of New York,
County of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 