-- Najib Visits Malaysia Battleground as Muslim Clan Under Siege
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-03-07T04:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/najib-visits-malaysia-battleground-as-muslim-clan-under-siege.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
traveled to the eastern state of Sabah today as security forces
surrounded an armed Muslim clan from the Philippines that
invaded last month to bolster its ownership claim on the area.  Malaysia’s police, army and navy cordoned off two villages
in Sabah to prevent more than 200 loyalists of self-proclaimed
Sulu Sultan Jamalul Kiram from getting food and weapons,
according to Sabah Police Commissioner Hamza Taib. Najib will
visit an operations center later today, Home Affairs Minister
Hishammuddin Hussein told reporters.  “If there’s a way out, it’s only by sea,” Taib said,
according to a transcript of his remarks. “However, I admit
that there are challenges as we’re dealing with human beings, so
they may have some tricks up their sleeves.”  The attempt by the clan to regain territory on Borneo
Island that the sultanate lost more than a century ago erupted
weeks before elections in both Malaysia and the Philippines. It
also comes as Philippine President Benigno Aquino aims to
conclude a peace deal with a Muslim separatist group that Najib
helped to broker.  Security forces “created a tight cordon” around Tanduo
and Tanjung Batu villages in Sabah, Taib said. Fighter jets were
seen flying over the area this morning, Malaysia’s Star
newspaper reported, without citing anyone.  Fighting since March 1 has killed about 40 people,
including eight Malaysian police officers. Kiram’s group
survived an initial assault two days ago and were receiving help
from Filipinos who live in the state, according to Fatima Kiram,
Jamalul’s wife.  ‘Fighting Goliath’  “We know we are fighting Goliath,” she said in an
interview at the couple’s home in Manila today. “The truth has
been revealed to the whole world for the sake of our dignity and
pride, and I see that as a victory for us.”  Aquino, on a visit to nearby Mindanao island, said that 10
Philippine Navy and Coast Guard ships formed a blockade to
prevent reinforcements from arriving in Sabah. He vowed to press
charges against Jamalul Kiram, who is undergoing dialysis
treatment for kidney failure.  “We are not yet at the stage when we will file by tomorrow
or the next day,” Aquino told reporters in Davao City. “It’s
still in the investigation stage.”  Aquino’s administration yesterday accused the Kirams of
deceiving the media by releasing a photograph purportedly of
Malaysian security forces that actually showed Thai military
casualties in 2007. He said later that it was “impossible” for
the insurgents to defeat Malaysia’s military.  Sabah Filipinos  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged a
peaceful resolution to the conflict in a  statement  issued from
New York. He called on all sides to allow delivery of
humanitarian assistance and respect human rights.  About 800,000 Filipinos live in Sabah, Malaysia’s second-
biggest state by land area that has about 3.1 million people,
according to Malaysia government  statistics . In Tawau district,
where the fighting is centered, about half of the population is
considered “non-Malaysian citizens,” the data show.  Kiram’s group is starting to blend in with local Sabahans,
Malaysia’s TV3 news channel reported, citing police. Security
forces yesterday detained four people with Malaysian passports
in Semporna, a town in Sabah, suspected of helping Kiram’s
group.  Developments in Sabah aren’t significant enough to affect
the supply-demand balance in the palm oil industry, Plantation
Industries and Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok said at a
conference in Kuala Lumpur March 5. Indonesia evacuated more
than 600 workers from palm-oil plantations in Sabah, the Jakarta
Post reported yesterday.  Malaysia’s benchmark  stock index , the  FTSE Bursa Malaysia
KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index, was little changed as of 12:44 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur.  Elections Coming  The Philippines will hold elections for its 285-member
House of Representatives and half of its 24 Senate seats on May
13. Najib must dissolve parliament by April 28 and hold
elections within 60 days as his ruling coalition seeks to
maintain a 55-year grip on power.  The Sulu Sultanate, which dates back to the 14th century,
says it leased Sabah to the British North Borneo Company in
1878, an agreement that Malaysia views as a secession of the
region. Sabah fell under British control after World War II and
joined Malaysia in 1963, shortly after the sultanate ceded
sovereignty to the Philippines.  The incident comes several months after Najib’s government
helped Aquino reach a peace deal with the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front, a Muslim separatist group in the southern
Philippines. The Moro National Liberation Front, a splinter
rebel group, called the accord -- which will expand the
country’s autonomous Muslim region -- a conspiracy between
Aquino and Najib for Malaysia to retain sovereignty of Sabah.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  