-- Nalcor, Emera Plan C$4 Billion in Bonds for Hydro Project
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-03-07T05:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/nalcor-emera-plan-c-4-billion-in-bonds-for-hydro-project.html
Power companies in Newfoundland and
Nova Scotia plan to sell more than C$4 billion ($3.9 billion) in
bonds starting this year to finance a hydroelectric project that
would supply power to eastern Canada and New England.  Nalcor Energy and  Emera Inc. (EMA) , jointly developing the
project, plan to finance 60 percent to 70 percent of its
estimated C$7.6 billion cost by selling long-term debt, Nalcor
Chief Executive Officer Ed Martin said in an interview yesterday
in Ottawa.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper said in November the Canadian
government would guarantee as much as C$6.3 billion of the
project’s debt for as many as 40 years. That should allow the
bonds to carry Canada’s AAA sovereign debt rating, Martin said,
adding to their allure and lowering borrowing costs.  “You’re getting the best Canada AAA rating,” Martin said.
“Those benefits are actually flowing through to the ratepayers
of Newfoundland and Labrador and Nova Scotia.”  Companies such as Nalcor are trying to take advantage of
historically low interest rates to lock in long-term financing
for their projects. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said
yesterday his 1 percent policy interest rate would probably be
unchanged “for a period of time” after inflation slowed more
than projected.  Utilities plan to boost investment spending by 7.7 percent
this year, Statistics Canada  said  Feb. 27, compared with a 1.7
percent increase for all private and public companies.  Payment Stream  The creditworthiness of the bonds will be reinforced by a
reliable stream of payments from customers in the two provinces,
Martin said. “It’s a very robust debt issuance and we expect
it’s going to capture a lot of interest.”  The project, along the Lower Churchill River in Canada’s
easternmost province, includes  plans  for an 824-megawatt
generating facility and transmission lines connecting
Newfoundland and Labrador with Nova Scotia.  Nalcor, based in St. John’s, Newfoundland and Halifax-based
Emera hope to start selling the bonds as early as the third
quarter, Martin said. The companies will probably issue bonds
with maturities between 30 and 50 years.  The companies plan to hire a lead financial adviser to
arrange the sale within the next two to three months, he said.  A spokeswoman for Emera, Dina Bartolacci Seely, referred to
regulatory documents in which the company said debt financing
for the first phase of the project should be completed by the
end of this year.  The federal government guarantee should enable the
companies to issue debt at similar yields paid by federal
agencies such as Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp., Emera said in
the application submitted to Nova Scotia regulators in January.  Newfoundland Hydro  A 6.65 percent bond due August 2031 issued by Newfoundland
and Labrador Hydro, a Nalcor subsidiary, yielded 3.39 percent
yesterday, according to Bloomberg composite data, 100 basis
points above government benchmarks. The premium demanded by
investors to hold the debt widened from 76 basis points Feb. 13.  The company’s bonds with maturities of 15 years or more
returned 0.56 percent in February, compared with an average of
0.47 percent for similar-maturity bonds in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch AAA-A Canada Broad Market Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  