-- Napolitano Girds for Battle to Resolve Italy Election Impasse
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-03-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/napolitano-girds-for-battle-to-resolve-italy-election-impasse.html
President Giorgio Napolitano, a
former communist resistance fighter who negotiated  Silvio Berlusconi ’s resignation, is preparing his final political
battle as he seeks to steer Italy out of its latest government
crisis before his term expires in May.  Napolitano, 87, is charged with resolving the political
logjam caused by elections last month that produced a hung
parliament. To avoid a new vote, he can try to forge a national-
unity government, accept an administration without a majority or
appoint a non-politician to head a so-called technical
government, similar to that of Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  Markets are pricing in two scenarios, “another technical
government or the possibility, which is less and less likely, of
a bipartisan government,” Mario Spreafico, who manages 1.5
billion euros ($1.95 billion) as chief investment officer at
Schroders Private Banking for Italy, said in a phone interview.
“Both would be temporary solutions” before new elections.”  The Feb. 24-25 ballot, which left front-runner Democratic
Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani short of a majority in the
Senate, has forced him to court the support of former comedian
Beppe Grillo and his anti-establishment Five Star Movement,
which won a quarter of the vote. Grillo responded by describing
Bersani as a “dead man walking,” stressing his party would not
give backing to any government.  Italy ’s 10-year bond yield has
risen 21 basis points since the vote to 4.66 percent.  Bersani’s Options  That rejection leaves Bersani two options -- try to secure
Napolitano’s blessing to form a minority government or he can
seek to forge a broad coalition with three-time premier Silvio
Berlusconi, who won a blocking minority in the Senate. The two
did manage to collaborate in backing the Monti government for 13
months, though relations soured during the election campaign.  The chances the two could bury their differences were
complicated by accusations last week by Senator Sergio de
Gregorio that Berlusconi paid him 3 million euros to switch to
Berlusconi’s party in 2006 and help bring down the government of
Prime Minister  Romano Prodi . Bersani served as Prodi’s industry
minister.  Bersani told party leaders yesterday he wouldn’t seek the
backing of Berlusconi and announced a limited legislative
program in a bid to form a minority government. His proposals
include easing austerity in favor of growth policies, stronger
anti-corruption laws, more rigorous conflict-of-interest rules
and steps to reduce the size and cost of government. Those
initiatives would probably appeal to Grillo’s lawmakers, who
campaigned against corruption and political waste.  Parliamentary Vote  Once given a mandate, Bersani would need to win a
confidence vote in both houses of parliament. While Grillo’s
lawmakers have ruled out backing Bersani, they have signaled
they could walk out of the upper house for the vote, lowering
the threshold for achieving a majority and indirectly allowing
Bersani to be installed.  Such a maneuver could be complicated should the 117
senators of Berlusconi’s bloc do the same thing. That would mean
that Grillo would have to send at least 13 Five Star’s lawmakers
back into the Senate to reach the needed quorum for the vote,
assuming all the other senators participate.  “This would square the circle of the maths giving birth to
an extremely weak minority government between PD and Monti with
some sort of external support from Five Star,” a team of
analysts at Mediobanca Securities led by Antonio Guglielmi, said
in a March 1 note to investors.  New Parliament  The new parliament is scheduled to meet for the first time
on March 15 to elect presidents for both the Senate and the
Chamber of Deputies. After that Napolitano will hold a round of
consultations with parliamentary groups to gauge the chances of
any of them being able to form a government. As Bersani’s
coalition did win a majority in the lower house, he will
probably get the first chance.  Should Bersani fail, Napolitano will probably reach out to
a non-politician,  Corriere della Sera  reported March 5. Italy
has a tradition of so-called technical governments. Monti was
president of  Bocconi University  when Napolitano asked him to
lead an administration of non-politicians.  Napolitano secured Berlusconi’s resignation in November
2011 as his parliamentary majority was disintegrating and after
Italy’s 10-year bond yield hit a euro-era record 7.48 percent,
fueling concern the country would follow Greece, Portugal and
Ireland in needing a European Union bailout. Monti passed
spending cuts, a pension overhaul and implemented tax increases
that helped shore up the country’s finances and bring down
borrowing cost, while fueling the popular anger that led to
Grillo’s surge in support.  Limited Mandate  A new “technical” government would probably have a
limited mandate, such as overhauling the country’s election law,
which makes it difficult for any party to win in the Senate,
before new elections could be held, Corriere reported.  Among the names circulating in the Italian press are
outgoing Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri, Development
Minister  Corrado Passera ,  Bank of Italy  Governor Ignazio Visco
and the central bank’s director general, Fabrizio Saccomanni.
“From the point of view of the markets, certainly a technical
government would be seen positively, even better if the prime
minister is a senior official of the Bank of Italy,” said
 Raffaella Tenconi , economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  New President  Napolitano is barred from calling a new vote. Under Italy’s
Constitution, the president can’t dissolve parliament in the
last six months of his mandate, meaning only the new president
would be able to call elections. Given the divisions in the
parliament, with Bersani, Grillo and Berlusconi each winning
more than 25 percent, an agreement on a new president will be
complicated.  During the first three votes for the presidency, a two-
thirds majority is needed. From the fourth vote an absolute
majority elects the head of state. Bersani’s bloc and Monti’s
centrists would have enough votes to then win a majority, said
Roberto D’Alimonte, a political science professor at Luiss
University in  Rome, for newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore.  “We hope such a majority won’t be used and Napolitano’s
successor will be elected with” a broader consensus, he wrote
in a March 2 article. “In any event, there’s a majority that
can overcome a possible dangerous impasse that would end up
further destabilizing an already uncertain scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  