-- Nationstar Sued for Selling Loans Rather Than Servicing
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-07T20:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/nationstar-mortgage-sued-in-new-york-by-investor-over-loan-sale.html
Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) ,
the mortgage servicer that collects payments on more than
$300 billion of debt, was accused in a lawsuit of harming
investors by auctioning home loans backing securities.  Nationstar’s loan liquidations are a “blatant abdication”
of the company’s responsibilities as servicer, mortgage-bond
investor KIRP LLC said in a complaint filed today in New York
State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  “Nationstar has not fulfilled its duties as master
servicer but rather has engaged in practices to enrich itself at
the expense of” investors, KIRP said. KIRP said that it’s a
“significant” investor in six residential mortgage-backed
security trusts sponsored by Residential Accredit Loans Inc.  Nationstar, which is majority-owned by  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG) , increased its servicing portfolio by 94 percent last
year to $198 billion through a  series  of asset purchases, with
sellers including a unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Its
portfolio rose to more than $300 billion last month after the
firm completed part of a deal for $215 billion of contracts from
Bank of America Corp., according to a statement today reporting
earnings.  Many of the mortgage loans Nationstar has auctioned only
realized “a fraction” of the unpaid principal balance of the
loans and “far less” than the present value of the property
securing the loans, according to the complaint.  Online Auctions  When mortgage loans default, Nationstar can take specific
steps such as modifying loan terms or foreclosing, KIRP said.
The loan sales, conducted on www.auction.com, allow Nationstar
to more quickly recover advances made on the loans, according to
the complaint. Nationstar has a “business affiliation” with
the auction website, the filing states.  “The only party that appears to have benefitted from the
bulk note sales is Nationstar itself,” KIRP said.  The  Association of Institutional Investors , a trade group
whose members include Pacific Investment Management Co. and
Loomis Sayles & Co., has been preparing to send letters to
mortgage-bond trustees complaining about Nationstar’s sales,
according to three people familiar with the matter, who asked
not to be named because the deliberations aren’t final.  Nationstar Chief Executive Officer Jay Bray said today on a
 conference call  that the strategy is permissible for some
securitizations and is being used by the company to help
bondholders.  Maximizing Proceeds  “It’s all about maximizing the proceeds for the trust and
what makes the most sense,” he said.  A spokesman for Lewisville, Texas-based Nationstar,
Marshall Murphy, didn’t respond to an e-mail about the lawsuit.  While it’s hard to know whether using the technique instead
of foreclosures or so-called short sales will be a positive or
negative for investors until seeing the prices paid, the move at
least partly reflects Nationstar’s interests, rather than those
of bondholders, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by
Chandrajit Bhattacharya wrote today in a report.  The auctions are “probably driven as much by the
servicer’s need to reduce costs (servicing a non-performing
asset is much more costly than servicing a performing loan) and
increase profitability as it is to find the best bid on these
assets,” the New York-based analysts wrote.  Best Bids  In a recent auction of loans by Nationstar with
$179.4 million of balances, the best bids on average equaled
58 percent of the prices of properties suggested by real-estate
brokers in states where court approval is needed for
foreclosures and 76 percent in others, Nomura Securities
International analysts led by Paul Nikodem said today in a
report.  That suggests investors would lose 10 percentage points
more of the unpaid balances than in other liquidations such as
foreclosures, they wrote.  The case is KIRP LLC v. Nationstar Mortgage LLC,
650794-2013,  New York  State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  