-- National Express Falls as Top Owner Reduces Stake: London Mover
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-07T17:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/national-express-falls-as-top-owner-reduces-stake-london-mover.html
National Express Group Plc (NEX)  fell 11
percent, wiping about 130 million pounds ($195 million) off its
market value after the rail and bus operator’s largest investor,
Elliott Advisors, said it would sell half its stake.  Elliott, the U.K. branch of New York-based hedge fund
Elliott Associates LP, will dispose of 50.6 million  shares , or
9.9 percent of the total, via a secondary placing, it said
yesterday after the close of trading. The shares were offered at
210 pence a share, or 8.7 percent below yesterday’s closing
price, it said today.  “Clearly there are worries the biggest supporter of the
shares is selling,” and risk that Elliott may cut its stake
further, said Alexia Dogani, a London-based  analyst  at Liberum
Capital who has a hold recommendation on the stock.  National Express shares dropped 25.50 pence to 204.5 pence,
reducing the London-based company’s market value to 1.05 billion
pounds. More than 11.3 million shares were traded, or more than
eight times the daily average during the last three months.  “Elliott is a strong believer in National Express’s
management team and its strategy for continued outperformance,”
the investment company said in today’s statement.  National Express came to a truce with Elliott almost two
years ago, agreeing to appoint three independent non-executive
directors to its board after the investor demanded that
management consider a takeover or breakup to boost earnings.  Institutional Buyers  The shares will be sold to institutional investors and no
further disposals will be made for at least 90 days, Elliot
said. National Express stock had advanced almost 13 percent this
year before today.  Elliott said the sale was driven by a “desire to diversify
its portfolio and invest in new opportunities.” The rail and
bus operator “remains one of Elliott’s most important
investments,” it said.  Elliott will become National Express’s third-biggest
stakeholder, after European Express Enterprises and  Prudential
Plc (PRU) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch managed the placement of
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  