-- Nationstar Seeks Bids for Bundled Mortgages, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-07T15:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/nationstar-seeks-bids-for-bundled-mortgages-credit-suisse-says.html
Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) ,
the mortgage servicer that oversees more than $300 billion of
debt, is taking the unusual step of selling home loans out of
securities owned by investors, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Nationstar has sought bids through Auction.com from March 6
to March 13 on more than $1 billion of non-performing loans
packaged into bonds based on “anecdotal evidence,” Credit
Suisse analysts led by Chandrajit Bhattacharya wrote today in a
report. As a servicer, the Lewisville, Texas-based firm manages
the debt for bondholders, handling work such as billing and
collections.  Such sales are “rarely carried out” among residential-
mortgage securities, though more common for commercial-property
bonds, the analysts said. While it’s hard to know whether using
the technique instead of foreclosures or so-called short sales
will be a positive or negative for investors until seeing the
prices paid, the move at least partly reflects Nationstar’s
 interests , rather than those of bondholders, they said.  The auctions are “probably driven as much by the
servicer’s need to reduce costs (servicing a non-performing
asset is much more costly than servicing a performing loan) and
increase profitability as it is to find the best bid on these
assets,” the New York-based analysts wrote.  Marshall Murphy, a spokesman for Nationstar, didn’t return
an e-mail and telephone message seeking comment on the loan
sales.  Nationstar, which is majority-owned by  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG) , increased its servicing portfolio by 94 percent last
year to $198 billion through purchases of assets including from
a unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. It oversaw more than
$300 billion at the end of last month after completing part of a
purchase of $215 billion of contracts from Bank of America
Corp., according to a statement today reporting earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  