-- Navistar Promotes Clarke to CEO as Campbell Exits Company
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-03-07T21:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/navistar-promotes-clarke-to-ceo-as-campbell-exits-company.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  rose
the most in more than four years after naming a new chief
executive officer who said the money-losing truckmaker may
return to 2011 market share as soon as the fourth quarter.  Navistar soared 28 percent to $31.89 at the close in New
York, the biggest daily gain since November 2008. On April 15
President Troy Clarke will become CEO, interim boss Lewis Campbell will leave and James Keyes will become chairman, the
company said today. Navistar said first-quarter cash use was
less than forecast.  The money-losing truckmaker may have as much as 18 percent
of the market for Class 8 trucks in the U.S. and Canada in the
August-to-October quarter, up from 11 percent for the one that
ended in January, Clarke said today in an interview. A new
engine with improved performance gives Navistar a chance to win
over fleet owners, the largest couple hundred of which account
for 80 percent of sales, he said.  “Because you’re talking to other businessmen whose own
businesses are cyclical and function in an environment of excess
capacity, it becomes a very pragmatic and commonsensical
discussion,” Clarke said in an interview. “I’ve been surprised
at the brand loyalty they have evidenced toward us. We have a
very fair chance to go in and earn this business based on the
performance of our products.”  Meeting Clarke’s target would restore Lisle, Illinois-based
Navistar’s market share above its 2011 level of 17 percent. The
company’s market share for Class 8 trucks, the backbone of
interstate hauling, was 24 percent as recently as 2010.  Cash Position  The net loss for the November-to-January fiscal first
quarter narrowed to $123 million from $153 million a year
earlier, the company said in today in a statement. While it was
the fourth loss in the past five quarters, Navistar ended the
period with $1.19 billion in manufacturing cash and near cash,
topping a forecast of $950 million to $1.05 billion.  “There’s a lot that’s encouraging here,” Brian Sponheimer, a Gabelli & Co. analyst in Rye, New York, said in an
interview. “But they are by no means out of the woods just
yet.”  Sponheimer has a buy rating on Navistar.  Navistar gained 15 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 8.1 percent
gain, after dropping 43 percent last year and 35 percent in
2011.  Mark Rachesky and  Carl Icahn  are the company’s two  biggest
shareholders , each with almost 15 percent. Icahn said he
supports the promotion of Clarke, 57, a former  General Motors
Co. (GM)  executive who joined Navistar in 2010.  “In my view over the past year Troy Clarke has been the
leading force in improving the company’s manufacturing
operations and cost structure thereby proving that he is the
right man to lead Navistar,” Icahn said in a statement.  Short Tenure  Campbell, former CEO of  Textron Inc. (TXT) , said when he joined
the company in August that he expected “significant
improvements” in the next 12 to 18 months. Campbell said on his
first conference call with analysts and investors that he and
his wife bought a house in the Chicago area. “As they say in
poker, I am all in,” he said.  The truckmaker had ousted Dan Ustian as CEO that month
after an inquiry from regulators about its accounting and
disclosures. As CEO, Campbell reversed course on an engine
strategy that had failed to meet 2010 federal emission
standards. He cut costs and focused on Navistar’s North American
truck, engine and parts businesses.  Keyes was chairman and CEO of  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , the
largest U.S. auto-parts company, stepping down as chairman in
2003.  Navistar also avoided a proxy fight when the company agreed
to add board members. Navistar added Rachesky as well as Icahn
representatives, Vincent Intrieri and Samuel Merksamer, to the
board in October and December.  The timing of Campbell’s departure is a bit of a surprise,
Sponheimer said, “however the board, by and large, is new and
did not choose the CEO, so it’s less of a surprise than it
probably should have been.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  