-- New York Sells Most Debt in Two Years as Rating Nears 1972 High
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-03-07T17:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/new-york-state-sells-most-bonds-in-two-years-in-debt-auction.html
New York  sold about $559 million in
general-obligation bonds, its biggest sale in two years, as the
state is poised to receive its best  credit rating  since the
1970s.  A $337 million tax-exempt portion included debt maturing in
March 2023 that priced to yield 2.15 percent, according to three
people familiar with the results. That was about 0.31 percentage
point more than benchmark munis, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the state AA, third-highest. In
August, the New York-based company revised to positive from
stable the outlook on the state’s general-obligation grade. The
move means New York could earn its highest rating since it was
cut to AA from AAA in 1972. S&P affirmed the positive outlook
for today’s sale, citing on-time and balanced budgets.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  proposed a $136.5 billion spending
plan in January that closed a $1.35 billion deficit with no new
taxes and with lowered spending for some local-assistance
programs. When the proposal was updated last month, it included
an additional $500 million gap created by a cut in federal
reimbursement for Medicaid payments covering the state’s most
seriously disabled. To help close it, the governor proposed
reducing spending on some programs for the disabled.  ‘Continued Momentum’  The 55-year-old Democrat is seeking his third-straight on-
time budget, with lawmakers planning to approve a spending plan
by March 21, which would be the earliest since 1983. In his
first two years, Cuomo closed more than $12 billion in deficits
with the first consecutive on-time budgets since 2006 in part by
winning wage freezes from the state’s biggest unions.  The S&P outlook “validates the many reforms my
administration has put in place since 2011 that resulted in on-
time budgets, lower taxes for the middle class, and more
efficient and effective state government,” Cuomo said in a
statement e-mailed yesterday.  “This continued momentum and the creation of over 115,000
private-sector jobs last year alone, with new jobs being added
every day, has put New York on the path to fiscal stability and
economic prosperity,” he said.  New York issuers have sold about $5.2 billion this year
through March 1, second only to  California , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  extra yield  demanded on general-obligations from the
state and its localities narrowed to 0.22 percentage point last
month, matching the lowest since October 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  