-- NGP Said to Solicit Buyers for Pipeline Operator Teak Midstream
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/ngp-said-to-solicit-buyers-for-pipeline-operator-teak-midstream.html
NGP Energy Capital Management LLC,
an energy-focused buyout firm, is weighing a sale of pipeline
operator Teak Midstream LLC, said people with knowledge of the
matter.  NGP is working with  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to seek suitors
for Teak, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
process is private. Dallas-based Teak could fetch $800 million
in a sale, according to the people.  Bidders submitted preliminary offers a week ago and second-
round offers may be due in April, said one of the people.
Representatives at Evercore and NGP declined to comment. Teak
Co-Chief Executive Officer A. Chris Aulds didn’t respond to a
message requesting comment.  NGP provided Teak with $100 million in 2009 to buy and
develop pipelines in the U.S. A successful bidder would gain
control of the more than 200 miles (322 kilometers) of natural
gas pipelines built by Teak in  Texas  last year. Teak also
acquired more than 325 miles of pipeline in 2010 with the
purchase of Texana Pipeline Co.  NGP, through investment arm Natural Gas Partners, manages
more than $10 billion in private-equity funds that invest in oil
and gas concerns, according to its  website .  Carlyle Group , the
world’s second-biggest buyout firm, bought a 47.5 percent
revenue interest in NGP in December for $424 million, giving the
firm more room to expand.  Other NGP  investments  include Blue Stone Natural Resources
Holdings LLC, an exploration company, and Crimson Pipeline LP,
which operates pipelines in California and the  Gulf Coast , the
website shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  