-- Nokia to Pay Microsoft a Net $650 Million as Part of Pact
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-03-07T16:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/nokia-expects-to-pay-microsoft-net-650-million-as-part-of-pact.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone
maker attempting a comeback with handsets running Microsoft
Corp. software, expects to pay its partner about a net 500
million euros ($650 million) as part of the companies’ accord.  The sum will be paid over the remaining term of the
agreement, Nokia said today in a statement, without disclosing
the duration of the pact. Nokia, based in Espoo,  Finland , also
reiterated its long-term financial targets.  The company teamed up with Microsoft two years ago to
challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices using Google Inc.’s
Android operating system, choosing Windows over Android which
Google gives away for free. The effort has yet to reverse
declines in Nokia’s smartphone market share, though sales of the
company’s flagship Lumia increased last quarter.  Nokia is paying Microsoft license fees for the Windows
Phone software, while receiving payments from its partner for
supporting its push into the wireless business. Support payments
from Microsoft will still this year exceed royalty payments made
to the software maker, Nokia said.  Shares of Nokia, which reported a seventh straight drop in
quarterly revenue in January, closed 1.6 percent higher at 2.79
euros in Helsinki. The stock has lost more than 80 percent since
the iPhone and the Android software were introduced in 2007.  Nokia said in January that future royalty payments to
Microsoft will probably exceed support payments received,
without disclosing the amount.  Targets Repeated  The company said today it keeps trying to boost its devices
unit’s operating profit, excluding some items, to 10 percent of
sales or more, while targeting faster revenue growth than the
market as a whole. In the fourth quarter,  that margin  was 1.3
percent.  Nokia’s forecast compares with an average analyst
projection for 2015 operating margin of 6.1 percent, Sami Sarkamies, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Helsinki, said in a
note.  Nokia also said Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop’s
compensation for 2012 declined to 4.33 million euros from 7.94
million euros a year earlier, as stock and option awards
declined and he received no bonus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  