-- N. Korea Threatens Preemptive Nuclear Strike as UN Meets
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2013-03-07T11:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/north-korea-makes-nuclear-threat-ahead-of-un-sanctions-vote.html
North Korea  threatened to launch a
preemptive nuclear strike on its “aggressors,” including the
U.S., ahead of a United Nations vote on tougher sanctions
against the totalitarian state for last month’s atomic test.  North Korea “ will exercise the right to a preemptive
nuclear attack to destroy the strongholds of the aggressors and
to defend the supreme interests of the country,” according to a
Foreign Ministry statement carried by the official Korean
Central News Agency. It warned the UN “not to make another big
blunder.”  Kim Jong Un’s regime has increased its threatening rhetoric
since the U.S. and China hammered out an accord that the UN
Security Council will vote on as soon as today to impose tougher
sanctions. While the nuclear test last month was bigger than
previous ones, North Korea has yet to demonstrate the ability to
put a nuclear device on a ballistic missile.  “This kind of threat of greater counter-measures is
classic North Korean style to amplify fear to delay or avoid the
sanctions,” Cho Bong Hyun, a Seoul-based research fellow at the
IBK Economic Research Institute said. “Stronger sanctions on
North Korea are largely accepted by the international community
so this statement is unlikely to have any effect on the vote.”  U.S. Targeting  North Korea has made other nuclear threats in the past,
saying last month it could “target” the U.S. with an atomic
test. Kim, who inherited his position upon his late father  Kim
Jong Il ’s death in December 2011, has worked to secure his
legitimacy by preserving a military-first policy while seeking
to boost an impoverished economy.  The new sanctions aim to end “illicit activity” by North
Korean diplomats, bulk transfers of cash by North Koreans, and
banks and companies that may be funneling cash or materials to
support the country’s missile and nuclear weapons programs.  Tighter measures will bring forward a stronger retaliation
by North Korea in “self-defense,” according to the KCNA
statement.  “The Kim Jong Un regime will be abolished if North Korea
exercises what it claims is the ’right’ to launch a preemptive
nuclear strike,” Kim Min Seok, a spokesman at  South Korea ’s
 Defense Ministry  said today. “North Korea exercising the right
to a nuclear strike would not only be a challenge to nations
without a nuclear arsenal, but a threat to humankind.”  Nuclear Capabilities  The American intelligence community assessment is that
North Korea remains some years from achieving the capability to
threaten the continental U.S. with a nuclear device small enough
to fit on a ballistic missile, though it may pose a nuclear
threat to its regional neighbors sooner.  South Korea said after last month’s test that it doubts Kim
Jong Un’s regime has perfected the miniaturization technology.  China’s support for the new sanctions may reflect its
mounting frustration with the North after the Feb. 12 nuclear
test in defiance of both the UN and the Chinese government.  An indication that  China ’s patience may be wearing thin
emerged in a Feb. 27 opinion article in the Financial Times by
Deng Yuwen, deputy editor of Study Times, the journal of the
Central Party School of the Communist Party, which called for
China to “consider abandoning North Korea.”  China is Kim’s biggest trading partner, and North Korea’s
dependence has deepened as exports of coals and minerals to its
ally has increased. About two-thirds of North Korea’s 24 million
people suffer from food insecurity or malnutrition, according to
the UN.  Regular Accusations  North Korea regularly accuses the U.S. and South Korea of
military provocations, blaming American policy for bringing the
Korea peninsula closer to nuclear war. Kim Jong Un’s regime said
on Oct. 9 it was prepared to counter any nuclear or missile
attack “in kind.”  Today’s statement is an attempt by North Korea at
“watering down the level of sanctions,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a
professor of North Korean Studies at  Dongguk University  in
 Seoul . “North Korea is expected to gradually heighten its
countermeasures, meaning another ballistic missile launch is
possible. But they won’t go as extreme as a nuclear strike, even
if they say so, because China is involved in the sanctions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  