-- Obama Signs Expanded Law to Prevent Violence Against Women
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-03-07T21:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/obama-signs-expanded-law-to-help-prevent-violence-against-women.html
President  Barack Obama  signed into
law a bill that extends for five years programs to help battered
women and expands protections to Native Americans and gay-rights
advocates.  “Today is about the millions of women -- the victims of
domestic abuse and sexual assault -- who are out there right now
looking for a lifeline, looking for support,” Obama said at a
signing ceremony in Washington before an audience of women’s
organizations, law enforcement officials, tribal leaders,
survivors, advocates and lawmakers.  The president credited the law with bringing domestic
violence out of the shadows. “It didn’t just change the rules;
it changed our culture” to make it permissable to openly
discuss domestic abuse, Obama said.  The extension of the law also grants American Indian tribal
courts new powers to try people who aren’t members of the tribe.
The law strengthens the criminal justice system’s response to
crimes against women, including domestic violence, sexual
assault and trafficking, the White House said in a statement.  The extension authorizes as much as $660 million a year for
programs to help protect women. The money would train more than
500,000 law enforcement officers, prosecutors, judges and other
personnel every year, according to the White House.  Long Debated  Enactment ends years of debate during which Democrats and
Republicans accused each other of caring more about politics
than about battered women.  The original law, almost two decades old, was first passed
in 1994 and sponsored by then-Senator Joe Biden, the current
vice president.  The program is administered by the Justice Department and
Department of Health and Human Services.  Under new provisions, the law specifically prohibits
recipients of federal grants from discriminating on the basis of
sexual orientation or gender identity, giving a victory to
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender groups.  It also would allow tribes to try certain non-members who
live or work on a reservation if they are accused of assaulting
a member on reservation lands.  Tribal Law  Under current law, tribes can’t try non-members for
domestic-violence crimes committed against a member on a
reservation. Human rights advocates argued that such conditions
discouraged women from reporting cases because they thought
federal prosecutors, often hundreds of miles away, would ignore
them.  The law authorizes $222 million a year for Services,
Training, Officers and Prosecutors, or STOP, grants. At least 20
percent of the money would have to be spent on programs that
“meaningfully address sexual assault,” according to the bill.  Protections also apply to both international and domestic
victims of human trafficking, and the law is designed to help
ensure traffickers are brought to justice. The program also
funds the National Domestic Violence Hotline, which has answered
more than 3 million calls since its creation and receives more
than 22,000 calls every month.  It also would seek to reduce backlogs of untested evidence
collected from sexual assaults, known as rape kits.  The programs in the law are subject to the automatic
spending cuts, called sequestration, that took effect March 1.  The House approved the measure Feb. 28 by a vote of
286-138. The Senate passed the bill 78-22 on Feb. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  