-- Obama Interior Pick Championed Outdoor Jobs Over Oil
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-03-07T16:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/obama-interior-pick-championed-outdoor-jobs-over-oil.html
As she stood before governors from
western U.S. states last June, Sally Jewell made a pitch that
was self-evident and revolutionary: Public lands are an economic
boon.  “Protecting America’s parks, waters and trails is about
protecting the economy, the communities and the people whose
lives depend on the ability to play outside,” Jewell, president
of  Recreational Equipment Inc ., told the 22-member governors’
group at a resort in  Washington ’s Cascade mountains.  Selling fleece jackets, fishing poles, skis and kayaks --
REI’s business -- is a  $646 billion industry , making it a bigger
part of the  U.S. economy  than manufacturing pharmaceuticals or
refining gasoline, according to an industry report Jewell
highlighted that day.  Now Jewell, a 57-year-old company executive, is President
 Barack Obama ’s pick for Interior secretary, and her advocacy has
won her support from wildlife and environmental groups -- and
cautious questions from backers of expanded oil drilling on
federal lands. If confirmed by the  U.S. Senate  after a committee
hearing today, she would run the sprawling, 70,000-employee
department that manages national parks, 500 million acres of
mineral-rich lands, Arctic drilling and  duck stamps  for wetland
conservation.  At REI, Jewell, an accomplished mountain climber, expert
skier and longtime bicycle commuter, helped lead groups such as
the Conservation Alliance that pushed government to curb fossil-
fuel mining in or near public lands.  Activism, Reliance  Oil-and-gas drilling groups such as the Western Energy
Alliance say senators should press Jewell today about whether
she will balance conservation with the needs of energy companies
to access areas controlled by the Interior Department  “It’s hard to square her environmental activism with what
needs to be done to increase production on public lands,”
Kathleen Sgamma, a vice president at the Denver-based group,
which represents 400 companies, said in an interview. “The
recreation industry has hitched its wagon to the conservation-
only lobby,” she said. “But they are totally reliant on oil
and gas.”  So far the only sign of opposition to Jewell has come in a
threat from  Alaska  Republican Senator  Lisa Murkowski  to hold up
a vote on confirmation until Interior approves a road in a rural
Alaska town. She said today Republicans were looking to Jewell
for support on several broader issues.  Tourism Communities  “We need you to reassure us that public lands provide not
just a playground for recreational enthusiasts,” Murkowski said
today. “You need to convince us that you will maintain balance
in the various” uses of land, she said.  Jewell’s colleagues in the “human-powered outdoor
industry” said her approach makes commercial sense, boosting
everything from American manufacturing to the nation’s tourist-
dependent communities.  “She has spent a lot of time focused on the economic
benefits of being outdoors, and access to the outdoors,” Will
Manzer, the former head of Eastern Mountain Sports, an REI
competitor, said in an interview. “There is a huge, huge
compatibility between economic growth and outdoor recreation and
conservation.”  Oil Engineer  Jewell, a former petroleum engineer at Mobil Oil Corp.,
will balance the conflicting demands of development and
conservation, according to Republican Dirk Kempthorne, a former
Idaho governor and Interior secretary under President  George W.
Bush , who pushed for more resource development on public lands.  “You don’t become CEO of REI without having tremendous
management and leadership skills,” according to Kempthorne, who
said in an interview that Jewell advised him during 2 1/2 years
at the agency. “She has a background in oil and gas, and she
knows that you need these resources.”  Jewell disclosed holding stock in companies such as
ConocoPhillips and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , which have drilling leases
managed by Interior. Jewell reported more than $2 million in
stocks, bonds and mutual funds with the Office of Government
Ethics.  The shares include about three dozen oil, gas and related
companies, including Exxon and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , which Jewell said
in a letter to the ethics office that she would sell if
confirmed. REI reported Jewell’s 2011 compensation was $2
million.  Revenues Climb  Since the U.S. recession began in 2007, the Kent,
Washington-based cooperative has grown every year amid the U.S.
economic slowdown, John Hamlin, chairman of REI’s board, said in
an interview. Revenue in 2011 was $1.8 billion, up 8.4 percent
from a year earlier, according to a report to members.  The company also gives  $100,000 a year  to the Conservation
Alliance.  The advocacy group in recent years pressed the
Interior Department to ban new uranium mining near the Grand
Canyon and to set aside habitats within Alaska’s National
Petroleum Reserve for conservation and recreation. While the
group praised Interior’s decisions in both cases, industry
groups and Republicans decried them.  “Interior has once again caved to environmental special-
interest groups,” Representative Don Young, an Alaska
Republican, said in a statement after Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  announced the final Alaska plan that limited access.  Parks Advocacy  Jewell is also a leader of the National Parks Conservation
Association, which advocates for funding and resources for
parks. In 2010, the group helped defeat plans to construct eight
coal plants near parks. It also filed a lawsuit to require a
federal environmental review before hydraulic fracturing is
allowed in the Delaware Water Gap recreation area.  The group also pressed the department to strengthen pending
rules for hydraulic fracturing on public lands, and Wyoming
Senator John Barrasso today asked whether Jewell would recuse
herself from deciding issues where the group had lobbied.  Jewell highlighted the need for energy development on
federal lands in her testimony to the Senate panel.  “Innovative technologies and new frontiers both onshore
and offshore are increasing our nation’s domestic oil and gas
production, and we owe it to the American people to make sure
that development takes place in a safe and responsible way,”
Jewell said.  “There is no question that we need balance with regards to
our public lands,” she said. “Many people, when they enjoy the
outdoors, jump in a car to get there.”  Land Access  To be sure, not all the pressure is for more drilling.
Jewell’s nomination was announced a day after President  Bill
Clinton ’s Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt criticized the Obama
administration for not setting aside enough public lands for
conservation.  “So far, under President Obama, industry has been winning
the race as it obtains more and more land for oil and gas,”
Babbitt said in a speech in Washington. “Over the past four
years, the industry has leased more than 6 million acres,
compared with only 2.6 million acres permanently protected.”  Jewell, if confirmed, will need to balance those
conflicting demands. Her colleagues say she has the ability to
handle the political requirements of working with lawmakers, as
well as the love of the outdoors, which is what the department
is about.  “She takes input, but she takes action,” Hamlin said.
“It’s very important to her that we have places for outdoor
recreation, but she also understands that in any public-land
debate there are interests who want different things.”  “She will make decisions based on the facts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  