-- Honda Civics, Lincoln, Mazda, Volvo on Top Safety List
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-03-07T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/honda-civics-lincoln-mazda-volvo-on-top-safety-list.html
Two versions of  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s
Civic are among five vehicles added today to an insurance
group’s list of top safety picks, for performing well on a new
crash test simulating a severe front-end collision.  The two- and four-door Civics, Honda’s second-best selling
car in the U.S., earned the Insurance Institute for Highway
Safety’s “Top Safety Pick Plus” award for performance both in
previous tests and a new evaluation of a crash in which a
vehicle’s front corner collides with a car, tree or pole.  Volvo Cars’s Volvo XC60,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Lincoln MKZ and
 Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s 2014 Mazda 6 also got the top picks-plus
designation today. Thirteen  other models  were named in December.  “Improvements to the Civic and Accord allow us to put
large-volume vehicles into the marketplace and improve the
safety of the overall fleet,” Chuck Thomas, chief engineer of
automotive safety for Honda in the U.S., said on a conference
call with reporters.  The insurance group, based in Arlington,  Virginia , has said
it created the new test in part to improve vehicle safety. Honda
made engineering changes to the 2013 Civic in part to meet the
test requirements and asked the group to test the car, Thomas
said.  The institute this week said it will release results of the
small-overlap front crash test for small sport-utility vehicles
this year.  In December, it released results of the test for mid-size
cars with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Camry, the best-selling mid-size
car in the U.S., and the Prius V hybrid earning the lowest
ratings in the new front-end collision test.  New Test  The insurance-industry funded group has said it introduced
the test last year because that type of accident accounts for
almost a fourth of frontal crashes that seriously injure or kill
people in front seats.  Honda used higher-strength steel formed at high
temperatures to strengthen the Civic body and designed the cars
so the engine compartment absorbs more energy in a front crash,
Thomas said. He declined to comment on the cost of the changes.  The Civic was redesigned for the 2012 model year. It
overtook Toyota’s Corolla last year as the best-selling compact
sedan in the U.S., according to researcher Autodata Corp.  The National Safety Council last month estimated that 2012
was the first year since 2005 in which the number of crash-
related roadway deaths rose from the previous year. The group,
based in Itasca,  Illinois , said about 36,200 people died last
year in motor vehicle-related crashes. That’s an increase of
about 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  