-- Monte Paschi Media Chief David Rossi Found Dead, Police Say
-- B y   D a n   L i e f g r e e n
-- 2013-03-07T10:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/monte-paschi-media-chief-david-rossi-found-dead-police-say.html
The communications chief of  Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , the Italian bank at the center of
a criminal probe for hiding losses before its bailout, was found
dead after falling from his office window, police said.  David Rossi’s body was found outside the lender’s
headquarters in Siena at about 9 p.m. yesterday and police are
conducting an investigation, Romano Colucci, an assistant to
Prosecutor Nicola Marini, said by telephone today.  Corriere
Della Sera  reported Rossi, 51, committed suicide, without saying
where it got the information.  “Rossi’s death is a terrible tragedy,” the bank said in a
statement posted on its Facebook page. “This tragic event
imposes above all respect for the person, for the mourning of
the family and all of us.”  Rossi was a long-time aide to Giuseppe Mussari, the former
chairman of the bank, according to Corriere. He first worked as
a spokesman for Monte Paschi’s biggest investor, Fondazione
Banca Monte dei Paschi, and then was hired by the bank when
Mussari was named chairman in 2006, the newspaper said. Rossi’s
house was searched recently amid the Monte Paschi probe, though
he wasn’t under investigation, Corriere reported today.  The probe into the world’s oldest bank widened March 5 as
prosecutors opened an investigation into allegations of  insider
trading  in the Italian lender’s shares and carried out raids in
three cities. Former Monte Paschi managers are already being
probed over allegations of obstructing regulators, market
manipulation and false accounting related to the acquisition of
Banca Antonveneta SpA, people with knowledge of the situation
said last month, asking not to be identified.  The lender said on Feb. 6 that assets will be reduced by
730 million euros ($952 million) after a review of structured
deals from 2008 and 2009 that hid losses on earlier derivatives.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola and Chairman
 Alessandro Profumo , appointed last year to turn around the
company, last week received an additional 4.1 billion euros in a
taxpayer bailout after failing to meet regulators’ minimum
capital requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Liefgreen in Milan at 
 dliefgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  