-- Moody’s Misses on Southeast Asia Debt as S&P Errs
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-03-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/moody-s-misses-on-southeast-asia-debt-as-s-p-errs-asean-credit.html
The  bond market  is telling Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  that they’ve got it
wrong in rating sovereign debt in Southeast  Asia .  The cost of protecting notes sold by Indonesia, Thailand,
Malaysia and the Philippines against default averages 98 basis
points, CMA data show, compared with 270 for Italy and  Spain .
Debt stood at 51 percent of gross domestic product in the
Philippines and 25 percent in Indonesia, both rated junk by S&P,
compared with 126 percent in Italy, ranked three levels higher.  “The international agencies are wrong in their ratings of
some of the Asean sovereigns,” Lee Kok Kwan, deputy chief
executive officer of  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , Malaysia’s top
bond arranger, said in a March 5 interview in Kuala Lumpur.
“Market prices for the last three years have been so completely
divorced from ratings.”  The credit-default swap market is anticipating upgrades for
some of the largest economies among the 10-nation  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations , which the International Monetary Fund
forecasts will expand 5.5 percent in 2013 compared with 0.2
percent shrinkage in the euro area. Ratings companies are losing
their following among investors. Almost half the time,
government bond yields fall when an action suggests they should
climb, or they increase even as a change signals a decline,
according to 38 years of data compiled by Bloomberg.  Reserves, Savings  Interest rates  moved in the opposite direction 47 percent
of the time for Moody’s and for S&P, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes.
The data measured yields after a month relative to U.S. Treasury
debt, the global benchmark.  Asean leaders responded to a collapse in their currencies
15 years ago by bolstering their foreign reserves and reining in
excessive spending. International reserves in Malaysia,
Indonesia and Thailand average $137 billion and their gross
savings were at least 31 percent of 2011 GDP, compared with $33
billion and about 20 percent across France, Italy and Spain,
according to official and World Bank data.  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  said in January the
nation “is on the cusp” of winning an investment grade, with
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco saying on Jan. 25 the
upgrade may be achieved in the first half of 2013. S&P raised
the outlook on the country’s rating to positive in December,
saying a revision is possible this year as public finances and
governance improve.  Philippines, Spain  Insuring Philippine debt against default has been cheaper
than for Spain since April 2010, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. It costs 96 basis points to
protect Philippine notes, compared with 267 for Spain. The swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements. Contracts for the Asian nation
dropped 10 basis points this year.  Since the end of September 2010, Moody’s has lowered
Spain’s ratings by nine steps from its top Aaa rank to Baa3, the
lowest investment grade. The Philippines was upgraded two
notches in the same period to the highest junk level of Ba1,
while Indonesia was raised two times and currently matches
Spain.  S&P said in April it refrained from joining  Fitch Ratings 
and Moody’s in awarding Indonesia investment-grade status as the
country’s push to lure investment is at risk from “policy
slippages” such as the failure to cut fuel subsidies.  ‘Good Governance’  The director general of Indonesia’s debt management office,
Robert Pakpahan, said last month the government hopes S&P will
change its mind. Southeast Asia’s largest economy is
“maintaining stable and sustainable economic growth, and good
governance,” he said in a Feb. 6 interview in Jakarta.  The  cost  of insuring Thailand’s sovereign debt using five-
year credit-default swaps is 187 basis points lower than
Italy’s, yet S&P rates both nations BBB+, the third-lowest
investment grade. The contract for Malaysia, which is assessed
five levels below Aa1-rated France by Moody’s, is at a one basis
point discount to the European nation.  “We don’t dismiss off hand the CDS, but they have limited
use for sovereign analysis” because swings in the contracts can
be volatile,  Thomas Byrne , a senior vice president at Moody’s in
Singapore, said in a March 6 telephone interview. “We’re trying
to have a rating that has stability over the outlook, which is
one or two years, or sometimes longer.”  While the Philippines has been upgraded since the 2008
global financial crisis, it is rated junk because a large
portion of the nation’s budget goes towards servicing its debt,
Byrne said. S&P analysts were in meetings and unavailable for
comment, Cecilia Ho, the company’s communications manager in
Hong Kong, said by e-mail yesterday.  Fund Inflows  Global funds added $6.5 billion to holdings of Thailand’s
government debt this year and 13.9 trillion rupiah ($1.4
billion) in Indonesia, official data show. Foreigners poured a
net $1.2 billion into Malaysia’s bonds in January.  The inflows are supporting regional currencies. Spot
returns on the Malaysian ringgit,  Singapore dollar  and
Philippine peso are forecast to rank in the top 10 this year
among 25 emerging-market exchange rates tracked by Bloomberg.
The  Thai baht  has appreciated 2.8 percent and the peso advanced
0.5 percent so far this year, the biggest gainers in Asia.  Western Asset Management Co. has the Philippines as the
“single-largest overweight” position in its Asian
Opportunities Fund on optimism it will exit junk status as early
as in one year, Chia-Liang Lian, Singapore-based head of
 investment management  for Asia excluding Japan, said at a Feb. 6
media briefing. An overweight position means he holds more than
the benchmark index he follows. The fixed-income unit of
Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc. manages $462 billion globally.  ‘Very Popular’  “Asean sovereign credits today are very popular despite
their international credit ratings, whether in terms of amount
or price,” CIMB’s Lee said. “However, some funds that would
like to buy the bonds can’t because their mandate limits them to
only A-rated paper.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $288 billion Total
Return Fund managed by  Bill Gross  is the world’s biggest bond
fund and limits its Asia holdings to Japan and  South Korea ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The two north Asian
nations are rated Aa3 by Moody’s, the fourth-highest investment
grade.  Japan’s government debt stands at 219 percent of GDP, the
largest among the developed nations. Asia’s second-biggest
economy has a budget deficit of 7.9 percent of GDP, compared
with 0.6 percent for Indonesia, 1.8 percent for the Philippines
and 1.2 percent for Thailand. South Korea enjoys a  budget
surplus  and its public debt amounts to 33.7 percent of GDP.  ‘Quite Evident’  Indonesia’s dollar-denominated bonds due January 2016 yield
2.1 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, compared
with 3 percent for similar-maturity notes of Italy.  “What the  ratings agencies  publish versus what’s actually
been traded in the market is quite evident,” Leslie Foo,
managing director for global markets at  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) ,
said in a March 6 interview. “Even sovereign wealth funds are
actually beginning to invest in  emerging markets  or Asean
credits because of the value and given the countries’ balance
sheets versus where the yield is currently.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  