-- Look Past ‘Fading Four’ for Currency Gains, Samson Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-03-07T19:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/look-past-fading-four-for-currency-gains-samson-capital-says.html
Central-bank reserve shifts indicate
the best foreign-exchange returns may be found by avoiding the
“fading four” most-traded currencies in favor of the next
tier, according to Samson Capital Advisors LLC.  Sweden’s krona and South  Korean won , which have rallied 7.1
percent and 3.5 percent against the dollar in the past year, are
among Samson’s mutual-fund holdings, which it said may benefit
as central banks rebalance portfolios to better match the global
economy. Among the most-traded currencies, the yen has weakened
14.2 percent versus the greenback and the pound has fallen 4.4
percent in the past 12 months, while the 17-nation euro has lost
0.3 percent.  “The overweight in central-bank reserves to what we’ll
call the fading four, the U.S. dollar, the euro, yen and the
pound, those overweights are historical artifacts,”  Jonathan Lewis , chief investment officer in  New York  and a founder of
Samson Capital, which oversees $7.3 billion, said March 6 in a
telephone interview.  Central-bank holdings denominated in dollars, pounds, euros
and yen made up 94.4 percent of the $5.6 trillion of allocated
 reserves  as of 2011, compared with 98.4 percent in 2001,
according International Monetary Fund  data . The IMF’s central
bank claims in other-currencies category rose to $297 billion
from $20.1 billion during the decade that ended in 2011.  Market Share  During that period those nations’ share of $70 trillion
 global  economy has contracted to 52 percent from 69.1 percent,
World Bank  data  show.  The IMF said in November that it’s considering classifying
the Australian and the Canadian dollars as reserve currencies.  Samson’s STRONG Nations Currency  Fund (SCAFX)  was about evenly
split between the Swedish krona, Norwegian Krone, South Korean
Won, Czech koruna, Chilean peso and the New Zealand, Canadian,
Australian, Taiwanese and Singapore dollars, with about 9
percent holdings in each, as of Jan. 31. The $49 million mutual
fund, created in August, also has a 3.1 percent position in U.S.
dollars and 6.2 percent of its holdings in gold.  The fund has lost 1.6 percent this year and trails 87
percent of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
which uses global debt  funds  as a benchmark. The Samson fund’s
performance compares with a 1.69 percent loss for the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch USD LIBOR 3 Month CM index, according to
 Morningstar , which uses that measure as a benchmark for the
fund.  Market Methods  “People are looking for an accessible way to play
currencies,” Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC,
which oversees about $250 million, said March 6 in a telephone
interview. “I don’t think you’ve got a perfect capture of where
the strong growth is really happening. You’re still going to see
a lot of growth away from those countries.”  Lewis said the actively managed fund looks for currencies
of nations that have sustainable fiscal trends, transparent
economic data, sound rule of law and democratic governance and
an open, healthy economy with freer exchange rates. These
currencies “are the higher probability victors in that currency
reallocation” by central banks, Lewis said.  Samson also uses benchmarks in its assessments, including
The  Heritage Foundation ’s Economic Freedom  indexes  and the World
Bank’s Worldwide Governance Indicators.  Selection Criteria  Canada ’s dollar rose 7.1 percent on the Heritage
Foundation’s index during the decade through 2012. Its currency,
included in Samson’s portfolio, has gained 37 percent against
the U.S. dollar during that span.  “Talk about the fading four again, there would have been a
time, decades ago, when they were the strong nations,” Lewis
said. “It’s just that central-bank policy, government policy,
is taking its sweet time catching up with the reality of how the
world economies have changed.”  The fund rules out the yen amid speculation that Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s December election increases the likelihood
the country will drive down its currency.  Japan ’s has weakened
18 percent in the past six months, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The outlooks for the Swiss franc and  Brazil ’s real are also
clouded by central-bank policies and currency-market
intervention.  Central Banks  The  Swiss National Bank  is maintaining a currency ceiling
at 1.20 francs per euro in an attempt to protect its economy
from a stronger franc. The central bank bought 188 billion
francs ($199 billion) in foreign currencies from a wide range of
counterparties in  Switzerland  and abroad, the Zurich-based
central bank said in its Accountability Report today.  Brazil’s central bank has cut  interest rates  5.25
percentage points since August 2011, the most among Group of 20
nations, while Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has said that he
is abandoning efforts to push down the real.  “Brazil has been a habitual capital-control freak,” Lewis
said. “They score very poorly on governance and accountability,
and their index-of-freedom scores are not terribly impressive.
We look at the total picture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  