-- Osborne Will Consider Inflation Target in Budget, Treasury Says
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-07T08:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/osborne-will-consider-inflation-target-in-budget-treasury-says.html
The U.K. Treasury said Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  will consider the Bank of England’s
inflation target as he does every year, as policy makers debate
an overhaul of central bank’s remit.  The Financial Times said today Osborne may announce a
change to the existing monetary framework in the annual budget
on March 20. A Treasury spokesman played down the report, saying
it is no more than a reflection of the public debate on the
subject.  Bank of England Governor-designate  Mark Carney  has signaled
support for allowing the bank more flexibility in meeting its 2
percent inflation goal and promoted the idea of forward
guidance. He said last month that his role at the BOE will be to
help with its “re-founding.” Carney, currently governor of the
 Bank of Canada , takes over from  Mervyn King  on July 1.  Osborne said on Dec. 13 that he welcomes a debate on
the target, while telling lawmakers that he has “no plans to
change the framework.” Policymakers at the central bank and the
Treasury have discussed whether a change is needed to help jump
start Britain’s stalled economy.  The FT said officials are looking at options including
giving the bank a longer time to bring inflation back to target
or changing the target altogether to give it a U.S.-style dual
mandate to target inflation and jobs.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  says it may be
appropriate to review the U.K.’s inflation-targeting regime, and
that policy makers stand ready to take further measures to boost
the recovery if required.  Fit for Purpose  “I think it is sensible to review the framework to assess
whether it is fit for purpose or can be materially improved,”
Bean said in a speech on Feb. 27. Still, “the hurdle for
change should be high,” he said.  Bean said the current U.K. framework is already flexible
and incorporates growth and employment. His comments echo those
of policy makers  Paul Tucker  and  Ian McCafferty , who have said
the BOE’s remit allows it to look through temporary periods of
above-target inflation to ensure stable output.  Osborne said in December that “the inflation target has
served us well; if you were going to move away from it
Parliament would want to be satisfied that we’d have significant
rewards from it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  