-- European Shares Gain Ahead of ECB Meeting as Euro Strengthens
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   M i k a   O t s u k a
-- 2013-03-07T08:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/most-asian-stocks-climb-on-u-s-growth-signs-as-won-gold-drop.html
European stocks gained and the euro
strengthened after  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook on
Portugal’s credit rating before central bank policy meetings in
the region. Asian stocks fell from a 19-month high and the
British pound slid to its weakest level since July 2010.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  was up 0.1 percent as of 8.08
a.m. in London, while Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures added
0.1 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares lost 0.3
percent. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  pared gains, after
breaching 12,000 for the first time since 2008, and the yen rose
against the dollar following a  Bank of Japan (8301)  meeting. The euro
climbed 0.3 percent, the pound fell 0.2 percent and 10-year
Treasuries yielded 1.93 percent.  “There is a tug of war between monetary policy and
expectations of an economic recovery,” said Masato Yanagiya,
the head of currency and money trading in New York at Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s second-biggest financial
group by market value. “Stocks are in a high price range, while
10-year Treasury yields are below 2 percent.”  The  European Central Bank  will keep its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low today, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Bank
of England policy makers may boost asset purchases as they seek
to revive Britain’s economy. The Bank of Japan rejected a call
for an immediate start to open-ended asset purchases in Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa’s final meeting, a decision predicted by all
23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Pound, Euro  The ECB has to decide how big a threat Italy poses to
Europe’s recovery after a rejection of austerity in the euro
area’s third-largest economy has produced a political stalemate.
Policy options available to the ECB include rate cuts, more
long-term loans to banks, and measures to encourage bank lending
to small and medium-sized companies that are struggling to gain
access to credit, economists said.  The pound sank as low as $1.4967, before trading at
$1.4973. The euro traded at $1.3008, from $1.2967 yesterday,
after Portugal’s outlook was revised to stable from negative by
S&P. The Dollar Index was near a six-month high before data
forecast to show U.S. hiring picked up in February, which would
add to the case for the  Federal Reserve  to rein in stimulus.  “If non-farm payrolls are strong, you’ll probably continue
to see dollar strength,” said  Tim Kelleher , the Auckland-based
head of institutional foreign-exchange sales at ASB
Institutional, a unit of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA) 
“People are thinking about the Fed’s exit strategy so that’s
helping the  U.S. dollar .”  China’s Exports  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1 percent before trade
data tomorrow. China’s exports probably grew 8.1 percent last
month, slowing from January’s 25 percent gain, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed before tomorrow’s trade
report. Nomura Holdings Inc. predicts a surprise drop in exports
is likely given the strong correlation with shipments from South
Korea, fell 8.6 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index retreated from its highest
close since August 2011, with about five stocks falling for
every four that advanced.  “The market was due for a correction,” said  Shane Oliver ,
Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has $126 billion under management. “When
shares run up the way they have, they become technically
overbought and have to pull back for a breather. That’s what we
are seeing today. I don’t think valuations are too expensive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Mika Otsuka in New York at 
 motsuka3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  