-- Asian Stocks Drop After Two-Day Gain; Nikkei 225 Rises
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-03-07T10:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/most-asian-stocks-gain-as-u-s-jobs-fed-boost-optimism.html
Asian  shares  dropped, with the
regional benchmark index snapping two days of gains, led by
Samsung Electronics Co. and Australian banks. The Nikkei 225
Stock Average pared gains after the Bank of Japan rejected a
call for an immediate start to open-ended asset purchases.  Samsung, which yesterday announced it will invest 10.4
billion yen ($111 million) in troubled Japanese electronics
maker Sharp Corp., fell 2.6 percent in  Seoul . Sharp tumbled 7.9
percent.  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Australia’s
No. 3 lender by market value, slid 0.8 percent after announcing
plans to cut jobs and as the nation reported a bigger-than-
expected trade deficit.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , Japan’s second-biggest
automaker by market value, pared gains to 0.6 percent in Tokyo.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 0.3 percent to 135.44
as of 7:38 p.m. in Tokyo, erasing a gain of less than 0.1
percent. About the same number of shares rose as fell the index,
which capped a four-month advance in February, the longest such
winning streak since September 2009, as central banks maintained
loose monetary policy to support economic growth.  “The market is certainly not as cheap, but we don’t think
it’s overpriced,” said  Angus Gluskie , managing director at
Sydney-based White Funds Management, which oversees more than
$350 million. “Most investors believe the growth upside
outweighs the risks.”  Shares on the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index traded at 14.9 times
estimated earnings compared with 13.9 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 12.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Australian Trade  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slipped 0.2 percent. The
nation’s trade deficit was twice as wide as economists forecast
in January as floods in the northeastern state of Queensland
disrupted coal exports and telecommunications equipment imports
surged.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index declined 0.8 percent.  Hong Kong ’s
Hang Seng Index was little changed.  China ’s Shanghai Composite
Index slid 1 percent, while  Taiwan ’s Taiex Index increased 0.1
percent.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 rose 0.3 percent, paring a gain of as
much as 1.2 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2
percent today. The U.S. equity gauge gained 0.1 percent
yesterday and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  extended its
record high after a report by the ADP Research Institute
Research Institute showed companies added more workers than
expected in February.  Factory Orders  A U.S. Labor Department report due tomorrow may show
private payrolls rose by 170,000 last month, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Orders to
U.S. factories fell in January, weighed down by a slump in
demand for military hardware and commercial aircraft, the
Commerce Department reported yesterday.  Samsung slid 2.6 percent to 1,520,000 won, the biggest drag
on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index. (MXAP)  The South Korean company will
acquire 3 percent of Sharp for 10.4 billion yen to secure
liquid-crystal displays for smartphones and televisions.  Sharp fell 7.9 percent to 314 yen, its biggest decline
since Oct. 9, paring yesterday’s 14 percent jump. The company
may suffer from the deal as Samsung may demand priority supply
with preferential prices, according to a report by analyst Yasuo Nakane at Deutsche Bank AG.  Job Cuts  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group declined 0.8 percent
to A$29.01. The lender announced plans to cut about 50 jobs in
institutional and international banking as lenders trim costs
amid weak credit demand.  The bank also fell after the Bureau of Statistics said the
country’s trade deficit was twice as wide as economists forecast
in January. Westpac Banking Corp. also sank 1.2 percent.  Japanese shares pared gains after the  Bank of Japan 
concluded a two-day policy meeting today. The central bank
decided to keep the asset-purchase fund unchanged at 76 trillion
yen, while rejecting a call for an immediate start to open-ended
asset purchases due to begin next year.  Honda, which earlier rose as much as 1.6 percent, pared
gains to 0.6 percent.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ,
Japan’s second-largest bank by market value, dropped 2.5 percent
to 3,755 yen, the second-biggest drag on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index.  GS Yuasa Corp., which makes batteries for Boeing Co.,
surged 9 percent 437 yen, the second-biggest jump on the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index, following a Reuters report that U.S.
authorities may allow 787 Dreamliner flight tests with a fix for
a battery problem blamed for fires on the planes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  