-- Hot Topic to Be Acquired by Sycamore
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-03-07T22:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/hot-topic-to-be-acquired-by-sycamore.html
Hot Topic Inc. (HOTT) , the operator of more
than 800 stores selling clothing, accessories and music to
teens, agreed to be bought by private-equity firm Sycamore
Partners for about $600 million.  The deal was unanimously approved by Hot Topic’s board and
will require shareholder and regulatory approval, the companies
said today in a statement. The offer of $14 a share is 30
percent higher than Hot Topic’s closing price yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer Lisa Harper, who took over the post
two years ago after serving on the board since 2008, helped the
operator of the Hot Topic, Torrid and Blackheart chains snap
three years of sales declines. Hot Topic shares rose 46 percent
last year as quarterly results beat analysts’ estimates for four
straight quarters, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Harper is “the most crucial part of the acquisition,”
Thomas Filandro, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group in
 New York , said today in a telephone interview. Filandro rates
the shares positive, the equivalent of a buy.  Hot Topic rose 29 percent to $13.87 at the close in New
York. The City of Industry, California-based company’s shares
had gained 12 percent this year before today,  compared  with an
11 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index.  Harper, previously CEO of children’s clothing chain
Gymboree Corp., has told investors she’s working to return Hot
Topic to its “edgy, dark and sexy core.” The teen retailer,
which features a goth sensibility, was a popular destination for
fans of the Twilight book and film series featuring a teenage
vampire. More recently, Harper has introduced a line of lingerie
under the Blackheart brand.  New Licenses  She also has brought in new licenses including Batman and
Hunger Games as well as more fashionable items such as polka-dot
skinny jeans, Filandro said.  Harper is adding company-designed goods at Torrid, the
stores catering to plus-size teens. The chain has no real
competitors and offers Hot Topic’s best growth prospects, with
the potential to double its percentage of the company’s sales to
about half of its revenue, Filandro said.  Hot Topic is New York-based Sycamore’s fourth major
investment, according to the firm’s website. Sycamore, which was
started in 2011 by two executives from buyout firm Golden Gate
Capital Corp., previously acquired stakes in Talbots Inc., Mast
Global Fashions and consumer-retail lender Pathlight Capital.
The firm has more than $1 billion in capital under management.  Retail Buyouts  The transaction will heighten interest in potential retail
buyouts, Filandro said.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  Private-equity firms have “compelling reasons” to
consider buyouts of  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  and  Deckers Outdoor Corp. (DECK) ,
the maker of UGG boots, because of their  strong  cash flow  and
potential margin improvements, Randal Konik, an analyst at
Jefferies Group Inc. in New York, wrote in a note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  