-- Household Worth in U.S. Rises by $1.17 Trillion on Housing
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-03-07T17:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/household-worth-in-u-s-rose-by-1-17-trillion-in-fourth-quarter.html
Household wealth in the U.S. climbed
in the fourth quarter to the highest level in five years,
propelled by a gain in  home prices  that is helping repair family
finances.  Net worth  for households and non-profit groups increased by
$1.17 trillion from October through December, or 1.8 percent
from the previous three months, to $66.1 trillion, the  Federal
Reserve  said today from  Washington  in its  flow of funds report .
It was the highest since the fourth quarter of 2007.  Household wealth is approaching its pre-recession level as
the recovery in home values helps Americans overcome higher
taxes Congress put in place this year. Federal Reserve policy
makers’ plans to keep lending rates low may continue to shore up
finances, giving consumers the confidence to keep buying big-
ticket items including cars and homes.  “Growing wealth puts households in a better position,”
said Paul Edelstein, director of financial economics at IHS
Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “They’ve acquired a
lot of financial assets, and that’s a positive for spending.”  Household net worth is still $1.34 trillion below its pre-
recession peak of $67.4 trillion reached in the third quarter of
2007.  The value of financial assets owned by American households,
including stocks and pension-fund holdings, increased by $784.4
billion in the fourth quarter, today’s Fed report showed.  Equity Gains  The gain this quarter may be even bigger as investors have
taken tax increases and federal government budget cuts in
stride. On March 6, the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed at a
record, and the value of U.S. equities has now  increased  by
$1.44 trillion since the end of 2012.  The Dow rose 0.3 percent today to 14,341.5 at 12:49 p.m. in
 New York  as data showed the job market was improving.  The number of  claims  for jobless benefits unexpectedly fell
by 7,000 to 340,000 in the week ended March 2, the lowest since
mid January, according to figures from the Labor Department. The
median forecast of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an increase to 355,000. The four-week average dropped to a
five-year low.  Household  real-estate  net worth climbed by $478.6 billion
in the fourth quarter, a sixth consecutive gain and the biggest
since the first three months of 2006, according to today’s flow
of funds data. Owners’ equity as a share of total household
real-estate holdings increased to 46.6 percent last quarter from
45.2 percent in the previous three months.  Housing Recovery  Underpinning those gains, the housing market is making its
way toward recovery. CoreLogic Inc. said last month that the
national median single-family home price climbed 10 percent in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier, the biggest gain since
2005. Single-family home prices rose in almost 88 percent of
U.S. cities in that period as the recovery broadened.  Improving residential real-estate values may support the
economy even more than gains in equities. Economists  Karl Case ,
John Quigley and  Robert Shiller   found  that changes in  house
prices  -- and in real estate wealth -- have a bigger impact on
 consumer spending  than the ups and downs of stock prices and
financial wealth. Case told  Bloomberg News  last month that
consumer spending would be boosted by $80 billion in 2013 by the
rise in home values that has already occurred and homeowners’
expectations that additional gains will come.  Auto Sales  Automakers are among those benefiting from improving
household balance sheets, which is helping support sales beyond
car-owners’ need to replace older models. Cars and light trucks
 sold  at a 15.3 million annualized rate in February, capping the
best four months since 2008.  “In addition to the pent-up-demand story that we have in
terms of replacement, the housing-sector recovery is important
too,” Jenny Lin, senior U.S. economist at Ford Motor Co., said
during a Feb. 1 sales teleconference. “That makes the household
balance sheet a lot better and that would improve the wealth
effect here.”  Central bank officials are looking to spur the expansion by
holding  interest rates  low, thereby stimulating equity and real-
estate markets and bolstering household wealth. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  in January affirmed plans to keep buying $40
billion per month in mortgage bonds and $45 billion in
Treasuries.  “Even if the interest rate channel is less powerful right
now than it was before the crisis, asset purchases still work to
support economic growth through other channels, including by
boosting stock prices and house values,” Fed Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen  said earlier this week. “The resulting improvement
in household wealth supports greater consumption spending.”  More Borrowing  As household wealth improves, Americans are gaining
confidence to borrow. Today’s flow of funds report showed
 household debt  increased at a 2.4 percent annual rate from
October to December, the biggest advance in almost five years.
Mortgage borrowing fell at a 0.8 percent pace, the smallest
decrease since the first three months of 2009, the last time it
rose. Other forms of  consumer credit , including auto and student
loans, climbed at a 6.6 percent pace, the most in five years.  Total non-financial debt increased at a 6.4 percent annual
pace last quarter, led by an 11.2 percent advance by the federal
government and an 8.7 percent gain among businesses. State and
local  government borrowing  dropped at a 3.7 percent pace.  Gains in pay are helping consumers meet their loan payments
even as debt climbs. Mortgage and consumer-loan payments in the
third quarter amounted to the smallest share of after-tax income
since 1983, according to Fed figures issued in December. The
debt-service ratio was 10.6 percent of disposable income from
July to September. Five years earlier, the figure peaked at 14.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  