-- House Budget Success Is More Congressional Failure
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-07T23:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/house-budget-success-reveals-wider-congressional-failure-view.html
Washington  is celebrating a modest
victory this week because the House of Representatives passed
legislation to finance the government for the remainder of the
fiscal year. This “ continuing resolution ” sets funding for all
but military programs beneath their 2012 levels (once
sequestration is factored in).  If the Senate can reach agreement with the House, and if
President  Barack Obama  deems the result fit to sign, the federal
government will avert the kind of manufactured crisis at which
it has excelled in recent years. But it will also encourage
Congress’s penchant for slapdash budgeting that preceded the
current era of sequestration and fiscal Russian roulette.  This week’s continuing resolution is not so much an
aberration as the latest reminder of Congress’s chronic failure
to fulfill the core requirement of its job: taxing and spending.
According to the Congressional Research Service, lawmakers last
met their own deadline for appropriations in 1997.  If this sounds like a good way to keep budgets from rising,
it’s not. Unstable funding drives up the cost of government
while making it less efficient. A 2009 Government Accountability
Office  report  found that it caused contract delays, requiring
bids and environmental or engineering analyses to be redone,
“resulting in additional costs in time and resources to the
agency.”  In 2011, the Navy canceled $62 million worth of ship repair
contracts while it waited for its appropriations to be set,
according to a  study  by the IBM Center for the Business of
Government. Forgoing needed maintenance is among the more
expensive ways that government agencies accommodate
congressional failure.  Perverse incentives only lead to, well, more perverse
incentives. Inevitably, experienced government contractors
include the costs of budget uncertainty in their bids, forcing
up costs. Likewise, hiring freezes make it harder for agency
administrators to staff high-priority programs. Good candidates,
it seems, don’t like waiting around.  The current House and Senate leadership didn’t invent this
dysfunction; a continuing resolution first appeared in the 19th
century. But their heavy reliance on crude shortcuts only grows
more troubling.  Here’s a giddy thought: Before October, the start of fiscal
2014, bears down upon them, House and Senate leaders should
commit to an orderly legislative process, producing bills
through the respective appropriations committees. Representative
Paul Ryan is scheduled to release his budget next week, which
will ideally prod the already  tardy  White House and Senate to
hurry their own. Democrats and Republicans should use the
occasion as a basis for work, not posturing. Congress won’t
regain respect until it proves competent at its primary duty --
the lost art of appropriations.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 