-- Low-Profile REITs Grab Deal Spotlight as Deadlines Loom
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-03-07T17:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/low-profile-reits-grab-deal-spotlight-as-deadlines-loom.html
Nonlisted real estate investment
trusts raised $83 billion in the past decade. Now, as the U.S.
real estate market rebounds and they face deadlines to return
money to investors, the companies have emerged as some of the
property industry’s biggest deal makers.  At least three of the biggest purchases of U.S. REITs
announced in the past six months involved nontraded companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Three of the companies
listed shares last year, the most since at least 1990, based on
data from industry tracker Blue Vault Partners LLC. Yesterday,
Cole Holdings Corp., one of the largest REIT sponsors, said it
would merge with one of its companies and go public.  Nonlisted REITs -- which aren’t traded on exchanges and are
primarily marketed by brokers to individual investors -- are
poised for more deals after opportunities to generate liquidity
dried up during the recession, said Mark Decker, head of real
estate investment and corporate banking at BMO Capital Markets.
They typically have a lifespan of five to 10 years, meaning that
the companies that raised almost $20 billion during the property
boom in 2006 and 2007 may soon start seeking exits.  “All indications are that investment bankers will be very
busy,” said Daniel Goodwin, chairman and chief executive
officer of Oak Brook, Illinois-based Inland Real Estate Group of
Cos., the largest sponsor of nonlisted REITs. “There will be
mergers and acquisitions, there will be IPOs, and there will be
secondary offerings.”  Returning Investment  Nontraded REITs are typically managed by a founding sponsor
such as Inland, which earn fees for services such as overseeing
properties and making acquisitions. The REITs raise money
through share sales and acquire properties with the proceeds,
with a requirement to eventually return money. Until then, they
are generally illiquid as investors collect dividend payments.  Inland American Real Estate Trust Inc., with $10.8 billion
in assets, had an annualized dividend yield of 6.9 percent at
the end of the third quarter, according to the REIT’s  website .
The dividend yield of the  Bloomberg REIT Index (BBREIT)  of 129 public
companies is 3.5 percent.  Inland American is among nonlisted REITs looking at exits.
The Oak Brook-based company is working with investment bankers
on options that would give shareholders the ability to get money
back, according to a December investor presentation. Last week,
Wells Real Estate Investment Trust II Inc., an owner of 82
buildings, said it changed its name to Columbia Property Trust
Inc. and separated from its adviser, Wells Real Estate Funds, as
a step toward listing shares or liquidating its assets by
October 2015, as required under its charter.  Active Exploration  “Nontraded REITs are actively exploring ways to return
capital to their investors,” said A.J. Agarwal, a senior
managing director at  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s real estate unit.  The New York-based company, manager of the world’s largest
real estate private-equity fund, agreed in November to buy Apple
REIT Six Inc., a nonlisted REIT that owns 66 hotels, for about
$1.2 billion, including debt. The deal was the second-largest in
the U.S. hospitality industry in the past year, after
Blackstone’s $1.9 billion purchase of the Motel 6 chain,
according to Bloomberg data.  Apple REIT Six was nearing the end of its life outlined in
its prospectus filed in 2004 when the Blackstone deal was
announced. The Richmond, Virginia-based company had planned to
list stock, dispose of properties or merge seven years after its
share sales closed in 2006, according to a regulatory filing.  Reverse Merger  Cole Credit Property Trust II Inc., a nonlisted owner of
primarily single-tenant properties, took the tactic of becoming
public through a reverse merger. It agreed in January to acquire
 Spirit Realty Capital Inc. (SRC)  in a deal valued at about $3.6
billion, the largest purchase of a REIT in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg data. The new company will take Spirit’s
name and keep its  management .  Other companies may find deals within their own sponsor
group. Last week,  American Realty Capital Properties Inc. (ARCP) 
completed its purchase of nonlisted American Realty Capital
Trust III Inc., becoming the owner of 692 properties in 44
states. The acquisition was valued at about $2.2 billion,
Chairman Nicholas Schorsch said on a Dec. 17 conference call,
according to a transcript filed with regulators.  Both had been managed by affiliates of New York-based
American Realty Capital, which attracted the most money among
nonlisted REITs in the first nine months of last year, at $2.08
billion, according to Cumming, Georgia-based Blue Vault.  Cole Purchases  Cole Holdings, a Phoenix-based nontraded REIT sponsor that
oversees more than 2,000 properties, said yesterday that it will
be acquired by Cole Credit Property Trust III Inc. The combined
company would then pursue a listing on the  New York  Stock
Exchange under the name Cole Real Estate Investments Inc.  Cole Real Estate Investments was the largest buyer of
single-tenant properties over the past five years with $5.67
billion in acquisitions, according to Real Capital Analytics
Inc., a New York-based property-research firm.  Realty Income
Corp. (O)  was the second-biggest, with $3.47 billion in purchases,
and American Realty Capital was third with $2.61 billion.  “CCPT III will be able to increase its dividend payout and
intends to now pursue the listing of its common stock to achieve
greater liquidity and superior access to the capital markets,”
Leonard Wood, chairman of the special committee of the REIT’s
board, said in a statement.  Cycles Ending  Nontraded REITs that raised money in the boom period of
about 2005 to 2007 generally proposed ending their cycle five to
seven years after the shares were sold and are now looking at
mergers or listings, said Decker of BMO Capital Markets in
 Chicago . The companies attracted $7.2 billion in 2006 and a
record $11.7 billion in 2007, according to Blue Vault.  “Now that the recession is winding down, and the economy
is picking up and financing is more available and the stock
market is surging, we see opportunities that we didn’t see a few
years ago,” Inland’s Goodwin said. “There’s going to be a lot
more liquidity events.”  U.S. commercial real estate prices climbed 1 percent in
February and are within 1 percentage point of their August 2007
peak, Green Street Advisors Inc. said in a report yesterday. The
Newport Beach, California-based research firm primarily tracks
REITs.  Inland American Real Estate Trust is “positioning each
segment for potential listing, merger or portfolio sales in the
future,” according to the December presentation. The company
owns properties including office buildings, warehouses,
apartments and hotels, and it is now focusing on student
housing, retail and lodging, according to the presentation.  Options Considered  Another Inland REIT, Inland Diversified Real Estate Trust
Inc., has scheduled meetings with investment bankers over the
next 60 days to look at options for shareholders to be able to
be able get money back, the company said on Feb. 19. The REIT,
which owns shopping centers, apartment buildings, industrial
properties and offices, had assets of $1.8 billion as of Sept.
30.  Columbia Property Trust said last week it completed a so-
called internalization -- when a nontraded REIT takes on its own
management and separates from its sponsor -- to prepare for an
exit. The company is “well-positioned to advance to the next
phase in the REIT’s lifecycle,” it said in a statement.  For REITs that opted to go public, returns have been
attractive.  Retail Properties of America Inc. , an Oak Brook-
based shopping-center owner that was an Inland-sponsored
nonlisted REIT known as Inland Western Retail Real Estate Trust
Inc., gained 72 percent through yesterday from its initial share
offering in April.  Healthcare Trust of America Inc. (HTA) , based in
Scottsdale,  Arizona , rose 18 percent since listing shares in
June.  Company Purchased  Another company that had been managed by American Realty
Capital, American Realty Capital Trust Inc., began trading in
March of last year. It gained 14 percent before Realty Income, a
landlord of buildings with single tenants, agreed to buy the
company for $3 billion. The deal was completed in January.  “This is a good time to list, it’s a good time to merge
and it’s also a good time to sell your assets,” said Kevin
Gannon, president and managing director at Robert A. Stanger &
Co., a Shrewsbury, New Jersey-based investment bank.  While nontraded REITs from the boom years are seeking
exits, new ones are raising money. The industry is estimated to
have raised $10.5 billion in 2012, the most since 2007,
according to Blue Vault.  “It looks pretty good for the foreseeable future,” Gannon
said. “Some of these guys have really got it down to a
science.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  