-- Oxford Nanopore’s Gene Sequencer Facing Technical Delays
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-03-07T08:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/oxford-nanopore-s-gene-sequencer-facing-technical-delays.html
Oxford Nanopore Technologies Ltd.,
the company in a race with  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  and  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE)  to develop smaller, cheaper and quicker gene-sequencing
devices, is facing technical setbacks.  Oxford Nanopore, based in Oxford,  England , has had to
redesign components of a custom sensor because it wasn’t
performing satisfactorily, which has lengthened development and
testing periods, according to a post yesterday on the blog
 Pathogens: Genes and Genomes.  The blog is found on the
University of Birmingham’s website and written by Nick Loman, a
doctor who works as a bioinformatics specialist at the English
university.  “That put us back about five months, but it was the right
thing to do,” Loman quoted Oxford Nanopore Chief Technology
Officer Clive Brown as saying at the Advances in Genome Biology
and Technology conference last month.  The closely held company said more than a year ago that it
expected to begin selling its products by the end of 2012.
Yesterday, it didn’t deny Loman’s account of his conversation
with Brown when contacted by Bloomberg News.  “We should have made it clear that was off the record,”
Chief Executive Officer Gordon Sanghera said of Loman’s report.
“We aren’t giving any further comment on it.”  The company has also had to address chemistry in its
devices degrading and has been striving to reduce the error rate
to 1 percent from 4 percent, according to Loman’s account of his
conversation with Brown, which took place during the Feb. 20-23
AGBT meeting in Marco Island,  Florida .  Technical Risks  IP Group Plc (IPO)  owns about 20 percent of Oxford Nanopore.
Competitor Illumina owns about 15 percent, and the company’s
other shareholders include hedge-fund manager Lansdowne Partners
LP and Invesco Perpetual, the U.K. group of mutual funds.  Numis Securities’ London-based analyst Charles Weston
reduced his estimate of Oxford Nanopore’s value by 25 percent to
$1.5 billion from $2 billion in a Feb. 20 note to clients,
citing technical-development risks.  Loman wrote that Brown told him the device wouldn’t be “a
year, two years late” and that the company would release data
from its early-access program for its products this year.  Oxford Nanopore was spun out of Oxford University in 2005
and its technology was initially based on research by Hagan
Bayley, a professor of chemical biology at the university. Its
instruments use a novel technique known as strand sequencing, in
which an entire string of DNA is guided by an enzyme and passes
intact through a tiny hole in a cell membrane one-billionth of a
meter wide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  