-- Pandora Media Hits One-Year High as Results Top Estimates
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-03-08T21:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/pandora-soars-after-results-exceed-forecasts-ceo-to-retire-1-.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the Internet
radio service, rose to a one-year high as investors focused on
better-than-expected fourth-quarter results over the surprise
resignation of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Joe Kennedy .  The shares soared 18 percent to $13.79 at the close in  New
York . Kennedy said yesterday he made the decision to leave after
discussions with the board over the company’s future.  Pandora is gaining listeners from conventional radio
broadcasters, ending February with an 8.5 percent share of total
U.S. radio listening, according to the company. Potential
competition has whipsawed the shares in recent months.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  has delayed a competing service until later this year,
according to people with knowledge of the situation.  “The numbers looked relatively solid across the board,”
James Marsh, an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in New York, said
in an e-mail. “Guidance for the fiscal year looked a little
better than our forecasts. I suspect solid earnings plus Apple
music-service delays are fueling the stock.”  Revenue in the quarter ended Jan. 31 climbed 54 percent to
$125.1 million, Pandora said in a statement. That exceeded the
$122.8 million average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Excluding items, the loss was 4 cents a share, smaller than the
5-cent  loss  seen by analysts. The net loss grew to $14.6
million, or 9 cents, from $8.18 million, or 5 cents, a year ago.  This quarter, the company forecasts sales of $120 million
to $125 million, more than the $118.6 million seen by analysts.
Excluding items, the company predicts a loss of 10 cents to 13
cents a share, compared with the 10-cent average estimate.  CEO Resignation  Pandora pioneered Internet radio, growing to 67 million
listeners, or 70 percent all U.S. users, under Kennedy. While
its online and mobile services have eaten into the $14 billion
local-radio market, revenue growth hasn’t kept up with the
ballooning cost of music royalties.  “I reached the conclusion and advised the board that the
time is right to begin a process to identify my successor,”
Kennedy, 53, said in a statement. He said he’ll remain while the
company looks for his replacement.  The board should seek candidates with radio-sales
backgrounds at companies like  Clear Channel Communications Inc. (CCMO) 
or  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with
Wedbush Securities.  “They don’t need a product development guy,” said
Pachter, who is based in Los Angeles and rates Pandora neutral.
“They need a chief revenue officer.”  ‘Pretty Recent’  Tim Westergren , the company’s founder and chief strategy
officer, isn’t seeking to be CEO, said a person with knowledge
of the situation. Kennedy’s departure has been discussed for
some time, the person said.  Charles Sipkins , a spokesman for Oakland, California-based
Pandora, declined to comment.  The timing of Kennedy’s exit will allow a new CEO to take
over before the January 2014 start of a two-year arbitration
process that will set royalty rates beyond 2015.  The decision was “pretty recent,” Kennedy said on a
conference call. He said he will implement the plan for this
year and then “hand the baton to someone who can take the
company to the next level after that and levels beyond that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  