-- Paulson Gold Fund Down 18% as Metal’s Slump Foils Rebound
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/paulson-gold-fund-down-18-as-metal-s-slump-foils-rebound.html
John Paulson  posted an 18 percent
decline in his Gold Fund last month as a slump in the metal,
after more than a decade of gains, undermined efforts by the
billionaire hedge-fund manager to rebound from two years of
losses in some strategies.  The $900 million Gold Fund, which invests in bullion-
related equities and derivatives, is down 26 percent this year,
Paulson & Co. said yesterday in a client update obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The firm’s Advantage funds also fell in February
after the metal and related stocks weakened as signs of economic
optimism curbed gold demand.  Paulson is being hurt as gold fell for the fifth straight
month, its longest slump in 16 years. The manager told clients
in 2012 his Gold Fund would beat his other strategies over five
years because the metal was the best hedge against inflation and
currency debasement as countries pump money into their
economies. Falling gold stocks helped fuel losses last year in
the manager’s $4.9 billion event-driven Advantage funds and the
Gold Fund, and he also made wrong-way bets that  Europe ’s debt
crisis would worsen.  “Despite the volatility and drawdown of our gold equity
positions, we believe in the long-term outlook for these
positions as quantitative easing programs continue around the
world, credit expands in the  United States , and gold equities
continue to trade at a significant discount” to historical
average valuations, the hedge fund said in a letter sent
yesterday to investors, which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for $18 billion Paulson & Co.,
declined to comment on the returns.  Gold Shares  All of the gold share classes of the firm’s funds posted
declines in February, Paulson & Co. said in the update.
Investors can choose between gold- and dollar-denominated
versions of most of Paulson’s funds. About 55 percent of the
firm’s investors and 85 percent of Paulson’s money are in the
gold-share classes, Paulson said last month at the EnTrust
Investor Summit in New York.  Paulson also said at the EnTrust meeting that his best idea
is  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  The firm bought Freeport
shares in December following a 16 percent  drop  in one trading
session after the company said it agreed to buy  Plains
Exploration & Production Co. (PXP)  and  McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR) ,
Paulson & Co. said in a year-end letter to investors.  Paulson’s dollar-denominated Recovery, Credit and Merger
funds gained in February.  The Paulson Credit Opportunities fund, Paulson’s largest
strategy at $5.7 billion, climbed 1.3 percent in February and
4.3 percent in 2013. The Recovery Fund, which has $1.5 billion
and bets on assets Paulson believes will benefit from a long-
term economic advance, climbed 1.6 percent last month and 5.8
percent this year.  Merger Funds  Paulson Partners and Paulson Partners Enhanced, the firm’s
merger-arbitrage strategy with $5 billion in assets, increased
0.5 percent and 1 percent last month, respectively, and 3.8
percent and 7.2 percent in 2013.  Paulson’s Advantage Plus and Advantage funds, which seek to
profit from corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies,
fell 4.7 percent and 3.4 percent, respectively, in February,
bringing this year’s losses to 3.5 percent and 2.5 percent.  The Advantage funds lost 19 percent and 14 percent,
respectively, in 2012 after Paulson made bets on a worsening
European sovereign-debt crisis and that gold stocks would rise.
In the second half of last year, Paulson, 57, gradually
eliminated the Europe-related wagers, he said in the year-end
letter.  Paulson, who became a billionaire in 2007 by betting
against subprime mortgages before the housing collapse, posted
record losses in 2011 when he  made wrong-way bets on a U.S.
economic recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  