-- PBOC’s Rise to Top a Story of Deft Politics Amid Turmoil
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B e l l   a n d   H u i   F e n g
-- 2013-03-07T16:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/pboc-s-rise-to-top-a-story-of-deft-politics-amid-turmoil.html
As of November 2012, the People’s
Bank of China had total assets of $4.8 trillion, more than the
European Central Bank or the Federal Reserve. The PBOC now
supplies more than half the world’s total liquidity and manages
foreign reserves worth almost $3.3 trillion.  Increasingly, the PBOC has become an international lender
of last resort, particularly as European politicians try to
persuade the Chinese to buy their bonds. No wonder that  Zhou Xiaochuan , the bank’s governor, has been dubbed “the world’s
central banker,” a man whose statements can move global markets.  It’s hard to believe that just three decades ago the PBOC
was only a minor institution in the labyrinthine Chinese
bureaucracy. Its ascension is a story of turbulent economic
transition, skillful leadership and, above all, deft political
strategy. And its most significant challenges may still lie
ahead.  After the communist revolution, the PBOC was formally
founded in 1949 as a national bank, authorized as the center of
cash, clearing and credit to serve the Chinese economy.  In the 1950s, the PBOC became the only major bank in China,
a universal system that performed rudimentary central-baking and
retail functions. But it was marginalized by the financial
repression and bureaucratic hierarchies of  China ’s command
economy. From 1958 to 1962, the PBOC’s branches were merged with
local government treasuries, and from 1968 to 1977 its head
office of only 80 staff members operated as a minor department
within the finance ministry. The bank was nothing but a
bookkeeper, cashier and mint-master.  Deng’s Reforms  After Deng Xiaoping initiated a period of economic reforms
starting in 1978, the PBOC gradually became China’s most
important macroeconomic management agency. The emerging market
and a rapid expansion of international exchanges demanded
sophisticated financial intermediation that the PBOC’s universal
system was unable to provide.  The PBOC gained independence from the finance ministry in
1979, and as a series of state banks were resurrected to engage
in commercial business its role in the new system became a hotly
debated question. After lengthy internal arguments, its status
as China’s central bank was officially confirmed in 1983 and its
commercial-banking businesses were given to the other state
banks.  Inflation crises in the 1980s and early 1990s led reform-
minded elites to push the PBOC to maintain price stability via
the Central Bank Law of 1995. The law said that “The aim of
monetary policies is to maintain the stability of the value of
the currency and thereby promote economic growth.”  The central government also restructured the bank’s
regional branches, giving them increased autonomy from
provincial governments, which had traditionally been a source of
investment-driven inflation. After central financial planning
was phased out in 1998, the bank sought to modernize its
monetary-policy apparatus and developed closer ties with the
international community.  More important, PBOC leaders forged political ties with
reformist party leaders, particularly Zhu Rongji, who had been
the governor of the PBOC from 1993 to 1995 and went on to become
premier in 1998. Zhu lacked broad support in the central
government, but the PBOC provided policy and bureaucratic
backing on a range of issues.  The PBOC thus won increased authority by becoming an
indispensable ally for the reformist political leadership. Under
Zhu’s leadership, the bank had engineered a soft landing in 1996
after a bout of high inflation (peaking at 24 percent in 1993),
and won major arguments following the Asian financial crisis,
especially in pursuing a strategy of non-devaluation.  Flexing Muscles  With its new authority, the PBOC began to flex its muscles
in the 2000s, particularly under the governorship of Zhou
Xiaochuan, an economist with intimate ties to the political
leadership. Although the party still exerts control over the
financial sector, the bank has been exploring new, more market-
oriented instruments and mechanisms within its discretion to
establish a credible monetary policy and maintain price
stability.  From 1979 to 1994,  economic growth  averaged 10.1 percent
while inflation averaged 7.7 percent. From 1995 to 2011,
economic growth averaged 9.9 percent while core inflation fell
to an average of only 3.1 percent. This track record gave the
PBOC greater authority and room for maneuver in macroeconomic
management.  The PBOC also played a central role in liberalizing China’s
exchange rate in 2005 and again in 2010, despite mounting
internal resistance. Recognizing the importance of a sound
banking sector for carrying out monetary policy, the central
bank also took the lead in recent banking reforms aimed at
improving corporate governance and market discipline. Under
Zhou, the bank has also been active in reforming the securities,
insurance, and bond markets, internationalizing the  renminbi ,
and establishing state-of-the-art payment and settlement
systems.  But the PBOC still faces plenty of challenges. In the
short--to-medium-term, it will have to address bad loan risks,
especially an increasing prevalence of shadow banking and banks’
exposure to  real estate  and local-government debt. In the longer
term, it will have to ensure stability as China transforms into
a more domestically driven economy. What makes these tasks more
daunting for the PBOC is that it must constantly bargain and
negotiate with other bureaucracies and with the party
leadership. It also must implement a more market-oriented
monetary policy while constrained by the legacies of the
communist past, such as state control of key financial sectors.  But the bank’s future depends on more than adroit political
maneuvering. It must also stave off the kind of financial
catastrophes that have besieged the U.S. and  Europe  in recent
years. And that may turn out to be the most difficult challenge
of all.  ( Stephen Bell  is a professor of political economy and Dr.
 Hui Feng  is a research fellow in the School of Political Science
and International Studies at the University of Queensland. Their
latest book is “The Rise of the People’s Bank of China: The
Politics of Institutional Change.” The opinions expressed are
their own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writers of this post:
Stephen Bell at  stephen.bell@uq.edu.au  or Hui Feng at
 h.feng@uq.edu.au .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 