-- Peru Likely to Keep 4.25% Rate After Stemming Sol’s Appreciation
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/peru-likely-to-keep-4-25-rate-after-stemming-sol-s-appreciation.html
Peru ’s central bank probably will
keep borrowing costs unchanged today for a 22nd consecutive
month after weakening the sol and reining in credit growth.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
will leave the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, the lowest in
Latin America after  Colombia , according to all 14 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. The decision will be announced at about 6
p.m. in  Lima .  The sol had the biggest two-month decline to start a year
since 2009 after the central bank raised dollar  reserve
requirements  three times since Jan. 1 and stepped up purchases
of U.S. currency. While the lowest inflation rate in two years
gives policy makers room to consider cutting rates to slow
dollar inflows, domestic demand remains too strong, said
 Francisco Rodriguez , a senior Andean economist at Bank of
America Corp.  “There are no major signs of deceleration in activity,”
Rodriguez said in a telephone interview from  New York . “The
only reason to cut would be to weaken the sol and what they’ve
been doing at the level of reserve requirements is helping” to
reverse the currency’s gains, he said.  The sol appreciated 5.7 percent in 2012 amid a surge in
foreign direct investment to a record $12.2 billion and demand
for local  government bonds . The currency has declined 2.2
percent this year after the central bank bought $3.4 billion in
dollars, double what it purchased in the last two months of
2012. The  Finance Ministry  has pledged to buy at least $4
billion in 2013 to soak up surplus greenbacks.  Rate Outlook  The monetary authority may lower  interest rates  if
inflation conditions allow, research director Adrian Armas told
reporters after last month’s meeting, and Velarde said Jan. 25
policy makers wouldn’t rule out rate reductions.  Peruvian consumer prices  surprised economists  by dropping
0.09 percent last month as food prices fell, pushing annual
inflation down to a two-year low of 2.45 percent. Policy makers
after last month’s meeting said they expect inflation “in the
coming months” to converge to their target range of 2 percent
plus or minus 1 percentage point.  While Brazilian policy makers grapple with rising prices in
 Latin America ’s biggest economy, slowing inflation is giving
other central banks in Latin America leeway to stimulate growth
amid weak demand in developed economies.  Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said Feb. 13
that Banxico may cut interest rates after inflation returned to
its target range for the first time since May, while Colombia’s
monetary authority has lowered borrowing costs 1.5 percentage
points since June.  Peruvian economic activity expanded 4.3 percent in
December, the slowest pace in three years, on a dip in
construction, a mainstay of the $200 billion economy.  Peruvian Demand  Still, growth of gross domestic product in 2013 will
probably match last year’s 6.3 percent expansion, which was the
fastest in  South America , according to  Banco de Credito del
Peru. (CREDITC1)   “There are no signs of demand cooling,” said Juan Carlos Odar, a senior analyst at the Lima-based bank, the country’s
largest. “Domestic demand is growing faster than GDP, so
there’s no need to move rates.”  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 has fallen 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 3.77 percent this year after dropping 1.87
percentage point in 2012. The  Lima General Index (IGBVL)  has fallen 0.3
percent after a 5.9 percent gain in 2012.  Curtail Demand  The central bank has bolstered a drive to curtail demand
for car loans and mortgages in dollars after six increases in
reserve requirements for soles last year damped demand for
credit in local currency.  While total lending to companies and households rose 14.2
percent in January, the slowest annual pace since 2010, demand
for  car loans , credit card borrowing and mortgages in dollars
climbed at rates as high as 39 percent, the central bank said in
a March 5 report. The greenback accounted for 43 percent of all
loans in the country in January and 37 percent of all deposits.  Policy makers will extend their interest-rate pause, the
longest since the bank began targeting inflation in 2002, as
they monitor the effects of recession in  Europe  and budget cuts
in the U.S., the main destination for Peru’s exports, said Bank
of America Corp.’s Rodriguez.  By flagging the possibility of a cut, policy makers “are
saying we’ve got inflation in the target band so we’ve got room
to act in whatever direction is necessary in terms of monetary
policy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  