-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate as CPI Slows Amid Stable Growth
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-03-08T19:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/peru-maintains-4-25-rate-after-stemming-sol-s-appreciation.html
Peru kept borrowing costs unchanged
for a 22nd consecutive month as policy makers expect inflation
to converge to the mid-point of their target and economic growth
to exceed 6 percent.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
yesterday maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, the
lowest in Latin America after Colombia and Mexico, matching the
forecasts of all 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “Inflation continues to reflect the reversal of supply-
side shocks and economic growth close to its potential,” the
bank said in a statement accompanying its decision.  Peruvian consumer prices  surprised economists  by dropping
0.09 percent last month as food costs fell, pushing annual
inflation down to a two-year low of 2.45 percent. While slowing
inflation gives the bank room to consider cutting rates after
the economy slowed in the fourth quarter, domestic demand
remains too strong, said Francisco Rodriguez, a senior Andean
economist at Bank of America Corp.  “We had a weak December but it’s not the type of
deceleration that policy makers would have to see in order to
change the monetary policy stance,” Rodriguez said in a
telephone interview from New York before the decision.  Import Prices  Any decision by policy makers to cut rates will depend on
the outlook for inflation and its determinants, the bank’s
research director Adrian Armas told reporters on a conference
call today. The annual inflation rate will probably slow to 2
percent in March or April as economic growth isn’t creating
demand-led inflationary pressures while import prices are
showing moderation, he said.  Even as Brazilian policy makers grapple with rising prices
in Latin America’s biggest economy, slowing inflation is giving
other central banks in Latin America leeway to stimulate growth
amid weak demand in developed economies.  Mexico ’s central bank unexpectedly cut borrowing costs
today for the first time since 2009, reducing its key rate to 4
percent, while Colombia’s monetary authority has lowered its
benchmark by 1.5 percentage points to 3.75 percent since June.  Peruvian economic activity expanded 4.3 percent in
December, the slowest pace in three years, on a dip in
construction, a mainstay of the $200 billion economy. The
economy may post growth as much as 7 percent for January, Armas
said.  Growth of gross domestic product in 2013 will probably match
last year’s 6.3 percent expansion, which was the fastest in
South America, according to Banco de Credito del Peru.  Demand Growth  “There are no signs of demand cooling,” said Juan Carlos Odar, a senior analyst at the Lima-based bank, the country’s
largest. “Domestic demand is growing faster than GDP, so
there’s no need to move rates.”  The yield on  Peru ’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 has fallen 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 3.79 percent this year after dropping 1.87
percentage points in 2012.  The sol had the biggest two-month decline to start a year
since 2009 after the central bank raised dollar reserve
requirements three times since Jan. 1 and stepped up purchases
of U.S. currency.  The currency has declined 1.7 percent this year after the
central bank bought $3.4 billion in dollars, double what it
purchased in the last two months of 2012. The Finance Ministry
has pledged to buy at least $4 billion in 2013 to soak up
surplus greenbacks.  The sol appreciated 5.7 percent in 2012 amid a surge in
foreign direct investment to a record $12.2 billion and demand
for local government bonds.  ‘Room to Act’  The central bank has bolstered a drive to curtail demand
for car loans and mortgages in dollars after six increases in
reserve requirements for soles last year damped demand for
credit in local currency.  While total lending to companies and households rose 14.2
percent in January, the slowest annual pace since 2010, demand
for car loans, credit card borrowing and mortgages in dollars
climbed at rates as high as 39 percent, the central bank said in
a March 5 report.  The greenback accounted for 43 percent of all loans in the
country in January and 37 percent of all deposits.  Policy makers will extend their interest-rate pause, the
longest since the bank began targeting inflation in 2002, as
they monitor the effects of recession in  Europe  and budget cuts
in the U.S., the main destination for Peru’s exports, said Bank
of America Corp.’s Rodriguez.  By flagging the possibility of a cut, policy makers “are
saying ‘we’ve got inflation in the target band so we’ve got room
to act in whatever direction is necessary’ in terms of monetary
policy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  