-- Peru’s Sol Rises From Three-Month Low on Central Bank, U.S. Jobs
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-03-07T19:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/peru-s-sol-rises-from-three-month-low-on-central-bank-u-s-jobs.html
Peru ’s sol rose from a three-month
low as the central bank abstained from buying dollars in the
foreign exchange market and a drop in U.S. jobless claims
bolstered the outlook for the world’s largest economy.  The sol appreciated 0.3 percent 2.6015 per  U.S. dollar  at
today’s close, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Unemployment benefit applications in the U.S., Peru’s top
export market, unexpectedly dropped to a six-week low in the
week ending March 2, spurring optimism the economy is
strengthening. Peru’s central bank said on its website it didn’t
buy dollars in the foreign exchange market today after
purchasing greenbacks yesterday for the first time since Feb.
25, spurring the sol to its steepest fall in seven months.  “The sol should appreciate in the course of this year as
exports recover, and because of foreign direct investment and
demand from the carry trade,” said  Roberto Flores , the head of
research at Inteligo SAB, a Lima-based brokerage. In a carry
trade, investors buy higher-yielding assets with funds borrowed
from countries with lower  interest rates .  Policy makers increased dollar reserve requirements
effective March 1 to weaken the local currency after an increase
in capital inflows.  The measure will probably keep the sol in a range of 2.58
to 2.60 in the short term, Flores said.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark sol-denominated bond due
August 2020 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
3.78 percent at 2:39 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.05 centimo to 125.94
centimos per sol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  