-- Petronas Defends MISC Buyout Price After Minorities Call It Low
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-03-07T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/petronas-defends-misc-buyout-price-after-minorities-call-it-low.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state energy company, defended its 8.8 billion ringgit ($2.8
billion) buyout offer price for  MISC Bhd. (MISC)  after criticism from
minority shareholders that it’s too low.  “It’s the right number,” Shamsul Azhar Abbas, chief
executive officer of Petroliam Nasional, or Petronas, told
reporters in Kuala Lumpur today, after announcing a 57 percent
drop in fourth-quarter profit. “It’s a premium. Everyone has
the right to choose.”  Petronas offered 5.30 ringgit per share in January for the
rest of the world second-largest liquefied natural gas shipping
company it doesn’t already own. The Employees Provident Fund,
MISC’s  biggest minority shareholder , wants a higher price, Azlan Zainol, chief executive officer of the country’s biggest pension
fund said March 1. Penang Development Corp. and Pacific Mutual
Fund Bhd. have also said the offer undervalues the company.  Fourth-quarter net income fell to 5.97 billion ringgit in
the three months ended Dec. 31 from 13.81 billion ringgit a year
earlier after suspending production in South Sudan and booking
impairments on assets in  Egypt , Petronas said in a statement
today. Revenue fell 1.6 percent to 76.77 billion ringgit.  “We continue to face headwinds due to the weaker global
economy,” Shamsul said.  Petronas owns 63 percent of MISC shares, while EPF holds
9.6 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Liner Exit  MISC  fell  0.2 percent to 5.27 ringgit as of 4:30 p.m. in
Kuala Lumpur before today’s earnings announcement, tracking a
0.1 percent decline in the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index. Petronas’ offer price was a 19 percent premium to the
stock’s last traded price of 4.45 ringgit before the Jan. 31 bid,
a level last seen in April 2012.  MISC completed a rights issue at 7 ringgit per share in
February 2010. The stock subsequently tumbled as the company
booked losses and exited the liner industry.  A buyout would provide Petronas with greater flexibility in
revamping MISC, the group said when making the offer. Minority
shareholders “can join us in this misery if they wish,”
Shamsul said today.  Petronas and its partners were forced by South  Sudan ’s
government to shut down oil production at Thar Jath field in
Unity state amid a dispute with its northern neighbor Sudan over
transportation fees for its exports. This led to a loss of about
120,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day production, the
Malaysian energy group said in today’s presentation.  Total production for the quarter was 2.08 million barrels
of oil equivalent per day compared to 2.1 million barrels during
the same period last year, Petronas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers in Singapore at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  