-- Malaysia Calls on Muslim Clan to Surrender After 32 Killed
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-03-07T10:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/philippine-muslims-call-for-cease-fire-after-malaysia-assault.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
called on Philippine Muslims who invaded Borneo Island last
month to surrender unconditionally after security forces
surrounded about 200 members of the armed clan.  “They should surrender as soon as possible,” Najib said
in a televised briefing today during a visit to the state of
Sabah, located in the northeast of Borneo. “This operation will
continue until they put down their weapons.”  Malaysian police and soldiers killed 32 insurgents in a
shootout today, Assistant Commissioner of Police Ramli Mohamed
Yusoof said by phone from Sabah. Jamalul Kiram, who claims he’s
the Sulu sultan, said his followers in Sabah won’t lay down
their guns.  Clashes between Malaysian forces and Kiram’s group have
killed 60 people over the past week as the two sides battle over
ownership of Sabah, which the sultanate controlled more than 100
years ago. The fighting comes weeks before elections in both
countries and the conclusion of Malaysia-brokered peace talks
between President Benigno Aquino and Muslim separatists.  Voting may be postponed in areas under siege, state-run
Bernama news agency reported, citing Election Commission
Chairman Abdul Aziz Mohd Yusof. Eight Malaysian police officers
and 52 of Kiram’s fighters have been killed since the invasion,
according to Malaysian police.  Prisoner Swap  Kiram will offer to swap six Malaysian prisoners, including
police and military officials, for 10 captured followers if
hostilities cease, Mutahmeen Pastor Saycon, an adviser, said in
an interview.  Najib spoke after a conversation with Aquino about Kiram’s
call for the United Nations to broker a cease-fire. The  Malaysia 
leader declared a special security zone in the area holding
Kiram’s followers and announced plans to create five permanent
police and military battalions in Sabah.  Abraham Idjirani, spokesman for Jamalul Kiram, told
reporters that 40 civilians and 10 of Kiram’s followers were
killed, without elaborating. Agbimuddin Kiram, the sultan’s
brother who is leading the fighters in Malaysia, will comply
with a cease-fire, Idjirani said.  Jamalul Kiram said his group is loyal to the Philippines
government.  “We’re not rebels,” he told reporters at his house in
Taguig City in  Manila  after praying with a Muslim religious
leader. “We’re not terrorists. I have not committed any
crime.”  Philippine President Benigno Aquino, on a visit to nearby
Mindanao island, today vowed to press charges against Jamalul
Kiram, who is undergoing dialysis treatment for kidney failure.  The Sulu Sultanate, which dates back to about the 15th
century, says it leased Sabah to the British North Borneo
Company in 1878, an agreement that Malaysia views as a secession
of the region. Sabah fell under British control after World War
II and joined Malaysia in 1963, shortly after the sultanate
ceded sovereignty to the  Philippines .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  