-- Pimco Plans Asia’s First Inflation-Protected Fund
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-03-07T07:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/pimco-plans-asia-s-first-inflation-protected-fund.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, is planning Asia’s
first fund to protect against inflation in the region.  The investment will aim to return 2 percentage points to 3
percentage points more than the average consumer price gains in
Singapore and Hong Kong, said  Michael Thompson , head of Pimco’s
wealth-management group for the region excluding  Japan . The
company is also preparing an Asian local currency sovereign bond
fund and plans to introduce both products in the second quarter,
he said.  Assets linked to costs in the economy ballooned to $180.8
billion worldwide as of the end of last year, though there are
no Asian inflation-protected products, according to  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago .  Bill Gross , who runs Pimco’s $288.2 billion
 Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , has said unprecedented central bank stimulus
efforts will drive up prices for goods and services.  “Inflation is higher here than the so-called developed
world, and it’s likely to be higher going forward,” Thompson
said today in an interview at Pimco’s Singapore office. “The
challenge for investors is that there isn’t a large pool of
easily traded inflation-linked bonds. We’ve done a lot of work
over the past few months on looking at how you can use a mix of
assets to create a real-return portfolio.”  The vehicle won’t be limited to Asian investments. Holdings
may include inflation-linked bonds in Brazil or Mexico, gold and
property including shares of real estate investment trusts,
Thompson said.  Asian Inflation  Consumer price gains averaged 4.5 percent in Singapore and
3.8 percent in  Hong Kong  over the past year.  Inflation in developing Asia will be 4.2 percent in 2013,
the  Asian Development Bank  said in a December  report . Economic
growth will be 6.6 percent, the report said.  In the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, consumer prices
averaged 2 percent over the past 12 months. Gross domestic
product will expand 1.8 percent in 2013, based on a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  The  Federal Reserve  is buying $85 billion of bonds a month
to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.  “Position for eventual inflation,” Gross wrote in his
February investment outlook on the company’s website. Investors
should buy Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, he wrote.
Pimco, based in Newport Beach, California, is a unit Munich-
based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   Thai Linkers  Thailand sold 40 billion baht ($1.3 billion) of inflation-
linked debt yesterday, drawing demand for three times the amount
of debt available.  Bonds in an index of inflation-protected debt around the
world have returned 6.3 percent in the past year, versus 3.7
percent for sovereign bonds, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Pimco has tripled the size of its investment team in Asia.
The company has 12 portfolio managers and credit analysts in
Singapore and Hong Kong, up from four at the beginning of 2011,
Ramin Toloui, the Singapore-based global co-head of  emerging
markets  portfolio management, said this month.  There were 3.37 million millionaires in the Asia-Pacific
region in 2011, more than in North America for the first time,
according to a report last year by Capgemini and RBC Wealth
Management.  Inflation Slowing  It may take time for  Asia  inflation funds to catch on, said
Will Tseng, a fixed-income trader in Taipei at Mirae Asset
Global Investments in Taipei, which oversees $50 billion. The
pace of cost increases has slowed from 12 months ago in both
Singapore and Hong Kong, he said.  “I don’t think inflation protection tools will be popular
this year,” Tseng said. “This product may get popular in the
future because of the stronger growth momentum” in Asia.  The Asia inflation fund will be managed by Mihir Worah,
head of the head of the real return portfolio team in Newport
Beach, Thompson said. Toloui will run the sovereign bond fund,
he said. Pimco is considering introducing an Asian dollar-
denominated corporate bond fund later this year, Thompson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  