-- Homebuyers Lure PNB With Margin at 4-Year Low: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-03-08T10:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/pnb-courts-homebuyers-with-margin-at-4-year-low-corporate-india.html
Punjab National Bank (PNB) ,  India ’s third-
largest state-run lender, is seeking home and automobile buyers
to boost credit and bolster margins from the narrowest level in
almost four years.  The bank also plans to limit high-cost deposits of more
than 10 million rupees ($183,000) and reduce credit to indebted
real estate developers, said K.R. Kamath, chairman and managing
director of the New Delhi-based bank. Net interest margin, the
difference between earnings on loans and the cost of funding,
fell to 3.47 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31, the
least since the three months to March 2009.  Kotak Mahindra Bank
Ltd. (KMB)  had the highest margin of 4.6 percent last quarter.  The lender, which has the second-largest branch network in
the world’s most populated nation after  China , is tapping
segments that expanded faster than loans to companies. The
slowest pace of growth in a decade in the $1.8 trillion economy
has sapped demand for credit to expand and build factories.
Mortgages may climb as the central bank reduces borrowing costs,
encouraging homebuyers to accelerate purchases.  “We will be back on the growth path from the next
financial year if the economy permits,” Kamath said in an
interview. “We have realigned our balance sheet and have put in
place measures to recover bad loans.”  Demand for loans to buy homes and vehicles accelerated to
14.3 percent at Indian banks in the 12 months to Dec. 28, while
the pace of growth for credit to industry slowed to 13.8
percent, according to data compiled by the central bank.  Bank of Baroda  Retail lending, including mortgages and auto credit,
account for as much as 11 percent of Punjab National’s loans,
 exchange filings  show. Punjab National was overtaken by  Bank of
Baroda  as India’s second-largest lender by assets in the three
months ended Sept. 30.  “Home sales will pick up in the current year with a
reduction in  interest rates ,” said Anubhav Gupta, a Mumbai-
based analyst at Kim Eng Securities Pvt. “While bookings at new
projects were low last year, transactions in the secondary
market remained strong, primarily driven by smaller cities.”  The central bank cut its policy rate to 7.75 percent from 8
percent on Jan. 29, the first reduction since April. Six of 15
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast the  Reserve Bank  of
India will reduce the benchmark rate by three-fourths of a
percent by December.  Property Sales  Property sales in Bangalore, home to software developers
including Infosys Ltd. and Wipro Ltd., grew 77 percent in the
two years to Dec. 31, according to Liases Foras Real Estate
Rating & Research Pvt. In  New Delhi , a record 30.99 million
square feet of property were sold in the three months to March
31, before dropping to 20.5 million square feet by December, the
data show.  The 117-year-old lender is targeting a net interest margin
of more than 3.5 percent, Kamath said. The company also plans to
cut bad loans, which narrowed for the first time in 15 quarters
in the third quarter, to boost profit, he said. Net income may
rise 2 percent in the year ending March 31, according to the
median  estimate  of 59 analysts. That’s the slowest pace of
annual growth since at least 2002.  At about 12 percent, Punjab National has the highest
proportion of soured and restructured debt among the nation’s 10
largest lenders, according to exchange filings. The measure is
7.7 percent for  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest, and
2.1 percent for No. 2  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)   ‘Stressed Assets’  “With stressed assets higher than 12 percent of the loan
book, it will take time to clean up the balance sheet,” Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based banking analyst at SMC Global
Securities Ltd., said by phone. “It will take at least two more
quarters before seeing any meaningful improvement.”  The lender to grounded carrier  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  and
Suzlon Energy Ltd., the wind-turbine maker that defaulted on its
convertible bonds last year, ordered three executive directors
to monitor recovery of delinquent debt over 5 million rupees,
Kamath said.  Shares of the lender have dropped 13 percent in the past
year, making them the worst-performing stock after IDBI Bank
Ltd. in the 14-company  S&P BSE Bankex (BANKEX)  index. They rose 0.5
percent to 814.65 rupees in Mumbai, the highest since Feb. 27.  “PNB is poised for a rally as the economy improves,” said
Nitin Kumar, an analyst with Quant Broking Pvt. “The pace of
increase in non-performing assets has moderated and growth in
the economy will help them to bring down stressed assets
substantially.”  ‘Extraordinary Support’  India Ratings & Research Pvt., a unit of  Fitch Ratings ,
yesterday kept Punjab National’s local currency rating at AAA,
citing “extraordinary support” from the government, which owns
56 percent of the lender. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, in his budget presented in Parliament on Feb. 28,
pledged to add 140 billion rupees ($2.6 billion) to boost
capital at state-run banks.  He also announced measures to accelerate infrastructure
projects, which will help in recovering bad loans in the road
and power sectors, said SMC’s Narnolia. Chidambaram allocated
330 billion rupees for the ruling coalition’s flagship rural
jobs program and 100 billion rupees for a plan to give the poor
cheap food grains, ahead of a general election due by 2014.  “There is an expectation that credit offtake will pick up
over the next two quarters as higher government spending nudges
private investments,” said Debasish Mallick, chief executive
officer at IDBI Asset Management Ltd. That may help banks, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  