-- Poland Loses EU Court Appeal of Carbon Permit Hand-Out Rules
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-03-07T13:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/poland-loses-eu-court-appeal-of-carbon-permit-hand-out-rules-1-.html
Poland lost a European Union court
appeal seeking to quash EU rules on how to allocate free carbon-
dioxide permits in the world’s largest emissions market starting
this year.  The regulation contested by Poland doesn’t infringe the
country’s rights to decide about its energy mix, the EU General
Court in Luxembourg ruled today.  Poland sued the Brussels-based European Commission in July
2011 saying the EU regulator failed to take into account fuel-
usage patterns in individual member states when devising the
carbon-efficiency benchmarks. The standards, which are used to
determine the number of free permits for emitters after 2012 are
“more restrictive” than required to meet the climate-
protecting targets, the Polish Foreign Ministry argued.  The commission welcomes the judgment as it confirms its
interpretation of the EU emissions-trading law and “provides
legal certainty with regard to free allocation,” Isaac Valero- Ladron, climate spokesman for the EU regulatory arm, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The 54-billion-euro ($70 billion) EU carbon cap-and-trade
program is moving toward selling a greater proportion of
allowances to emitters after giving most of them for free in the
past eight years. The EU adopted 52 benchmarks to allocate a
dwindling supply of free permits in the so-called third phase
from 2013 until 2020.  ‘Stronger Motivation’  “This ruling gives us stronger motivation to engage in
talks on the 2030 energy and climate policy framework so that we
avoid the necessity to resort to similar lawsuits in the
future,” the Polish environment ministry said in an e-mailed
statement.  The EU is set to start this year a debate about climate and
energy policies for the post-2020 period, including future
carbon goals, renewable energy rules and energy efficiency
tools. The commission is due to present a consultation paper on
this by the end of March.  EU carbon allowances for delivery in December extended
losses after the verdict and fell to as low as 4.16 euros a
metric ton. They were 1.9 percent up at 4.36 euros on the ICE
Futures Europe Exchange as of 1:30 p.m. in  London .  The case is:  T-370/11 , Poland v. Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net 
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  