-- Portugal Rating Outlook Raised to Stable by S&P on Budget Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-07T03:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/portugal-rating-outlook-raised-to-stable-by-s-p-on-budget-plan.html
Portugal’s  credit rating  outlook was
raised to stable from negative by  Standard & Poor’s , which said
European lenders will probably extend support to the government
and make the nation’s fiscal tightening “more sustainable.”  S&P affirmed the nation’s BB long-term sovereign credit
rating in a statement released today. That’s the same level as
Hungary and Macedonia and two steps below investment grade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The outlook revision reflects additional evidence that
European institutions will continue to support Portugal’s
adjustment program, given the government’s commitment to
budgetary and structural reforms,” S&P said in the statement.  Portugal may get an additional year to narrow its  budget
deficit  as the country’s economic outlook worsens, Finance
Minister Vitor Gaspar said Feb. 20. He estimated the  gross
domestic product  forecast for 2013 may be revised lower by about
1 percentage point during a review of the aid program that began
Feb. 25. The government’s last estimate was for GDP to contract
1 percent in 2013 before expanding 0.8 percent in 2014.  Portugal’s official lenders are likely to adjust the
nation’s “fiscal consolidation path to allow for weaker-than
previously-assumed economic performance,” S&P said. “In our
opinion, this makes Portugal’s adjustment process more
sustainable, both economically and socially, and reduces the
risk that it will not comply with the program.”  Portugal’s jobless rate rose to 16.9 percent in the fourth
quarter. Unemployment averaged 15.7 percent in 2012, and the
government predicts it will increase to 16.4 percent this year.
The euro-area jobless rate rose to a record 11.9 percent in
January from a revised 11.8 percent in December, the EU’s
statistics office said this month.  “The key really is that S&P is leading the other two
 ratings agencies  with this move so that at the margin helps with
euro sentiment,” said  Sue Trinh , a Hong Kong-based senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada. The other two
ratings companies “have Portugal on negative outlook still.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  