-- Pound Falls to 2 1/2-Year Low Versus Dollar Before BOE Decision
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-03-07T11:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/pound-falls-to-2-1-2-year-low-versus-dollar-before-boe-decision.html
The pound dropped to its weakest
level in more than 2 1/2 years versus the dollar amid
speculation the Bank of England will announce more stimulus to
boost the economy, a policy that typically debases a currency.  Sterling weakened for a third day against the euro after
the U.K. Treasury said Chancellor of the Exchequer George
Osborne will review the central bank’s inflation target before
presenting the annual budget on March 20. While the median
estimate of 39 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for the
Monetary Policy Committee to hold its asset-purchase  target  at
375 billion pounds ($562 billion), 10 of the analysts predicted
an expansion. Gilts were little changed.  “The only thing we’ve really got left is easing monetary
policy,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  in London. “Whether that is today or
in April, I think we’ve got a pretty good idea of the way that
this going to work. I don’t find it surprising that sterling is
under pressure.”  The pound fell 0.2 percent to $1.4991 at 11:08 a.m. London
time, after sliding to $1.4967, the lowest since July 13, 2010.
Sterling declined 0.5 percent to 86.78 pence per euro.  The U.K. currency will weaken toward $1.40 by the end of
the year, Derrick said.  A Treasury spokesman played down a Financial Times report
that said Osborne is considering giving the central bank more
time to bring inflation back to its 2 percent target, saying it
was no more than a reflection of the public debate on the
subject and adding that Osborne will consider the Bank of
England’s 2 percent inflation target.  Pound’s Slide  The pound has depreciated 6 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 2.9 percent and the euro rose 1.3 percent.  The 10-year gilt yielded 1.94 percent, with the rate on
two-year securities at 0.20 percent.  Outgoing central bank Governor Mervyn King and policy
makers Paul Fisher and David Miles were defeated in a push for
more stimulus at last month’s meeting of the Monetary Policy
Committee, minutes of the gathering show.  That vote and a series of comments since the last meeting
have created suspense on the next move as officials consider how
to help the ailing U.K. economy. With incoming governor Mark Carney, who will replace King as governor in July, suggesting
that policy isn’t yet “maxed out,” Deputy Governor Paul Tucker
has said he wants to discuss negative interest rates and Markets
Director Fisher raised the idea of a prolonged period of bond
buying.  “Possibly Dale and Tucker could join in with Miles and
Fisher and King, which is five out of the nine and a majority,
so you might get 25 billion pounds of extra quantitative
easing,” said Marcus Ashworth, head of fixed income at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank in  London . “The Bank of England knows the
U.K. economy is flat-lining so why wait? King wants to go out
with his head held high.”  Ashworth spoke in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” with Francine Lacqua and Manus Cranny.  U.K. government bonds have lost 0.9 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bunds and Treasuries both fell 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  