-- Pound Rises Versus Dollar as BOE Refrains From Boosting Stimulus
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-03-07T16:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/pound-advances-versus-dollar-after-boe-holds-asset-purchases.html
The pound rose from a 2 1/2-year low
against the dollar as the  Bank of England  refrained from adding
to stimulus efforts that tend to debase the currency after a
meeting of policy makers.  U.K. government bonds fell as the central bank’s Monetary
Policy Committee said it would keep its so-called quantitative-
easing program unchanged at 375 billion pounds ($564 billion).
Ten of 39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted increases
of between 25 billion pounds and 50 billion pounds. Sterling
fell the most in almost two weeks versus the euro as the Bank of
England and  European Central Bank  held  interest rates  at record
lows.  “No change to quantitative easing is a surprise,” said
 Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London  “The pound is higher but it will
not last. It’s just a matter of time before further QE hits the
economy. I suggest it was a close call on the vote and the next
meeting will produce a vote in favor of QE.”  Sterling rose 0.2 percent to $1.5044 at 4:45 p.m. London
time after falling to $1.4967, the weakest level since July
2010. The U.K. currency slid for a third day versus the euro,
dropping 0.9 percent to 87.07 pence.  Ten-year  gilt yields  rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.02 percent. The 1.75 percent security due
September 2022 fell 0.53, or 5.30 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 97.71.  Interest Rates  The Bank of England in London kept its main interest rate
at 0.5 percent and ECB policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt  held
their benchmark rate at 0.75 percent.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said data suggest the 17-nation
currency bloc’s economy will stabilize this year. The euro’s
exchange rate is in line with long-term averages and is not a
policy target, he said.  U.K.  30-year bonds  underperformed two-year notes after the
Bank of England said it will reinvest proceeds from maturing
gilts in its asset-purchase facility evenly across three
unchanged bands.  The yield on 30-year bonds rose six basis points to 3.33
percent, while that on two-year notes climbed three basis points
to 0.24 percent.  The central bank will buy more bonds with the 6.6 billion
pounds associated with a gilt maturing today.  Stimulus Speculation  Sterling has dropped 5.9 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro rose 1.8 percent and the dollar gained 2.6 percent.  The pound fell earlier amid speculation policy makers would
expand stimulus. The Bank of England has forecast “weak”
growth in the near term, and while services growth accelerated
in February, manufacturing and construction contracted.  Outgoing central bank Governor Mervyn King -- who will be
replaced by Canadian Mark Carney in July -- and policy makers
 Paul Fisher  and  David Miles  were defeated in a push for more
stimulus at last month’s meeting of the MPC, minutes of the
gathering published on Feb. 20 show.  A U.K. Treasury spokesman said a Financial Times report
saying Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is considering
giving the central bank more time to bring inflation back to its
2 percent target was no more than a reflection of the public
debate. Osborne will consider the Bank of England’s 2 percent
inflation target, it said.  “I think Osborne is going to let Carney do an awful lot
more on growth and be less restrictive than the current regime
that King has to work under,” said Marcus Ashworth, head of
fixed income at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in London.  Ashworth spoke in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” with Francine Lacqua and Manus Cranny.  U.K. government bonds have lost 0.9 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bunds and Treasuries both fell 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  