-- Prince Harry to Be Patron of Mother Diana’s Landmine Charity
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-07T13:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/prince-harry-to-be-patron-of-mother-diana-s-landmine-charity.html
Prince Harry, Queen Elizabeth II’s
grandson and the third in line to Britain’s throne, said he will
become a patron of the landmine-clearance charity made famous by
his late mother, Diana, Princess of Wales.  Just seven months before her death in 1997, Diana visited
 Angola  to campaign for the banning of land mines, supporting the
British charity Halo, which campaigns for mine clearance around
the world. Photographs of her wearing body armor and a
protective visor raised the profile of the topic worldwide.  “Prince Harry has had a longstanding connection with the
charity and visited minefields in Tete Province,  Mozambique , in
2010 where he met amputees, and saw for himself the devastating
impact that landmines have on some of the poorest people in
mine-affected communities,” the prince’s office said in an e-
mailed statement today. “During his trip to Mozambique he was
shown the painstaking process of humanitarian demining.”  The prince, 28, who returned from active service for the
U.K. army in  Afghanistan  in January, will also become a patron
of the Rugby Football All Schools Program, an initiative to get
more state-funded high schools playing rugby union, his office
said. He’s been increasing his charity work recently, moving
away from an earlier image as a serial partygoer.  Harry, the second son of Prince Charles, made tabloid
headlines when younger, clashing with paparazzi photographers
outside nightclubs in 2004 and turning up at a costume affair in
a Nazi uniform. Pictures from that event drew condemnation from
politicians inside and outside Britain.  During interviews to mark his return from Afghanistan this
year, the prince criticized media reporting of the royal family,
dubbing it “rubbish.” The prince said he had “let himself and
his family down” when in August last year a U.S. website
published photographs of him naked with friends in a Las Vegas
hotel room. Harry was pictured wearing only a medallion and a
wristband, with a naked woman in each shot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  