-- Putin Pipeline to Send 25% of Russia’s Oil Exports East
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-03-07T12:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/putin-pipeline-to-send-25-of-russia-s-oil-exports-east.html
Russia  is on course to send an
unprecedented 25 percent of its crude exports to eastern markets
by 2015 as rising demand from China and other Asian consumers
attracts sales at the expense of  Europe .  The country sent 1.1 million barrels a day east in
February, or 22 percent of exports, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on loading programs and Energy Ministry data. In
October, before the East Siberia-Pacific Ocean pipeline was
expanded, it shipped 18 percent to Asia. OAO Transneft, the
state pipeline monopoly, says the ESPO line will reach its full
capacity in two years.  The growth in eastern flows shows how the $23 billion ESPO
link, Russia’s most expensive infrastructure project, is helping
President  Vladimir Putin  realize the country’s aim of shifting
exports away from Europe to tap the faster-growing economies of
the Asia-Pacific region. China’s crude imports from Angola,
Iraq, Venezuela and Russia grew by 14 percent to 33 percent last
year, according to the Beijing-based Customs General
Administration.  “Asia is a region where demand is increasing, as opposed
to Europe.” Ehsan Ul-Haq, senior market consultant at KBC
Energy Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England , said by phone on
Feb. 27. “Producers prefer shipping east and this trend is
likely to continue.”  ESPO crude was trading at $110.21 a barrel today, while the
Urals grade sold in northwest Europe fetched $107.81, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Volumes to the Pacific port of
Kozmino reached a record 445,000 barrels a day in February,
according to a loading program obtained by Bloomberg.  Pricing Point  ESPO oil has emerged since 2009 as a new pricing point for
Russian crude, which was traditionally dominated by Urals grade
exported to Europe via the Druzhba pipeline and to ports on the
Black and Baltic seas. ESPO is moving toward becoming an
international benchmark in its own right, Transneft President
Nikolay Tokarev said in Moscow on Dec. 19.  A barrel of crude shipped from Surgut in West Siberia to
Kozmino via the ESPO pipeline minus transportation fees and
taxes would earn a company $46.35 a barrel on Feb. 27,  compared 
to $42.01 if it were sent to the port of Primorsk on the  Baltic
Sea , according to Platts, the commodities price-reporting agency
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.  Transneft expects ESPO to operate at maximum capacity of 30
million metric tons a year, or 600,000 barrels a day, by 2015.
Bloomberg calculations on the volume moving eastward comprise
four components; tanker shipments from Kozmino at the end of the
pipeline, crude from Sakhalin Island, oil sent to  Kazakhstan  and
300,000 barrels a day supplied via a separate spur to  China  on
the ESPO pipe.  Realistic Benchmark  West-bound Russian crude supplies will fall an average
90,000 barrels a day this year, according to four of six traders
and analysts in Moscow,  London  and Vienna surveyed by Bloomberg.
Two predicted little or no change. All six people expect ESPO
profit to remain higher than Urals.  Russian companies are interested in turning ESPO into a
pricing benchmark, according to the Alexei Rybnikov, President
of the St. Petersburg International Mercantile Exchange, which
plans to add the grade to the oils and products it trades.  “The prospects of ESPO becoming a benchmark, as opposed to
Urals, are much more realistic,” Rybnikov said yesterday. This
could happen within five years, he said.  Of Russia’s five biggest oil companies, OAO Rosneft, TNK-BP
and OAO Surgutneftegas have east Siberian  oil fields  along the
ESPO line. OAO Gazprom Neft resumed shipments of west Siberian
crude via the pipeline in December, after a 12-month hiatus.  Access Requests  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , the only one of Russia’s five biggest producers
never to ship via the ESPO pipe, has applied for access to the
expanded link to take advantage of the higher returns from Asian
sales, said Vladimir Semakov, a spokesman for the company.  Lukoil has asked Russia’s Energy Ministry for permission to
ship 600,000 tons of west Siberian crude to Kozmino in the
second quarter, Semakov said by phone March 1.  “It’s an attractive proposition because there’s a cost-
effective tariff and a healthy market for this sort,” he said.  Rosneft is in talks to increase supplies to China, a
spokeswoman said Feb. 19, asking not to be identified because of
company policy. Rosneft signed 5-year supply contracts with
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and Vitol Group, two of its biggest
purchasers of Urals, for a total of 67 million tons of crude and
prepayments of as much as $10 billion, the company said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Superior Quality  Higher transportation costs via the link are offset by
higher prices at Kozmino, partly because ESPO crude is of a
superior quality, with less sulfur content and lower density
than Urals sold to Europe. That translates into an advantage
when taxes are applied per ton rather than barrel.  ESPO crude has about 0.5 percent sulfur content, while
Urals has 1.5 percent to 1.7 percent, according to Transneft.
Crude with low sulfur is considered “sweet” and generally
cheaper to refine into gasoline.  “The price is $20 to $30 higher than at Primorsk, which is
why companies want to ship there,” Transneft Deputy Vice
President Igor Katsal told journalists at a Feb. 28 conference,
referring to the price per ton at Kozmino. A ton of crude
equates to about 7.3 barrels, depending on how dense it is.  After opening the Baltic Pipeline System-2 to Ust-Luga in
the west, and expanding the ESPO link last year in the east,
Russia has excess pipeline capacity that enables it to direct
oil to the most profitable destinations, according to Ul-Haq.  Export Duty  Some new fields in East Siberia also benefit from a reduced
export duty to compensate companies for the expense of investing
in the region. The discounted export duty is $211.40 a ton this
month, or about half of the  standard  rate of $420.60.  The first phase of the ESPO pipeline opened in 2009,
bringing crude from fields in east Siberia to Skovorodino near
the Chinese border. Before the December completion of the second
phase, which doubled capacity and extended the line to Kozmino,
oil was carried from the end of the line to the port by rail.  “Pricing agencies are pushing for a new Asian benchmark
crude, and Russia would be thrilled to see it become ESPO,” Ul-
Haq said. “The more volumes, the more interest, and not only in
 Asia . It is also popular in the U.S. West Coast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  