-- Trade Deficit in U.S. Widens More Than Forecast on Oil
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-03-07T13:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/trade-deficit-in-u-s-widens-more-than-forecast-on-oil-1-.html
The  trade deficit  in the U.S.
widened more than forecast in January as demand for imported
crude oil rebounded.  The gap grew by 16.5 percent to $44.4 billion from $38.1
billion in December that was the smallest in three years,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
 median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 73 economists called
for the deficit to increase to $42.6 billion. Exports fell for
the first time in three months as sales of  fuel oil  and gold
reversed gains in the prior month.  Sustained spending gains by U.S. consumers and businesses
will probably keep driving up imports this year even as oil
costs moderate. Overseas purchases of American-made goods, which
help to contain the trade gap, will probably also rise as  Europe 
stabilizes and  emerging markets  including  China  pick up.  “The overall picture is fairly stable for this year,”
said  David Sloan , a New York-based senior economist at 4Cast
Inc., who projected the trade gap would climb to $44.5 billion.
“We should see modest increases in exports. Most of the world
is growing.”  The number of Americans who filed for  unemployment benefits 
declined to a six-week low, showing further improvement in the
labor market, another report today showed. First-time jobless
claims unexpectedly fell by 7,000 to 340,000 in the week ended
March 2, the lowest since the period ended Jan. 19, according to
data from the Labor Department in Washington. The median
forecast of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
increase to 355,000.  Shares Climb  Stock-index future rose after the reports. The contract on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing this month climbed 0.2
percent to 1,542.2 at 8:40 a.m. in  New York .  Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from deficits of $38.9
billion to $46.5 billion. The Commerce Department revised the
December shortfall from an initially reported $38.5 billion.  In January, imports climbed 1.8 percent to $228.9 billion
from $224.8 billion the prior month.  The figures reflected a jump in fuel purchases. The number
of barrels of imported crude jumped to 8.41 million, the most
since August, from 7.19 million in December. That swamped a
decrease in the cost of the fuel to push the value of such
imports to $24.5 billion from $21.2 billion.  Excluding petroleum, the trade shortfall was little changed
at $20.1 billion, compared with $19.5 billion in December.  Business Investment  Among other import categories, demand for capital goods
including drilling equipment and telecommunications gear
climbed, pointing to gains in business investment. Purchases of
foreign-made  consumer goods  dropped, reflecting a slump in
mobile phones and clothing.  Exports decreased 1.2 percent in January to $184.5 billion.
Sales of industrial supplies dropped by $2.63 billion,
reflecting the retreat in fuel oil and gold.  Other exporters had better results as demand for American-
made machines and electronics climbed.  Stability in the global growth outlook may bolster earnings
at companies such as Moline, Illinois-based  Deere & Co. (DE) , the
world’s largest agricultural-equipment maker. Deere in February
raised its annual profit estimate and said equipment sales will
rise about 6 percent, more than its prior prediction.  Export Demand  “Our key markets remain in good shape,” Susan Karlix,
manager of investor communications, said during an earnings
teleconference on Feb. 13. “Current government programs in
Brazil support higher amounts of equipment sales,” and in
China, agriculture “subsidies are expected be higher and very
supportive of equipment sales.”  After eliminating the influence of prices, which are the
numbers used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade
deficit climbed to $48 billion from $44.2 billion. The January
level was little changed from the fourth-quarter average,
indicating trade so far is having little influence on growth
estimates.  A Commerce Department report on Feb. 28 showed GDP grew at
a 0.1 percent annual rate from October through December, as the
smallest  trade gap  since the first quarter of 2010 helped to
cushion the biggest plunge in defense outlays since 1972. The
narrowing of the import-export shortfall, to $387.9 billion,
contributed 0.24 percent point to growth, it said.  Country Breakdown  Among countries, the trade gap with  South Korea  rose to the
highest level since November 2004 and the deficit with  Canada 
was the biggest in more than four years.  The trade shortfall with China widened to $27.8 billion in
January compared with $26 billion in the same month a year
earlier. The country data isn’t adjusted for seasonal
variations.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, plans to raise
its  budget deficit  by 50 percent this year as the government
cuts taxes and boosts measures to support consumer demand. It
plans to ensure funding for areas like agriculture, education,
health care, social security, employment, and government-
subsidized housing.  In the euro area, officials this week indicated budget
policies may be eased after a backlash against austerity plans.  Economic strains may “justify in a certain number of cases
reviewing deadlines for the correction of excessive deficits,”
European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told
reporters in Brussels on March 4.  A weaker U.S. currency will keep making American goods
attractive to overseas buyers. Through the end of February, the
 dollar  dropped 2.4 percent from last year’s peak on June 1
against a trade-weighted basket of currencies from its biggest
trading partners, according to Federal Reserve data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  