-- Treasury Yields at One-Year High Relative to Major Peers on Jobs
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-03-07T06:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/treasuries-hold-three-day-slide-before-jobs-data-auction-plans.html
Treasury yields were the highest in
12 months relative to their major peers before data today that
economists say will point to improvement in the U.S. job market.  Government bonds  in an index of Group-of-Seven debt yielded
10 basis points more than U.S. securities, according to data
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The difference was
the least since March last year. Treasury 10-year yields climbed
the most in three weeks yesterday after data from ADP Research
Institute showed companies added more jobs last month than
economists forecast.  “I’m bearish on Treasuries,” said Kei Katayama, who buys
non-yen debt in  Tokyo  for Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which
manages the equivalent of $53 billion. “I can’t really expect
weak job numbers in this economic environment that cause big
drops in Treasury yields.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note slid one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.93 percent as of 6:46 a.m.
in  London . It climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, yesterday, the biggest gain since Feb. 13. The price of
the 2 percent security due February 2023 rose 3/32 to 100 21/32,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  The Labor Department will probably say today that the
number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits was 3.12
million in the week ended Feb. 23, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That compares
with 3.07 million in the week prior, the  least  since June 2008.
The figures don’t include Americans receiving extended
 unemployment benefits  under federal programs.  U.S. Jobs  ADP said yesterday U.S. companies added 198,000 workers
last month, exceeding the 170,000 estimated by economists. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  rose as much as 0.5 percent
yesterday to top the record high set the previous day.  A separate report from the Labor Department tomorrow may
show nonfarm payrolls gained by 163,000 jobs last month,
economists forecast. Payrolls rose 157,000 positions in January.  “The broader message is that, after a worrying slowdown in
the middle of last year, labor market conditions have improved
markedly”  Paul Ashworth , the chief U.S. economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in Toronto., wrote in a research note dated
today. “The ADP survey suggests some upside risk to our
forecast that non-farm payrolls increased by 175,000 last
month.”  Ten-year yields may climb to 2.51 percent by the end of
March next year, the weighted-average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg shows. Should their projections turn out
to be correct, investors who buy the securities today would lose
2.5 percent during the period, according to Bloomberg data.  Quantitative Easing  The Treasury will today announce the amount of debt that it
auctions next week. The government is likely to sell $32 billion
of 3-year notes on March 12, $21 billion of 10-year debt the
next day and $13 billion of 30-year securities on March 14,
according to projections from Wrightson ICAP LLC.  The  Federal Reserve  will buy as much as $3.75 billion of
government debt today maturing in December 2018 to February
2020. The central bank purchases $85 billion in Treasury and
mortgage debt a month under so-called quantitative easing.  “The  bond market  is in a bubble,” said Daiwa SB’s
Katayama. “Even so, the bubble seems very likely to continue.
We can’t underestimate the effects of quantitative easing.”  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said yesterday that
monetary policy alone can’t fuel economic growth.  Tug of War  “There is a tug of war between monetary policy and
expectations of an economic recovery,” said Masato Yanagiya,
the head of currency and money trading in  New York  at Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of  Japan ’s second-biggest financial
group by market value. “Stocks are in a high  price range , while
10-year Treasury yields are below 2 percent, showing the strong
influence of quantitative easing.”  In Japan, the current 20-year bond yield gained four basis
points to 1.605 percent, according to Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 10-year yield
was little changed at 0.675 percent.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  board voted down a proposal by member
Sayuri Shirai to start open-ended asset purchases immediately,
the central bank said today when concluding a two-day policy
meeting. It was the last gathering presided over by BOJ Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa , who is due to step down this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  