-- Regulating Pot, Splitting RBS, Payday Loans: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-07T13:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/regulating-pot-splitting-rbs-u-k-payday-lenders-compliance.html
Colorado and Washington are racing
to meet deadlines for setting up a framework to regulate the
sale of marijuana for recreational use, even as federal
authorities weigh the future of the new industry.  Colorado has given its Revenue Department until July 1 to
draft rules for pot farming, distribution and retailing after
voters legalized possession by adults and sales in stores.
Washington has set Dec. 1 as its deadline to have regulations in
place.  Both states are proceeding knowing they could be stopped at
any point by the federal government, which deems marijuana a
controlled substance and cracked down on state-sanctioned
medical-marijuana operations in California in 2011.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said at a Senate
Judiciary Committee hearing yesterday that the department is
“considering what the federal response to those new statutes
will be.”  In a letter to the committee, nine former Drug Enforcement
Administration chiefs urged “federal intervention and
preemption” to stop legalization in Colorado and Washington to
protect the nation’s health and safety.  The question of whether the federal government will prevent
implementation of the new laws is creating uncertainty for state
regulators.  Estimates for the market, if legalized nationwide, vary
from $10 billion to $120 billion a year, with $35 billion to $45
billion being likely, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Tax collections from such sales could reach $9 billion to as
much as $20 billion, according to Brad Barker, a Bloomberg
Industries analyst, who cited projections by the Cato Institute,
a nonprofit research group, and the Congressional Research
Service in a March 1 report.  For more, click here and see Interviews, below.  Compliance Policy  Japan FSA Considers Short-Selling Rule Changes, Regulator Says  Japan’s Financial Services Agency is considering making the
naked short selling ban permanent, the regulator said in a
statement on its website.  The FSA is considering changing the uptick rule to
automatically halt short selling on stocks that have fallen 10
percent from the preceding day’s closing price, according to the
statement.  The FSA will take public comment on the matter until April
8. It plans to carry out the new rule around November.  The naked short selling ban was set temporarily in Oct.
2008. Japan brought forward restrictions on short selling of
shares after stocks in Tokyo extended declines to the lowest
levels since October 1982.  Portugal Approves Proposal on Legal Framework for Regulators  Portugal has approved a proposal on a legal framework for
regulators that follows a plan established in a government
program and in a memorandum of understanding signed with the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund , the
government said in a statement following the weekly cabinet
meeting.  Regulators will comply with requirements of administrative
and financial autonomy and independence, it said in the
statement.  Compliance Action  EU Says Libor, Euribor Antitrust Probes at an ‘Advanced Stage’  European Union antitrust investigations into possible
fixing of the Libor and Euribor benchmark lending rates are “at
an advanced stage,” an EU official said today.  Eric van Ginderachter, the  European Commission ’s director
of cartels, said regulators’ probes into major banks and
brokers’ suspected manipulation of benchmark rates to their
benefit is a top priority for the EU antitrust agency.  BOE’s King Says Government Should Split Up RBS, Accept Loss  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King urged the government
to split up  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and speed up the
return of Britain’s biggest publicly owned lender to private
ownership following its bailout in 2008.  King made the remarks to the Parliamentary Commission on
Banking Standards at a hearing in London yesterday.  RBS should be split into a so-called good bank that could
fund itself and a bad bank, where loss-making  assets  would be
transferred, King told lawmakers yesterday. That would require
the lender to accept losses on some assets, he said.  The government is pressing Edinburgh-based RBS to sell
assets and bolster  capital  as it tries to recoup some of the
45.5 billion pounds ($69 billion) it pumped into the lender in
the biggest bank bailout in the world. Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Hester has cut assets by 907 billion pounds, eliminated
36,000 jobs and scaled back the  securities  unit. The stock still
trades for less than the price the government paid for it.  RBS has been criticized by lawmakers for failing to boost
lending to the economy, even though the taxpayer owns more than
80 percent of the lender. Lawmakers have said the government
should have fully nationalized the lender, a move opposed by
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who said last month
taking full ownership would require as much as 10 billion pounds
of public money.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday that he
agreed with Osborne’s approach to returning RBS to private
hands, Jean-Christophe Gray, the premier’s spokesman, said in
London yesterday.  For more, click here.  Google, IBM, Nasdaq, Finra Plan Bids to Build SEC Audit Trail  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Infosys Ltd. (INFY) ,  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority are among
the  organizations  that said they plan to bid on a proposal to
build a comprehensive market oversight system for U.S.
securities.  Exchange operators  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
Bats Global Markets Inc. also said they would submit proposals,
as did high-frequency trading technology provider Tradeworx
Inc., which provides a system to the Securities and Exchange
Commission that compiles information from private data streams
about quotations and trades. The list of 31 candidates was
published on the website for the so-called consolidated audit
trail that the exchanges and Finra are building.  The audit trail, one of former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro ’s
projects, will track all securities orders and trades in the
U.S. from start to completion and give the agency and other
regulators a powerful system to monitor the markets.  Additional companies from Europe and the U.S. also plan to
bid for the project, according to the list.  U.K. Tells Payday Lenders to Follow Rules or Lose License  U.K. regulators told 50 sub-prime lenders they have 12
weeks to change business practices described as causing “misery
and hardship” for borrowers too poor to afford short-term
loans.  Companies that offer so-called payday loans risk losing
their licenses if they don’t meet regulators’ expectations, the
Office of Fair Trading  said yesterday  on its website. It may
also refer the industry to the British antitrust regulator after
finding lenders competed on speed and easy access, rather than
price. The OFT didn’t name any individual companies.  The offending firms didn’t check whether customers could
afford the loans before making them or rolling them over, didn’t
explain how payments would be collected and used “aggressive”
debt collection methods, the OFT said. Payday lenders such as
London-based Wonga.com Ltd. charge high  interest rates  for small
cash sums over shorter periods than a bank loan. The industry’s
loans cost an average of 25 pounds ($37.70) per 100 pounds for
30 days, the OFT said.  Customers are often those whose credit rating bars them
from using banks or mutual lenders and are “frequently in a
vulnerable financial position,” the OFT said yesterday. The
market has more than doubled since 2009 to as much as 2.2
billion pounds, it said.  “We are digesting the full import of the report at the
moment and will await more specific information,” Patrick
Barrow, a spokesman for  PaydayUK , a unit of Berwyn,
Pennsylvania-based  DFC Global Corp. (DLLR) , said by phone.  Brian Corke, a spokesman for the British Cheque Cashers
Association, declined to comment on the OFT report and said the
trade group provides no public data on the names or size of its
members. A Wonga.com spokeswoman declined to comment.  “This is the end of a yearlong review, and we will take
time to review the issues that have been raised,” Russell
Hamblin-Boone, CEO of the Consumer Finance Association, said in
a statement. “We recognize there are concerns about the
industry. However, these reports are a snapshot in time and work
is already under way.”  Requests for comment from the Consumer Credit Trade
Association and the Finance & Leasing Association weren’t
returned. The three groups also represent payday lenders.  The industry has come under fire from bankruptcy
professionals and consumer groups, which say the firms grant
loans to people who can’t afford them.  RBS Suffers Second Computer Glitch Leaving Clients Without Cash  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  has been hit by a second
computer failure that has left some of its 17 million customers
unable to withdraw cash.  The fault, which affected its NatWest, Ulster Bank and RBS
clients, occurred last night and has since been fixed, the 81
percent government-owned lender said in a statement today.  “We are disappointed that our customers have faced
disruption to banking services for a period yesterday evening,
and apologize for that,” Edinburgh-based RBS said. “All
services are now running as normal again.”  RBS, Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender, was hit by a
computer failure at its consumer bank in June that left many of
its customers unable to access their accounts for days. The bank
set aside 125 million pounds ($187 million) to cover the costs
of the June computer failure. Chief Executive Officer  Stephen
Hester  said on June 29 that he would forgo his bonus for 2012
following the incident.  Dollar Investors Coveted in Denmark as Swaps Expand Funding Base  Denmark plans to make more regular use of currency swaps to
expand its funding base and target dollar investors in a
strategy the debt office bets will save it money.  Denmark, which pegs the krone to the euro, is now taking a
more “neutral” position on its foreign borrowing after
previously relying on Europe’s single currency, said Ove Sten
Jensen, head of the government’s debt management office at the
central bank in Copenhagen.  The debt office is targeting a broader currency base after
the global financial crisis showed that reliance on a single
market can prove costly, even for AAA rated issuers like
Denmark. The Scandinavian country isn’t alone in targeting the
dollar market, the world’s most liquid, as borrowing costs drop
from January’s 19-month high.  Denmark is planning as much as 2 billion euros ($2.6
billion) in foreign borrowing this year, either in euros or
dollars. That’s a 33 percent increase on its maximum target for
2012.  Currency market developments have helped push Denmark’s
short-term borrowing costs below zero. A capital influx last
year, as investors fled the euro zone, strengthened the krone
and forced the central bank to resort to a negative deposit
rate.  For more, click here.  Courts  ITV Can Block Internet Streaming of Its Shows, EU Top Court Says  ITV Plc (ITV) , owner of the U.K.’s most-watched commercial TV
station, won the backing of the European Union’s highest court
to block the unauthorized retransmission of its programs via the
Internet.  Television broadcasters have the right to prohibit the
retransmission of their shows by another company over the
Internet, the  EU Court of Justice  said today.  The case, which was triggered by a dispute pending at a
London court, establishes the scope of broadcasters’ rights
under EU copyright rules and whether these include the right to
prohibit broadcasts by a service such as online streaming
service TVCatchup. The English tribunal sought the EU court’s
advice in 2011 and will be bound to give a ruling in the case in
line with today’s decision.  ITV’s press office and TVCatchup didn’t immediately return
e-mails seeking comment.  The case is:  C-607/11 , ITV Broadcasting Limited e.a. v.
TVCatchup Limited.  Interviews/Hearings  Seattle Mayor Imagines Shoppers Choosing Pot Like Wine  Seattle Mayor Mike McGinn talked with Bloomberg’s Alison
Vekshin about the city’s preparations for the legal sale of
marijuana.  In November Washington voters approved a ballot initiative
making it legal for those 21 and older to have marijuana,
allowing commercial storefronts to sell it.  For the video, click here.  Fannie, Freddie Revival Would Trigger New Crisis, Garrett Says  “ Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac are the essence of crony-
capitalism,” and recreating them would mean the U.S. is
“doomed to repeat the same terrible outcomes that our nation
has experienced over the last four years,” House Financial
Services’ Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises
Subcommittee Chairman  Scott Garrett , a Republican from New
Jersey, said.  Garrett’s comments were part of his opening remarks
prepared for the panel’s hearing on the role of Fannie and
Freddie in the financial crisis.  The combination of government using Fannie and Freddie as
tools of social policy and declining interest rates “built the
foundation of the housing bubble,”  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at
Graham Fisher, said in prepared testimony.  The growth of “private label” residential mortgage
securitization was “at least as important in helping stoke the
boom” in the housing market as government sponsored
enterprises, or GSEs, Lawrence White, a New York University
economics professor, said in prepared testimony.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will create a common platform
for issuing mortgage-backed securities as they wind down
operations and plan for a future in which the two companies no
longer exist, their regulator said.  Too-Big-to-Fail Banks Limit Prosecutor Options, Holder Testifies  The size of the largest financial institutions has made it
difficult for the U.S. Justice Department to bring criminal
charges, Attorney General Eric Holder said.  Criminal charges against a bank -- something that could
threaten its existence -- may also endanger the national or
global economies in the case of the largest ones, because of
their size and interconnectedness. That has “made it difficult
for us to prosecute” some of those institutions, Holder said
yesterday at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing.  U.S. lawmakers, including Massachusetts Senator  Elizabeth
Warren , have raised concerns that the largest institutions
haven’t been held accountable for their actions that played a
role in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Comings and Goings  Bank of England Names Three Non-Executive Directors to PRA Board  The Bank of England named former Yorkshire Building Society
Chief Executive Officer Iain Cornish, to the board of the
 Prudential Regulatory Authority , along with former  Treasury 
official Rosalind Gilmore and Charles Randell, a lawyer at
Slaughter and May.  They will earn 77,500 pounds ($117,000) per year in the
role, according to an e-mailed statement from the U.K. central
bank.  Better Markets Urges Gary Gensler to Remain CFTC Chairman  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission still has “hard
work” ahead and the leadership of its Chairman  Gary Gensler  is
needed, Better Markets President Dennis Kelleher said in a
statement.  If Gensler doesn’t stay at the agency, President  Barack
Obama  “must only consider candidates to lead the CFTC who have
similar superior qualifications, experiences, skills and
commitment to financial reform,” Kelleher said in the
statement.  The Obama administration has opened talks with Gensler
about serving a possible second term as head of the CFTC, an
unidentified person briefed on the matter told Bloomberg’s Silla
Brush.  Gensler also has discussed other economic, financial jobs
in the administration. He hasn’t been told he will be nominated
for a second CFTC term or to different job, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 