-- Rio de Janeiro Suspends Payments Over Oil Royalty Dispute
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-03-07T19:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/rio-de-janeiro-suspends-payments-over-oil-royalty-dispute.html
The government of  Rio de Janeiro 
state suspended all non-obligatory payments except for payroll
over an oil royalties dispute only 16 months before it hosts the
soccer  World Cup  final.  The state will halt payments until the Supreme Court rules
on a royalties bill passed by Congress today that would reduce
Rio’s revenues, according to an e-mail from the press office of
Governor Sergio Cabral. The suspension will be applied to all
non-mandatory payments, said an official who declined to be
identified because of internal policy and gave no further
detail.  Rio de Janeiro is one of the three major oil-producing
states in  Brazil  and has opposed a bill that President  Dilma Rousseff  vetoed but Congress ratified yesterday. The suspension
is designed to pressure Rousseff to compensate revenue
shortfalls or get the  Supreme Court  to block the bill, said
Rafael Cortez, political analyst with Tendencias Consultoria
Integrada.  “It’s an attempt to get public attention,” Cortez said by
telephone from Sao Paulo. “The government is not interested in
Rio suspending investments, particularly not ahead of the World
Cup.”  Under the new law, royalties that now go exclusively to the
producing states will be distributed among all 27 states. It
will cost Rio de Janeiro 4 billion reais ($2 billion) this year
and could provoke the state’s financial collapse, Cabral told
reporters Nov. 7. Oil royalties in Brazil totaled 15.6 billion
reais in 2012.  Rio de Janeiro will challenge the bill before the Supreme
Court, Cabral said at an event earlier today. He said that
Rousseff considered parts of the bill unconstitutional when she
vetoed it last year.  Sao Paulo  and Espirito Santo states also
said they would challenge the law.  “The proposal to retaliate is a trump card that Cabral is
playing to see what he can get,” said Marly Motta, a local
history professor at the Getulio Vargas Foundation in Rio de
Janeiro. “It might work, it might not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  