-- Rooney for Sale for $52.5 Million, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-03-07T11:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/rooney-for-sale-for-52-5-million-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Rooney Going?  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is preparing to
sell striker  Wayne Rooney  for 35 million pounds ($52.5 million)
at the end of the season, the Daily Mirror said.  The coach this week left 27-year-old Rooney out of the
starting lineup for the Champions League match against Real
Madrid that the English team lost 2-1, leaving the player
furious, the newspaper added. Ferguson is unhappy at Rooney’s
level of fitness, the Mirror said.  The team is willing to listen to offers, with  Manchester
City , Chelsea and Paris Saint-Germain interested, the newspaper
said. Rooney’s contract has two years remaining.  The Guardian said  Rooney’s reputed 300,000 pound-a-week
salary is too expensive for City, which tried to sign him in
2010. AC Milan, Juventus and Inter Milan would struggle to pay
his wages, and Real Madrid,  Bayern Munich  and Barcelona may not
see Rooney fitting into their squads, the newspaper said.  Final Offer?  Tottenham will offer to double forward Gareth Bale’s annual
pay to 8 million pounds in an effort to keep the Welshman, the
Daily Mail said.  The 23-year-old is being paid 75,000 pounds a week under a
four-year contract that ties him to the north London club until
2016, the newspaper said. He’s attracted interest from Real
Madrid, Bayern Munich and Manchester City, but Spurs Chairman
 Daniel Levy  will offer to double his pay, the Mail said.  Levy won’t sell Bale for less than 60 million pounds, the
newspaper added.  Agger Sought  Barcelona is targeting Liverpool’s  Daniel Agger  as the
Spanish club looks to revamp its defense, the Mirror said.  The Danish player signed a new contract with the Reds last
season, but Barcelona needs to replace 34-year-old Carles Puyol,
who is nearing the end of his career, the newspaper said.  Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers isn’t interested in
selling Agger, the newspaper said.  City Interest  Manchester City is interested in Arsenal defender  Carl
Jenkinson  should the 21-year-old become available,  the Mirror
said.   Jenkinson signed an extension with the Gunners earlier this
season, and will probably get more playing time if Bacary Sagna
leaves as expected at the end of the season, the newspaper said.  Still, City is attracted to the player, having already
taken Arsenal’s  Samir Nasri , Gael Clichy and Kolo Toure over the
past few seasons, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  