-- RWE Said to Seek as Much as $6.5 Billion for Oil, Gas Uni
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-03-07T11:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/rwe-said-to-seek-as-much-as-6-5-billion-for-oil-gas-uni.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, wants to raise as much as 5 billion euros ($6.5
billion) in its Dea oil unit sale, cash to be used to reduce
debt, a person familiar with the matter said.  RWE decided to sell Dea as a whole, a plan announced this
week, after failing to divest individual assets including a gas
project in  Egypt , said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the process is private. The company has yet
to appoint advisers, he said. It would be RWE’s biggest-ever
asset sale.  The sale of Dea, which pumps oil and gas in the U.K.,
Germany and  Norway , will enable RWE to bolster cash as profit
margins narrow from slowing energy demand in  Europe  and the
phaseout of nuclear power at home. RWE, joining larger
competitor EON SE in cutting costs, abandoned a previous target
for disposals after prices fell short.  Peter Hoscheidt, a RWE spokesman, declined to comment on
the anticipated sale price.  Raising 5 billion euros would allow RWE to reduce  net debt 
of 33 billion euros. The company has a market value of 17.5
billion euros. Moody’s Investor Services has a negative outlook
on the company’s A3 credit rating. Standard & Poor’s cut RWE to
BBB+ in July, the third-lowest investment grade rating.  A sale may be stymied by RWE Dea’s Egyptian assets, which
were unsold in a disposal process started in 2011, where it
aimed to raise $3 billion, people familiar with the process said
at the time.  President Mubarak  The company is a partner in two offshore licenses operated
by  BP Plc (BP/)  due to start production in 2014. The North African
nation remains mired in political unrest after the overthrow of
President  Hosni Mubarak  two years ago.  RWE Dea had oil and gas reserves equivalent to 769 million
barrels of crude at the end of 2012, according to the company’s
annual report. A 5 billion-euro deal, would value reserves at
$8.45 a barrel. Among Europe’s largest oil companies,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s market value gives an equivalent of $14.81 a
barrel, Total SA stands at $7.76 and  Italy ’s Eni at $9.05.  The utility has completed 2.1 billion euros of its disposal
program, previously targeted to reach 7 billion euros by the end
of this year, Chief Executive Officer Peter Terium said two days
ago when the company announced the sale of Dea. He declined to
give a new target or schedule.  The disposal “is not so positive, Dea has been the last
growth driver within the RWE group,” Daniel Seidenspinner, an
analyst at B. Metzler Seel Sohn & Co. KGaA, said by phone from
 Frankfurt . He estimates Dea’s value at about 4.5 billion euros.  The company’s oil and gas production was 30.8 million
barrels of oil equivalent in 2012, or 84,300 barrels a day.
Production is targeted at more than 40 million barrels in 2014,
or more than 100,000 barrels a day, according to the Essen-based
utility’s annual report.  Dea’s operating result was up 23 percent to 685 million
euros from a year earlier, constituting 11 percent of RWE’s
operating result.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  