-- Safety Breaches Seen Plaguing U.S. Reactors in Report
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-03-07T18:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/safety-breaches-seen-plaguing-u-s-reactors-in-report.html
Almost one-in-six U.S. nuclear
reactors experienced safety breaches last year due in part to
poor oversight by federal regulators, according to the Union of
Concerned Scientists.  Incidents including a cooling water leak and unusual wear
on steam generator tubes were reported at 16 units owned by
companies including  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  and  Edison International (EIX) , the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based environmental group said in its
third annual report on reactor safety released today.  “The NRC has repeatedly failed to enforce essential safety
regulations,” wrote  David Lochbaum , director of the group’s
Nuclear Safety Project and author of the study.  Since the 2010 report, almost 40 percent of the 104 U.S.
reactors have had safety breaches serious enough to require the
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission to dispatch inspection teams,
the group said. The agency, in response, said none of the
incidents posed a risk to public safety.  The NRC is in the process of writing rules to improve
safety after a triple meltdown at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant two years ago. The agency issued its first
regulations in response to the disaster a year ago, and in the
coming days the five-member commission may announce its decision
on a staff recommendation to require radiation-scrubbing filters
on the venting systems of 31 aging reactors.  ‘Near Miss’  The NRC last year reported 14 events that the Union of
Concerned Scientists defined as “near misses.” Those are
incidents that raise the risk of a meltdown by 10 times or more
and prompted the dispatch of an NRC inspection team, according
to the study. Some events affected multiple units at plants, and
some facilities experienced more than one incident. Near-misses
occurred at 16 reactors in total, the report said.  Such events include a cooling water leak at Entergy’s
Palisades plant about 58 miles (93 kilometers) southwest of
 Grand Rapids ,  Michigan . The report also cited unidentified
security problems at  Southern Co. (SO) ’s Farley plant in  Alabama  and
equipment failure at  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s Byron plant in northern
 Illinois .  Some facilities, such as Wolf Creek Nuclear Operating
Corp.’s reactor 62 miles south of Topeka,  Kansas , have reported
multiple incidents since 2010, such as an electrical fault that
caused the main generator to shut down, according to the report.  ‘Simplest Repair’  The NRC “is tolerating the intolerable,” the scientists’
report said. “The simplest repair available is for the NRC to
enforce existing regulations, using its ability to impose fines
on owners and shut down reactors that violate safety
regulations.”  On its website, the Union of Concerned Scientists describes
itself as a watchdog that is neither for or against nuclear
power but urges greater regulation to enhance safety.  “Far from showing lax regulation or oversight, these
special inspections show the NRC doing its job to protect the
public and the environment by finding and correcting problems
early, before they can cause real harm,”  David McIntyre , an NRC
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “None of the incidents cited by
UCS actually affected public health and safety.”  The agency is issuing its own annual report card of reactor
performance. Of the 104 operating units, 99 were in the highest
performance categories, according to a statement today
announcing the assessment. Eighty-one units met all safety and
security requirements and 18 needed to resolve one or two low-
risk issues, it said.  NRC Actions  “The NRC will not allow any of our licensed facilities to
operate unless we are satisfied that they can do so safely,”
NRC Chairman  Allison Macfarlane  told a House Energy and Commerce
Committee panel Feb. 28. While a few plants have had
“significant performance problems,” the agency is addressing
those issues, she said.  The two reactors at Edison’s San Onofre plant in  Southern
California  have been out of service since January 2012, after
workers discovered unusual wear on steam generator tubes. The
NRC hasn’t approved the company’s proposal to return one of the
units to limited operation.  Not included among the near-misses were reactors affected
by superstorm Sandy, which pummeled the Northeast U.S. in late
October. The storm forced three reactors to shut down and a
fourth, Exelon’s Oyster Creek plant in  New Jersey , which was out
of service at the time for refueling and maintenance, to declare
an alert.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  