-- Ex-Stanford Team Cyclist Faces Felony in Pedestrian Death
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-03-07T19:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/san-francisco-cyclist-can-be-charged-with-felony-manslaughter.html
A San Francisco bicyclist will face
a felony charge of vehicular manslaughter for striking and
killing a 71-year-old man last year in what prosecutors say is
among the first cases of its kind in the state.  Judge Andrew Cheng in San Francisco criminal court ruled
today that Christopher Bucchere, a Stanford University-educated
technology consultant who once rode for the school’s cycling
team, must stand trial in connection with the death of the
pedestrian, who was killed while crossing an intersection last
year.  The felony charge is among the first brought against a
cyclist, said Alex Bastian, a spokesman for San Francisco
District Attorney George Gascon. Cheng heard evidence from
prosecutors and Bucchere’s attorney yesterday to decide whether
the case should go to trial.  An accident reconstruction expert for prosecutors
calculated Bucchere’s speed at 32 miles an hour based on videos
of the accident and traffic light data, according to testimony
in court yesterday. Bucchere struck Sutchi Hui March 29 as he
began crossing the street with his wife on his way to a medical
appointment.  Red Lights  Witnesses and investigators yesterday told Cheng that
Bucchere, 36, ran two red lights and a stop sign before running
the red light at the busy intersection in San Francisco’s Castro
District where Hui was crossing.  Ted Cassman, Bucchere’s attorney, said his client didn’t
run the light. He said Hui entered the crosswalk before the
pedestrian “walk” light went on and other pedestrians who
crossed early “severely limited” Bucchere’s ability to avoid
the accident, according to a court filing yesterday.  Cassman also challenged the claim that Bucchere was going
over the speed limit, saying that data on Strava Inc., a website
for cyclists, inaccurately recorded him going 32 miles an hour
at the time of the crash.  Cassman asked Cheng to throw out the charge or reduce it to
a misdemeanor. Vehicular manslaughter carries a penalty of as
long as six years in prison.  Cyclists who have competed using Strava include Lance Armstrong, the seven-time Tour de France winner who was stripped
of his titles for doping. Some Strava members had called for
Armstrong to be barred from the site.  As of Feb. 4, Armstrong had 10,156 followers on Strava. His
profile on the site later became unavailable.  The case is People of the State of California v. Bucchere,
12015554, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  