-- SAS Agrees to Sells Ground-Handling Operations to Swissport
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-07T15:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/sas-agrees-to-sells-ground-handling-operations-to-swissport.html
  SAS Group (SAS) , the biggest Nordic
airline, plans to sell the majority of its ground-handling unit
with 5,000 employees to Swissport International Ltd. as the
carrier tries to stem losses.  SAS and Zurich-based Swissport will establish a joint
venture, in which Swissport holds 51 percent and SAS 49 percent,
according to a statement today. The partnership will include
ground-handling services for passengers and cargo in Denmark,
Sweden and  Norway .  The move is part of a broader  plan  by SAS to raise a total
of 3 billion kronor ($470 million). The push includes job cuts
and the sale of assets including airport real estate, unused
 aircraft engines  and Norwegian offshoot Wideroe to turn around
the carrier that was last profitable on an annual basis in 2007.  SAS spokeswoman Malin Selander said the company aims to
complete the agreement in late 2013, declining to provide
financial details. SAS Chief Executive Rickard Gustafson told
 Svenska Dagbladet  last month the company is in talks with “a
couple´´ of potential buyers for Wideroe. SAS is due to report
earnings for 2012 tomorrow.  Separately, SAS said it will extend cooperation with  Sykes
Enterprises Inc. (SYKE)  and transfer more parts of its customer contact
center to the Tampa, Florida-based company, expanding an
agreement that started in 2010.  Swissport  operates ground-handling services for about 118
million passengers and 3.5 million metric tons of cargo each
year, including ticketing sales desks, gate services, aircraft
loading, cleaning and crew transport at more than 190 airports
worldwide, including Basel, Geneva and Zurich.  The company has more than 40,000 employees and is owned by
private equity firm PAI Partners SAS, according to its website.
It generates annual sales of about 2 billion Swiss francs ($2.1
billion).  Swissport spokeswoman Sabine Meinitz said she had no
further comment.  SAS fell 0.4 Swedish krona, or 2.7 percent, to 14.20 krona
in  Stockholm , paring the gain in the past year to 74 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  