-- HSBC to Put Out Audit Work to Bid After Two Decades With KPMG
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-07T11:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/hsbc-to-put-out-audit-work-to-bid-after-two-decades-with-kpmg.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank by assets, said it would accept bids for its external audit
contract, held by  KPMG  LLP since 1991.  KPMG, the world’s fourth-largest accounting firm by
revenue, won the business without a bidding process, the bank
said in its annual report this week, and there hasn’t been one
since. The winner will be appointed in 2015, the bank said. HSBC
recommended KPMG should keep the business for the coming year,
and shareholders will vote on this at the lender’s annual
meeting in London on May 24.  HSBC paid KPMG $80.5 million in 2012 for services including
audit, tax compliance, computer security and help valuing
assets. Auditors were criticized for not spotting practices that
led to the banking crisis that began in 2007. Parliament’s upper
house’s Economic Affairs Committee, in a 2011 report, said there
were “ grave defects in the auditing of banks .”  The Financial Reporting Council, a U.K. audit regulator,
said last year members of the FTSE 350 index should tender their
audit contracts at least once every 10 years.  Mark Hamilton, a KPMG spokesman in London, declined to
comment on the contract.  According to the annual report, Chairman Douglas Flint and
Marvin Cheung, a non-executive director who is a member of the
audit committee, have both worked for KPMG. Flint was a partner
and Cheung was chief executive officer of KPMG International’s
operation in  China  and Hong Kong from 1996 to 2003.  The bank monitors whether the employment of former KPMG
employees led to “any impairment, or appearance of impairment,
of the external auditor’s judgment, objectivity or independence
in respect of the audit,” the annual report said.  HSBC in January hired Ruth Horgan as global head of
regulatory compliance after David Bagley quit in July over the
lender’s failure to guard against money laundering. Horgan
joined from KPMG, where she had been a partner since 1999 and
had worked on the team auditing HSBC until March 2010.  The plan to put the contract out to bid was reported
earlier today by the Financial Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  