-- Sealing the Artery With Hunger Hormone Cuts Pounds
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-07T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/sealing-the-artery-with-hunger-hormone-cuts-pounds.html
Sealing off an artery that supplies
blood to the portion of the stomach that produces the hunger-
promoting hormone ghrelin reduced appetite and triggered  weight
loss  in the first study of the approach in human volunteers.  The experiment involving five obese patients in Tbilisi,
 Georgia , found the procedure led to an average weight loss of 30
pounds within the first month and 45 pounds after six months,
said lead researcher Nicholas Kipshidze. The results will be
presented this weekend at the  American College of Cardiology 
meeting in  San Francisco .  The researchers threaded a catheter from an artery in the
groin to the gastric artery, where they released tiny beads that
blocked off blood flow to the stomach, Kipshidze said in a
telephone interview. While the 30-minute procedure led to less
weight loss than standard  bariatric surgery , it wasn’t as
invasive and it is faster, he said. Three patients had stomach
discomfort, though there were no other complications, he said.  “We are cutting off blood flow to the fundus of the
stomach, which is known as the area where a lot of hormones are
initiated,” said Kipshidze, who led the study when he was the
physician-in-chief at Republican Hospital in Tbilisi. “The
theory is that we are decreasing secretion of the hormones,
including the appetite hormone ghrelin.”  The patients reported decreased appetite the day after the
procedure, he said. They didn’t change their diets or begin any
exercise programs. The researchers were worried that sealing off
blood flow might increase the risk of tissue damage, though 
follow-up exams including imaging of the stomach wall showed no
problems, he said.  Ghrelin Suppression  Animal studies have shown blocking off the gastric artery
can lead to a systemic suppression of  ghrelin , said John Harold,
professor of medicine at Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute in  Los
Angeles  and president-elect of the  American College of
Cardiology . Existing technology that includes gastric bypass and
stomach banding has been used for the past two decades to
perform weight loss surgery on humans, and has been approved by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration since 2001.  “I would assume the risk of embolization is not
insignificant and would have to be weighed against existing
techniques that have a proven track record,” he said.  Kipshidze is planning another study that will follow more
patients for a longer period and include a comparison group for
control. The researchers are also designing surgical tools and
implements that may be used during the procedure, he said. They
are also considering an approach that would allow them to begin
in the radial artery in wrist, rather than the femoral artery in
the groin, which could speed the healing time even more.  “I believe it may become a good alternative to bariatric
surgery,” Kipshidze said. “Still, five patients is only five
patients. I am cautiously optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  