-- SEC Proposes First Update of Automation Controls in 22 Years
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-03-07T21:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/sec-weighing-first-update-of-automation-safeguards-in-22-years.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is seeking comment on rules that would require
exchanges and many other electronic trading venues to maintain
technology systems against disruptions and report any outages.  SEC commissioners voted unanimously to propose automation
principles that also would cover dark pools, financial industry
self-regulators and networks that provide quotation and trade
data to the public. The planned update of 22-year-old standards
calls for the entities to regularly audit  information systems 
for resiliency and security and notify the SEC of disruptions.  “This is a vitally important proposal,” SEC Chairman
Elisse B. Walter said in a statement. The rule, which was
released for 60 days of public comment, would help “ensure that
our U.S. securities markets are better insulated from disruption
from technology failures and deficiencies in controls.”  The proposal is the latest effort by the SEC to minimize
damage from failures caused by automated trading errors such as
the malfunction by  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  in August, which
almost bankrupted the firm and led to its sale to Getco LLC.
Exchanges and clearinghouses for more than 20 years have been
subject to a voluntary program relying on self-audits and
occasional SEC inspections.  The SEC, which accelerated the proposal after the  Knight
Capital  malfunction, already has enacted rules requiring broker
checks against erroneous orders and circuit breakers that halt
trading during periods of extraordinary volatility.  National Marketplace  The rule proposed today relies on entities to establish
policies and procedures to safeguard the integrity and security
of their computer systems, which stitch together a complex
national marketplace for securities. The systems covered by the
proposal include those that directly support trading, clearance
and settlement, order routing, market data, regulation or
surveillance, according to an SEC fact sheet.  The rules would apply to 44 entities, including the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which oversees brokers,
and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. Those self-
regulators would fall under the rule because they disseminate
market data, according to the SEC.  The proposal also would require the entities to ensure they
can quickly resume operations after natural disasters such as
 Hurricane Sandy .  Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar said the rule should be
strengthened to include minimum standards and a requirement that
compliance be certified by a third party. He criticized the
proposal for including a so-called safe harbor against penalties
for entities that show they follow a narrower set of industry
standards.  ‘Falls Short’  The limitations “will result in a rule proposal that falls
short of its goals,” Aguilar said.  Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher said the safe harbor would
“incentivize the creation of controls designed to enhance
industry compliance with the federal securities laws.”  The proposal would apply to significant alternative trading
systems, including equity dark pools and the over-the-counter
market. Trading centers would be subject to the rule if they
execute 0.25 percent of total trading volume and 5 percent in
any one stock, or if their share of total trading volume exceeds
1 percent.  The SEC, which will weigh public comment before moving to
finalize the rule, is seeking input on whether it also should
apply to brokerages such as Knight Capital.  ‘Black Monday’  The voluntary standard, known as Automation Review Policy,
was created after the October 1987 market crash known as “Black
Monday.” It was intended to ensure the exchanges had enough
capacity to handle surges in trading activity.  The SEC last issued policy guidance about the program to
exchanges and clearing firms in May 1991.  A report issued by the U.S. Government Accountability
Office in 2001 said the SEC devoted limited resources to
overseeing the voluntary guidelines. It faulted the SEC for
relying on the exchanges and clearinghouses to self-audit their
systems instead of using external organizations as an
“independent check.”  The GAO also said the SEC hadn’t assessed the compliance of
exchanges and clearinghouses with the voluntary guidelines.  Commissioner Troy A. Paredes said today the proposal is an
improvement over the voluntary program.  “It’s unrealistic to expect we’re going to have a point in
time when we experience zero glitches and zero problems,”
Paredes said. “Anytime you have humans, you are going to get
errors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  