-- Senate to Consider Government Funding Bill Next Week
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-03-07T21:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/senate-to-consider-government-funding-bill-next-week.html
The Senate will consider a measure
next week to fund the U.S. government through September after
the House passed its plan to avoid a shutdown and preserve new
spending cuts.  The Senate plans to build on legislation passed by the
House yesterday to keep the government operating after current
spending authority expires March 27. The House measure would
give the Defense and Veterans Affairs departments more leeway to
decide how to implement the automatic spending reductions, known
as sequestration.  Senate Democrats are seeking a bipartisan agreement to give
more spending flexibility to additional agencies, including
Commerce, Agriculture, Justice and  Homeland Security , said
Appropriations Committee Chairwoman Barbara Mikulski.  The House measure “is too limited,” she told reporters
today in Washington. Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat, said she is
trying to negotiate an agreement with the committee’s top
Republican, Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby , to add specific
spending language for programs that are “relatively free of
controversy.”  Shelby told reporters he supports Mikulski’s attempt to
give all government agencies flexibility to move money between
spending accounts as they implement the spending cuts.  “That’s a lot better than a meat-ax approach,” he said.  Both parties and President  Barack Obama  have said they want
to reach an agreement in time to keep the government operating.  March 11  Mikulski said she plans to introduce the measure on March
11 to give Senate leaders time to seek a vote next week. She
said the Senate bill would continue the automatic spending cuts
that started March 1.  The Republican-led House passed the stopgap measure on a
267-151 vote yesterday.  “ I would urge Democrat leaders in the Senate to not get
greedy and get carried away and try to put forward a possibility
of a government shutdown,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio
Republican , told reporters today. “Our goal here is to cut
spending, not to shut down the government.”  Asked about the speaker’s comments, Mikulski said Senate
Democrats aren’t being “provocative or pugilistic, but at the
same time we have Democratic priorities.”  In a reminder of budget disputes to come, Boehner
reiterated today he would insist on dollar-for-dollar spending
cuts for an increase in the U.S. debt limit. Federal borrowing
authority is scheduled to expire May 19.  Automatic Cuts  The House measure retains $85 billion in automatic cuts
that began March 1 -- a reduction of 5.8 percent through the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30. It would finance the government at
an annual rate of about $982 billion.  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  told
reporters March 5 there is “a sense of urgency and cooperation
on both sides” to agree on legislation that can pass the House
and Senate.  “There seems to be no interest on either side in having a
kind of confrontational government shutdown scenario,”
McConnell said.  Still, two Senate Republicans,  Mike Lee  of  Utah  and  Ted Cruz  of  Texas , said they would seek to delete provisions that
finance the Obama administration’s implementation of the health-
care overhaul set to take effect in 2014. McConnell said he
would support Cruz’s amendment.  Delaying Tactics  Such an effort may delay a vote on the bill. Reid would
need 60 votes to overcome Republican delaying tactics and
complete debate on the measure.  Oklahoma Republican Tom Cole said during House floor debate
yesterday that the House measure would cut spending by “2.4
percent of the entire $3.5 trillion  federal budget .”  “We are willing to renegotiate where those cuts come
from,” Cole said.  The automatic budget reductions, if they remain in place,
will cause a 0.6 percentage-point reduction in U.S. economic
growth this year, the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office 
has estimated. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the
Senate Banking Committee on Feb. 26 that “this additional near-
term burden on the recovery is significant.”  Investors haven’t been deterred so far. The  Dow Jones (INDU) 
Industrial Average climbed to another record today, rising 33.40
points, or 0.2 percent, to 14,329.64. The  Standard & Poor (SPX) ’s 500
Index added 0.2 percent to 1,544.33, the highest level since
Oct. 31, 2007, at 4 p.m. in  New York .  Treasury Yields  Treasury 10-year note yields increased six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 1.99 percent at 3:16 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  New York Representative  Nita Lowey , the House
Appropriations Committee’s top Democrat, said in a statement
opposing the bill that the spending cuts preserved in it “will
result in job losses and furloughs, slowed economic growth” and
reduced government services.  The House bill would give the Defense Department an extra
$10 billion to train troops, maintain weapons and pay for
operations. It would let the department transfer as much as $4
billion between accounts for purposes such as “unforeseen
military requirements,” with advance notice to Congress.  It provides additional money for the Energy Department to
continue modernizing the nation’s nuclear weapons to ensure
their safety and reliability.  More Funding  The stopgap measure would ensure that the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  and the U.S. Border Patrol won’t have to furlough
or fire agents. Another provision would provide more money to
the Interior Department and the Forest Service to fight
wildfires on drought-stricken federal lands.  The House bill would cancel a 0.5 percent pay raise for
federal civilian employees scheduled to take effect in April,
the first time the federal pay schedule was to be increased
since 2010. The provision, opposed by Democrats, is expected to
save $11 billion over 10 years, Republicans have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  