-- Senate Panel Backs Stiffer Penalties for Gun Trafficking
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-03-07T17:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/senate-panel-backs-stiffer-penalties-for-gun-trafficking.html
The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee
approved tougher penalties for illegal gun-trafficking in the
first congressional vote on gun restrictions since the December
shootings in Newtown,  Connecticut .  Still, California Democrat Dianne Feinstein said her
proposed assault-weapon ban is on a “very hard road.”  The 11-7, almost party-line vote on the trafficking measure
today emphasized the hurdles to passing gun legislation even
after the Dec. 14 mass killing of 20 children and six adults at
an elementary school in Newtown. The assault-weapon ban has
little chance of passing the Senate, and a measure requiring
expanded background checks has opposition.  The panel recessed before casting votes on three other
bills, including the assault-weapon ban, and may not reconvene
until March 12.  Iowa Senator Chuck Grassley, the top Republican on the
panel, was the only member of his party who voted for the
trafficking legislation. He expressed skepticism about the
measure that would expand background checks to buyers in most
gun purchases.  Criminals will “go around” the background-check system
and buy weapons in the black market, Grassley said. “Universal
background checks can be enforced only if there is some
registration” effort, which many Republicans oppose, he said.  Assault-Weapons Ban  Feinstein, sponsor of the assault-weapon ban, said, “The
calls have been coming in as if this is some wild-eyed scheme;
it is not.” The California Democrat said polls show support
from most Americans, and that the proposal has been endorsed by
religious leaders, doctors, mayors and police officials.  “Yet it’s as if we have a minority, unsubstantial piece of
legislation,” Feinstein said. “It’s been a very hard road.”  While her bill probably has enough support to pass the
Judiciary Committee, Democrats are conceding it’s unlikely to
pass the full Senate.  “There are a lot of misconceptions about what these bills
do,” said Delaware Senator Christopher Coons, a Democrat who
supports the measure.  Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, said the best
solution to gun violence in the U.S. is to enforce current laws.  “I have a hard time explaining to my constituents back
home how passing more laws that will go unenforced makes them
any safer,” Cornyn said.  Trafficking Penalties  The trafficking measure would set prison sentences of as
much as 20 years for straw purchasers, or those who knowingly
buy a weapon for an individual prohibited from owning it.  Republican Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and
Jeff Flake of  Arizona  yesterday introduced a bill to expand the
scope of mental-health records submitted to the federal
background-check database.  Legislation to expand background checks to most private
sales of firearms is the main legislative goal of President
 Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats in the face of stiff
opposition to any limits on weapons hardware.  If a universal background-check measure passes the
Democratic-led Senate, House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a
Virginia Republican, said Feb. 27 he doesn’t plan to take up the
issue in his committee.  Many Republicans contend that gun owners will oppose
expanded background checks out of concern that it would lead to
a national gun registry maintained by the federal government.  Democrats say they hope a strong Senate vote in favor of
expanded background checks will push Republican House leaders to
advance the bill to the floor for a vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  