-- Senate Confirms Brennan as CIA Director Amid Drone Debate
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-03-08T04:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/senate-confirms-john-brennan-as-director-of-cia-on-63-34-vote.html
The U.S. Senate confirmed John Brennan as CIA director, making a 25-year veteran of the
intelligence agency its leader and rounding out President  Barack Obama ’s second-term national security team.  Approval on a 63-34 vote yesterday came after a debate
dominated by the Obama administration’s use of drone attacks,
especially against Americans suspected of terrorist ties.  Lawmakers on the Senate intelligence committee won access
to classified administration legal opinions on the subject.
Republican Senator Rand Paul of  Kentucky  said he got assurances
that the administration wouldn’t use the pilotless planes
against Americans on U.S. soil unless they posed an immediate
terrorist threat.  Brennan, 57, will take over from Michael Morell, the
Central Intelligence Agency’s deputy director, who has been
leading the agency on an acting basis since David Petraeus
resigned in November after admitting to an affair with his
biographer.  “Our extraordinary men and women of the CIA will be led by
one of their own,” Obama said in a statement after the Senate
vote. “Timely, accurate intelligence is absolutely critical to
disrupting terrorist attacks.”  Brennan assumes control of the secretive agency as it
faces challenges, from the U.S. government budget cuts called
sequestration to a shortage of covert agents who have the
language and cultural skills to collect intelligence on the
ground as terrorist groups splinter and spread from Pakistan and
 Iraq  to Yemen and  Mali .  Drone Debate  Brennan has been serving as Obama’s counterterrorism
adviser and is an architect of the administration’s policy of
using drones for targeted strikes against suspected terrorists.  Paul spoke on the Senate floor for more than 12 hours,
filibustering to demand assurances that the administration would
never use drones in the U.S. against an American who wasn’t
about to commit a terrorist act. Yesterday, he said he secured
such a promise in “a major victory for American civil
liberties.”  Paul cited a letter he received from Attorney General Eric Holder.  “It has come to my attention that you have now asked an
additional question: ‘Does the President have the authority to
use a weaponized drone to kill an American not engaged in combat
on American soil?’” Holder wrote. “The answer to that question
is no.”  ‘Ridiculous’ Suggestion  While Paul was supported in his filibuster by a number of
Republicans who share his Tea Party affiliations, Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham denounced his suggestion that an anti-
war protester or someone walking down the street in an American
town might be struck down by a drone.  Graham of South Carolina said such an attack would be
murder, and McCain of  Arizona  said Paul was taking the debate
into “the realm of the ridiculous.”  The Senate intelligence committee voted 12-3 behind closed
doors on March 5 in favor of Brennan’s confirmation after the
administration allowed panel members a look at Justice
Department documents making the legal case for using drones to
attack U.S. citizens linked to terrorism. The radical cleric
Anwar al-Awlaki, a U.S. citizen, and his 16-year-old son,
Abdulrahman, who was born in Denver, were killed in suspected
drone strikes in Yemen in 2011.  ‘Meaningful Oversight’  The American Civil Liberties Union praised Paul for using
his filibuster to demand increased transparency from the Obama
administration about the drone program, according to an e-mailed
statement from the group.  “We’re glad to hear commitments from Congress to provide
meaningful oversight over the killing program as well as a new
promise from President Obama to provide a fuller explanation of
it to the public,” Laura W. Murphy, director of the ACLU’s
Washington legislative office, said in the statement.  “However, there is no substitute for providing the legal
opinions to both Congress and the American people, and no one
should accept anything less,” Murphy said.  Brennan’s confirmation follows that of John Kerry, who was
approved as secretary of state on a 94-3 vote on Jan. 29, and
Chuck Hagel, who was confirmed as defense secretary on a 58-41
vote on Feb. 26.  Brennan joined the CIA in 1980. He performed clandestine
and analytical work with the agency, including several years in
Saudi Arabia, and was director of the National Counterterrorism
Center in 2004 and 2005. He left the government in 2005 and
joined the Analysis Corp., a national security contractor based
in McLean,  Virginia , as president and chief executive officer.  Feinstein Support  Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat who heads
the intelligence committee, said on the Senate floor that
Brennan was extremely well-qualified for his new post.  “Throughout the past three decades, Mr. Brennan has
observed every aspect of intelligence, from analysis to
collection to covert action, from inside government and the
private sector, and from both the intelligence and policy
sides,” Feinstein said. “I don’t believe that there is anyone
who is more qualified to take over the CIA than John Brennan.”  Senator Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia , the top Republican on
the committee, said that he opposed Brennan, partly because he
thinks he was involved in leaks of classified information during
Obama’s re-election campaign, which Brennan has denied.  “His response to many of these questions were very
troubling and raised new concerns about Mr. Brennan’s judgment,
his reluctance to commitment to transparency with Congress, and
ultimately his candor,” Chambliss said.  Chambliss also called Brennan the “driving force” behind
a “misguided” Obama administration policy toward terrorist
detentions that favors criminal charges over long-term
detentions that could yield key intelligence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  