-- Shirakawa BOJ Expansion Gets No Respect as Stocks Cheer Exit
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-03-08T05:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/shirakawa-boj-expansion-gets-no-respect-as-stocks-cheer-his-exit.html
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa expanded
the  Bank of Japan ’s assets by 50 percent, introduced an
inflation target and safeguarded his nation’s banking system
from shocks. Yet when he announced he was leaving three weeks
early, stocks soared to a four-year high.  Shirakawa, 63, left policy unchanged at his final meeting
yesterday ahead of his March 19 exit. Investors are focused on
changes his nominated successor, Haruhiko Kuroda, may enact,
with the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rising more than 40 percent
since mid-November in anticipation of more aggressive stimulus.  The reaction reflects Shirakawa’s failure to end deflation
in a five-year term marred by three recessions, leaving the
economy smaller now than when he took office. Outpaced in
quantitative easing by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and
the European Central Bank, Shirakawa’s warnings about the
dangers of excess liquidity undermined the stimulus he put in
place, according to former BOJ board member Atsushi Mizuno.  “Shirakawa did a great job in securing the financial
system against shocks,” Mizuno, vice chairman at Credit Suisse
AG in Tokyo and a member of the policy board from 2004 to 2009,
said in an interview this week. “But the way he communicated
reduced the impact of easing -- too much explanation of the
side-effects with an unhappy face, while Bernanke looked
confident whenever he added stimulus.”  Nomura Holdings Inc. and Mizuho Securities Co. say more
easing could come as soon as the first meeting under the new
leadership on April 3-4. A report today showed the economy
returned to growth in the fourth quarter.  JGB Bubble  The risks of more aggressive easing include triggering a
bubble in government bonds, Mizuno said. The yield on 10-year
debt this week fell as low as 0.585 percent, the least since
2003.  “While it may be true that Shirakawa should have
communicated more clearly, the financial system is flooded with
liquidity thanks to the BOJ,” said Richard Koo, chief economist
at the Nomura Research Institute in Tokyo. “The new regime
seems to want to ease very aggressively, and who knows, it may
end up destroying trust in the  Bank of Japan. (8301) ”  Shirakawa, a career BOJ bureaucrat who trained in economics
at the University of Chicago, wasn’t supposed to become
governor. Originally picked for deputy, he was a compromise
after two candidates failed to get parliamentary approval.  At a press conference on April 9, 2008, his first day on
the job, Shirakawa warned that too much short-term stimulus
could hurt long-term growth. At a press conference yesterday, he
said the government and BOJ need to have discipline.  Financial Crisis  Within his first six months, the native of Fukuoka in
southern Japan faced the worst financial crisis in his lifetime
as the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze global
credit markets. Shirakawa injected liquidity and expanded asset
purchases, shielding the financial system as the economy shrank
and the yen rose about 20 percent against the dollar in four
months.  “We were able to maintain financial stability even after
the economy worsened following the Lehman shock,” BOJ Executive
Director Hiroshi Nakaso, one of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
nominees for deputy governor under Kuroda, said this week in
Parliament. “I think that deserves recognition.’”  A natural disaster prompted Shirakawa’s second big rescue
effort, with the BOJ pouring a record 15 trillion yen ($160
billion) into the economy three days after the earthquake and
tsunami in March 2011.  His failure to impress investors came even as he tried to
improve transparency and communication at the central bank. The
BOJ offered its first English-language press briefings, started
giving its view on risks for the economy and introduced an
inflation goal.  Asset Buying  “Shirakawa never sounded like a convincing reflationist,”
said Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Tokyo and a former BOJ official.  Overall, Shirakawa oversaw a 50 percent increase in the
BOJ’s balance sheet. Including 30 trillion yen in bonds and
other assets to be bought this year, he is the most aggressive
governor since at least 1982, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on BOJ data. He may have been the boldest in
the BOJ’s 130-year history, according to Kenji Yumoto, vice
chairman at the Japan Research Institute in Tokyo, who worked
with Shirakawa on a government economic panel through 2009.  Still, Japan’s easing lagged behind other central banks,
with the Fed’s balance sheet expanding by about 250 percent and
the European Central Bank’s doubling in size during Shirakawa’s
term. The imbalance put pressure on the yen to appreciate,
hurting exporters, with the currency rising to a record high of
75.35 yen per dollar in October 2011.  Not Shoboi  Shirakawa bristled at unfavorable comparisons with the Fed,
chiding a reporter in 2011 for characterizing the BOJ’s efforts
as “shoboi,” meaning lame or shabby.  “I want to strongly say that none of the policy board
members, including me, think it’s shoboi,” Shirakawa said at a
press conference in March of that year. He also repeatedly
stressed that the BOJ’s balance sheet, currently at 163.5
trillion yen, is larger than the Fed’s as a share of the
economy.  His efforts were unable to stem a slide in corporate
profits. Companies in the Nikkei index showed a more than 50
percent decline in aggregate net income in the four years
through 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sony
Corp. hasn’t made a profit in four years.  Political pressure on the BOJ to revive growth also
increased, as a public debt at twice the size of the economy
limited room for fiscal maneuver.  Political Pressure  The governor was hauled in front of lawmakers repeatedly -
-29 days last year -- while a movement in the Diet emerged to
change the law governing the BOJ. Reflationists started getting
the ear of senior politicians.  All the while, Shirakawa was warning against the dangers of
too much liquidity and asset bubbles, in conflict with the
objective of ending deflation. A gauge of consumer prices
excluding fresh food fell in about two thirds of his 60 months
in office.  Former Bank of England board member Adam Posen said in an
interview last month that the BOJ’s “passive aggressive”
policies over the last decade contributed to prolonged
deflation.  Shirakawa declined to comment through a spokesman for this
article. At a press briefing yesterday, he declined to comment
on questions related to his tenure.  The six remaining board members will rate the performances
of Shirakawa and his deputies to determine their leaving
bonuses, according to the BOJ. The outgoing BOJ chief could get
as much as 29.6 million yen or as little as nothing, depending
on how he is rated.  Weakening Yen  The pressure increased toward the end of 2012 even as the
BOJ expanded asset purchases twice in two months through
October. Then-opposition leader Shinzo Abe began to call for
unlimited easing to end deflation, a platform that helped return
his party to power in December and drove the yen down more than
16 percent against the dollar since mid-November.  Shirakawa pushed back, calling for respect for the BOJ’s
independence.  “The BOJ is doing its utmost to conduct appropriate
monetary policy,” he told reporters on Nov. 20, saying that
unlimited money-printing could worsen the national debt.  Two months later, he capitulated. The central bank adopted
the 2 percent inflation target advocated by Abe and said it
would start open-ended asset purchases in 2014.  Kuroda’s View  Kuroda, by contrast, has for years advocated quantitative
easing to end deflation and said this week the BOJ will do
whatever is needed to end years of falling prices if he’s
confirmed as governor. He said in an interview last month that
the BOJ could purchase the equivalent of trillions of dollars of
assets to expand its balance sheet.  For now, investors and some businesses are looking ahead
with optimism. Investors are the most bullish on Japan in more
than three years, according to a January poll of investors,
analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.  The economy grew an  annualized 0.2 percent  in the last
three months of 2012, revised up from a 0.4 percent contraction,
according to a Cabinet Office release today. Gross domestic
product fell in the second and third quarters of 2012, meeting
the technical definition of a recession.  Companies from Toyota Motor Corp. to Nintendo Co. have
raised their profit forecasts. The cost of insuring Japanese
corporate bonds from non-payment fell this week to the lowest
since the 2011 earthquake, according to credit-default swap
traders. The Markit iTraxx Japan index closed at 112.5 basis
points on March 6, according to data provider CMA.  “Shirakawa’s term was swept up in a series of events from
the Lehman shock and the  European debt crisis  to natural
disasters,” said Yumoto of the Japan Research Institute. “He
needed to show even stronger actions to influence
expectations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  