-- Siemens’ Osram Unit Sells China Plant With 2,000 Employees
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-03-07T09:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/siemens-osram-sells-china-plant-ahead-of-share-listing.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ’s underperforming Osram
lighting unit agreed to sell a plant in Shaoxing,  China  as it
streamlines operations and focuses on light-emitting diodes
lamps ahead of listing its shares publicly.  Super Trend Lighting Ltd is buying the factory, which
manufactures predominantly traditional lamps and has around
2,000 employees, the Munich-based company said in an e-mailed
statement. It didn’t give a value for the deal.  Osram tries to better capture growth in an industry moving
from traditional bulbs to LEDs and is cutting as many as 8,000
jobs, partially through plant sales. The company, which is
meanwhile investing 100 million euros ($130 million) in the
construction of a new LED assembly plant in the Chinese province
of Jiangsu, has said that the restructuring measures will cost a
mid-three digit million figure through 2014.  “The sale marks a further milestone in the realignment of
the company,” Osram Chief Executive Officer  Wolfgang Dehen  said
today. “Our focus is on profitable growth and we plan to
further increase the share of LED-based revenue of our overall
business.”  Siemens shareholders approved the spinoff of Osram in
January after the company canceled a plan for an initial public
offering of the business last year after realizing that
investments to keep pace in the lighting market would be too
great to shoulder. Siemens investors will receive one Osram
share for every 10 shares they own.  Trailing Philips  Siemens trails  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  in the market
for lighting, which is tilting toward LED technology based on
semiconductors. Philips, based in Amsterdam, has also also
deepened job cuts at lighting facilities, and the company
announced reductions at a factory in  Belgium  last year.  Siemens last year estimated the total lighting market will
grow by about 5 percent each year to 2016, with the LED market
volume to quadruple by then to 37 billion euros, according to
figures compiled by McKinsey & Co. The market for traditional
lighting products will fall by 15 percent in that time, the data
show.  Osram posted a profit of 79 million euros in the last
quarter, compared with 111 million last year.  Siemens, whose shares last year returned only one third of
the German DAX benchmark index’s advance, earmarked units such
as airport luggage systems, mail automation and water technology
for disposal and is also combing through its portfolio to weed
out more laggards.  Today, Siemens dropped 0.5 percent to 81.61 euros as of
9:55 a.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at 71.9 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  