-- Singapore Bourse Plans Thai, Philippine Futures
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-03-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/singapore-bourse-plans-thai-philippine-futures.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  will
increase revenue from derivatives 10 percent to 15 percent this
year as the operator of Southeast Asia’s biggest bourse
introduces more products linked to benchmark stock indexes in
the region, President Muthukrishnan Ramaswami said in an
interview.  The bourse plans to add equity-index futures on the
 Philippines  and  Thailand  to offerings that include Nikkei 225
Stock Average and Indian contracts, he said. Derivatives account
for between 25 percent and 28 percent of total revenue,
Ramaswami said. Singapore Exchange, which failed in its bid to
buy  Australia ’s main bourse two years ago, is focused on Asia
and doesn’t want to own venues in the U.S. or Europe, he said.  SGX is planning  yuan  and foreign-exchange futures, as well
as commodities contracts as it seeks to become a trading hub,
Ramaswami said. An agreement to offer reduced-size London Metal
Exchange futures will probably be renegotiated after the largest
bourse for industrial-metal trading was bought by Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., he said.  “Singapore has become a good facilitator of derivatives
transactions,” Ramaswami said. “It’s much easier to transact
in Singapore than to go directly into each of these individual
markets. Investors find that rules don’t change overnight. The
jurisdiction is safe. Its a AAA-rated country.”  The cost of complying with stricter global regulation of
derivatives is among the challenges the bourse faces, he said.
Jurisdictions around the world are requiring more transactions
to be processed through clearinghouses after the financial
crisis that began in 2008.  OTC Review  Singapore ’s central bank released a discussion paper last
month about proposals to regulate over-the-counter derivatives
transactions. SGX, the only licensed clearinghouse in the city-
state, processes non-deliverable forwards and standardized
interest rate swaps in Singapore dollars and U.S. dollars. The
Monetary Authority of Singapore has said it may allow other
entities to provide clearing and repository services.  “Compliance costs have grown significantly for us,”
Ramaswami said. “Keeping up with the regulation and applying to
be recognized in each jurisdiction is a cost issue.”  SGX spends about S$30 million ($24 million) annually to
comply with regulations, he said, compared with S$10 million a
few years ago.  SGX reported in January a 17 percent jump in net income to
S$76.3 million for the three months ended Dec. 31. Average daily
transactions in the derivatives market increased 30 percent to a
quarterly record high of 358,532 contracts during the period,
the company said. By contrast, the average value of shares
traded rose 11 percent, it said.  Iron Ore  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members. Each party posts
collateral to the clearinghouse, which is the intermediary in
the trade, reducing the risk in the event a trader defaults on a
deal as the counterparties would spread the open positions to
the remaining members.  Processing of commodities transactions such as iron ore is
another increasing source of revenue for Singapore Exchange,
according to Ramaswami. The bourse had a record 18.2 million
metric tons of iron-ore swap and options contracts in January,
SGX said.  SGX AsiaClear, which clears more than 90 percent of the
world’s iron ore swaps, will start offering an iron ore futures
contract on April 8.  ‘Enormous Potential’  The potential loss of LME mini contracts, offered since
2011, after Hong Kong’s purchase of the venue will have limited
impact because they aren’t a big business, Ramaswami said. SGX
offers LME futures on aluminum, copper and zinc. Just two zinc
contracts changed hands in February and none for the other
metals, according to monthly  statistics  from the bourse.  “We don’t feel an intense competition with Hong Kong,” he
said. “Both of us have roles to play. Hong Kong is very much
more China focused and we are very much more Asia focused. The
two don’t eat each others’ lunch. We have an enormous growth
potential.”  SGX isn’t currently discussing mergers with rivals,
Ramaswami said. Exchange operators have been the subject of $50
billion in attempted deals in the past three years, most of them
never consummated, amid shrinking profits for securities
trading, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Regulators
scuttled a merger agreement between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche
Boerse in February 2012 because it would have created a dominant
European exchange operator for derivatives.  ICE Envy  “We don’t have any ambition to buy and run something in
the west,” Ramaswami said. “We’re not likely to buy something
in the U.S. and  Europe  to run it there.”  The IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s proposed $8.2 billion
acquisition of NYSE Euronext is an interesting deal, he said.  “I’m envious,” he said. “The real thing that ICE is
buying is derivatives business in Europe. The search for scale
has dropped off most people’s radar and its been replaced by
relevance to a marketplace. We want to be relevant in the Asian
context.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  