-- Single-Family Best With Highest Return-Lowest Risk: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-03-07T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/single-family-best-with-highest-return-lowest-risk-muni-credit.html
The U.S. housing rebound is making
local debt backed by home-mortgage payments the safest place for
municipal investors facing the prospects of tax changes and
higher interest rates.  Since the 18-month recession ended in 2009, bonds sold by
state housing agencies from California to  Florida  to finance
single-family mortgages have delivered the best returns in the
$3.7 trillion municipal market after adjusting for volatility.  Home prices rose the most in six years in December. For
investors betting that a strengthening economy will push yields
higher this year or that Congress will reduce munis’ tax-
exemption to shrink the federal deficit, housing-related local
debt is proving a haven, according to data compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch and Bloomberg.  “The recovery story in the housing market in general is
doing a lot to drive” risk-adjusted returns for the debt, said
John Hallacy, head of muni research at Bank of America in New
York. “There’s a sense that we’ve recovered a lot of ground,
and if anything, people working in the housing industry would
like to see more supply.”  California Leads  Led by issuers such as the  California  Housing Finance
Agency and Florida’s Housing Finance Corp., localities have
about $66 billion of single-family munis outstanding, Bloomberg
data show. Such bonds have earned about 21 percent when adjusted
for price volatility since July 1, 2009, beating the 13 percent
gain for the broader muni market, the data show. Treasuries have
earned 4.3 percent by that measure.  Housing-finance agencies sell bonds to fund low-interest
mortgages for first-time buyers earning less than the local
median income. They have helped more than 2.6 million families
buy homes, according to the Washington-based National Council of
State Housing Agencies.  The home market is gaining momentum more than three years
after the longest recession since the 1930s.  Purchases of new homes  jumped  in January by the most in two
decades. Home prices in 20 U.S. cities rose  6.8 percent  in the
12 months through December, the biggest annual gain since 2006,
according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index.  Yield Cushion  The housing securities will probably extend their
performance as their higher relative yields will help shield
investors from any increase in interest rates, said Michael Brilley, president of fixed income at Sit Investment Associates
in  Minneapolis .  Many investors anticipate interest rates will climb later
this year or in early 2014. Yields on 30-year Treasuries will
rise by about 0.4 percentage point to 3.53 percent in the second
quarter of 2014, according to the median response of 48 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  “If interest rates go up, they will not be as hard hit by
price depreciation as other bonds,” Brilley, who helps manage
$3 billion of munis, said in an interview.  “As interest rates have come down and may now start going
sideways to up, we’d rather own bonds like this that are more
stable in price,” Brilley said. His firm directs 17 percent of
its muni portfolio to single-family housing bonds.  Prepay Risk  Single-family munis tend to yield more than other local
debt because investors want compensation for the risk that
issuers may prepay the bonds as homeowners refinance or sell,
said Blake Miller, portfolio manager at New York-based Neuberger
Berman Group LLC. The company oversees about $11 billion in
local debt, including single-family munis.  The Georgia Housing & Finance Authority sold $149.4 million
of tax-exempt single-family housing bonds last month rated AAA,
Standard & Poor’s top grade, Bloomberg data show. Debt due in
2043, the longest maturity, priced to yield about 3.9 percent,
or about 0.9 percentage point above benchmark munis.  While investors favor the securities, agencies are issuing
less because borrowers are turning to banks or other financing
sources as mortgage rates are close to the lowest in at least 40
years. The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage was 3.51
percent in the week ending Feb. 28, near a record low of 3.31
percent set in November, according to Freddie Mac data.  Sales Drop  Local housing authorities sold $4.9 billion of munis to
finance single-family mortgages in 2012, the least since 1995,
Bloomberg data show.  “Housing finance agencies have not been able to issue
bonds at rates that allow them to originate loans that are
competitive with conventional mortgage rates,” Moody’s
Investors Service analysts led by Rachael Royal McDonald wrote
in a September report. “As a result, HFA single-family issuance
has been declining significantly.”  Housing agencies have sold $763.4 million of single-family
revenue bonds this year as of March 5, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency plans
to offer $320 million of such debt this month, Bloomberg data
show.  In trading yesterday, yields on tax-exempt benchmark debt
due in 30 years rose to about 2.98 percent, close to the highest
since September, Bloomberg Valuation data show.  Following is a pending sale:  NEW YORK CITY MUNICIPAL WATER FINANCE AUTHORITY plans to
sell $517 million of tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as next
week. Proceeds will refinance debt, according to the authority.
(Added March 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  