-- Smithfield Jumps After Forecasting Growth in Packaged Meats
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-03-07T21:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/smithfield-jumps-after-forecasting-growth-at-packaged-meat-unit.html
Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s
largest hog producer, jumped the most in more than two years
after reporting better-than-estimated fiscal third-quarter
earnings and forecasting growth at its U.S. packaged-meat unit.  Smithfield rose 11 percent to $24.68 at the close in New
York, the biggest gain since Dec. 9, 2010.  “Our performance in the third quarter underscores success
we are continuing to see in packaged meats,” Chief Executive
Officer C. Larry Pope said today on a conference call with
analysts. “Looking forward, we anticipate that our packaged-
meats business will continue to deliver consistent growth with
increased market share and broader distribution of our core
brands.”  Net income increased to 58 cents a share in the quarter
ended Jan. 27 from 49 cents a year earlier, the Smithfield,
Virginia-based company said today in a statement. That topped
the 50-cent average of 13 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 3 percent to $3.58 billion as volume
increased in its unit that makes bacon, sausage and ham steaks
and exports to countries other than China.  Packaged meat volumes will increase at least 2 percent to 3
percent in fiscal 2013 and Smithfield expects the trend to
continue into fiscal 2014, Pope said.  Production Losses  Earnings from the fresh-pork unit fell 31 percent and
Smithfield’s hog-production business posted a loss in the
quarter of $15 a head, the company said. Smithfield said its hog
unit will see losses per head in the “mid single digit range”
for the full year.  “The big issue is stemming the loss in hog farms,” Tim Ramey, a Lake Oswego, Oregon-based analyst for D.A. Davidson &
Co., who rates the shares a buy, said today in a telephone
interview. Hog farms will return to profitability later this
calendar year partly because of lower corn prices, he said.  The company’s hog farms give it a competitive advantage and
selling them would be a “big mistake,” Pope said on the
analyst call. Owning hog farms enables the company to respond
more precisely to customer demands.  In the U.S., consumers are increasingly asking that
pregnant sows are housed in group pens rather than by themselves
in so-called gestation crates, and countries such as China and
Russia are demanding pork free of a feed supplement called
ractopamine.  Gestation Crates  Smithfield began shifting its sows to group housing in 2007
and has said it will complete the process in 2017 for company-
owned U.S. farms. The company has two operations in the eastern
U.S. that are ractopamine-free, Pope said.  The shares also are rising because Smithfield said some
customers are paying more for pork produced from hogs born to
sows housed in pens, Heather Jones, a Richmond, Virginia-based
analyst for BB&T Capital Markets, who rates the shares a buy,
said in an e-mail today.  As part of its growth, Smithfield is looking for
acquisitions in the $50 million to $200 million range that are
easy to integrate, Pope said. He also said the company will
boost capital expenditures to $300 million to $350 million
annually to improve costs and its plants. Capital spending was
$293 million in the fiscal year through April 2012, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  