-- Solazyme Top Investor Backs Battery Maker Gridtential
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-03-07T20:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/solazyme-s-largest-investor-backs-battery-maker-gridtential.html
(Corrects company name in second paragraph.)  Roda Group, the venture capital
investor that’s the largest shareholder in the biofuel company
 Solazyme Inc. (SZYM) , is backing a startup using advanced production
techniques to improve storage performance of standard lead-acid
batteries.  Gridtential Energy Inc.  received a $1 million seed
investment from Roda, the  San Jose , California-based battery
company said today in an e-mailed statement. It will use the
money to develop and test a prototype product by next year, with
the goal of starting commercial sales in 2016, according to
Chief Executive Officer Christiaan Beekhuis.  Gridtential is adapting the same battery technology used in
automobiles. Beekhuis expects to improve charging time and
energy storage capacity by using systems developed by  Intevac
Inc. (IVAC) , a provider of capital equipment for the disk drive and
solar industries.  “What we’re doing is applying a modern manufacturing
method from the semiconductor industry to battery technology,”
Beekhuis said by telephone.  The company is eyeing the traction-battery market, which
spends about $3 billion a year on batteries for golf carts,
forklifts and other small vehicles, and the stationary market
for systems to power telecommunications gear and store energy
from solar panels, worth about $5 billion annually, he said.  Gridtential isn’t planning to make products for the $22
billion a year car-battery market. It may eventually consider
larger applications for grid storage, he said.  Roda, based in Berkeley, California,  owns  about 9 percent
of Solazyme, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Closely
held Gridtential was founded in 2010 and was previously funded
by its founders and a grant from the  California Energy
Commission , Beekhuis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  