-- South Korea Vows to Punish North’s Provocations Ahead of UN Vote
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-03-07T05:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/south-korea-vows-to-punish-north-s-provocations-ahead-of-un-vote.html
South Korea vowed to “punish” any
potential North Korean military action ahead of a United Nations
vote on tougher sanctions against the totalitarian state for
last month’s nuclear test.  North Korea is conducting land, air and sea maneuvers, and
may be preparing to carry out a missile test, Defense Ministry
spokesman Kim Min Seok told reporters today. South Korea is also
in the middle of military exercises with the U.S. that are
scheduled to last until the end of April.  “North Korea’s current military drills can lead to
provocation at any time,” Kim said at a briefing in  Seoul .
“South Korea’s military is preparing so that we can respond and
punish them for any provocative acts.”  Kim Jong Un’s regime is facing tighter international
financial sanctions following its February nuclear detonation.
The totalitarian country on March 5 threatened to scrap the 1953
cease-fire that ended the Korean War hours after China and the
U.S. agreed on a UN Security Council resolution to punish North
Korea. A vote could come as early as today.  “It is most likely to be an unanimous ‘yes’ for a
crackdown on North Korea” by the Security Council, said Cho
Bong Hyun, a Seoul-based research fellow at the IBK Economic
Research Institute. “North Korea’s big brother,  China , already
signaled that the North should behave and be punished more.”  “Tensions will rise on the peninsula but further
provocation is unlikely given that China is cornering them,” he
added.  The expanded UN measures target “illicit” actions by the
North Korean diplomats and bulk transfers of cash, restrictions
aimed at halting the import of technology needed for the
development of nuclear weapons. The sanctions also restrict the
North’s ability to raise cash by selling military technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  