-- South Africa Reserves Drop Most in Nine Months on Gold
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-03-07T10:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/south-africa-reserves-drop-most-in-nine-months-on-gold.html
South African gold and foreign-
currency reserves declined the most in nine months in February
as the price of bullion fell and a stronger dollar erased the
value of holdings of other currencies.  Gross reserves  dropped 1.7 percent to $50.4 billion, the
Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  said on its website today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of six analysts was $50.5
billion. Net reserves fell 1.9 percent to $47.2 billion.  “The decrease in the gross reserves mainly reflects
valuation adjustments emanating from the decrease in the  U.S.
dollar  gold price and the appreciation of the U.S. dollar
against major currencies,” the bank said.  The price of gold dropped for a fourth month and the dollar
gained against 14 of the major units tracked by Bloomberg in
February, eroding the value of holdings of foreign currencies
like the euro. The greenback gained 4 percent against the euro
last month.  While the Reserve Bank will continue increasing reserves,
it does not target a specific level, Deputy Reserve Bank
Governor  Daniel Mminele  said today in  Cape Town , according to a
prepared speech e-mailed by the bank. The level of reserves is
still low compared with peers, he said.  Central banks around the world are struggling to boost
returns from investments given near-zero borrowing costs in the
U.S. and  Europe , he said.  ‘Low Return’  “The low return environment has exacerbated the
opportunity costs of holding reserves and induced a debate
amongst central banks about ways of enhancing returns by moving
higher on the risk-return frontier,” he said.  The bank posted three straight annual losses because of the
cost tied to building reserves. The bank sells rand bonds to
soak up excess liquidity as it buys dollars in a process it
refers to as sterilization. The bonds it sells have a higher
yield than the bank earns on investments in foreign reserves,
causing a loss.  Gold reserves dropped 5.1 percent to $6.4 billion in
February.  The rand pared its gain after the data was released. The
currency rose 0.2 percent to 9.1037 against the dollar at 11:16
a.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  