-- Standard Life to Pay Out Special Dividend as Profit Rises
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-03-07T16:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/standard-life-annual-profit-rises-on-u-k-pension-rule-change.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/) ,  Scotland ’s
biggest insurer, will pay out some of its swelling capital
surplus as a special dividend after full-year profit rose 65
percent, beating analysts’ estimates.  The special payout of 12.8 pence a share will cost 302
million pounds ($453 million) and supplement the full-year
dividend of 14.7 pence, the Edinburgh-based company said in a
statement today. Pretax operating profit climbed 65 percent to
900 million pounds, beating the 852.5 million-pound median
 estimate  of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Standard Life said it could afford a special dividend after
its capital surplus rose to 4.1 billion pounds from 3.1 billion
pounds in 2011. It’s shifting away from traditional life-
insurance products to provide pensions and mutual funds, which
put fewer demands on the company’s capital and have become more
popular as the government encourages Britons to save privately
for their retirement, rather than rely on the state.  The results and dividend “vindicate in many respects the
strategy embarked upon by management in the recent years,”
 Eamonn Flanagan , a Liverpool, England-based analyst at Shore
Capital Group Ltd. with a hold rating on the stock, wrote in a
note to clients today.  Net income more than doubled to 698 million pounds in 2012
from 298 million pounds in the year-earlier period.  The shares  slipped 0.3 percent to 373 pence in London
trading today, valuing the company at about 8.8 billion pounds.
The insurer was the fourth-best-performing stock in the U.K.’s
 FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  last year, rising 61 percent.  Auto-Enrolment  Flanagan said he would need further evidence that new
products can offset the decline in demand for insurance policies
to upgrade Standard Life to a buy.  In October, the U.K. introduced so-called auto-enrolment,
requiring companies to offer employees a private  pension plan .
Standard Life runs those plans and charges an annual fee on the
assets managed. Because customers take on the risk of their
pension assets declining in value, Standard Life is allowed to
hold less capital than it would for traditional life-insurance
offerings, such as investment bonds and annuities.  The firm also boosted its capital by 750 million pounds
when it raised C$400 million ($388 million) in a debt offering
in  Canada  in September, Finance Director Jackie Hunt said by
telephone today. The remaining 250 million pounds of the capital
surplus increase came from earnings, she said.  Long-Term Savings  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the biggest manager of U.K.
pension assets, has followed a similar strategy of developing
retirement products and raised its dividend 20 percent
yesterday.  Other insurance companies have been cutting payouts, citing
a reduction in bond income as  interest rates  stay near record
lows. Aviva Plc’s shares slumped today after the company lowered
its dividend by 44 percent.  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA) , the biggest
non-life insurer by market value in Britain, reduced its
dividend by 33 percent last month.  Sales of long-term savings products slipped 2 percent to
19.7 billion pounds. The drop was due to increased competition
in the last months of the year, before a ban on commission
payments to independent financial advisers took effect, Chief
Executive Officer David Nish said in an interview.  Standard Life doesn’t pay commission, putting the firm at a
disadvantage before the ban, known as retail distribution
review, or RDR, came into effect on Jan. 1.  To capitalize on RDR as independent advisers’ costs rise,
the insurer created an online portal that helps them direct
clients’ assets into a variety of funds. The portal charges an
annual fee and helps the firm gather assets for Standard Life
Investments, its fund-management division.  Third-party assets under management at Standard Life
Investments rose 15.6 percent to 83 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  