-- Standard Bank Takes on Deutsche’s Model in Naming Joint CEOs
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-03-07T16:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/standard-bank-s-maree-retiring-after-more-than-a-decade-as-ceo.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  is adopting
the model used by Germany’s  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in appointing
joint-chief executive officers as Jacko Maree stepped down after
13 years as head of  Africa ’s biggest lender.  Sim Tshabalala, 45, and Ben Kruger, 53, named as deputy
CEOs four years ago, are taking over as the company retreats
from Latin America,  Russia  and  Turkey . The third former deputy
CEO, Peter Wharton-Hood, will become chief operating officer.
Maree, 57, will resign from the boards of Standard Bank and
insurance unit,  Liberty Holdings Ltd. (LBH) , remaining as a “senior
banker focusing on key client relationships,” the lender said.  “We do not endorse a joint CEO management structure,”
Greg Saffy, Johannesburg-based analyst for RMB Morgan Stanley,
said in an e-mailed response to questions today. “Two separate
reporting structures may result in two separate camps.”  Deutsche Bank has had co-CEOs since June when investment
banking chief Anshu Jain, 50, and Germany head  Juergen Fitschen ,
64, succeeded  Josef Ackermann . The lender had co-CEOs three
times in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. Pairing the two is an
attempt to balance Deutsche Bank’s dual roles of being a global
trading house and a German institution with longstanding ties to
the nation’s companies and political establishment.  “Some analysis says having joint CEOs hardly ever works,
but every situation is unique,” Fred Phaswana, chairman of the
Johannesburg-based bank, said at a presentation in the city
today. There are “risks” to the decision, he said, adding that
Tshabalala and Kruger have a “long history of working
together.”  Jury Out  Standard Bank closed 0.9 percent lower at 115.51 rand in
Johannesburg. The stock rose 21 percent last year, lagging the
average 30 percent gain on the six-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks
Index. (JBNKS)   “The jury is out on the joint CEO structure,”  Neville Chester, who helps oversee the equivalent of $42 billion at
 Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  in Cape Town including Standard
Bank stock, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The
group is big and complex and sharing responsibility can be a
benefit, but obviously how they handle points of difference will
be critical and whether this slows decision-making.”  Tshabalala remains CEO of the South African operations and
will oversee the business in the rest of Africa while also
taking responsibility for Liberty, the bank said. Kruger, in
addition to his roles heading up personal and business banking
and the investment-banking unit, will be responsible for group
risk and oversee technology operations.  ‘Interim Arrangement’  “We are surprised at the dual CEO function -- it can only
be an interim arrangement with Sim Tshabalala to become sole CEO
in the longer term,” Johann Scholtz, banks analyst and head of
research at Afrifocus Securities, said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Maree, who has been with the bank for more than 32 years,
helped Standard Bank fend off a hostile bid from  Nedbank Group
Ltd. (NED)  after becoming CEO in 1999 and led an expansion into other
 emerging markets . Since he took over, the lender’s share price
has climbed more than fivefold.  While the lender’s return on equity declined to 14.2
percent in 2012, profit rose 22 percent after it sold an 80
percent stake in its Argentine operations for $400 million.  Net income climbed to 16.15 billion rand ($1.77 billion)
from 13.2 billion rand in 2011, the bank said. Earnings per
share, excluding one-time items, rose to 9.41 rand, in line with
the 9.37-rand median estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Dividend Hike  Africa and “the growth areas aligned to our strategic
focus did very well, and the areas that we are in the process of
scaling down have performed worse than expected,” the lender
said. The bank proposed boosting its 2012  dividend  by 7 percent
to 4.55 rand.  Standard Bank ’s cost-to-income ratio was 58.7 percent for
2012 compared with 55.2 percent at  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  and 55.5
percent at Nedbank Group Ltd.  In Africa outside of its home market, the company’s
personal and business banking unit posted a loss of 258 million
rand and London-based Standard Bank Plc swung from a profit in
2011 to a loss equivalent to 2.48 billion rand.  “Investors will be concerned about the fact that personal
and business banking in the rest of Africa and the London
business remain loss making,” Scholtz said. “Having the
highest cost-to-income ratio in the sector is another issue that
will come under scrutiny.”  Standard Bank has focused on offering services to low-
income customers in  South Africa  to gain market share and in the
past year became the biggest provider of home loans.  “Results were very strong, given the impairments that were
necessary to sort out the international operations,” Chester
said. “The South African personal banking business and
pleasingly the African business were very strong.”  The bank took a decision last year not to make further
acquisitions in Africa and instead invest in existing operations
in countries including Nigeria,  Kenya ,  Uganda  and Tanzania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  