-- States Seek to Direct Medicaid Patients to Exchanges
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-03-07T20:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/states-seek-to-direct-medicaid-patients-to-exchanges.html
Lower-income residents eligible for
Medicaid may be directed to buy coverage from health insurance
exchanges using tax dollars, an option the Obama administration
is weighing.  Multiple states have asked about the arrangement, Gary Cohen, the director of the U.S. Center for Consumer Information
and Insurance Oversight, said today on a conference call with
reporters. Cohen, whose agency is implementing much of the 2010
health-care law, didn’t say how many governors made the request
to use Medicaid money as a conduit for people to obtain private
health plans next year through the new exchanges.  “We’re exploring avenues in which that might be able to
happen,” Cohen said.  Under the health law, the Affordable Care Act, states have
the option of expanding their Medicaid programs to cover
everyone earning about one-third more than the federal poverty
level -- about $31,322 for a family of four this year. States
with Republican governors or Republican-led legislatures have
balked at the expansion, saying it may cost too much even though
the federal government will pay the entire expense until 2017.  After 2017, the states’ share of the cost of the newly
eligible residents never exceeds 10 percent.  Spokesmen for Cohen’s agency didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail seeking more information about the issue.  Governor’s Request  Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe, a Democrat, asked Health and
Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius on Feb. 18 if his
state would be allowed to have people newly eligible for
Medicaid use the exchanges instead. The idea came from
Republicans in the state legislature, said Matt DeCample, a
spokesman for the governor.  “The answer we got was that we had the flexibility to take
the entire expansion population, that we could take as many as
we wanted to, and route them through the exchange into private
insurance plans,” DeCample said in a Feb. 28 phone interview.  The exchanges are insurance marketplaces due to begin
enrolling people Oct. 1 for coverage that begins in January.
They will offer private plans from insurers such as  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH)  to people who don’t get policies at their jobs. The
coverage will be subsidized for those earning as much as four
times the poverty level, or about $94,200 for a family of four
this year.  Coverage in the exchanges will likely be more expensive for
taxpayers than Medicaid, DeCample said. Medicaid programs in
most states pay hospitals, doctors and other health providers
less than commercial insurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  