-- States With Most Gun Laws Have Fewest Firearm Deaths, Study Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-07T20:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/states-with-most-gun-laws-have-fewest-firearm-deaths-study-says.html
States with the most laws regulating
firearms, including Massachusetts and  New York , have the lowest
gun-death rates from homicides and suicides, according to a
 study  published by the  American Medical Association .  Physicians and researchers at Boston Children’s Hospital
and  Harvard University  used data on gun fatalities collected by
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and surveys of states’ laws
compiled by advocacy groups such as the Brady Center to Prevent
Gun Violence to find a statistical relationship between gun
regulation and death prevention.  “States that have the most firearm laws have the fewest
firearm deaths, and it’s a very direct association,” said Eric
Fleegler, lead author of the study published yesterday in JAMA
Internal Medicine. Further studies are needed to draw any
conclusions about cause-and-effect relationships, the
researchers said.  The article appeared as a debate unfolds in Congress and
state legislatures over whether to require more background
checks and ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines in
the aftermath of the Newtown massacre. The Dec. 14 shooting
inside a Connecticut elementary school left 26 dead, including
20 children, and sparked a national outcry about gun violence.  Louisiana, which has only one gun law, had the highest gun-
fatality rate, 18 per 100,000 people, the study showed.  New York  New York averaged 19 firearms laws from 2007 through 2010,
the fifth-most among the 50 states. The state had the fourth-
lowest gun-death rate, with 4.8 per 100,000, the study found. It
trailed  Hawaii , Massachusetts and Rhode Island in that category.
New York City reported a record-low number of homicides last
year. Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who advocates stricter  gun
control , is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Illinois , whose biggest city, Chicago, has seen a wave of
gun violence, ranked ninth in laws and 11th among the states in
firearms deaths, with an average 7.9 per 100,000. Chicago
recorded 506 homicides last year and drew national attention
when a 15-year-old girl, Hadiya Pendleton, who had performed at
President  Barack Obama ’s inauguration, was killed Jan. 29, about
a mile from Obama’s South Side home.  Chicago Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy told the
Illinois House Judiciary Committee last month that his
department “recovers more guns than any municipality in the
 United States of America , year in and year out.”  Hawaii Lowest  A person answering the phone at the Fairfax, Virginia,
press office of the  National Rifle Association , the nation’s
biggest gun-rights lobby, didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment about the study. The person said it was the
organization’s policy not to identify its phone representatives
by name.  Hawaii, which ranked sixth among the states with 16 laws,
had the lowest rate, 2.9 gun-fatalities per 100,000, the study
found. Massachusetts, with the most firearms laws, had a gun-
fatality rate of 3.4 per 100,000.  South Dakota  was an anomaly. It had only two gun laws, yet
its rate of 8.2 gun fatalities per 100,000 ranked below the
national median of 9.9, according to the study.  Researchers tallied and scored the states on how many of 24
key gun regulations they had on their books, then split the
states into four groups based on the number of laws they had
enacted.  Four-Year Period  When they compared states with the most laws with those
that have less than two, rates of homicide and suicide by gun
were 42 percent less in states with the most laws, said
Fleegler, a pediatrician at Boston Children’s Hospital and
professor at  Harvard Medical School .  In the four-year period studied, the U.S. experienced
121,084 deaths from guns, averaging more than 30,000 a year.  In 2010 guns were responsible for 68 percent of the 16,259
homicides and 51 percent of the 38,364 suicides, the study
reported, citing CDC data. In 2005, the CDC estimated costs from
fatal and nonfatal firearm injuries at $711 million in medical
care and $40.5 billion in lost work and productivity, the study
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York City  Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  