-- Steven Jackson Leaves Rams to Seek NFL Title as Free Agent
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-07T22:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/stephen-jackson-leaves-rams-to-seek-nfl-title-as-free-agent.html
Steven Jackson voided the final year
of his contract with the  St. Louis  Rams to become a free agent,
saying he wants to sign with a  Super Bowl  contender after eight
straight 1,000-yard rushing seasons without a playoff
appearance.  “I’ve decided to go and seek free agency and see what’s
out there with the other 31 teams and try to win a
championship,” Jackson said during a Bloomberg Radio interview.
“That’s the main goal. I’ve had an illustrious career in St.
Louis and I enjoyed my time there. But I have to go on with my
professional career, join another team and hopefully we win a
Super Bowl.”  Jackson, 29, is the  National Football League ’s most
productive active running back, with 10,135 yards rushing in
nine seasons in St. Louis. The Rams have had a 44-99-1 record
during his tenure and last season went 7-8-1.  “I’ve had a lot of individual success, I’ve yet to have
that team success,” Jackson told  Kathleen Hays  and Vonnie Quinn
on “The Hays Advantage.” “The thing that makes the game great
is because of championships and making playoff runs.”  The 6-foot-3, 229-pound Jackson ran for 1,042 yards and
four touchdowns last season while catching 38 passes for another
321 yards. He had $7 million remaining on his contract and said
he’s looking for a four- to five-year deal, mentioning teams
such as the  Green Bay Packers , Atlanta Falcons and  Denver
Broncos  as possible destinations.  Future Choices  The Packers have had four different running backs lead the
team in rushing yardage the past four seasons, while the Falcons
waived starting running back  Michael Turner  last week. Broncos
coach John Fox has said Denver, which went 13-3 in the first
season with  Peyton Manning  at quarterback, is seeking to upgrade
at running back with 31-year-old Willis McGahee recovering from
a broken right leg and Knowshon Moreno recovering from surgery
on his right knee.  “Those three teams, those three cities, have huge fan
bases and they’re very close to winning the Super Bowl so the
addition of myself would be a good one,” said Jackson, who will
turn 30 in July. “Not only because I can help as a running
back, but I could help as a leader of a team.”  A former first-round draft pick from Oregon State, Jackson
is among 27 players in NFL history to rush for more than 10,000
career yards and said he still has many good years ahead of him
as a lead running back for a championship contender.  “I feel great,” Jackson said. “My desire to continue to
play this game is as strong as ever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  