-- Strictest U.S. Abortion Law Passes Over Arkansas Governor’s Veto
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-03-07T15:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/strictest-u-s-abortion-law-passes-over-arkansas-governor-s-veto.html
Arkansas lawmakers enacted the most
restrictive abortion law in the U.S., banning the procedure
after 12 weeks of pregnancy with certain exceptions.  The Republican-controlled Arkansas House of Representatives
voted yesterday 56-33 to override a veto of the bill by
Democratic Governor Mike Beebe, a day after the Republican-led
Senate acted on the law that makes exceptions only in cases of
rape, incest, to save the life of the mother and in case of
lethal fetal disorders. Beebe told lawmakers the measure was
unconstitutional, the  Associated Press  reported. Supporters said
that shouldn’t stop them from acting.  “Not the governor, nor anyone else other than the courts,
can determine if something is constitutional or
unconstitutional,” Representative Bruce Westerman said in
urging his colleagues to override Beebe’s veto, according to the
 news agency .  Nine other states have adopted abortion bans at about 20
weeks, said Elizabeth Nash, states issues manager at Guttmacher
Institute, a New York-based reproductive-health research group.
She said such bans in  Arizona ,  Georgia  and Idaho are being
challenged in court as violating the 1973 U.S. Supreme Court
decision in Roe v. Wade that legalized abortion until a fetus
could survive outside the womb, generally at about 24 to 26
weeks.  Yesterday,  Idaho ’s ban on abortions performed after 20
weeks was overturned by a federal judge who said the state’s law
was unconstitutional and showed “clear disregard” for previous
Supreme Court rulings.  “An outright ban on abortions at or after 20 weeks’
gestation places, not just a substantial obstacle, but an
absolute obstacle, in the path of women seeking such
abortions,” U.S. District Judge Lynn Winmill in Idaho said in
his decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 