-- Structured Notes Tied to Euro Stoxx 50 Surge on More Volatility
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-03-07T18:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/structured-notes-tied-to-euro-stoxx-50-surge-on-more-volatility.html
Sales of U.S. structured notes tied
to the largest euro-area companies surged to the second-highest
monthly total in at least three years.  Banks sold $388 million of securities linked to the  Euro
Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  in February, almost three times as much as in
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
is now the second-most popular for U.S. structured notes this
year, after the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Yields on 10-year Italian and Spanish bonds, which last
year rose above 7 percent, have fallen about 2 percentage points
since European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  in July
pledged to do whatever it takes to save the euro, calming
investors. At the same time, the European  stock index  has higher
volatility than U.S. benchmarks, Bloomberg data show, allowing
for notes to be constructed that pay better returns.  Investors may view the Euro Stoxx 50 as lower risk though
than an index such as the  Russell 2000  because it’s made up of
companies with larger market capitalizations, said John Tessar,
senior vice president at JVB Financial Group LLC in  Boca Raton ,
Florida.  The implied volatility of the Russell 2000, as calculated
by looking at three-month at-the-money options on its stocks,
was 15.72 yesterday, compared with 17.65 for the Euro Stoxx 50.  Investors bought $753.1 million of notes tied to the
European benchmark in September, the most monthly sales since
2010 when Bloomberg began collecting comprehensive data on U.S.
structured notes. Draghi announced an unlimited bond-buying plan
to support the euro on Sept. 6, backing up his July pledge to
defend the single currency.  Since the plan for so-called Outright Monetary Transactions
was revealed, the Euro Stoxx 50 has gained 10 percent.  ‘Market Run’  “The overall equity market run coupled with prolonged low
 interest rates  certainly can ‘spur investment,”’ said Jim
Kaiser, president of  FMG Distributors Inc. , a securities
brokerage in Norwalk,  Connecticut . Still, some financial
advisers tend not to buy notes linked to the index because they
“have longer memories,” he said, referring to the European
sovereign credit crisis.  The largest offering linked to the Euro Stoxx 50 Index last
month was $42.5 million of 14-month notes sold by Barclays Plc.
The securities, issued Feb. 21, yield three times the gains of
the index up to 21.6 percent with all capital at risk, according
to a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Bank of America Corp. distributed the notes for a 2
percent fee.  Total Sales  Banks sold $69.8 million of notes in five offerings linked
to the index that are converted to dollars, exposing investors
to fluctuations in the  exchange rate , Bloomberg data show. The
euro has fallen 1.7 percent against the dollar this year to
$1.2967 as of yesterday.  U.S. structured notes most often link to the  S&P 500 ,
Bloomberg data show. Investors bought $1.37 billion of such
securities this year through February.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  