-- Suntech in Settlement Over $734 Million Fraudulent Bonds
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-03-07T22:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/suntech-says-it-reaches-settlement-with-gsf-capital-romero.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
Chinese solar-panel maker with a $541 million-bond that will
mature in a week, reached a settlement with an affiliated
company and a former sales agent involved in a potential fraud.  Under the agreement announced yesterday, neither the agent,
Javier Romero, nor the company, GSF Capital Pte Ltd., will admit
any liability and GSF Capital will dispose of its stake in a
fund owned by Suntech and the Wuxi, China-based company’s former
chief executive officer.  Settling the legal dispute lets Suntech focus on its larger
issue, finding a way to pay the convertible bond that matures
March 15, according to Pavel Molchanov, analyst at Raymond James
& Associates Inc. in Houston.  The agreement is a “small bit of good news” for the
company, Molchanov said in an interview. It’s overshadowed by
the “real problem for Suntech, which awaits when their
convertible debt comes due.”  Suntech “doesn’t have anywhere near the amount of cash to
pay that” and is “functionally insolvent by Western
standards,” Molchanov said.  Suntech said in July it had uncovered potential
irregularities in a fund managed by Romero, Global Solar Fund
S.C.A., as it sought to sell its stake in the venture. GSF
Capital had pledged German bonds worth 560 million euros ($734
million) as collateral for financing guarantees from Suntech.
Those bonds may have never existed, Suntech said.  GSF Stake  Under the settlement, GSF Capital will dispose of its stake
in Global Solar Fund “for an agreed consideration.” Suntech’s
stake in the fund will increase to 88.15 percent from 79.3
percent.  A company owned by Shi Zhengrong, Suntech’s founder who was
dismissed as chairman March 4 and ousted as CEO in August, will
boost its ownership in Global Solar Fund to 11.85 percent from
10.7 percent. When the deal is complete, Suntech will
consolidate the fund.  Shi said March 5 that Suntech has had “no solution” for
the company’s debt and that he’s been shut out of meetings for
the past month.  Shares of Suntech, the largest solar-panel company by
shipments in 2011, gained 4.3 percent to $1.22 at the close in
New York. The stock has slumped 20 percent this year.  The company may get government assistance to avoid
defaulting on the debt, Molchanov said.  “I think it’s a dreadfully run company, but they also have
a bit of a too-big-to-fail aspect,” he said. “Because it’s a
flagship Chinese company, I do expect some sort of bailout.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  