-- Suzlon Convertibles Slump as Rescue Threatened: India Credit
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-03-07T05:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/suzlon-convertibles-slump-as-rescue-threatened-india-credit.html
The convertible bonds of  Suzlon
Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the Indian wind-turbine maker that defaulted last
year, are falling from a five-month high as a cash squeeze
threatens its efforts to reorganize debt.  The company’s 5 percent equity-linked dollar securities due
April 2016 slid 8.3 percent from a Feb. 6 peak to 50 cents on
the dollar, prices from Jefferies Group Inc. show. Offshore
Asian fixed-income notes that can be exchanged for shares lost
0.3 percent in the past month, according to a Nomura Holdings
Inc. index. Suzlon’s bonds rallied 17 percent in January as its
Indian lenders approved a two-year moratorium on payments on
local borrowings.  India ’s largest wind-turbine maker needs money to repay
foreign creditors and boost equity capital under the liability-
restructuring agreement with lenders. Suzlon’s founders sold
part of their holdings last month and the firm plans to sell
“non-critical” assets including  China  unit Suzlon Energy
(Tianjin) Ltd. to raise money after international bondholders
rejected a request for an extension on payments.  “I feel there’s more pain left in Suzlon,” Raj Kothari, a
fixed-income trader at Sun Global Investment Ltd. in  London ,
said in an e-mailed response to questions on March 5. “Founders
may have to sell more shares to save the debt-restructuring
plan. Suzlon should come up with a precise roadmap on
repayments.”  Suzlon’s 2016 notes tumbled to an all-time low of 35 cents
in October, when it failed to repay $209 million in India’s
biggest convertible-bond default. The company reported an
unprecedented loss of 11.56 billion rupees ($211 million) for
the last quarter of 2012 as dwindling working capital reduced
its ability to complete orders.  Selling Shares  The company’s  shares  plunged 34 percent, the most in four
years, in Mumbai on Feb. 28 as its founders sold 109.9 million
shares as part of the debt-recast plan. There’s no need to sell
more shares for cash, Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said
in a phone interview on the same day. The stock slide reflected
investor concern Suzlon’s main stakeholders are resorting to
distressed-asset sales, according to Destimoney Securities Pvt.  “Founders selling their stake to raise funds for repaying
debt shows their desperation,” Sudip Bandyopadhyay, chief
executive officer at Mumbai-based Destimoney, said Feb. 28.  A consortium of 19 lenders led by  State Bank of India 
approved the proposal to cut  interest rates  on loans and extend
repayments over eight years after the two-year moratorium with
effect from Oct. 1, Pune-based Suzlon said in an exchange
statement on Jan. 24.  ‘Fast-Track Basis’  “The corporate debt restructuring plan is going well,”
CFO Vagadia said in the Feb. 28 interview. Founders “need to
complete the CDR on a fast-track basis. In the coming financial
year, we will spend a lot of time on asset sales, rebuilding our
business and on reducing working capital intensity by tightening
our inventory cycle,” he said.  Stagnant demand for turbines amid a global economic slump
is clouding Suzlon’s business outlook.  Installations may stall in 2013 as policy uncertainty and
financing difficulties weigh on projects, Suzlon Chairman  Tulsi Tanti  said in an interview on Jan. 28. He expects about 45
gigawatts of additions worldwide this year, little changed from
the 44.8 gigawatts of turbines Bloomberg New Energy Finance
estimates were built in 2012. The London-based analyst forecasts
the market to decline to 39.3 gigawatts this year.  Annual increases in India’s wind power generation capacity
slowed to 2,540 megawatts in 2012 from 2,827 megawatts in 2011,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, which estimates gains
this year between 2,300 megawatts and 2,500 megawatts.  More Pessimism  “There is nothing to look forward to except pessimism and
for Suzlon, it would be like climbing a mountain to get back
investor confidence,” said Hemant Dharnidharka, head of credit
research at SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore.  Suzlon’s interest  expenses  averaged 4.56 billion rupees in
the first three quarters of the financial year ending March 31,
compared with 3.34 billion rupees a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Interest rates in India remain the highest among  Asia ’s
biggest economies even after the  Reserve Bank  of India reduced
its benchmark  repurchase rate  by 75 basis points, or 0.75
percentage point, in the past year to 7.75 percent.  Rupee-denominated five-year corporate  debt  rated AAA by
Crisil Ltd., the local unit of  Standard & Poor’s , yield 8.93
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar notes
offer 4.75 percent in China. Ten-year sovereign bonds in India
pay 7.86 percent, compared with 3.57 percent in China.  Rupee Yields  The yield on the 8.15 percent government debt due June 2022
was steady in Mumbai today, offering an  extra  593 basis points
over Treasuries. Indian sovereign notes returned 2.5 percent
this year, trailing the 7.1 percent earned by Philippine
securities in the best performance among Asia’s 10 biggest
markets, according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes. The rupee
strengthened 0.1 percent to 54.65 per dollar today.  The Indian government’s plan to provide “low-cost”
funding and other financial incentives to renewable energy
projects may help arrest the slowdown in the sector, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The  finance ministry  will
provide the funds to the state-owned Indian Renewable Energy
Development Agency Ltd. for lending to such plants, according to
the annual budget unveiled on Feb. 28.  Power Finance Corp., a state-owned lender to electricity
projects, cut lending  rates  for alternative energy projects by
50 basis points last month, after the RBI cut its repo rate on
Jan. 29 for the first time in nine months.  ‘Additional Incentives’  “The additional incentives are expected to help increase
installations from previous estimates,” Shantanu Jaiswal, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New Delhi, said in an
interview yesterday. “The overall downtrend in interest rates
should also provide some support to the Indian renewable energy
sector as better returns for investors can be expected.”  Suzlon may have to look at selling Repower Systems SE, its
Hamburg-based unit, to reduce its debt, according to Antoine Bourgault, London-based head of research at ISM Capital LLP.  “Suzlon’s Indian operations remain crippled by the lack of
working capital, which is causing clients to cancel existing
orders,” Bourgault said in an e-mailed response to questions on
March 5. “Until the group starts realizing significant asset
disposals and reducing leverage, investors are likely to remain
on the sidelines. Despite management’s reticence, we believe
Suzlon will have to consider the sale of Repower at some
stage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  