-- Sweden’s FSA to Investigate Homeowners’ Reluctance to Amortize
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-03-07T08:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/sweden-s-fsa-to-investigate-homeowners-reluctance-to-amortize.html
Sweden ’s financial regulator and the
central bank will investigate the economic risks stemming from
households’ failure to pay down  mortgage loans  as a next step in
trying to address imbalances in the housing market.  Only 40 percent of Swedes with mortgages that have a loan-
to-value ratio of below 75 percent amortize, or pay down their
loans, Sweden’s Financial Supervisory Authority said in a  report 
today. On loans with an LTV of more than 75 percent, 90 percent
of borrowers amortize, the FSA said.  “An important task, therefore, will be to follow up on the
potential long-term risks of the weak willingness to amortize
loans that have a loan-to-value ratio below 75 percent,” the
agency said. The Council for Cooperation on Macroprudential
Policy has therefore decided to appoint a group between the FSA
and the Riksbank that will “for example analyze the long-term
effects of the households’ indebtedness,” it said.  The regulator last year proposed tripling the risk weights
banks apply to their mortgage assets to 15 percent and has
capped lending at 85 percent of a property’s value since October
2010, as the Nordic region’s largest economy tries to avoid a
repeat of the nation’s 1990s real estate and banking crises. The
FSA would consider further measures to cool Sweden’s credit
growth if it spirals out of control, it has said.  Mortgage Cap  While the mortgage cap has helped slow borrowing growth
from more than 10 percent between 2004 and 2008, it still
expanded 4.5 percent in January and December. That’s too fast a
pace, according to Finance Minister  Anders Borg , who argues
credit growth shouldn’t exceed 3 percent to 4 percent.  Still, the mortgage cap “continues to have a positive
effect,” the FSA said today. The “trend of steadily rising
loan-to-value ratios has been broken, and the households’ loan-
to-value ratio for new loans is still around 70 per cent,” it
said. The average loan-to value ratio for new mortgages stood at
68.8 percent at end of September last year, down from 68.9
percent at end of 2011 and a peak of 71 percent at end of 2010.  As the euro area grapples with austerity and recession,
Swedes have seen their property prices climb about 25 percent
since 2006. Private debt burdens in the largest Nordic economy
rose to a record 173 percent of disposable incomes last year,
the central bank estimates. That exceeds the 135 percent peak at
the height of Sweden’s banking crisis two decades ago. Back
then, the state nationalized two of the country’s biggest banks
after bad loans wiped out their equity.  House Prices  A report today showed  house prices  were unchanged in the
three months through February from the previous three-month
period, the statistics agency said. They climbed 3 percent from
a year earlier.  Sweden’s largest lenders already also face stricter  capital
requirements  than those targeted elsewhere.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and SEB AB must set aside
at least 10 percent core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted
assets this year. The requirement rises to 12 percent in 2015.
The Basel Committee, which is chaired by Swedish central bank
Governor Stefan Ingves, sets a 7 percent minimum, from 2019.  Sweden’s biggest banks, whose combined assets are four
times the country’s gross domestic product, already have capital
buffers that exceed national rules, an achievement rewarded by
investors. Swedbank shares have gained 25 percent this year. The
smallest share increase of the four was at Handelsbanken, whose
stock rose 19 percent in the period. The 40-member Bloomberg
index of European financial companies advanced 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  