-- SNB’s Cap-Defense Costs Rise 10-Fold to $199 Billion
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-03-07T12:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/swiss-national-bank-profit-falls-on-exchange-rates-losses.html
The Swiss central bank spent 10
times as much in 2012 as it did the year before to defend the
currency cap it implemented to shield the economy.  The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  bought 188 billion francs ($199
billion) in foreign currencies from a wide range of
counterparties in Switzerland and abroad, the Zurich-based
central bank said in its Accountability Report today. It has
amassed record  foreign currency reserves  in its fight to protect
the ceiling, and a large portion of those reserves are held in
highly rated government bonds. In 2011, it spent 17.8 billion on
foreign currencies.  “The SNB took care to avoid its investments having any
impact on the markets and currency developments of other
countries,” the central bank said in the report.  The SNB’s decision to impose a cap on the franc of 1.20
versus the euro in September 2011 has helped shield Switzerland
from a downturn. The euro area, its biggest trading partner, is
trying to emerge from recession.  The SNB’s foreign currency reserves fell in February to
427.5 billion francs, data published by the central bank today
showed. That sum is equal to almost three quarters of
Switzerland’s annual gross domestic product.  In response to a question about how much the SNB might have
to spend this year to make the cap stick, SNB President Thomas Jordan, speaking to reporters in Zurich, said today that
“concerning the future I can’t tell you anything.”  Debt Crisis  Jordan said in an interview last month that giving up the
cap, which the SNB has vowed to defend “with the utmost
determination,” is a long way off, even as Switzerland has
managed to escape a recession, thanks to robust domestic
consumption that’s helping to offset softer exports.  An easing of the euro area’s debt crisis after the European
Central Bank’s pledge to buy the bonds of heavily indebted
member states has helped to franc weaken, taking it as low as
1.2484 on Jan. 17. The franc, which investors buy during times
of heightened uncertainty, has regained some strength following
last month’s inconclusive Italian elections.  It was trading at 1.2328 against the euro at 1:20pm in
Zurich, having weakened as much as 0.3 percent after the
announcement. Against the dollar, the franc was trading at 94.67
centimes.  “We think the chances of the SNB not having to wage big
interventions is good,” said UniCredit economist Alexander Koch. “But for the foreseeable future the minimum exchange rate
should not be lifted.”  Profit Falls  SNB profit almost halved to 6.9 billion francs in 2012 from
13.1 billion francs a year earlier. Foreign-currency holdings
contributed 4.5 billion francs to the SNB’s profit, 42 percent
less than the 7.7 billion francs reported for 2011. That’s due
in part to the Swiss currency’s appreciation against the yen and
the dollar, which accounted for more than a third of reserves at
the end of the year.  In 2012, the franc rose 13 percent against the yen,
resulting in an exchange-rate loss of 4.7 billion francs, and it
appreciated 2.7 percent against the dollar, reflected in a loss
of 4.8 billion francs.  Gold-valuation gains added 1.4 billion francs, down from
5.4 billion francs last year. The price of gold in Swiss franc
terms rose 2.8 percent last year, after 12 percent growth in
2011.  Public Interest  The SNB’s profit has been of public interest in Switzerland
after the central bank ran up a record 19 billion-franc book
loss in 2010, after the franc soared. That loss, its largest
ever, resulted in criticism by some politicians of then-
President Philipp Hildebrand’s policies and led to a reduction
of the annual dividend the SNB pays out to the country’s 26
cantons. This year, it will distribute 1 billion francs to the
cantons and the federal government.  The SNB, which has held its benchmark lending rate at near
zero since August 2011, will hold its next monetary-policy
assessment on March 14. The central bank is a joint-stock
company, in which public shareholders including cantons and
regional banks have a stake of about 55 percent. Private
individuals hold the remainder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  