-- Swiss Stocks Little Changed as Central Banks Keep Policy
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-03-07T17:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-as-central-bankers-meet.html
Swiss stocks  were little changed
near their highest level in 4 1/2 years as central banks in the
euro area and the U.K. maintained their monetary policy.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA,  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and  Actelion
Ltd. (ATLN)  led the equity benchmark higher.  Nestle (NESN)  SA climbed 1.4
percent as Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded the world’s largest
food company. Transocean Ltd. paced declining shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.1 percent to 7,708.96 at the
close in Zurich, after falling 0.3 percent yesterday. Earlier in
the week, the gauge rallied to its highest level since May 2008
amid speculation that central banks around the world will
continue monetary stimulus. The broader Swiss Performance Index
climbed 0.6 percent today.  “Central bank day produced few surprises all round,” said
Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG in e-mailed comments.
“There are still plenty of people keen to point out the
problems with the global economy, but perhaps it is time to
suggest that the central banks have put the backstop in and that
it’s time to move on from the persistent negativity.”  The European Central Bank held its  benchmark interest rate 
at 0.75 percent as President Mario Draghi repeated his view that
the euro-area economy will gradually recover later this year. In
 London , the Bank of England kept its key interest rate at a
record low and left its  quantitative-easing target  unchanged at
375 billion pounds ($564 billion).  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the SMI was 20 percent lower from the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Richemont, the world’s second-biggest luxury-goods company,
added 1.8 percent to 77 Swiss francs. The stock fell 1.2 percent
yesterday after the chief executive officer of rival watchmaker
 Swatch Group AG (UHR) , Nick Hayek, sought to damp expectations about
the industry’s growth. Swatch gained 0.6 percent to 535.50
francs today.  Roche, Actelion  Roche gained 1.6 percent to 214 francs, climbing for the
fifth time in six days. A patient study found that its top-
selling drug Rituxan effectively cured most cases of a rare and
deadly skin disease, suggesting the medicine may replace
steroids as the standard treatment. The drugmaker traded without
the right to its latest dividend today, removing 42.6 points
from the  SMI’s advance .  Actelion climbed 1.5 percent to 49.90 francs, its highest
price since April 2011.  Nestle increased 1.4 percent to 67.05 francs as Credit
Suisse raised its recommendation for the shares to outperform,
the equivalent of a buy rating, from neutral.  Transocean dropped 1.2 percent to 50.40 francs after
climbing 4.9 percent over the previous three days.  Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG (PWTN)  dropped 5.7 percent to
86.80 francs, extending its decline over the past two days to 12
percent. The stock tumbled yesterday after posting a  fourth-
quarter loss  and saying that conditions will remain difficult
for the freight-forwarding company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  