-- U.K. Stocks Rise Before BOE’s Stimulus Decision
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-03-07T09:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/u-k-stocks-rise-before-boe-s-stimulus-decision.html
U.K. stocks  gained as investors
speculated Bank of England policy makers will announce a fresh
round of asset purchases to revive Britain’s economy.  Aggreko Plc (AGK)  surged the most in almost two years after
raising 2012 dividend and forecasting an average double-digit
revenue growth over the next five years.  Standard Life Plc (SL/) 
climbed to a record after saying it will pay a special dividend.
 Aviva Plc (AV/)  plunged the most in almost four years as the U.K.’s
second-biggest life insurer cut second-half dividend.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 14.14 points, or 0.2 percent, to
6,441.78 at 9:03 a.m. in London. The benchmark gauge has  rallied
9.2 percent  so far this year and jumped to a five-year high this
week on optimism central banks around the world will continue
with stimulus measures. The broader FTSE All-Share Index gained
0.2 percent today. Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.2 percent.  “It would appear that markets are expecting some form of
monetary easing today from both the Bank of England and the
European Central Bank, though any ECB measures are more likely
to be implied rather than actual,” said Michael Hewson, a
market analyst at CMC Markets Plc in  London . “In the Bank of
England’s case, the markets do appear to be gearing up for a
resumption of the asset-purchase scheme.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the
FTSE 100 was 40 percent greater than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  BOE officials may decide to increase asset purchases at a
Monetary Policy Committee meeting in London today, according to
11 of the 39 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The rest predict
no change in the current target of 375 billion pounds ($562
billion). The lack of consensus reflects uncertainty prompted by
last month’s split in the MPC, when Governor Mervyn King and two
others lost the vote for a 25 billion-pound expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  