-- U.K. Risks NATO Pledge If Defense Budget Cut, Panel Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/u-k-risks-nato-pledge-if-defense-budget-cut-panel-says.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  risks breaching a NATO agreement to keep U.K.  defense
spending  at 2 percent of gross domestic product if he cuts the
Ministry of Defence budget, a panel of lawmakers said.  Parliament’s cross-party Defense Committee said the current
military spending level of 2.6 percent of GDP would be at risk
if Osborne insists on greater cuts to the military as part of a
further 10 billion pounds ($15 billion) of savings across the
government.  “We believe that it is vital that defense spending remains
at more than 2 percent of GDP in line with the U.K.’s NATO
commitment,” the panel said in its report published in London
today. “We recommend that the MoD and the Treasury ensure that
defense spending does not fall below 2 percent of GDP in the
next spending review.”  Defense Secretary Philip Hammond is in the midst of a fight
to protect his department’s budget after 2015, saying the number
of military personnel will have to be cut if Osborne forces
spending reductions. Today’s report demonstrated that the U.K.’s
long-standing international commitments may also be at risk.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has pledged to protect the
defense-equipment budget, which will go up by 1 percent in real
terms from 2015. He has not given any such promise for the rest
of military expenditure. The equipment budget accounts for about
45 percent of defense spending.  Spending Plans  Figures published by the House of Commons show that in the
fiscal year ending in March 2015, 2 percent of GDP would amount
to 33.8 billion pounds. In that year the U.K. will be spending
33.9 billion pounds on defense, a figure that doesn’t include
operations in  Afghanistan .  Cabinet ministers are in discussions with Osborne, who will
present his annual budget to Parliament on March 20, about their
departmental spending for 2015-16. Home Secretary Theresa May, a
Conservative like Hammond, is resisting cuts to her budget,
while Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat, says
he believes taxes should rise to tackle Britain’s record debt.  “This is a stark warning for the government,” the
opposition  Labour Party ’s defense spokesman,  Jim Murphy , said in
an e-mailed statement. “As the budget approaches and a Cabinet
row over further defense cuts deepens, the country will want
real reassurances that international commitments will be met.”  Hammond blames the previous Labour administration for
leaving the  defense budget  with a black hole.  “For the first time in a generation, we have a balanced
budget and fully funded equipment plan to make sure our armed
forces get the equipment they need,” he said in an e-mailed
statement in response to the panel’s report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  