-- U.K. Lawmakers Scold Ex-SFO Chief Over Executive Payoffs
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-03-07T11:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/u-k-lawmakers-scold-ex-sfo-chief-over-executive-payoffs.html
U.K. lawmakers scolded  Richard Alderman , former director of the  Serious Fraud Office , for
authorizing severance payments to executives at the agency
before his departure last year.  Members of Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee said
Alderman didn’t get government approval for the payoffs, and
failed to keep official notes on his decisions.  “This is sloppy, this is slovenly,” said Stewart Jackson,
a Conservative member of the committee before which Alderman
testified today. “You weren’t considering value for money and
you should apologize.”  The SFO has been criticized by the British National Audit
Office for payments totaling 422,000 pounds ($632,600) to its
former Chief Executive Officer Phillippa Williamson, who left in
April last year at the same time as Alderman.  David Green , the
new director of the agency that investigates and prosecutes
fraud, has sought an independent review of the payments, which
the NAO said weren’t properly authorized.  Alderman said he didn’t agree he should apologize, and that
he didn’t know how the payments were authorized without the
government’s consent.  “I remain absolutely perplexed as to how this happened,”
he said at today’s hearing, adding that he believed approval was
given.  Under Alderman’s leadership, the SFO declined to
investigate interest-rate fixing by banks, closed probes into
fraudster  Bernie Madoff ’s London operations and botched a probe
into U.K. property magnates Robert and  Vincent Tchenguiz . The
prosecution agency now faces a 200 million-pound lawsuit by the
Tchenguiz brothers, whose offices were illegally raided by the
fraud regulator in 2011.  The agency’s performance must improve under Green’s
leadership, the U.K. Crown Prosecution Service said in a
November report citing several dropped or failed investigations
including the Tchenguiz probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  