-- U.S. Productivity Fell in Fourth Quarter as Labor Costs Rose
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-03-07T13:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/u-s-productivity-dropped-in-fourth-quarter-as-labor-costs-rose.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
fell in the fourth quarter by the most in four years, while
labor expenses accelerated as companies added workers and
boosted hours, revised Labor Department figures showed today.  The measure of employee output per hour decreased at a 1.9
percent annual rate after a 3.1 percent third-quarter gain, the
agency said in  Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey called for a 1.6 percent drop in productivity after a
previously reported 2 percent decrease. Expenses per worker
increased at a 4.6 percent rate, more than first estimated.  Companies took on more employees at the end of last year as
orders for business equipment jumped and exports increased. The
pace of payroll additions may be sustained as household spending
holds up in the face of a two percentage-point increase in the
 payroll tax , making it difficult for productivity to improve.  “It’s tough to wring efficiencies out of labor when you’re
adding to your workforce, whether you’re expanding hours or
what’s now going on, expanding jobs,”  Robert Stein , a senior
economist at First Trust Portfolios LP in Wheaton,  Illinois ,
said before the report. The firm is the second-best forecaster
of productivity over the past two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “It’s quite natural at this point in the
business cycle to have a temporary slowdown in productivity
growth.”  Estimates of the 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from declines of 1.3 percent to 2 percent.  Jobless Claims  Another Labor Department report showed the number of
Americans who filed for  unemployment benefits  declined to a six-
week low, pointing to further improvement in the labor market.  First-time jobless claims unexpectedly fell by 7,000 to
340,000 in the week ended March 2, the lowest since the period
ended Jan. 19. The four-week average dropped to a five-year low.  Stock-index futures maintained gains after the figures,
with the contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring
this month rising 0.3 percent to 1,543.5 at 8:51 a.m. in  New
York .  For all of 2012, productivity climbed 0.7 percent after a
0.6 percent gain the prior year. The advance was less than half
the 2.3 percent average from 2000 through 2011.  The increase in fourth-quarter labor expenses followed a
1.9 percent drop in the prior three months. Unit labor costs,
which are adjusted for efficiency gains, were forecast to rise
4.3 percent, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Last Year  For all of 2012, labor costs increased 0.7 percent
following a 2 percent gain a year earlier. They climbed an
average of 1 percent from 2000 through 2011.  Output rose at a 0.5 percent rate in the fourth quarter
after climbing 4.7 percent the prior quarter. Hours worked
increased at a 2.5 percent pace after a 1.6 percent gain.  The drop in productivity was largely a result of special or
one-time events that led to stagnation in the economy last
quarter, and a jump in labor costs, economists said. Gross
domestic product grew at a 0.1 percent annual rate from October
through December, after rising at a 3.1 percent pace in the
third quarter, according to Commerce Department data released
Feb. 28.  Household purchases and capital investment accelerated, the
data showed, even as military spending dropped by the most in 40
years and stockpiles were built at a slower pace, partly
reflecting damage from superstorm Sandy.  Payroll Growth  Hiring accelerated in the fourth quarter, when job gains
averaged 201,000 a month compared with 152,000 from July through
September, according to Labor Department data on Feb. 1. The
economy added about 160,000 workers in February, according to
the survey median ahead of figures scheduled for release Friday.  Companies such as homebuilder  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  of  Bloomfield
Hills ,  Michigan , are looking for further progress in reducing
joblessness in order to boost the recovery.  “We have continuing high unemployment in the country so
what we believe is we need  consumer confidence  to improve and
jobs to be created to continue to get up to more normal
numbers,” Chief Financial Officer Robert O’Shaughnessy said at
a March 5 conference. “The good news is there is a lot of pent-
up demand.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said that
while the expansion is gaining traction, the need for a stronger
economic recovery outweighs the potential costs in financial
markets of continuing unprecedented monetary easing.  “Available information suggests that economic growth has
picked up again this year,” Bernanke said last week in
testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  