-- U.S. Gun Rights Truly Are American Exceptionalism
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   E l k i n s ,   T o m   G i n s b u r g   &   J a m e s   M e l t o n
-- 2013-03-07T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/u-s-gun-rights-truly-are-american-exceptionalism.html
What do Guatemala,  Mexico  and the
U.S. have in common? They are among the very few countries
throughout history whose constitutions have guaranteed the right
to bear arms.  Our study of constitutions going back to 1789 shows that
only a minority has ever included gun rights. What’s more, the
number has dwindled, leaving a small and motley set of
bedfellows.  For some, this lonely position is enough to suggest that
the U.S. should rethink the current interpretation of the Second
Amendment. For others, it is a reason to celebrate American
exceptionalism.  Either way, the U.S. gun-rights debate raises intriguing
questions about how other countries have addressed the issue in
their constitutions. When were such rights predominant (if at
all), which countries have had them, and how were these rights
expressed?  Constitutions have been largely silent about such rights,
and increasingly so. Twenty-four constitutions from nine
countries have included gun rights in some form since 1789. Most
of these constitutions date from the 1800s, and since World War
II, no country has written a constitution with such a right
without first having done so in the 19th century.  Truly Exceptional  This pattern reinforces the widely held notion that the
right to bear arms is a vestige of a distant era. Constitutional
customs tend to stick once they are enshrined, even when
countries replace or revise their constitutions. While this
inertia partly explains the American retention of the right to
bear arms, it also shows how truly exceptional gun rights are:
Countries that had the right have actively chosen to reject it
in subsequent constitutions.  Constitutions with gun rights were reasonably well-
represented in the late 1800s: 17 percent had the right in 1875.
Since the early 1900s, however, the proportion has been less
than 10 percent and falling. As new countries emerged in the
interwar and post-World War II eras, their constitutions
reflected a modern set of rights.  If arms were mentioned at all, it was to allow the
government to regulate their use or to compel military service,
not to provide a right to bear them. Today, only three out of
nearly 200 constitutions contain a right to bear arms.  We have come to view constitutional rights like a one-way
ratchet -- their popularity moves inexorably in only one
direction, and that is up. The decline in popularity of the
right to bear arms indicates that there is something very
different about it, as opposed to other civil, political, social
and economic rights. Most probably, the right invokes an
anachronism, somewhat like the protection against “quartering
soldiers” in the Third Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, or
it invokes moral understandings of another era.  Which countries have had such rights historically? In the
19th century, they were mostly in the Americas, and that remains
true. Given the strong influence of the U.S. constitutional text
in the region, this pattern makes sense. Still, only eight of
the 25 or so Latin American countries ever took on the right.
The only non-Latin American country to do so was Liberia, a
country founded by black Americans who used the U.S.
Constitution as a model.  Countries such as Costa Rica briefly experimented with gun
rights. Others, such as  Colombia , maintained these rights for
long spells before dropping them. Most, like Guatemala, have
cycled back and forth between omission and inclusion. None has
maintained the right continually throughout its constitutional
history, which indicates a certain amount of ambivalence.  Right Rationale  For countries that include the right, how do they express
it? The U.S., of course, justifies the right in terms of a
“well-regulated militia,” but this is unusual. Most
constitutions do not provide any sort of rationale, but there
are some exceptions.  The Nicaraguan constitution, for example, was introduced in
1987 after left-leaning forces gained control. It provided
Nicaraguans “the right to arm themselves in defense of their
sovereignty, independence and revolutionary gains. It is the
duty of the state to direct, organize and arm the people to
guarantee this right.”  The U.S. constitution is alone in omitting any written
conditions under which the government can regulate arms and
munitions. In other countries, the right is typically limited to
self-defense, either of the home or the state itself.  Guatemala 
gives its citizens the right to own weapons for personal use in
the home and states that citizens can only be forced to
relinquish guns by judicial order. Haiti gives citizens the
right to use guns to defend the home but explicitly denies a
general right to bear arms.  Of course, U.S. courts have allowed some exceptions to
unconditional gun ownership in the form of local, state and
federal statutes restricting ownership or possession of
firearms. In this way, the courts have served to render
constitutional law somewhat less exceptional than the text
itself would suggest.  Until 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court had never struck down a
law aimed at regulating guns. That year, in the case of  District
of Columbia  v. Heller and, two years later, McDonald v.  Chicago ,
the court held that states could not restrict the ownership of
handguns for self-defense. These rulings have made the U.S. even
more exceptionally exceptional.  (Zachary Elkins is a professor of government at the
 University of Texas . Tom Ginsburg is a professor of
international law at the  University of Chicago Law School . James
Melton is a lecturer in comparative politics at  University
College London . They run the National Science Foundation-funded
Comparative Constitutions Project, which analyzes national
constitutions since 1789. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Zachary Elkins at  zelkins@austin.utexas.edu 
Tom Ginsburg at  tginsburg@uchicago.edu 
James Melton at  james.douglas.melton@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 