-- UN Carbon Offset Role to Give Way to New Markets, IETA Head Says
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-03-07T12:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/un-carbon-offset-role-to-give-way-to-new-markets-ieta-head-says.html
National carbon cap-and-trade
measures will play a bigger role in climate-change efforts as
the importance of offset mechanisms started by the United
Nations wanes, the head of an  emissions trading  lobby said.  The shift from a UN-led global carbon market toward
national systems will encourage countries to link markets and
trade pollution permits with each other, as Europe and Australia
are doing, Dirk Forrister, chief executive officer of the
International Emissions Trading Association, said yesterday.  “The two emissions-trading systems may not be exactly the
same, but policy makers still think it’s a good idea to link
them,” Forrister said at a conference in Amsterdam. “The
lesson to take is that maybe the value of the UN system is to
give emissions-trading systems a common pedigree.”  Carbon offsets allow emitters to pay for greenhouse-gas
reductions in  developing countries , which can be used to meet
emissions caps elsewhere. Existing offset standards under the
UN’s Clean Development Mechanism and Joint Implementation
programs have been a common link used by markets in the European
Union, Australia and  New Zealand . These nations and  Japan  can
use offsets to meet emissions limits under the  Kyoto Protocol .  Governments ensure their pollution-cutting markets match UN
standards and limits by linking their permits to Assigned Amount
Units, which represent their Kyoto targets, and by allowing UN-
sanctioned offsets to be used for compliance. Most developed
countries agreed in December to extend Kyoto limits through
2020.  Domestic Targets  “Even though they have acted as the ‘glue’ in
international emissions trading so far, the importance of the
Clean Development Mechanism and Joint Implementation are
declining, and the wave of the future is links between
emissions-trading systems,” Forrister said.  Negotiations started two years ago on a so-called New
Market Mechanisms structure, which may allow nations to set
their own domestic targets and link those markets to others with
similar goals. The EU and  Australia  this week began a public
consultation over how to link their two markets by 2015.  “The new framework will be open to non-Kyoto countries, so
it could encompass national programs in countries such as the
U.S.,  Canada  and Japan,” Forrister said. “The aim of the
framework is to co-ordinate various approaches, and it may allow
smaller countries to use the CDM, since it’s more appropriate to
their size.”  Architecture Failing  The New Market Mechanisms structure will also create space
for countries to “go it alone,” to join or create trading
blocs, or include sub-national trading systems such as the
Californian market or the  Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative  in
the northeast U.S., he said.  “The top-down market architecture is failing,” Forrister
said. “Linked emissions-trading systems are the future.”  Reform of the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism is still
valid, because it may be used by smaller nations in the future,
he said.  “A UN ‘toolkit’ could be used to enable mid-sized
countries to build a system that gains the confidence of the
business community,” he said. “Standardized baselines for
approving emissions-cutting projects, registration and offset
issuance and a common registry could all assist  emerging markets 
in second-tier countries.”  Such changes would produce a UN-sanctioned unit available
for trade in any system, he said.  “Our job is to work on the hallmark” of such a system, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  