-- UN Security Council Unanimously Votes Sanctions on N. Korea
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-07T15:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/un-security-council-unanimously-approves-sanctions-on-n-korea.html
     March 7 (Bloomberg) --The UN Security Council voted
unanimously to impose tougher sanctions on North  Korea  for
conducting a nuclear test explosion in violation of its previous
prohibition.  The council vote came hours after North Korea threatened to
launch a preemptive nuclear strike on its “aggressors,”
including the U.S., as tension grew over the sanctions measure
and planned U.S.-South Korea military exercises.  The new UN sanctions target “illicit activity” by North
Korean diplomats, bulk transfers of cash by North Koreans, and
banks and companies that may be funneling cash or materials to
support the country’s ballistic missile and nuclear weapons
programs. China’s support for the action may reflect its
mounting frustration with the North after the Feb. 12 nuclear
test held in defiance of both the UN and the Chinese government.  “Sanctions are not a punitive measure, but rather a tool
to impede the development of North Korea’s nuclear and missile
programs and proliferation-related exports, as well as to make
clear the costs of North Korea’s defiance of its international
obligations,” Glyn Davies, the U.S. special representative for
North Korea policy, said in prepared testimony to the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee in a hearing as the Security Council
voted.  Davies said the U.S. continues to seek international
negotiations to end North Korea’s program to produce weapons of
mass destruction.  ‘Unacceptable Threat’  “North Korea’s WMD, ballistic missile, conventional arms,
and proliferation activities constitute a serious and
unacceptable threat to U.S. national security,” he said.  The sanctions seek to halt the North’s imports of
technology for its weapons programs as well as its ability to
raise cash by selling its nuclear, missile and military
technology to other countries. The draft text included bans on
equipment used to make chemical and nuclear weapons, front
companies for the country’s weapons programs and importation of
yachts, racing cars and jewelry for the regime’s elite.  The resolution was worked out by the U.S. and  China , both
of which hold veto power.  The agreement may signal a new level of cooperation between
the U.S. and China under incoming President Xi Jinping, who’s
looking for a stable relationship with the U.S. as China’s
economic and political power grows in Asia, said Patrick Cronin,
director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for
a New American Security in  Washington .  ‘Most to Lose’  “The U.S. and China have the most to lose if North Korea
instigates a conflict in the region,” Cronin said in an
interview yesterday. “If we are going to try to put a de facto
moratorium on North Korea’s missile program and nuclear weapons
program, China will go along if the U.S. is not aiming to
balance the region against China.”  Davies told senators that China “remains central to
altering North Korea’s cost calculus. Both geography and history
have endowed the People’s Republic of China with a unique —- if
increasingly challenging -— diplomatic, economic, and military
relationship” with North Korea.  “Close U.S.-China consultations on North Korea will remain
a key locus of our diplomatic efforts in the weeks and months
ahead as we seek to bring further pressure to bear on North
Korea and, over the longer term, seek genuine diplomatic
openings to push forward on denuclearization,” he said.  Reaching Hawaii  Moves to impose new sanctions on North Korea began after
the country tested a three-stage ballistic missile last year and
intensified immediately following the nuclear test that showed
the country is assembling the building blocks for a nuclear-
armed ballistic missile that could reach as far as  Hawaii .  U.S. officials refused to discuss how the agreement was
reached, and referred reporters to remarks made by U.S.
Ambassador to the UN Susan Rice after the draft resolution was
delivered to the council on March 5. Rice said the U.S. had
“very intensive and productive discussions in consultations,
particularly with China,” and said she was “pleased that this
has occurred with relative speed.”  “In the eyes of the international community, common sense
said something had to be done and the Chinese were very
sensitive to that as well,” said Evans Revere, a former U.S.
diplomat who is senior director with the Albright Stonebridge
Group in Washington, providing strategic advice to clients on
Korea, China and  Japan .  ‘Positive Development’  “I would not want to suggest this represents any
significant turnabout in U.S.-China relations,” Revere, who is
also a nonresident senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in
Washington, said yesterday. “But if the resolution has the
teeth and bite it appears to have and if the Chinese can this
time be vigorous in enforcing the new resolution as well as the
previous ones, that would certainly be a positive development.”  While Chinese officials at the UN didn’t respond to a
request for comment, a hint of official Chinese frustration
toward the regime now headed by 30-year-old Kim Jong Un emerged
in a Feb. 27 opinion article in the Financial Times by Deng
Yuwen, deputy editor of Study Times, the journal of the Central
Party School of China’s Communist Party.  Losing Side  “China should consider abandoning North Korea,” Deng
wrote. A nuclear-armed North Korea might put China on the losing
side of any confrontation on the Korean peninsula, and North
Korea’s ruling elite simply won’t let the regime reform, he
added. “Beijing should give up on Pyongyang and press for the
reunification of the Korean peninsula,” he wrote.  “If, in fact, the U.S. and China are now collaborating in
pressuring North Korea, this represents a major concession by
the Chinese and the first instance of working together with the
U.S. on an issue where they have had to abandon an old ally,”
said Orville Schell, director of the Center on U.S.-China
Relations at the Asia Society in New York.  “You don’t want to draw too much from it, but it suggests
this new leadership wants to do exactly what Xi Jinping said it
did want to do: establish a new and better relationship with the
U.S.,” Schell said yesterday.  ‘Little Kim’  The Chinese are also clearly worried that a nuclear-armed
North Korea could provoke an incident that would send millions
of people flooding across its 880-mile border, he added.  “They really look at Little Kim as an extension of a
lunatic regime that is threatening China,” he said referring to
the North’s leader. “The last thing China wants is trouble
there -- it’s a big border and there are a lot of hungry people
on the wrong side of it.”  North Korea said March 5 it may cancel the 1953 cease-fire
that ended the Korean War, citing the sanctions effort as well
as U.S.-South Korean joint military drills, according to a
statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency.  The North Korean military will suspend its activities at
Panmunjom truce village at the demilitarized zone separating
North and South Korea, and shut off a phone line with U.S.
forces stationed in the South, the news agency said, citing an
unidentified military spokesman.  South Korea today pushed back against North Korea’s
rhetoric, vowing to counter any potential threat.  “North Korea’s current military drills can lead to
provocation at any time,” Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min
Seok told reporters in  Seoul . “South Korea’s military is
preparing so that we can respond and punish them for any
provocative acts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  