-- UN Urges Syrian Rebels to Free Detained Peacekeepers
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-07T09:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/un-urges-syrian-rebels-to-free-detained-peacekeepers.html
The  United Nations  demanded that
armed Syrian rebels immediately release 21 UN Filipino
peacekeepers who were seized near a post in the Golan Heights.  The abduction by “armed elements of the Syrian
opposition” occurred yesterday near al-Jamlah, at an
observation post inside the Golan plateau’s so-called area of
limitation separating Israel and  Syria , the UN said in a
statement. The peacekeepers were taken by about 30 rebels while
on a supply mission near the post, which had been evacuated over
the weekend after heavy fighting in the area, the UN said.  The  Security Council  held a closed-door meeting in New York
on the incident and called for the peacekeepers’ “unconditional
and immediate release,” Russian Ambassador to the UN Vitaly Churkin said in a statement afterward. Russia holds the
presidency of the 15-member council this month.  The UN troops’ detention marks the latest spillover of the
two-year civil war in Syria between opposition groups and forces
loyal to President Bashar al-Assad. The conflict has killed more
than 70,000 people and UN High Commissioner for Refugees  Antonio Guterres  said yesterday that 1 million refugees had fled to
Lebanon, Jordan,  Turkey  and other countries.  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  told reporters in
Manila he hoped the peacekeepers would soon be freed. Churkin
said the council urged all parties to cooperate with the UN
observation force “in good faith to enable it to operate freely
and to ensure full security of its personnel,” according to a
statement.  Rebel Video  The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a U.K.-based
opposition group that documents the conflict, said the
peacekeepers were being held by the Yarmouk Brigade rebels. The
observatory sent a video it said showed rebel forces standing in
front of UN vehicles. There was no independent confirmation that
the rebel faction is responsible.  Josephine Guerrero, a spokeswoman for the UN’s Department
of Peacekeeping Operations, said the organization is working
with the Syrian government to secure the soldiers’ release.
“Syria is responsible for the safety and security of the UN
personnel,” Guerrero said in an interview.  The captors are demanding the withdrawal of Syrian army
troops from the area around al-Jamlah, according to an e-mailed
statement from the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  that
cited the brigade’s leader, who was identified as Abu Kaled al-
Faleh.  Observer Force  The UN mission in the Golan Heights has sent a team to
assess the situation and seek a solution, according to Eduardo del Buey, a spokesman for Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.  The group’s formal name is the UN Disengagement Observer
Force, or Undof.  “The Secretary-General reminds all actors in Syria that
Undof is mandated to monitor the Disengagement of Forces
Agreement between Israel and Syria,” according to a statement
from Ban released by his office. “Undof’s freedom of movement
and safety and security must be respected by all parties.”  The peacekeepers are part of the observer force that has
helped maintain the cease-fire between Israel and Syria since
1974. The mission has 1,011 troops, and 40 international staff,
with military personnel from countries including  Austria ,
 Croatia , India and the  Philippines .  The  Golan Heights  peacekeeping operation was extended in
December until June. At least 43 international peacekeepers and
one civilian have been killed in the four-decade operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  