-- North Korea Scraps Armistice After UN Vote, Drops Hotline
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-03-08T16:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/un-votes-for-sanctions-on-north-korea-despite-threats.html
North  Korea  carried out its threat
to scrap the 1953 armistice that ended the  Korean War  and cancel
a cross-border hotline after the UN  Security Council  unanimously
approved tougher sanctions over a forbidden nuclear test.  The action, coupled with hostile statements reported by the
state-run North Korean media, raised tensions on the divided
peninsula just as 10,000 U.S. forces joined  South Korea ’s
military for eight weeks of military exercises known as  Foal
Eagle 2013 .  North Korean leader Kim Jong Un inspected front-line troops
and said the military is ready for “all-out war,” the official
Korean Central News Agency reported today. The government closed
a liaison channel with the U.S. and South Korea at the world’s
most heavily fortified border.  “The intensive indoctrination of the North Korean public
is more worrisome than specific announcements or actions,”
according to John McCreary, a former Korean affairs analyst at
the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency. “North Korean leaders are
generating a national perception that  North Korea  is under
threat and that war is coming,” he wrote in his NightWatch
newsletter.  Closure of direct communications channels is a classic
indicator of general war, he said. “If North Korea recalls
diplomats, closes the borders and airport and discloses more
actions indicating it is in a semi-war state of readiness, the
allies must prepare for a North Korean military incident, if not
an attack by fire,” he said.  Nuclear Threat  A North Korean general, Kang Pyo-yong, said yesterday that
the country has placed long-range missiles armed with nuclear
warheads on standby, according to  Rodong Sinmun , an organ of the
ruling Workers’ Party of Korea. “An extremely dangerous
situation is prevailing on the Korean Peninsula where a nuclear
war may break out right now,” the Committee for the Peaceful
Reunification of Korea said in a statement carried by the KCNA.  While the country regularly issues nuclear warnings, it has
yet to demonstrate the ability to put a nuclear device on a
ballistic missile. The nuclear-missile threat “is just complete
categorical bluster,” said Jennifer Lind, a Korean affairs
specialist who is an associate professor of government at
 Dartmouth College  in Hanover,  New Hampshire . “We know they do
not have functional intercontinental ballistic missiles and we
know they do not have any nuclear device that could be fitted to
a missile.”  Still, North Korea does have a large military force along
with missiles, artillery and chemical weapons that could
devastate the South Korean capital,  Seoul , a city of 10 million
located 30 miles (48 kilometers) south of the demilitarized zone
dividing the two Koreas.  Little Warning  North Korea has about 700,000 troops, 8,000 artillery
systems and 2,000 tanks that could be used in a conventional
attack, according to the  International Institute for Strategic
Studies , a research group. “Because of these forward
deployments, North Korea could theoretically invade the South
without recourse to further deployments and with relatively
little warning time,” the group said.  Any such attack would be “suicide,” producing a
devastating response by South Korea and the U.S., Senator  Robert Menendez , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
said yesterday at a hearing in  Washington .  “There should be no doubt about our determination,
willingness and capability to neutralize and counter any threat
that North Korea may present,” said Menendez, a New Jersey
Democrat.  China’s Stance  Yesterday’s UN action was supported by  China , North Korea’s
largest trading partner. The Security Council voted 15-0, with
no debate, to adopt a resolution drafted by the U.S. and China
in the aftermath of the Feb. 12 underground blast. The new
sanctions target “illicit activity” by North Korean diplomats,
bulk transfers of cash, and banks and companies funneling funds
or materials to support the country’s ballistic missile and
nuclear weapons programs.  Previous measures have failed to deter the impoverished
regime from pursuing its atomic weapon ambitions.  “Our warnings were not heeded,” said Russian Ambassador
Vitaly Churkin, who holds the council’s rotating presidency.
“Now the choice is for the DPRK to make,” he said, referring
to the country by its official title, the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea. “Now other interested parties must behave
responsibly,” he added.  Financial Markets  The tightened sanctions may lead to provocation from North
Korea,  Bank of Korea  senior deputy governor Park Won Shik said
at an emergency meeting in Seoul today.  “Our financial markets, stocks, bonds, and currency may
see some impact, although we don’t see any unusual moves so
far,” Park said. “We will closely watch the markets and work
together with the government for market stability if needed.”  The Korean won fell 0.3 percent to 1,090.46 per dollar as
of 3:52 p.m. in Seoul, while the benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index ended up
0.1 percent. Defense shares closed mixed after an early rally.
Naval ship equipment maker  Speco Co. (013810)  rose by 8.6 percent, and
armored vehicle manufacturer Firstec Co. fell 4 percent.  ‘Sternly Respond’  South Korean President Park Geun Hye, who took office as
the country’s first female leader last month, said the
government will “sternly respond” to any provocations.  “We take all North Korean threats seriously enough to
ensure that we have the correct defense posture to deal with any
contingencies that might arise,”  Glyn Davies , the U.S. special
representative for North Korea policy, said yesterday after
testifying to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  “It will be long journey,” to remove North Korea’s
nuclear threat, China’s UN Ambassador, Li Baodong, said after
the council vote. The top priority for the international
community now is to defuse tensions, “bring down the heat” and
focus on a diplomatic solution to the North Korea’s nuclear
weapons program, he said.  Implementation by China has “been the Achilles heel” of
past council resolutions against Kim’s regime,  Michael Green ,
senior vice-president for  Asia  at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington, wrote on the blog
 shadow.foreignpolicy.com .  “The Obama administration should keep at China to
implement the new sanctions in terms of specific actions,”
Green wrote.  China’s Frustration  China’s support for the sanctions may reflect its mounting
frustration with North Korea after the Feb. 12 nuclear test held
in defiance of both the UN and the Chinese government.  The resolution includes bans on equipment used to make
chemical and nuclear weapons, front companies for the country’s
weapons programs and importation of yachts, racing cars and
jewelry for the regime’s elite. It also obliges UN member-states
to stop any North Korean ships or planes suspected of carrying
supplies for weapons programs.  Diplomatic steps to impose new sanctions on North Korea
began after the country tested a three-stage ballistic missile
last year and intensified immediately following the nuclear test
that showed the country is assembling the building blocks for a
nuclear-armed ballistic missile that could reach as far as
 Hawaii .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  