-- Turkey Yields Drop 3rd Day as Action on Loans Seen Deferred
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-03-07T15:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/turkey-yields-drop-3rd-day-as-action-on-loans-seen-deferred.html
Turkey ’s  bond yields  fell for a
third day, erasing half of their gains since central bank
Governor Erdem Basci said on March 1 that he may tighten
liquidity to curtail domestic demand.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds dropped one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.73 percent, bringing their three-
day decline to four basis points. Yields had jumped the most in
almost two months on March 1, when Basci said he “could be
ready to tighten using lira liquidity” to stem above-target
loan growth.  “Basci’s comments on normalizing the extra liquidity in
the market were perceived as tougher than they were,” Ibrahim Aksoy, an economist at Seker Securities in Istanbul, said by
phone today. “Such a normalization would be only gradual, as
the economy is picking up pace only recently.”  The central bank will probably take bolder steps against
excessive liquidity only if loan growth rapidly accelerates in
the second half of the year, Aksoy said.  Turkey’s rate of loan expansion is probably about 20
percent, above the central bank’s target of 15 percent this
year, according to Fitch Ratings senior director  Paul Rawkins ,
who spoke in an interview in  London  today. “This is something
to keep an eye on,” he said.  The central bank is trying to limit loan growth to avert an
expansion in the current-account deficit, which surged to about
10 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, a number that
Rawkins said was “unsustainable.”  Turkey’s gross domestic product probably expanded by about
2.5 percent last year, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said in
Ankara last week. The government is targeting a 4 percent
expansion this year.  The lira gained 0.1 percent to 1.7962 per dollar at 5:10
p.m. in Istanbul, paring its loss on the year to 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  