-- Tusk Dismisses Polish Opposition's Confidence Motion
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-03-07T17:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/tusk-dismisses-polish-opposition-s-confidence-motion.html
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk
said a confidence motion brought against his government today by
the largest opposition party was a “masquerade” designed to
destabilize the European Union’s largest eastern economy.  Tusk’s five-year-old Cabinet has failed to provide adequate
health care, “dismantled” the eduction system and allowed for
unemployment to soar,  Jaroslaw Kaczynski , leader of the  Law and
Justice  party, said in parliament in Warsaw after presenting a
largely symbolic motion to topple Tusk, due to be voted on
tomorrow. Law and Justice and allied parties have 155 seats in
460-member lower house, lacking the majority needed to unseat
the government.  Tusk’s ruling Civic Platform and Law and Justice are
running neck-and-neck in recent opinion polls as  Poland  seeks to
avert its steepest economic slowdown in 12 years amid a slump in
the euro area, its biggest trading partner. Poland was the only
European Union country to avoid a recession in 2009.  Kaczynski introduced the confidence motion by playing a
speech by Piotr Glinski, his party’s candidate for premier, on
an Apple Inc. iPad to lawmakers. A sociology professor, Glinski
was barred from addressing parliament as he isn’t a member of
the assembly.  “Very bad governments have to be dismissed,” Kaczynski
told lawmakers in parliament. “The situation in Poland today is
very difficult.”  Kaczynski wants to “destabilize the political situation in
Poland,” Tusk, who two years ago became the first premier in
post-communist Poland to win re-election, told lawmakers.  Civic Platform  led Law and Justice 32 percent to 31 percent
in a MillwardBrown SMG/KRC telephone poll for TVN24 news
channel, carried out on March 5 among 1009 eligible voters. No
margin of error was given, according to broadcaster’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  