-- Venezuela Inflation Rises Less Than Expected After Devaluation
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-03-07T19:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/venezuela-inflation-rises-less-than-expected-after-devaluation.html
Venezuelan consumer prices rose less
than expected last month as a devaluation of the bolivar in
February failed to have the immediate impact on prices that many
analysts had anticipated.  Prices rose 1.6 percent from January, the central bank said
today, compared with the 3.2 percent median estimate of six
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The nationwide inflation rate
reached 22.8 percent, the highest in ten months.  The government of former President  Hugo Chavez , who died
March 5 following a two-year battle with cancer, devalued the
bolivar by 32 percent on Feb. 8. Many stores are still selling
imports they bought at the previous  exchange rate  and haven’t
lifted prices to reflect the new rate. Food prices, which
account for 37 percent of the inflation index, climbed 0.4
percent in February, the central bank said.  “The effects of exchange rate adjustments will begin to be
felt strongly starting in March, with strong rises in food,
clothing and electronic equipment prices,”  Asdrubal Oliveros ,
director of consultancy Ecoanalitica, said by phone from Caracas
today. “Devaluation effects were largely absent in February
statistics.”  Home appliance prices rose 2.4 percent last month, while
restaurant and hotel costs increased 3.9 percent, the central
bank said. Consumer prices in the capital Caracas gained 1.4
percent in February.  The scarcity index, which measures the amount of goods that
are out of stock on the market, fell to 19.7 percent last month
from a high of 20.4 percent in January, according to the central
bank report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 