-- Vermeer’s ‘Girl’ Shines; China Warriors: West Coast Art
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2013-03-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/vermeer-s-girl-shines-china-warriors-west-coast-art.html
Johannes Vermeer’s lovely “Girl
With a Pearl Earring” -- gray-blue eyes, lips slightly parted,
wearing a blue-and-yellow turban -- looks over her left shoulder
at the viewer with an innocent gaze.  She lives up to her reputation as a Dutch Mona Lisa, not to
mention a movie star after her portrayal by Scarlett Johansson
in Peter Webber’s film of a decade ago. The 1665 painting is now
in a fine exhibition of Dutch and Flemish paintings at the de
Young Museum in San Francisco, on tour from the  Mauritshuis , the
national picture gallery in The Hague, while that museum is
being renovated and expanded.  The show  is a concise introduction to the Golden Age of art
in the Netherlands, when the country was a global economic power
and people were mad for paintings as well as for tulips.  Among the 35 works are four Rembrandts, a pair of majestic
Frans Hals portraits, landscapes by Jacob van Ruisdael, luminous
still lifes by Pieter Claesz and Willem Heda, amusing and
touching genre pictures by Jan Steen and Pieter de Hooch of
ordinary people going about life, having fun, getting drunk.
Through it all is the amazing quality of the light, the huge
skies over sea and land.  Another character of these works is their sense of
stillness. In one, De Hooch shows a man in a black coat and hat
who sits in a chair and smokes a long white pipe while a woman
in a red skirt and white coat stands nearby sipping beer from a
tall glass. A small girl watches them from the other side of the
brick terrace. There’s not much going on, yet it’s quietly
spectacular.  ‘Rembrandt’s Century’  “Girl With a Pearl Earring: Dutch Paintings From the
Mauritshuis” is accompanied by  “Rembrandt’s Century,”  a
densely installed selection of more than 200 engravings,
drawings and other works on paper by the master, his
contemporaries and followers. They are drawn mainly from the
museum’s permanent collection and range from biblical and
mythological scenes to detailed, almost scientific views of the
world and its plants and animals.  Both exhibitions run through June 2 at the de Young Museum,
Golden Gate Park, San Francisco. Information: +1-415-750-3600;
 http://deyoung.famsf.org . “Girl With a Pearl Earring” moves to
Atlanta’s High Museum on June 23, and a smaller selection of the
works will be at the Frick Collection in New York in October.  Imperial Warriors  The world of China’s first emperor is on display at San
Francisco’s  Asian Art Museum  in “ China ’s Terracotta Warriors,”
an impressive show of 10 life-size funerary soldiers and horses
and more than 100 other objects from the Qin dynasty (221-206
B.C.).  The vast burial site of Emperor Qin Shihuang, the first
ruler to unify the country, was discovered in 1974 in Shaanxi
province, where excavation continues to this day. Along with an
imperial tomb, offices, stables and related structures, the
complex had almost 8,000 terracotta soldiers and other figures,
along with household and military objects such as bronze bowls,
bells and armor.  The terracotta works on display include a mustachioed
general in elaborate armor, a particularly determined-looking
kneeling archer, a charioteer, foot soldiers and two horses,
each distinct in its own way. The other stars of the show are
four elegant bronze sculptures of water birds -- two geese, a
swan and a long-necked crane -- with thick green patinas that
look like healthy crops of moss.  “China’s Terracotta Warriors: The First Emperor’s Legacy”
runs through May 27 at the Asian Art Museum, 200 Larkin St., San
Francisco. Information: +1-415-581-3500; www.asianart.org.  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars, Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  