-- Virgin Media CEO Berkett Will Get $86.8 Million to Leave Job
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-03-08T22:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/virgin-media-s-berkett-will-get-86-8-million-to-leave-ceo-job.html
Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  Chief Executive
Officer Neil Berkett, who is overseeing his company’s takeover
by  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , will walk away with $86.8 million when
he leaves his post once the deal is completed.  Berkett will receive $19.6 million from cash and stock in
severance pay, according to a regulatory filing by Liberty
Global yesterday. Other options and rewards from Berkett’s long-
term incentive plan amount to $67.2 million, according to Lulu Bridges, a  Virgin Media  spokeswoman.  The native New Zealander and former banker, who has served
as Virgin Media’s chief since 2008, announced he would leave the
role shortly after Liberty Global agreed to buy the U.K. cable
TV provider. A search for his successor is already under way.
Under Berkett, Virgin Media’s stock has tripled.  Liberty Global, controlled by billionaire  John Malone , is
paying $16 billion for Virgin Media to expand in Europe’s
biggest cable-TV market. The company competes against larger
rival  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , as well as streaming
services such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Virgin Media shares rose 1.2 percent to 3,178 pence in
London. The company is valued at 8.6 billion pounds ($12.8
billion).  Malone serves as Liberty Global’s chairman and held
approximately 36 percent of the company’s voting power as of
Dec. 31, 2012, according to the filing.  ‘Social Evening’  A merger of Liberty Global and Virgin Media was first
discussed during a “social evening” in August among Virgin
Media Chairman James Mooney, Liberty Global CEO Mike Fries and
Aryeh Bourkoff, the head of LionTree Advisors LLC, according to
the filing. Fries praised Virgin Media’s turnaround since
emerging from bankruptcy in 2003 and discussed whether a
combination of the two companies made sense.  A few days later, Virgin Media directors determined the
company wasn’t for sale, though they agreed to consider a
proposal from  Liberty Global  “only if it embodied a compelling
valuation,” according to the filing.  The papers show Virgin Media rejected several proposals and
calls for discussion with Liberty Global. The two sides finally
entered into a confidentiality agreement just before Christmas.  Prior Resignation  It was also noted that Berkett previously informed Virgin
Media’s  board  he intended to leave his CEO post by Dec. 31,
before agreeing to the Liberty Global transaction, and that a
search for his successor had started.  Liberty Global cited both companies’ expertise across
digital TV, broadband and telephony as a key reason for
combining, as well as the opportunity to expand Liberty Global’s
global footprint.  Berkett said this week he was doubtful whether he’d take on
another executive role after stepping down, and that he wasn’t
committed to finding another job in the  media industry .  “I haven’t thought much ahead about what I’d like to do,”
he said in an interview during the Cable Congress in London.
“Seven and a half years at Virgin Media is a big chunk out of
anyone’s time and I’ve spent a big chunk of that as CEO.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  