-- Washington Nuke Leak Answer May Take Years, Inslee Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2013-03-07T02:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/washington-nuke-leak-may-be-years-from-answer-inslee-say.html
Washington Governor Jay Inslee said
it may take as much as four years to begin transferring
radioactive sludge from leaking underground tanks at the former
nuclear weapons production complex known as the  Hanford Site .  “This is not something that can be done overnight,”
Inslee told reporters yesterday after touring part of the U.S.
 Energy Department ’s 586-square-mile reserve in southeast
Washington. Plutonium made there went into atomic weapons
including “ Fat Man ,” the bomb detonated over Nagasaki in 1945.  The governor’s visit came a day after the agency said more
than 4,700 workers at Hanford face furloughs or layoffs under
 federal budget  cuts known as sequestration. Inslee, who said it
would take two to four years to ready the waste for shipment
to New Mexico, said the proposed cuts would slow the cleanup.  “It’s the only option other than just to let this material
leak into the topsoil of the State of Washington for decades,”
said Inslee, a 62-year-old Democrat who took office in January.  The governor said Energy Secretary Steven Chu told him in a
meeting last month that leaks were found in six of 177
underground tanks holding plutonium production waste after
decades of corrosion.  The Energy Department has spent more than $16 billion since
1989 to clean up the site. Nine nuclear reactors operated at
Hanford from 1944 until 1987, starting under the top-secret
Manhattan Project that developed the first atomic bomb.  Millions of Gallons  The weapons production generated 56 million gallons of
radioactive waste, enough to fill a vessel the size of a
football field to a depth of 150 feet, according to a December
 report  by the U.S. Government Accountability Office.  The Energy Department said yesterday it may transfer about
3.1 million gallons of Hanford waste to a processing facility in
Carlsbad,  New Mexico .  Inslee said the agency agreed to send waste from five to
eight storage tanks to New Mexico. One leaking tank’s waste
isn’t suitable for transport, he said, without providing
details. While he gave no estimate for the cost of the transfer,
“this will be on the federal government nickel,” Inslee said.  “We think this is the right first step,” Inslee said in a
press briefing at Hanford. “Our insistence on a zero-tolerance
policy has resulted in an active plan to remove this waste.”  The plan may be complicated by the sequestration cuts.
Funding for all of the Energy Department’s contractors in
Washington state may be reduced by about $182 million, trimming
the hours or jobs of as many as 4,800 employees, the department
said March 5 in a letter to Inslee. Furloughs could start as
soon as April 1, the agency said.  Water Source  The Columbia River borders the Hanford site for almost 50
miles. Some of the tanks are as close as five miles (eight
kilometers) to the river, the largest in the Pacific Northwest
and the source of irrigation for agriculture and drinking water
for downstream cities.  “Every bit of the waste that drips out of these tanks is
going to be a problem for someone,” said Dan Serres,
conservation director of  Columbia Riverkeeper , an environmental
group downriver from Hanford in Hood River,  Oregon .  In 2000, Bechtel National, a unit of closely held Bechtel
Group Inc., the largest U.S. engineering company, was awarded an
11-year, $4.3 billion contract to design and build a plant to
process the waste into a glasslike substance.  Since then, the estimated completion cost has tripled to
$13.4 billion and the plant’s opening has been delayed until
2019, according to the GAO report.  ‘Assumed Leaker’  The leaking tanks range in capacity from 55,000 gallons to
768,000 gallons. All but the largest were built in 1943 and
1944, according to the Energy Department. One tank, known as
TY-105, was labeled an “assumed leaker” in 1960, according to
a March 4 report by  Kevin Smith , manager of the department’s
Office of River Protection, to the Oregon Hanford Cleanup Board.  Radiation levels in the soil at Hanford haven’t gone up
since authorities discovered that liquid levels in the first
tank were falling, the department has said.  People living near Hanford say they aren’t alarmed by news
of the leaks and some even joke about it.  “I’ve lived downriver from all these tanks for 75 years,”
said Mart Young, who spent 25 years working at Hanford. “Every
molecule of water in my body came from the Columbia River, and
I’m still vertical.”  “If the lights go out, stick close to me, I glow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Hanford,  Washington , at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  