-- Weight Loss May Be a Warning Sign for Heart-Failure Patients
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-07T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/weight-loss-may-be-a-warning-sign-for-heart-failure-patients.html
Weight loss  may be harmful for heart
failure patients who have implanted medical  devices  used to help
regulate their cardiac rhythm, researchers said.  Their study of 994 patients who have devices that
synchronize the heart’s contractions found those who lost even a
little weight had a significantly greater risk of worsening
heart failure or death. The findings, slated for presentation at
the  American College of Cardiology  meeting this weekend in  San
Francisco , suggest doctors should closely monitor patients’
weight, said lead researcher Valentina Kutyifa.  The risk of worsening heart failure or death rose 4 percent
with each kilogram, or 2.2 pounds, of weight lost, the study
found. In patients with a condition known as left  bundle branch
block , weight loss doubled the danger. Heart failure typically
requires high energy demand, so heavier patients may have more
reserves that help them survive, Kutyifa said.  “Unplanned weight loss might be a warning sign that
something bad is going on,” said Kutyifa, a research associate
at the University of Rochester Medical Center in  New York . “All
patients who lose weight with implanted devices should have
checkups and physicians should monitor them more closely,” she
said in a telephone interview.  The researchers analyzed findings from the Madit-CRT trial,
a study funded by Natick, Massachusetts-based  Boston Scientific
Corp. (BSX)  It is the first to show weight loss may be linked to
increased health complications in patients with the devices that
provide cardiac resynchronization therapy, Kutyifa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  