-- West Australia Set to Stay Liberal Highlighting Gillard’s Plight
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-03-07T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/west-australia-set-to-stay-liberal-highlighting-gillard-s-plight.html
Western Australia  is set to return
the state Liberal Party to power this weekend as voters at the
forefront of the nation’s mining boom underscore the waning
popularity of Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s Labor party.  State Premier Colin Barnett’s Liberal-National coalition
had a 56 percent to 44 percent lead over Labor on a two-party
preferred basis, according to a Galaxy poll published in the
Sunday Times on Feb. 24. If replicated in tomorrow’s voting,
that would give the Liberals up to 32 seats and Labor as few as
20 in the 59-seat state lower house, the newspaper said.  Labor is in opposition in the four biggest of the nation’s
six states and trails in national polls ahead of the Sept. 14
federal election. In Western  Australia  -- where Labor holds just
three of 15 seats in the federal parliament -- Gillard’s tax to
snare mining profits has alienated voters in the state that
produces a third of the world’s traded iron ore.  “Barnett looks to have a lock on power,” said Zareh
Ghazarian, a politics lecturer at Monash University in
 Melbourne . “Especially at a federal level, Labor is on the nose
in Western Australia due to some of its policies that are
perceived to be anti-mining, an industry that’s the lifeblood of
the state.”  Barnett, 62, won power in September 2008, ending more than
seven years of Labor rule, by forming a coalition with the
Nationals. He’s campaigning on his economic record and is
pledging to improve health services and toughen his government’s
stance against crime. State Labor leader Mark McGowan is vowing
to improve public transport and cut electricity bills.  Mining Boom  Western Australia, more than three times the size of  Texas ,
is enjoying a decade-long boom comparable with its 1890s gold
rush on Asian demand for its resource riches. The state has an
investment pipeline of A$141 billion ($144 billion), more than
half of Australia’s total, according to estimates from the
Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics.  Work is progressing on  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s A$52 billion Gorgon
liquefied natural gas project and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s expansions
to iron ore operations. The state is also home to mining
magnates such as Australia’s richest person  Gina Rinehart  and
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  founder Andrew Forrest.  Reflecting the strength of the resources industry, final
demand in the state surged 14.2 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, Australian Bureau of Statistics data
released March 6 shows. Western Australians have the highest
average earnings of any state and an unemployment rate of 4
percent, against the national average of 5.4 percent.  The Feb. 22-24 Galaxy telephone survey of 800 people didn’t
give a margin of error. The two-party preferred measure is
designed to gauge which major party is likely to win the seats
required to form a government.  Campaign Kickoff  At Barnett’s  campaign kickoff  in Perth on Feb. 17, federal
Liberal leader Tony Abbott lauded the premier’s victory in 2008,
which came when Labor held power in the national capital
Canberra and in all six states. Now, Labor leads in just the two
smallest states economically, South Australia and Tasmania.  “There is one bad government yet to go,” Abbott said.
“That’s the big one in Canberra which must fall if our country
is once more to flourish. There are two elections, my friends,
this year, very important elections.”  During the 2008 election, the Liberal-Nationals secured
51.9 percent of the two-party preferred vote compared to Labor’s
48.1 percent. Barnett swept to power after the incumbent,
Labor’s Alan Carpenter, called the election five months before
it was due, the earliest in Western Australia in 100 years.  Victoria Leader  The Liberals and Nationals won 29 seats between them in the
2008 election. Labor won 26 and independents four.  In Victoria, a state in the slow-lane of the nation’s two-
speed economy, Premier Ted Baillieu stepped down on March 6
after the resignation of a party lawmaker jeopardized his
government’s parliamentary majority. Baillieu, who will remain a
member of the state parliament, was replaced as Liberal Party
leader by Denis Napthine, who was minister for major projects,
ports, racing and regional cities.  At a federal level, Gillard’s ruling Labor party trails the
Liberal-National opposition by 10 percentage points, according
to a Newspoll survey published in the Australian newspaper Feb.
26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  