-- Wireless Competition That AT&T and Verizon Need
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-03-07T23:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/wireless-competition-that-at-t-and-verizon-need.html
Tantalizing  reports  that Americans
might soon be getting free nationwide wireless Internet access,
courtesy of the Federal Communications Commission, have turned
out to be exaggerated. But wouldn’t we all welcome mobile
connectivity at a reasonable price? The FCC should take steps to
make that possible through competition in the wireless
marketplace.  Right now, Verizon Wireless and AT&T Inc. dominate the
market for wireless data as a duopoly, together accounting for
more than two-thirds of all U.S. subscribers and most of the
wireless industry’s profits. The other three of the five biggest
mobile-phone companies -- Sprint Nextel Corp., T-Mobile USA Inc.
and MetroPCS Communications Inc. -- are small by comparison. And
the big keep getting bigger: In the fourth quarter of 2012,
while Verizon added a record 2.1 million subscribers to its base
of 90.4 million wireless retail subscriptions, and AT&T added
more than three-quarters of a million subscribers to its 106
million retail connections, Sprint, T-Mobile and MetroPCS all
lost subscribers.  The two giants have the market power to impose very low
monthly  usage caps , beyond which consumers are charged
exorbitant overage fees, and “shared use” plans that allow the
companies to extract additional revenue per household from
families sharing buckets of data.  Spectrum Advantage  More important, Verizon Wireless and AT&T hold most of the
licenses the FCC has issued for low-band wireless spectrum. This
spectrum, which travels through walls and over great distances,
gives the company a “tremendous advantage” over high-band
licensees such as T-Mobile, Verizon’s chief technology officer,
Tony Melone, told analysts in 2010. A single tower transmitting
over low-band spectrum can cover three to three and a half times
the geographic area of a high-band transmitter.  This means that Verizon Wireless can run its nationwide
network using far fewer towers than T-Mobile needs to provide
similar coverage. These low-band spectrum holdings create a
barrier to entry that other carriers have trouble overcoming.  So people got excited when the Washington Post reported
last month that the FCC was planning to make more Wi-Fi spectrum
available for use by any home or business without permission.
The Wi-Fi signals we currently use to connect to the Internet
are the last 50 feet of a wired connection; Wi-Fi allows us to
share home and business wires without signing up for the
wireless carriers’ data plans.  Verizon and AT&T themselves already rely extensively on Wi-
Fi to avoid having to increase the capacity of their own
networks. The big difference between current Wi-Fi and the
proposed additional Wi-Fi is that the new uses would be in low-
band spectrum. While signals over high-frequency spectrum carry
lots of information, they degrade very quickly over distance --
which is why your current Wi-Fi connection at work fades as soon
as you walk away from your office.  More Wi-Fi would make one element of a wireless network --
the frequencies -- “free.” But a wireless network still can’t
exist without being close to a wired Internet connection, and
someone has to pay for that.  Still, new spectrum for Wi-Fi is a good idea, because it
would have greater range than current Wi-Fi and would foster
innovation. But it would have far less range than Verizon
Wireless and AT&T provide, and thus wouldn’t supplant the need
for most people to have a mobile data plan.  If we want more competition for Verizon Wireless and AT&T,
Wi-Fi alone won’t do it. We must ensure that low-band licensed
(paid-for) spectrum is available to challengers who won’t be
limited by the range constraints of Wi-Fi. The FCC has an
opportunity to do that: In 2014, it plans to have TV
broadcasters give up some of their low-band licensed spectrum
for resale to wireless data carriers.  This so-called  incentive auction , which allows the
broadcasters to share in the proceeds, is our last best chance
to weaken the grip of the wireless duopoly. Broadcasters need to
be urged to cooperate by contributing all the spectrum they
don’t need. And the FCC needs to get the auction rules right so
Verizon Wireless and AT&T aren’t allowed to snatch it all up for
themselves. Otherwise, we will see no change.  All American businesses want competition and innovation in
the wireless space that will drive lower prices, wider choices
of inexpensive devices, and greater investments in capacity. The
FCC needs to make sure they get it.  (Susan P. Crawford, a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
professor at the Cardozo School of Law, is the author of
“Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in
the New Gilded Age.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or  @scrawford  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 