-- Won Snaps Two-Day Rally as Foreign Funds Sell Stocks; Bonds Drop
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-07T06:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/won-snaps-two-day-rally-as-foreign-funds-sell-stocks-bonds-drop.html
The won dropped for the first time
in three days as global investors sold South Korean shares and
after Credit Suisse Group AG recommended betting against the
currency.  Government bonds  declined.  The dollar advanced against most major counterparts after a
report showed U.S. companies added more workers than forecast
and the  Federal Reserve  said the world’s largest economy is
growing. The Kospi index of shares fell 0.8 percent, snapping a
two-day gain, as foreign funds  sold  64 billion won ($59 million)
more of local equities than they bought, exchange data show.
Investors should sell the won, Credit Suisse said in note,
citing the risk of central bank intervention amid a weaker yen.  “Foreign investors, who have been buying more stocks over
the past few days, have turned net sellers,” said Jeon Seung
Ji, an analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “Better-than-
expected U.S. jobs data pushed up the dollar globally. Still,
exporters looking to sell dollars to repatriate income is
limiting further weakness in the won.”  The won declined 0.4 percent to 1,087.05 per dollar in
 Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
gained 1 percent in the past two days. One-month implied
volatility for the won, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, rose 31 basis points, or
0.31 percentage point, to 6.71 percent.  Beige Book  Currency stability is needed to protect local companies and
the nation will “pre-emptively, effectively” respond to
exchange-rate risk, according to an e-mailed statement from
President Park Geun Hye’s spokesman Park Sun Kyoo last month.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 82.46. It reached a
seven-month high yesterday.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  extended its gain to a
record high after a private report from ADP Research Institute
showed employers added 198,000 jobs last month, topping the
median economist forecast for 170,000 and bolstering optimism
before the government’s labor report on March 8. The  U.S.
economy  grew at a modest to moderate pace across most of the
country amid rising consumer demand for homes and autos, the Fed
said in its  Beige Book  survey.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due September 2017 rose
three basis points to 2.77 percent, according to prices from
Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  