-- Tiger Woods Sits in Five-Way Tie for Cadillac Championship Lead
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-03-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/woods-trails-leader-johnson-by-one-shot-at-cadillac-championship.html
Tiger Woods , seeking his second U.S.
PGA Tour victory of the season, is in a five-way tie for the
lead entering today’s second round at the Cadillac Championship.  Woods, the No. 2 player in the  Official World Golf Ranking ,
had nine birdies and three bogeys for a 6-under-par 66 in calm
conditions yesterday at the TPC Blue Monster course at Doral
Resort and Spa in Miami. Bubba Watson,  Sergio Garcia , Graeme McDowell and Freddie Jacobson are also 6-under.  “It’s got to blow here sometime,” Woods told the Golf
Channel in a televised interview. “I don’t think we’re going to
get all four days with wind like this. Today was as easy as it
gets around this place.”  Winds in Miami are forecast to increase to about 8 miles
per hour (13 kph) today, to 13 mph tomorrow and to 15 mph for
the final round, with temperatures around 77 degrees Fahrenheit
(25 Celsius) on all three days, according to the  Weather
Channel .  The winner of the inaugural edition in 1999, the 37-year-
old Woods has claimed the title five further times, most
recently in 2007. Woods, who began this season with his eighth
career win at the Farmers Insurance Open at  Torrey Pines  in
January, won the last of his 16 World Golf Championships events
at the Bridgestone Invitational in 2009. Geoff Ogilvy’s three
WGC titles rank second behind Woods’s tally.  Woods has won the tournament twice, in 2002 and 2006, when
leading after the first round, while his victory seven years ago
was his last when leading after the opening day. Woods has had
at least a share of the lead 28 times after the first round of a
tournament and has converted 13 of those into victories.  Chasing Pack  Phil Mickelson ,  Steve Stricker ,  Hunter Mahan  and  Peter Hanson  are at 5-under, while 18 players are within three shots
of the leaders.  Rory McIlroy, the world’s No. 1 player from  Northern
Ireland , is tied for 50th place after a 1-over 73. Last year he
began with the same score before finishing the tournament in
third place.  McIlroy, 23, is playing a week after quitting the Honda
Classic eight holes into his second round. McIlroy was 7-over
par at the time and cited wisdom-tooth pain for his withdrawal.
He later apologized, saying he made a mistake and should have
completed his round.  “My head was all over the place,” McIlroy told reporters.
“I’ve been putting a lot of pressure on myself to perform and
I’ve been working so hard and not really getting much out of it.
You know, that’s just been the frustrating thing.”  The Cadillac Championship features a limited field of 65 of
the top players in the world. The purse is $8.8 million,
including $1.5 million for the winner, with no cut for weekend
play and a paycheck for everyone who completes the four rounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  