-- Zimbabwe’s Gono Says Banks Start Cutting Interest Rates, Charges
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-03-07T11:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-07/zimbabwe-s-gono-says-banks-start-cutting-interest-rates-charges.html
Zimbabwe ’s Central Bank Governor
Gideon Gono said some lenders are cutting  interest rates  and
bank charges to comply with an agreement signed in January.  “It is heartening to note that some banks have already
started to lower interest rates and bank charges,” Gono said
today at a meeting hosted by the Confederation of Zimbabwe
Industries in the capital, Harare. “Banks are also adjusting
interest rates on deposits upwards as stipulated in the
Memorandum of Understanding.”  An interest margin of no more than 12.5 percentage points
above the banks’ cost of financing will ensure lending rates are
probably less than 20 percent, Gono said. That “compares
favorably” with lending rates in excess of 30 percent that
prevailed since Finance Minister  Tendai Biti  abandoned the
Zimbabwe dollar in 2009 to curb inflation, he said.  The  Reserve Bank  of Zimbabwe and the Bankers’ Association
of Zimbabwe, whose members include the local units of  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , reached an agreement on interest
rates and bank charges on Jan. 31. Under the terms of the
agreement, banks will also be compelled to pay an interest rate
of at least 4 percent on term deposits of more than $1,000 and
to design accounts with lower charges for poorer customers.  The pressure to lower interest rates comes after Biti said
in November that the country could amend its banking laws after
central bank attempts to restart the country’s capital markets
by selling Treasury bills for the first time since 2008 were
shunned by financial institutions. A decade-long recession ended
in 2009 when neighboring countries forced President  Robert Mugabe  and Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  to end a political
dispute by forming a coalition government.  Raising Capital  Other African countries have sought to reduce lending rates
by banks in recent months. On Dec. 21 Zambia capped lending
rates at 18.25 percent for banks including a unit of London-
based Barclays.  Two or three banks are struggling to raise the $25 million
required by end of December to meet part of $100 million
capitalization, Gono said today.  “In practice, there would be no penalties on a bank that
fails to get the $25 million,” Gono said. “There are
opportunities to downgrade that institution to a micro finance
institution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  