-- 
Emanuel Chides Republican ‘Ideology’ as Romney Skips Iowa Forum

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-11-21T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-20/romney-absent-from-iowa-family-forum-as-emanuel-rallies-state-s-democrats.html
Rahm Emanuel , the Democratic mayor
of Chicago who served as President Barack Obama’s first White
House chief of staff, said yesterday that Republicans place
“ideology” over the public interest, a day after candidates
for that party’s presidential nomination made a pitch to 3,000
social conservatives at a church in  Iowa .  Six Republican candidates seeking to become the main
alternative to  Mitt Romney  attended a Nov. 19 forum in Des
Moines, where they criticized the Occupy Wall Street movement
and called for a greater religious presence in civic life.
Romney, 64, skipped the event, which was sponsored by a
coalition of Iowa groups opposed to abortion rights and same-sex
marriage.  Obama “has a plan; they have an ideology,” Emanuel said
yesterday on ABC’s “This Week with Christiane Amanpour”
program. “He has offered to work on a grand bargain. They have
refused to bargain.”  On the same day as the social conservatives’ forum, Emanuel
also appeared in  Des Moines . He addressed an annual Democratic
fundraising dinner, mocking the Republicans as he pressed for
Obama’s re-election.  Known for his sharp-edged speaking style, Emanuel told
about 1,500 Democrats that the name of the Republican event --
the  Thanksgiving Family Forum  -- “is fitting, because I have
never seen such a collection of turkeys.”  Serial ‘Flip-Flopper’  Emanuel, 51, kept his focus primarily on Romney, targeting
the candidate who Obama’s re-election campaign thinks is most
likely to be the president’s 2012 opponent. He painted the
former Massachusetts governor as a serial “flip-flopper” on a
number of issues.  “Mitt Romney says he’s a man of steadiness and
consistency, and if that’s true, then I’m a linebacker for the
 Chicago  Bears,” Emanuel said.  Romney’s spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, said in an e-mail
yesterday that “the last thing the White House wants is to run
against Mitt Romney -- which explains their obsessive focus on
him and deployment of all of President Obama’s cronies to attack
him.”  The church gathering offered the challengers to Romney a
spotlight before an influential voting bloc.  Romney’s absence underscored his campaign’s reluctance to
fully commit to winning the Iowa caucuses, which begin the
presidential nomination contests on Jan. 3. Still, a Bloomberg
News poll released Nov. 15 showed that fractured support in the
state among the other top Republican contenders could give him
an opening to win the caucuses.  Moral ‘Collapse’  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who has been
rising in national polls of the Republican race and in Iowa
surveys, chided the Occupy Wall Street movement as he made his
bid for the backing of social conservatives. He questioned the
use of public parks and restrooms by protesters who may not be
paying taxes to support those facilities.  “That is a pretty good symptom as to how much the Left has
collapsed as a moral system in this country, and why we need to
reassert something as simple as saying to them: ‘Go get a job
right after you take a bath,’” he said.  The twice-divorced Gingrich also talked about how he was
overwhelmed as his national political profile grew and ended up
turning closer to God after a friend lent him books about
addiction.  “I wasn’t drinking, but I had precisely the symptoms of
somebody who was collapsing under this weight,” he said. “And
I found myself, an emerging national figure, reading the Good
Book and trying to understand where I had failed, and why I was
empty and why I had to turn to God.”  ‘Widening Gap’  Businessman  Herman Cain , who had been surging in the polls
until sexual harassment allegations surfaced against him in late
October, decried what he termed “a widening gap between people
of faith and people of non-faith.”  Cain, who didn’t mention the harassment allegations that he
has vehemently denied, told the audience: “The way you fight
back is not be afraid to express your faith in any setting,
rather than worrying about the political correctness police.”  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota said she
supports the repeal of federal laws that limit the political
speech religious leaders can deliver from the pulpit.  First Amendment Right  “That’s not the American way,” she said. “That is the
First Amendment: allowing pastors to say whatever they want in
the pulpit.”  Though Bachmann didn’t directly criticize any of the other
Republican candidates at the event, her campaign issued a news
release during the forum with the headline: “Newt Gingrich Has
Failed to Meet a Consistently Pro-Life Standard.”  The release claimed to document instances where Gingrich
had watered down “the  Republican Party ’s commitment to the
inalienable right to life and failed as the leader of the U.S.
House of Representatives to stem the flow of taxpayer dollars to
Planned Parenthood, the largest U.S. provider of abortions.”  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , who polls show has a
solid base of support in Iowa, said he opposed an amendment to
the U.S. Constitution that would ban same-sex marriage, a
measure sought by social conservatives.  “I would prefer under our system of laws that all these
problems be taken care of in a constitutional manner, which I
would defer to the states,” he said.  Foreign Aid, Abortion  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who needs a strong showing in
Iowa to resurrect his campaign, linked his call for the
elimination of some U.S. foreign aid to the abortion issue.  “The idea that we are sending billions of dollars to
 China , who are aborting 35,000 children a day, is immoral and
wrong and has to stop,” Perry said.  Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  reminded
his audience that he came to Iowa last year and “worked to
defeat” state supreme court judges who in 2009 had ruled in
favor of allowing same-sex couples to marry. Santorum, who lags
behind in the polls, has  spent more time in Iowa this year  than
any of the Republican candidates.  Romney’s absence from the Republican forum frustrated event
organizer Bob Vander Plaats.  “We all know he is trying to win Iowa,” Vander Plaats
said in an interview. “Yet he is intentionally disrespecting
this base.”  Romney, who just opened his first Iowa campaign office west
of downtown Des Moines, was meeting voters this weekend in  New
Hampshire , where the nation’s first primary will be held Jan.
10. He also skipped a Republican fundraising dinner in Iowa on
Nov. 4 and a banquet for social conservatives on Oct. 22. He is
scheduled to make his fifth Iowa visit this year on Nov. 23.  Romney also sought the Republican presidential nomination
four years ago, eventually losing to Arizona Senator  John McCain . In that race, social conservatives helped former
Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  win Iowa’s Republican caucuses,
which played a part in derailing Romney’s campaign. Romney had
spent about $10 million trying to win the state.  ‘Big Mistake’  Vander Plaats, who was Huckabee’s state campaign chairman,
said it was about this time four years ago when social
conservatives began to line up behind his candidate.  “This is when they start to break,” he said. “I think
it’s a big mistake on Romney’s part” to not more actively seek
their support.  Frank Luntz, a Fox News contributor who moderated the
forum, was the only one on stage to directly mention Romney.
After Cain criticized the concept of a health-care mandate like
the one in the state law Romney signed in  Massachusetts  -- as
well as the one in the federal measure Obama pushed into law
last year -- Luntz said, “If only Mitt Romney were here to
respond.”  Statistical Tie  The  Bloomberg News poll  conducted Nov. 10-12 of Iowans
likely to attend the caucuses showed Romney, Cain, Paul and
Gingrich in a statistical tie for first place, all at or near 20
percent.  The poll showed that 43 percent of likely caucus
participants consider themselves “born again” or
fundamentalist Christians. Among that group, Romney gets support
from 12 percent, six points below his overall number.  Iowa Republican Governor Terry Branstad, the senior
Republican in the state, scolded Romney on Nov. 16 for deciding
to skip the Republican church forum.  “I know Romney is putting his focus in New Hampshire, but
if he gets clobbered here -- if he comes in not in the top
three, but say fourth or fifth -- I think that really damages
his campaign,” Branstad  said .  After the Republican event, all of the candidates except
Gingrich made brief speeches honoring Branstad at a celebration
for his 65th birthday in Altoona, Iowa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  