-- 
‘Fairy Godmother’ Faith Boosting Stocks: Grant

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   L i s a   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-10-10T22:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/-fairy-god-mother-faith-in-europe-boosting-stocks-southwest-s-grant-says.html
Gains from  Europe ’s biggest four-day
stock surge since 2008 may vanish as German and French leaders
have yet to resolve the region’s sovereign debt crisis, said
 Mark Grant , a managing director at Southwest Securities Inc.  “The equity markets are rallying that the Fairy
Godmother’s going to show up,” Grant, based in  Fort Lauderdale ,
Florida, said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart” program. “France and Germany don’t have a
plan.”  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 1.7 percent
in London trading, capping a four-day gain of 8.5 percent as
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy set an end-of-October deadline to devise a strategy to
recapitalize banks, ease  Greece ’s debt burden and fix Europe’s
economic governance.  The rally may be short-lived as European leaders dismantle
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , once the world’s leading lender to municipalities, and
wrangle over the scope of writedowns on Greek bonds, Grant said.
Belgium said today it would buy Dexia’s local consumer-lending
unit for 4 billion euros ($5 billion) and guarantee 60 percent
of a so-called bad bank after the company’s short-term funding
evaporated.  Credit-ratings firms may downgrade bonds issued by Belgium
and France which, along with Luxembourg, will guarantee as much
as 90 billion euros of interbank and bond funding for Dexia over
10 years, endangering the 17-nation monetary union’s ability to
contend with the debt burdens of countries such as Greece, Grant
said.  “Once  France  gets downgraded, then the whole construct is
in trouble,” he said. “I think a lot more serious problems are
just weeks ahead.”  U.S. stocks also advanced today, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index gaining 3.4 percent, the most since Aug. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Murphy in New York at 
 Lmurphy25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  