-- 
‘Frumpy’ Bookkeeper Accused of Bilking Democrats for Millions

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-10-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/-frumpy-bookkeeper-accused-of-bilking-democrats-for-millions.html
To neighborhood kids, the cream-
colored stucco house near Hughes Middle School was known as the
site of an annual Halloween party. To neighbors in Long Beach,
 California , Kinde Durkee’s two-bedroom ranch was notable for its
chipped paint and overgrown shrubbery.  In Democratic circles, the 58-year-old bookkeeper with at
least 398 bank accounts for political campaigns and nonprofit
groups had a reputation for being prompt and responsive.  Neighbors and associates say there’s nothing in Durkee’s
background, demeanor or lifestyle to suggest that she
“masterminded a multimillion dollar fraudulent scheme,” as
U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein charged in a Sept. 23 lawsuit.
While Feinstein reported $5 million in cash to the  Federal
Election Commission  as of June 30, the bank found only $662,100
on Sept. 21, according to court documents.  “She’s a warm, accessible person,” said  Eric Bauman, 
chairman of the Los Angeles County Democratic Party, who said
he’s known Durkee since the early 1990s. “At best you would
describe her attire as frumpy. Drove a beat-up old car. Lived in
a plain home in  Long Beach . You don’t look at this person and
say, ‘This person doesn’t look right.’”  Durkee, who hasn’t replied to Feinstein or entered a plea
in a related criminal case, didn’t respond to requests for
comment in telephone calls and notes left at her home and
office. Neither did her husband and business partner, John
Forgy, or client-accounts manager, Matthew Lemcke. Her lawyer,
Daniel Nixon, didn’t respond to a message left at his office.  Embezzlement’s Scope  The scope of the alleged embezzlements from Durkee-
controlled funds for federal politicians is the largest at least
since the Federal Election Campaign Act became law in 1972, said
Kent Cooper, a former Federal Election Commission official.  “There’s been no one else who even comes close,” Cooper,
who now runs the money-in-politics database Capitol Hill Access,
said by telephone from  Washington .  Feinstein’s campaign also sued First California Bank, the
operating unit of  Westlake Village , California-based  First
California Financial Group Inc. (FCAL) , where Durkee had 398 accounts.
Chief Executive Officer Chong Guk Kum didn’t respond to voice
mail messages requesting comment. Gary Horgan, a company lawyer,
said in an e-mail that the bank would not comment.  Things Unravel  Things started to unravel for Durkee in 2010, when the
California Fair Political Practices Commission found
irregularities while auditing the political finances of Jerome Horton, the chairman of the Board of Equalization, the state’s
tax administrator. Horton said Durkee “acknowledged her
mistakes” during the audit and agreed to pay the commission’s
 $13,000 fine  and his legal bills.  “I had no knowledge of the magnitude of her fraud or the
extent to which others were involved until I read it in the
paper,” Horton wrote in an e-mail message to Bloomberg News.  After auditing another Durkee-managed account, the
commission in November 2010 called the Federal Bureau of
Investigation’s Public Corruption Squad in  Sacramento , according
to court documents. In an affidavit, FBI Special Agent Reginald
Coleman said it appeared that Durkee moved money from campaign
accounts to her company’s bank accounts and then transferred
other candidates’ funds to cover shortfalls. She covered up her
actions by filing false disclosure forms, according to the
affidavit.  Missing Money  The account of a Democratic state assemblyman from Anaheim,
Jose Solorio, is missing $677,181, the FBI investigation
revealed. Other Durkee clients, including Democratic U.S.
Representatives Susan Davis of San Diego and Loretta Sanchez of
 Santa Ana  and the Los Angeles County Democratic Party, reported
losses of $200,000 or more.  At least some of the money went to pay Durkee’s mortgage
and credit-card bills, which included charges for gas, ice
cream, cosmetics and a veterinarian, the FBI said. Durkee also
used campaign funds to make a $4,950 payment to Belmont Village,
an assisted-living facility where her mother lives, according to
Coleman’s affidavit.  In addition, Durkee donated money to three of the funds she
is accused of stealing from: $500 to Feinstein in 2000, a total
of $4,900 to Sanchez in 2010 and 2011 and a total of $825 to the
Los Angeles County Democratic Party in 2006 and 2007, according
to  Federal Election Commission  records.  Unique Case  At the state level, a typical embezzlement case involves
lawmakers inducing employees to do campaign work on government
time, said  Edwin Bender , executive director of the National
Institute on Money in State Politics, a Helena, Montana-based
watchdog group.  “This case is unique, in my experience, in that one person
handled the accounts of many, many candidates and apparently
managed over a long period of time to transfer money around in
such a way as to benefit personally,” Bender said in an e-mail
message.  The FBI arrested Durkee on Sept. 2. Since then, dozens of
other candidates and organizations across  Southern California 
have checked their own books for losses. Davis said in a Sept.
10 letter to supporters that about $250,000 in campaign funds
had been stolen. The  San Diego  Democrat described Durkee as
“the  Bernie Madoff  of campaign finance treasurers.”  ‘Wiped Out’  Sanchez’s campaign, which  reported  almost $379,000 in cash
on hand June 30, said in a  statement  to supporters that it had
been “nearly wiped out” by Durkee.  Durkee, who is not a certified public accountant, began her
political career in the 1970s as a protégée of Jules Glazer, a
longtime California Democratic campaign treasurer, according to
 Bill Carrick , Feinstein’s political strategist.  Glazer was national treasurer for the presidential campaign
of  Jimmy Carter , and statewide treasurer for California
Governors Pat Brown and his son,  Jerry Brown , according to the
Los Angeles Times. When Glazer retired in 1994, Durkee took on
most of his business, Carrick said. Glazer died in 1999 at the
age of 77.  Durkee established a reputation as responsive and
efficient, if occasionally sloppy, Bauman and Carrick said.
Bauman said he recommended Durkee to groups such as the Young
Latino Democrats of the San Fernando Valley when it formed in
2009. Jose Sandoval, the 32-year-old founder, said in an
interview that Durkee waived her fees when she met with members
in early 2010 to explain how to comply with campaign-finance
regulations.  Seemed Honest  “She seemed honest and was highly recommended,” said
Sandoval, who added that no money was missing from his group’s
account.  When the Democratic Women of the San Fernando Valley in
2007 established its Susan B. Anthony award to honor female
advocates, Durkee was the first recipient.  Durkee and her clients were fined a total of $135,862 by
the Fair Political Practices Commission in five cases between
December 2009 and April 2011, state  records  show. Durkee also
received five warning letters during that period.  The size and number of the enforcement actions attracted
notice at the commission, Chairwoman Ann Ravel said in an
interview.  “There was a pattern that should have set off alarm
bells,” she said. “We believe it was sloppy bookkeeping and
failure to do things on time. Some of those things were pretty
major, though.”  Bauman, whose Los Angeles County organization was included
in two cases that drew fines, said they involved technical
violations such as missing deadlines rather than any evidence of
misappropriations.  Low Profile  Durkee kept a low profile in the Long Beach neighborhood
where she and her husband bought a 1,614-square-foot, two-
bedroom house in 1991, according to neighbors and Los Angeles
County property records. The couple left home early for the 35-
mile commute to their office in Burbank, easily an hour in
Southern California traffic, and returned late, rarely
interacting with others on their block, neighbors said.  On a Sept. 29 visit, a mid-1990s Audi A6 and a late-1990s
Chevrolet Blazer sat in the driveway, both caked with dirt.  Durkee and Forgy stood out only for being generous to
neighborhood children on Halloween and, in a neighborhood that
leans conservative, for posting a campaign sign supporting
Democrats  John Kerry  and  John Edwards  in 2004, said Paul
Trudeau, who’s caring for his mother in the house next door.  ‘Hello and Goodbye’  “I don’t know much more than hello and goodbye,” Trudeau
said. “They worked quite late.”  The couple struggled to pay bills, court records show. In
2000, the Los Angeles County Superior Court entered an $8,350
judgment against Forgy for First Select Corp., the collections
arm of credit-card issuer Providian Financial Corp., which was
acquired by  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  in 2005.  Chase Manhattan Bank, since absorbed into  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , sued Durkee in 2002 and 2003 to collect debts, court
records show. Both cases were dismissed.  Their home, for which they owed $4,169 in taxes in 2009,
was the subject of three tax liens, two in 2008 and one earlier
this year, according to Los Angeles County Registrar of Deeds
records.  The 2008 liens, which totaled $18,549, were lifted, the
records show. There is no record of any settlement of the 2011
lien, which was in the amount of $10,002, according to the
records.  Several lawyers for Durkee-managed campaign accounts said
they’re mystified about where any misappropriated money might
have gone, noting that Durkee and Forgy gave no signs of
flaunting wealth.  “I find the whole thing remarkable,” said  Stephen
Kaufman , the lawyer for the Los Angeles County Democratic Party
and several other Durkee clients, in an interview. “We have no
idea where all the money went.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  