-- 
‘No Evidence’ Rajaratnam Led Others in Crimes, Fund Manager’s Lawyers Say

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-11T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/-no-evidence-rajaratnam-led-others-in-crimes-defense-argues.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, the central figure in the biggest hedge fund
insider-trading prosecution in history, disputed prosecutors’
claim that he deserves an enhanced sentence for leading five or
more people in crime.  “There is simply no evidence that Mr. Rajaratnam led any
of these individuals in connection with criminal activity --
much less that he led all of them -- much less that he did so
with specific criminal intent,” Rajaratnam’s lawyers said in a
filing yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan . They were
responding to a government claim that he directed nine Galleon
back-office employees and outside fund managers in one of the
conspiracies.  Prosecutors filed papers Oct. 7 arguing that Rajaratnam’s
insider-trading schemes involved five or more people, including
knowing and unknowing participants.  Rajaratnam, who is to be sentenced by U.S. District Judge
Richard Holwell Oct. 13, also argued yesterday that the
government had failed to show he obstructed justice by lying to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which merits an
additional sentence enhancement, according to prosecutors.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of 14 counts of
 securities fraud  and conspiracy. Prosecutors, saying he made
$72 million from his crimes, asked for a prison term of 19 years
and seven months to 24 1/2 years, which Rajaratnam’s lawyers
called “grotesquely severe.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  