-- 
Abbas Woos ‘Latin America’s Israel’ in Palestinian State Bid

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-10-11T14:40:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/abbas-woos-israel-of-latin-america-seeking-vote-on-palestinian-statehood.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  meets with his Colombian counterpart today, hoping
to take advantage of Latin America’s growing independence from
the U.S. to win a Security Council vote in his bid for United
Nations membership.  It won’t be easy. Colombia, a rotating member of the
Security Council, rebuffed a Palestinian diplomatic push last
year that won it recognition as an independent state from Brazil
and eight other South American nations. Colombia is the biggest
recipient of U.S. military aid outside the  Middle East  and the
visit comes as Congress this week is scheduled to vote on a
free-trade agreement that will strengthen ties even further.  A small chance to win over President  Juan Manuel Santos 
exists because his 14-month-old administration has tried to ease
tensions with  Venezuela , a staunch opponent of the U.S., and
deepen trade with the rest of South America, said  Adam Isacson ,
analyst at the  Washington  Office on Latin America.  “Santos has tried to do away with the image that Colombia
is almost a proxy of the U.S.,” said Isacson, who has led
congressional delegations to Colombia. “This vote would
absolutely hurt that. But to go against the U.S. on an issue of
this gravity would be a thumb in the U.S. eye.”  The Palestinians have said at least eight council members -
- Russia,  China , Gabon, Nigeria,  South Africa , Brazil, Lebanon
and  India  -- will back their bid in the  Security Council . A U.S.
veto pledge notwithstanding, that still leaves the Palestinians
one vote short of the nine needed for membership.  Siding With U.S.  Santos, at the UN General Assembly last month, sided with
the U.S. and said that the Palestinian-Israeli conflict can only
be resolved through peace talks. He said his country’s position
is the same as it was in 1947, when it was among 10 nations that
 abstained  from the UN vote creating the state of Israel.  “We want a Palestinian state, but this has to be the
product of a peace agreement and not an imposition,” Santos,
60, said Sept. 24 in Medellin. His office did not return a phone
call or e-mail seeking further comment. Santos and Abbas will
address the press after they meet at 10:45 a.m.  New York  time at
the presidential palace in Bogota. Abbas will head to Venezuela
from Bogota.  The position differs from that of  Brazil , which is also
currently a non-permanent member of the Security Council. In a
move that surprised Washington, former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  last year recognized the state of  Palestine  based
on borders before Israel took control of the West Bank in 1967.
Eight other South American nations followed suit, though not all
recognized the pre-1967 borders.  “The recognition of the legitimate right of the
Palestinian people to sovereignty and self-determination
increases the chances of a lasting peace,” Lula’s successor,
Dilma Rousseff, told the General Assembly on Sept. 21.  ‘Israel of Latin America’  Israel and the U.S. are among Colombia’s top weapons
suppliers in its fight against the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia,  Latin America ’s biggest and oldest insurgency. Israeli
advisers also assisted Santos, when he was defense minister from
2006 to 2009, in planning the rescue of 15 rebel-held hostages,
including politician Ingrid Betancourt and three U.S. defense
contractors.  Like Israel, Colombia has drawn criticism for its strong
tactics against insurgents. Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez
accused Santos in 2009 of turning Colombia into the “Israel of
Latin America” when as defense minister he ordered the bombing
of a guerrilla camp in Ecuador. The attack was condemned as a
threat to regional security by Brazil and spurred Chavez to
break off trade and send tanks to the border.  Since becoming president, Santos has mended ties with
Chavez by distancing himself from claims by his predecessor,
Alvaro Uribe, that Venezuela is harboring Colombian guerrillas.  Chinese Influence  At the same time, he has downplayed relations with the
U.S., which has provided  Colombia  with more than $7 billion in
anti-narcotics aid since 2000. The Harvard University-educated
president didn’t mention the U.S. in his inaugural address last
year, as the free-trade agreement struck in 2006 languished, and
has since forged stronger trade ties with Brazil and Asia.  Colombian exports to China more than doubled last year to
$2 billion, while those to the U.S. rose 31 percent, to $16.9
billion. Santos is also seeking Chinese investment for a “dry
canal” to connect the Pacific Ocean port of Buenaventura by
rail to coal deposits near the Caribbean.  The trend is similar throughout Latin America, where China
in 2009 overtook the U.S. as Brazil’s biggest trading partner
and is now the biggest buyer of exports from  Chile .  Not U.S. ‘Priority’  “Latin America has not been a priority for the U.S. for a
long time,” said Jose Antonio Ocampo, a former Colombian
finance minister and professor of international relations at
Columbia University in New York. “There is no question that
Latin America has become much more independent.”  The U.S. and Israel still have considerable leverage over
Santos. A vote recognizing a Palestinian state could put at risk
implementation of the trade agreement with the U.S., said Ivan
Cepeda, a Colombian opposition lawmaker.  While Colombia’s 4,000-strong Jewish community is dwarfed
by ones in Argentina and Brazil, Santos as defense minister
boosted defense purchases from Israel, including 24 Kfir jet
fighters after visiting the Jewish state in 2008. A year
earlier, 38 percent of Colombia’s foreign defense purchases went
to Israel, according to a secret State Department cable released
by anti-secrecy group  Wikileaks , citing an internal Colombian
Ministry of Defense report.  General Assembly  While the U.S. has vowed to veto any Security Council vote
for statehood, President Barack Obama may prefer to avoid a move
that could fuel anti-American sentiment in the Arab world,
Abbas, 76, said in a Sept. 15 interview.  The Palestinians also have the option of turning to the
General Assembly, though recognition would be limited, said
Abbas, who also plans to visit Portugal, another non-permanent
Security Council member. Abbas will stop in Caracas today en
route to  Europe , Chavez said last night.  A UN human-rights body in Geneva expressed concern today
about a “spike in violence” by Israeli settlers against
Palestinians in the West Bank.  “We call on the government of Israel to fulfill its
obligation under international human-rights and international
humanitarian law to protect Palestinian civilians and
property,” Rupert Colville, spokesman for the UN High
Commissioner for Human Rights, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Palestinian request to become the UN’s 194th member
state is being examined by a committee of experts, which is
expected on Oct. 18 to report its initial findings to the
Security Council. In the 15-nation body, the procedures permit
any member to ask for a vote at any time, after giving the
members 24 hours’ notice.  “We are aware of the close ties that Israel has with
Colombia,” said Palestinian Authority Foreign Minister Riad Malki in a phone interview before Abbas’s arrival in Bogota.
“That doesn’t stop us from making the effort.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 