-- 
Tacita Dean’s Film Follows Ai Weiwei Flower Seeds at Tate

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-10-10T12:20:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/tacita-dean-s-silent-film-follows-ai-weiwei-flower-seeds-at-tate.html
London ’s  Tate Modern  today presented
a new work in its lobby: a looping 11-minute silent movie by the
British artist Tacita Dean.  Part of a series sponsored by Unilever, the vertical “FILM”
is a tribute to the dying medium of pre-digital cinema. It comes
with a catalog containing a bookmark-sized strip of celluloid.  “I love film,” the Berlin-based Dean told reporters in
Tate Modern’s auditorium. “I don’t want to lose my ability to
make film, and it looks like I probably will.”  She said that her work was “not only a campaign” but “also
an artwork.” Today, she said, there are only three or four print
labs left. “They are all closing, and they are all closing 
extremely fast.”  Dean’s installation comes after  China ’s Ai Weiwei, who
paved the Turbine Hall with 100 million porcelain sunflower
seeds. The commissions are part of a series that Unilever is
sponsoring for five years ending in 2012 to the tune of 2.16
million pounds ($3.43 million).  Her Turbine Hall artwork, a cinematic collage, was shot by
tilting a Cinemascope lens 90 degrees to capture vertical views.
It is projected on a vertical 13-meter (42 feet) screen. The
backdrop within the film itself is the hall’s grid-like rear
wall, layered with images of a mountain peak (representing the
Paramount logo), a waterfall, a down escalator, mushrooms and a
single egg.  Turner Nomination  Dean -- born in 1965 in Canterbury -- was shortlisted in
1998 for the  Turner Prize , the U.K.’s top contemporary-art
award. Three years later, she got her own show at Tate Britain.  Her body of  work  frequently incorporates the sea, and links
contemporary episodes with past tales and myths. The 1996
“Disappearance at Sea” was inspired by the life of the U.K.
sailor Donald Crowhurst, who set off in 1968 on a solo voyage
around the world and never came back.  Of the 11 artists preceding Dean in the Turbine Hall,
Olafur Eliasson is among the most popular. His “The Weather
Project” (2003-4) was a glowing representation of the sun.  Other participants in the Unilever series include Doris
Salcedo, who, through April 2008, showed “Shibboleth,” a 167-
meter crack in the concrete floor of the hall; and  Carsten
Hoeller , who installed slides between October 2006 and April
2007 that visitors could zip down.  The two other British artists who have shown work in 
the Turbine Hall so far are Rachel Whiteread (2005-6) and 
 Anish Kapoor  (2002-3).  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri at   farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 