-- 
Madoff Trustee Assails Rakoff Ruling on Mets, Seeks Permission to Appeal

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-10T14:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/madoff-trustee-assails-rakoff-ruling-on-mets-seeks-permission-to-appeal.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm assailed a judge’s ruling in a $1 billion lawsuit against
the New York Mets owners, saying it “arbitrarily” gave some of
the con man’s investors fictitious profits that “all customers
were previously denied” by a higher court ruling.  Trustee Irving Picard made the statements in a filing in
U.S. District Court in  Manhattan . Picard also asked U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff to clear the way for an appeal of his
ruling.  Rakoff last month cut Picard’s suit against the baseball
team’s owners by two-thirds, saying he could try to reclaim only
two years of withdrawals from the  Ponzi scheme . The ruling,
which would allow  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz to keep purported
profits resulting from Madoff’s “machinations,” was “in
direct contravention” of an appeals court ruling that ruled out
account statements as a basis for compensating Madoff investors
for losses, Picard said in his Oct. 7 filing.  “The Second Circuit held that it would have been ‘legal
error’ for the trustee to discharge claims for securities upon
the false premise that customers’ securities positions are what
the account statements purport them to be,” Picard said in the
filing. “Yet under this court’s order, those machinations are
given legal effect.”  ‘In Question’  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York said Aug. 16 that
Picard can ignore fictitious profits on money Madoff never
invested when calculating losses and deciding who is entitled to
be repaid. Some investors who wouldn’t get paid under the
formula asked for a rehearing, saying the appeals court ruled
differently in a previous case.  Rakoff’s decision limiting Picard to two years of
withdrawals could cost the trustee about $2.7 billion on all of
his clawback suits, Picard has said. Another $3.5 billion of so-
called preference payments is “in question” because of another
aspect of Rakoff’s ruling, he has said.  In the Oct. 7 filing, Picard asked Rakoff to enter a final
judgment in the Mets case so it could be appealed, or to allow
an appeal without the final judgment. If Rakoff lets the trustee
appeal, the appeals court will decide whether to review the
judge’s ruling.  The Mets case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 