-- 
Taiwan’s Ma Urges Freedom, Democracy in China

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-10-10T05:12:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/taiwan-s-ma-urges-freedom-democracy-in-china.html
Taiwan ’s President Ma Ying-jeou
called for greater freedom and democracy in  China  as the island
celebrates its National Day and the 100th anniversary of the
revolution that was a precursor to both governments.  “The 1911 Revolution is a shared memory between China and
Taiwan,” Ma said in a televised speech today, referring to the
overthrow of imperial rule by Sun Yat-sen and the founding of
the Republic of China. “I want to urge China not to forget the
aspirations of the founding father to create a free, democratic
country with even distribution of wealth.”  Cross-straits tensions have eased since Ma took office in
2008, abandoning his predecessor’s pro-independence stance and
strengthening trade and investment ties with the world’s second-
biggest economy. The  Republic of China ’s government has been
confined to Taiwan since Mao Zedong’s communists defeated Chiang
Kai-shek’s Kuomintang and established the People’s Republic of
China in 1949.  Ma, who is seeking re-election in January as head of the
KMT, also said the island needs a strong defense to negotiate
with its former civil-war foe. While China’s communist
government maintains Taiwan is an integral part of the country
that it will take back by force if necessary, the KMT has in the
past decade vied for power with pro-independence parties.  Rejuvenating China is the “cherished goal” pursued by Sun
and other pioneers of the 1911 Revolution, and should be the
“common aspiration of all compatriots on both sides of the
Taiwan Straits,” Xinhua cited Chinese President  Hu Jintao  as
saying.  In the upcoming election, Ma will run against Tsai Ing-wen,
the presidential candidate of the opposition  Democratic
Progressive Party . Ma is preferred by 39 percent of voters
against 35 percent for Tsai, according to a poll conducted by
China Times Inc. from Sept. 29 to Oct. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  