-- 
Alibaba Said to Seek Financing From Temasek to Buy Back Stake From Yahoo

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-10-10T18:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/alibaba-said-to-seek-financing-from-temasek-to-buy-back-stake-from-yahoo.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. has
talked with  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte about providing
financing to buy out Yahoo! Inc.’s 40 percent stake, according
to people familiar with the matter.  Temasek, the state-owned  investment company , may help fund
an offer in return for a bigger share of privately owned Alibaba
Group, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the discussions are confidential. Temasek isn’t interested in
owning Yahoo, one person said. Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba may be
worth about $13 billion, using a valuation by the Singapore
investor last month.  Temasek’s backing would aid Alibaba Group Chairman Jack Ma’s bid to gain more control of the company he founded and
increase Temasek’s investments in China. The S$193 billion ($147
billion) sovereign wealth investor said in July that it’s
“bullish” on  China  and is seeking more deals there.  “As an existing investor in Alibaba, Temasek may be
interested in increasing its ownership,” said Victor Yip, an
analyst at UOB-Kay Hian in  Hong Kong . “This is just one of the
many proposals that are flying around involving Yahoo.”  Temasek valued Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company,
at $32 billion in an investment last month. In 2005, Yahoo paid
$1 billion, together with its operations in China, to acquire
its holding in Alibaba.  Interested Parties  The Alibaba-Temasek arrangement would likely be part of a
possible takeover bid for Yahoo with private-equity firm  Silver
Lake  and  Russia ’s Digital Sky Technologies, another person said.
Alibaba, Silver Lake and DST have discussed forming a group to
make an offer, Bloomberg reported last week, citing people
familiar with the situation. Silver Lake has let Yahoo know of
its efforts and is trying to line up financing to pursue the
deal, the people said.  No clear deal structure or consortium has yet emerged, and
a bid for Yahoo might not materialize, said the people.  “We don’t comment on market speculation,” said Stephen Forshaw, a spokesman for Temasek. Spokespeople for Yahoo and
Hangzhou-based Alibaba declined to comment.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may join the group of investors to
safeguard its interest in Yahoo and bridge the financing gap a
leveraged buyout would require now, said one of the people.
Microsoft isn’t anywhere close to making an offer to acquire
Yahoo on its own, two people familiar with the matter said last
week. A spokesman for Microsoft declined to comment.  Yahoo’s Advisers  Yahoo turned down a $47.5 billion offer from Microsoft in
2008, rankling investors. The two companies later forged a 10-
year agreement to outsource Yahoo’s search engine to Microsoft,
diminishing the chance of a full acquisition. Since then, Yahoo
has struggled to invigorate sales growth and beat back
competition from Facebook Inc. and Google Inc.  Yahoo’s advisers at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are sending
out select financial data to certain parties, one person said.
The company is not yet requiring interested parties to sign
confidentiality agreements and hasn’t created a so-called data
room where bidders could dig further into Yahoo’s business, said
the person.  Other private-equity funds are considering an investment in
Yahoo and more than one of group of investors might bid or split
the assets of the Sunnyvale, California-based  Internet company ,
said the people.  Financing Gap  Yahoo fired Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  last month
and started a review of its strategy. Last year, Bartz turned
down efforts by Alibaba to buy shares held by Yahoo, straining
relations with Ma, who said in May that the breakdown in the
discussions undermined his confidence in Yahoo.  Alibaba, which operates businesses including Taobao,
China’s biggest online shopping site, and the Alibaba.com
commerce site for businesses, is always interested in buying
Yahoo’s shares, Joseph Tsai, the Chinese company’s chief
financial officer, said in May.  In July, Alibaba said it reached an agreement with Yahoo
and another shareholder,  Japan ’s  Softbank Corp. (9984) , over
compensation accruing to the spinoff of the Alipay affiliate,
China’s most-used online-payment operator. The accord ended a
four-month dispute centered on the 2010 transfer of Alipay to a
private company owned by Ma, a transaction that Yahoo said
lacked board approval.  Alibaba’s Ma said this month he’s “very interested” in
Yahoo and has held discussions with the company and other
potential buyers. Yahoo, the biggest U.S. Web portal, said in a
September memo to employees that its advisers have fielded
inquiries from “multiple parties” interested in unspecified
options.  Alibaba’s Stock  Temasek, Silver Lake and DST offered to buy as much as $1.6
billion of Alibaba stock from the Chinese company’s employees
last month, two people close to the situation said at the time.
Temasek had 22 percent of its assets invested in
telecommunications, media and technology, down from 24 percent
the year before.  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , the Hong Kong-listed unit of Alibaba
Group, fell 0.9 percent to HK$7.85 in Hong Kong today, while the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  was little changed. Yahoo rose 30
cents, or 2 percent, to $15.77 as of 2:23 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. The shares dropped 7 percent this year before
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  