-- 
All Blacks Lose Slade, Muliaina to Injuries Before Rugby World Cup Semi

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-10T06:30:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/all-blacks-lose-slade-muliaina-to-injuries-before-rugby-world-cup-semi.html
The All Blacks head into their Rugby
World Cup semifinal with two playmakers who weren’t on the
original squad as  Colin Slade  and  Mils Muliaina  joined  Dan Carter  in suffering tournament-ending injuries.  Stephen Donald and Hosea Gear will join the team tomorrow
after Slade sustained a similar groin injury to Carter and
Muliaina fractured his left shoulder in yesterday’s 33-10
quarterfinal win over  Argentina .  Aaron Cruden, who was called up last week as Carter’s
replacement and came on last night when Slade left the field,
will assume the role of first-choice fly-half ahead of the Oct.
16 semifinal against  Australia , All Blacks coach  Graham Henry 
said today.  “Last week he was skateboarding around Palmerston North,
having a couple of beers and watching us play,” Henry said at a
news conference in Auckland. “Now he’s the No. 1 number 10 in
the country. It’s a big change and a major challenge for him. I
thought he handled the situation particularly well on the
weekend when he went on.”  The injuries to Slade and Muliaina leave the All Blacks
with third and fourth-choice playmakers and missing their
second-most experienced player as they try to win a first world
title in 24 years. Muliaina, 31, became only the second New
Zealander to play 100 Test matches last night before being
replaced at halftime by  Isaia Toeava .  Like Cruden, Donald didn’t make the initial 30-man squad as
Slade was preferred as Carter’s backup. Donald, who will join
English club Bath after the tournament, played the last of his
22 Tests against Wales 11 months ago.  Fishing, Family  Henry said Donald was whitebait fishing when he got the
call up while Gear, a specialist winger, was traveling with his
family. Both had been part of a group of players on standby in
the event of injuries, Henry said.  “Have we got the depth? We’ll find out in the next two
weeks I guess,” Henry added. “You’ve just got to accept that
it’s going to happen. From time to time you’re going to get
injuries and you’ve just got to be able to handle it.”  Slade, 24 today, suffered a partial tear to his left
adductor in a similar injury to that which ended Carter’s
tournament, All Blacks team doctor Deb Robinson said.  The lack of rest for some players may have contributed to
the injury toll, Robinson added.  “We’ve had players who’ve played a lot of rugby through a
Super Rugby season and there wasn’t a lot of opportunity to
rehabilitate anything,” she said. “We had week off between
Super Rugby and the Tri-Nations and a week off between the Tri-
Nations and the  World Cup .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  