-- 
American Eagle, Pilots Stalled in Contract Talks, Union Says

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-10-10T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/american-eagle-pilots-stalled-in-contract-talks-union-says.html
American Eagle and its pilots union
have hit an impasse in efforts to agree on a new contract before
Eagle is spun off from  AMR Corp. (AMR) , also the parent of  American
Airlines , the union said.  The contract would, among other things, have set terms for
Eagle to provide regional flights for American. If approved by
its members, the plan would have replaced one spelled out in
regulatory documents filed by AMR that would allow American to
begin pulling some planes from Eagle as soon as 2012 and
contracting them to other regional carriers.  The pilots union had hoped for an agreement that would keep
more American service at Eagle longer, giving the carrier a
better chance to survive after being spun off. The spinoff is
part of an effort to trim operating costs at American and help
stem annual losses at AMR. It also may allow for expansion at
Eagle, where growth has been constrained by flying limits set in
American’s contract with its pilots.  Union leaders “concluded after much deliberation that the
company’s last counter-proposal was unworkable, specifically
with reference to the flexibility management was seeking” in
future amendments to terms for Eagle flying, the union said in a
message to members on Oct. 8. “At this point, there are no
further conversations scheduled between ALPA and management.”  “Although disappointed in the news that the ALPA MEC has
voted against our most recent proposal, we remain open to
further discussions,” American Eagle said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Counter-Proposal  The union last month proposed contract and other changes
that would cut Eagle’s costs if it is spun off and allow the
unit to retain more regional flying for American. The talks
stalled during negotiations on a counter-proposal submitted by
Eagle.  The plan laid out in documents filed for Eagle’s spinoff
“is expected to result in the new company being separated with
very little cash and very little fleet stability,” the union
told members. That plan didn’t specify a date for the spinoff or
the distribution ratio of Eagle shares to holders of AMR stock.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 