-- 
Langella’s Suave Mogul Crashes in ‘Man and Boy’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-10-10T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/langella-s-suave-mogul-crashes-like-madoff-in-man-and-boy-jeremy-gerard.html
Sleek in top coat, double-breasted
suit with peaked lapels and gray fedora severely angled to hide
his face,  Frank Langella ’s Gregor Antonescu sweeps into the
Greenwich Village dump that has been his estranged son’s home.  His visit to the grotto apartment in “Man and Boy” is
prompted by a global economic crisis in the wake of rumors that
the Antonescu empire, a rather large house of cards, is on the
brink of collapse. He needs his son’s help in a last-ditch
scheme to stay afloat.  Smashingly revived on Broadway by the  Roundabout Theatre
Company , Terence Rattigan’s 1963 drama is choice goods for an
actor of Langella’s gifts: stentorian delivery, intimidating
physicality and a natural ease at feigning sincerity while
slipping in the shiv. The role was written for Charles Boyer,
and it fits Langella like a bespoke suit.  Antonescu, Romanian by birth, has arranged a secret meeting
with a lesser American captain of industry, Mark Herries (Zach
Grenier, masterly as a brazenly confident man who doesn’t
realize he’s been had until it’s too late). The son, Basil (Adam
Driver, only a shade coarse for an Oxford-educated socialist who
renounced capitalism and plays piano in a honky tonk for $26 a
week), is unwittingly cast as honey in Gregor’s trap, which
turns on his knowledge of a secret that will come as no surprise
to anyone familiar with Rattigan’s work.  Perfectly Believable  That Gregor would use his son in such an unsavory, not to
say risky, plot seems unlikely. So is the idea -- put forward by
Basil’s live-in girlfriend (Virginia Kull, perfectly believable
as a young actress getting her first break in Depression-era  New
York ) -- that Basil’s renunciation of his father barely conceals
his adoration of the soulless man who has rebuffed him since
childhood.  Still, director Maria Aitken sustains a brooding tone while
turning up the suspense incrementally. There are fine supporting
performances by Michael Siberry as Gregor’s amanuensis, Brian
Hutchison as a Herries functionary and Francesca Faridany as
Gregor’s trophy wife.  “Man and Boy” isn’t first-rate Rattigan along the lines of
“The Browning Version” and “The Winslow Boy.” But it’s first-
class entertainment, especially in our post-Madoff era. The
notion that one man’s cunning criminal behavior can have such
far-reaching consequences not only for the wealthy, but for the
recipients of his largesse, seems thoroughly credible.  Langella made a similarly devastating case for Richard M. Nixon in “Frost/Nixon.” He’s every bit as riveting here.  Through Nov. 27 at 227 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-719-
1300;  http://www.roundabouttheatre.org 
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 