-- 
Tanker Safety Risks Are Rising Following Plunge in Rates, Ship Owners Say

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-10-10T08:22:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/tanker-safety-risks-are-rising-following-plunge-in-rates-ship-owners-say.html
A collapse in oil-tanker rates to
the lowest level in at least 14 years is increasing the risk of
spills because it may encourage some owners to spend less on
safety,  Tsakos Energy Navigation Inc.  and BW Group Ltd. said.  Rates to haul Middle East crude to  Asia , the biggest trade
route, fell to $674 a day from a record $289,000 in 2007 because
of a glut of vessels, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Daily
operating costs for the very large crude carriers are $10,670,
London-based accountant Moore Stephens LLC estimates.  “The industry cannot cover its operating expenses, and
very soon we are going to see safety problems,” Nikolas Tsakos,
chief executive officer of Athens-based Tsakos,  Greece ’s biggest
publicly traded tanker owner, said at a conference in London
Oct. 6. “If owners have to start cutting corners, pretty soon
we are going to see accidents and pollution.”  RS Platou Markets AS, Pareto Securities AS and Dahlman Rose
& Co. cut earnings forecasts for VLCCs in the past two weeks,
citing the glut. The ships won’t make what Frontline Ltd., the
largest operator, needs to break even until at least 2013,
according to annual forward freight agreements that traders use
to bet on future transportation costs.  “There is a risk that some owners will be forced into
savings/cuts” on crew and maintenance, Jens Martin Jensen,
chief executive of Frontline’s management unit, said by e-mail
today. The risk of a spill “is the ultimate fear we all have
and risk to the crew,” he said.  Exxon Valdez  Spills declined almost 90 percent from the 1970s to the
last decade, according to the International Tanker Owners
Pollution Federation Ltd. The number exceeding 7,000 metric tons
averaged 3.3 annually from 2000 to 2009, compared with 9.3 in
the 1990s and 25.3 in the 1970s. Spills including the Exxon
Valdez in 1989, the worst from a tanker in U.S. history, spurred
tougher legislation and improved ship designs.  David Cotterell, a London-based director at the  Oil
Companies  International Marine Forum, representing 86 oil
companies, declined to comment. The group was created in 1970 to
promote ship safety and cut spills.  Forward freight agreements anticipate returns will be 54
percent or more below the $29,800 a day that Frontline’s vessels
need to break even until at least 2013, according to data from
the ship owner and Marex Spectron, a broker of the contracts.  “I don’t think it’s in the general market interest to have
dangerously low levels for a sustained period of time,” Andreas Sohmen-Pao, Singapore-based chief executive officer of BW Group
tanker unit BW Maritime, said by phone Oct. 3. “It’s going to
start to raise questions of reliability and dependability,
because people have to then cut in areas that are not
necessarily good for safety.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  