-- 
Hanlong Working With Australian Regulators on Sundance Bid

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-10-11T06:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/hanlong-working-with-australian-regulators-on-sundance-bid-1-.html
Sichuan Hanlong Group, offering
A$1.65 billion ($1.65 billion) to buy Sundance Resources Ltd.,
said it’s working with Australian regulators after the Sydney
Morning Herald reported approval of the bid is being stalled.  “We will continue to work constructively with all relevant
government and regulatory bodies and stand ready to provide
further information as required,” Hanlong, based in  Chengdu ,
China, said today an e-mailed statement.  Hanlong has been told that the  Foreign Investment Review
Board  won’t decide on the bid until it has more details of an
 insider trading  investigation by the  Australian Securities and
Investments Commission , the newspaper reported. The commission,
or ASIC, is inquiring into suspected insider trading involving
two takeover targets of Hanlong.  “Hanlong has informed Sundance that it is continuing to
work productively with FIRB on its application and expects to
receive FIRB’s decision well within the indicative timetable for
the proposed scheme of arrangement,” Sundance said in a
statement. The deal is expected to be completed in May next year,
with Sundance shareholders due to vote on the proposal in April,
Sundance said Oct. 4.  “It is important to note Hanlong Mining is not under
investigation by ASIC and is conducting business as usual,”
Hanlong said.  Sundance fell 1.2 percent to 43 cents at the close of
Sydney trading, the lowest price since Sept. 30.  Buying Sundance will give Hanlong control of the $4.7
billion Mbalam rail, port and iron ore mine project, straddling
the border of Cameroon and Republic of Congo. Hanlong, which has
investments in highway and power projects, said last year it
will invest as much as A$5 billion in resource assets to feed
 China ’s demand for commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  