-- 
Antarctica Researchers Seek Clues to How Life Evolved in Ice-Buried Lake

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-10-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/antarctica-researchers-seek-clues-to-life-in-ice-buried-lake.html
Clues to how life evolved on Earth
and possibly other planets may be hidden in a lake covered by 3
kilometers (2 miles) of Antarctic ice, U.K. researchers said.  Researchers will set off next week to deliver drilling
equipment needed to collect liquid and sediment samples from
Lake Ellsworth, a body of fresh water sandwiched between the
West Antarctic ice sheet and the bedrock of Earth’s southernmost
continent, the  British Antarctic Survey  said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The goal of the project is to determine what forms of life
may exist in the cold, pitch-black environment of the buried
waters, David Pearce, science coordinator at the survey group,
said in the statement.  “Finding life in a lake that could have been isolated from
the rest of the biosphere for up to half a million years will
tell us so much about the potential origin of, and constraints
for, life on Earth, and may provide clues to the evolution of
life on other extraterrestrial environments,” he said.  No evidence of life would also be a key finding. “If we
find nothing, this will be even more significant because it will
define limits at which life can no longer exist on the planet,”
Pearce said.  Lakes exist deep below the Antarctic surface because the
pressure exerted by thousands of meters of ice drives down the
freezing point of water. Lake Ellsworth is one of 387 known
subglacial Antarctic lakes and the first to be studied for signs
of life.  The advance party leaving next week will deliver 70 tons of
equipment to the research site, where they’ll face temperatures
as cold as minus 25 degrees Celsius (minus 13 degrees
Fahrenheit) in the Antarctic spring.  To ensure the samples aren’t contaminated by material from
the surface, they’ll be collected using equipment that meets the
same standards as equipment designed for space exploration.
Drilling is due to begin in October 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  