-- 
Tanzania Inflation May Drop to 9% by June, Bank Official Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-10-10T07:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/tanzania-inflation-may-drop-to-9-by-june-bank-official-says.html
Inflation in Tanzania is set to
decelerate as a slowdown in global growth reduces crude prices,
curbing the cost of fuel imports for east  Africa ’s second-
biggest economy, a Bank of Tanzania official said.  “We expect to return to single-digit inflation, around 9
percent by June,” Joseph Masawe, director of economic research
and policy at the bank, said in a phone interview Oct. 7 from
Dar es Salaam, the commercial capital. “We would at least
reduce imported inflation” as oil falls, he said.  Inflation accelerated for a 10th month in August, reaching
14.1 percent as energy and food costs surged, the  National
Bureau of Statistics  said Sept. 15.  Oil prices  have increased 22
percent since the start of 2009. The cost of Tanzania’s oil
imports surged 65 percent in the three months through June
compared with the previous quarter, and comprised 34 percent of
total imports, according to  central bank data .  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 said it cut its
forecast for global growth to 4 percent this year and next,
compared with June forecasts of 4.3 percent in 2011 and 4.5
percent in 2012. Gross domestic product in sub-Saharan Africa
may increase 5.2 percent this year, less than the 5.5 percent
estimated in April, the IMF said.  Tanzania’s shilling has depreciated 13 percent this year
against the dollar, reaching 1,714.5 on Oct. 7, the weakest
level on record.  Shilling Drop ‘Benefit’  The central bank does “not mind benefiting” from
depreciation of the shilling, which “will help our exporters
gain more from selling their produce,” Masawe said. The weaker
currency “will also control appetite for imports, and we need
that given a wide current-account deficit.”  During the year through June 2011, Tanzania’s current-
account gap widened to $2.7 billion compared to $2.5 billion the
previous year, the central Bank said in an e-mailed statement
Sept. 22.  The central bank won’t increase supply of dollars from a
monthly average of $100 million to strengthen the shilling,
Masawe said. “We supply dollars for the monetary purpose of
controlling liquidity not the foreign-exchange rate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  