-- 
Apple Says IPhone 4S Preorders Top 1 Million in Single Day

-- B y   X u   W a n g   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-10-10T20:14:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/apple-says-iphone-4s-pre-orders-top-1-million-in-single-day.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  received more than a
million preorders for the iPhone 4S in a single day, putting the
company on a record-setting sales pace ahead of the device’s
Oct. 14 release.  The preorders topped the previous record of 600,000 set by
the iPhone 4 last year, Cupertino, California-based Apple said
today in a statement. Apple unveiled the iPhone 4S last week,
pricing it at $199, $299 and $399, depending on the features.  The rush signals that there’s pent-up demand for the new
model, which was released 16 months after the last one -- a
longer wait than with previous iPhone releases. The preorders
indicate Apple may sell nearly 3 million in the first weekend,
almost double the number sold in the opening weekend last year,
said  Mike Abramsky , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets . The
sales also suggest that customers were unfazed by Apple not
updating the iPhone’s body design.  “The early momentum of the iPhone 4S reaffirms Apple’s
leadership in smartphones,” said  Mark Moskowitz , an analyst at
JPMorgan & Chase Co. The strength of the orders should silence
those who said the lack of a redesigned body on the iPhone 4S
would deter buyers, he said.  Apple may sell more than 25 million iPhones in the quarter
ending in December, making it the “strongest iPhone launch
ever,” said  Gene Munster , an analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos.
The iPhone is Apple’s biggest source of revenue, accounting for
about half of sales.  ‘Intelligent Antenna’  The new model comes with voice-command features and a
higher-resolution camera, and can run as long as 8 hours on one
charge. It also has an A5 chip that will make graphics seven
times faster than the old processor and an “intelligent antenna
system” for improved call quality.  Apple’s shares rose 5.1 percent to $388.81 today in New
York trading. The stock has increased 21 percent this year.  The iPhone 4S will be Apple’s first major hardware release
since the Oct. 5 death of co-founder Steve Jobs. It will be
available at Apple retail stores in the U.S. beginning at 8 a.m.
local time on Oct. 14, the Cupertino, California-based company
said today in a statement.  Three Carriers  For the first time, the device is available from all three
of the largest U.S. carriers.  AT&T Inc. (T)  said Oct. 7 that it
received more than 200,000 preorders for the iPhone 4S in 12
hours, marking the company’s most successful debut yet for the
Apple device. The other two,  Verizon Wireless  and  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , haven’t released sales figures. The phone works with both
CDMA and GSM wireless standards, which are used in different
parts of the world.  Adding Sprint as a carrier has helped boost preorders, said
Jeffrey Fidacaro, an analyst at Susquehanna International Group.
Sprint, the third-largest U.S. mobile-phone service, has an
opportunity to add 6 million users a year, he said.  The record sales also may be a tribute to Jobs’s legacy,
said William Choi, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  “It’s the last phone developed with  Steve Jobs  at Apple,”
Choi said. “There are definitely some sentiments at play
here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Xu Wang in New York at 
 xwang206@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  