-- 
Chrysler’s Makeover Aids Fiat as Profit Gap Widens to 87%: Cars

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-10-10T22:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/marchionne-s-chrysler-makeover-aids-fiat-as-profit-gap-widens-to-85-cars.html
Sergio Marchionne  had what he called
a “once in a lifetime” moment in 2009 when President  Barack Obama  selected  Fiat SpA (F)  to save Chrysler Group LLC. The head of
both automakers may be having flashbacks as the tables turn.  The previously bankrupt U.S. company, which became majority
owned by Fiat this year, is now shoring up its Turin, Italy-
based parent, as the European debt crisis depresses sales.
Chrysler is due to outpace Fiat’s operating profit by 87 percent
in the second half and the gap will likely continue in 2012,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  “Fiat would be very vulnerable now without Chrysler, with
few industrial and financial options on its hands,” said
Emanuele Vizzini, chief investment officer at Investitori Sgr in
Milan who sold Fiat shares in August.  While the revitalization of Chrysler offers Fiat a cushion
for Italy’s downturn, Marchionne’s turnaround of the  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based company has deepened the company’s woes in
Europe. With the U.S. unit hogging development and management
resources, Fiat has been left with aging models and eroding
market share, putting Italy’s largest manufacturer at the mercy
of historically volatile Chrysler earnings.  “Long-term, neither Fiat nor Chrysler would have made it
on their own,” Marchionne said on Oct. 7 in  Montreal . “Fiat
was too small and too handicapped by an inadequate business
model in Europe to have any hope of a future.”  Profit Predictions  Chrysler may post earnings before interest, taxes and one-
time items, of 864 million euros ($1.18 billion) in the second
half of 2011, compared with 462 million euros from Fiat’s
traditional operations, including profit from the Ferrari and
Maserati brands, according to the average estimates of six
analysts. Trading profit for the U.S. automaker, which was
consolidated into Fiat results from June, may reach 1.91 billion
euros next year, 77 percent more than Fiat’s 1.08 billion euros.  The turnaround at Chrysler hasn’t helped Marchionne win
over investors to his plan to create a global auto group to
rival  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  The shares have fallen 40 percent in the
last three months, the second-worst performer in the Bloomberg
European autos index after  France ’s PSA Peugeot Citroen.  “If Fiat is depending upon Chrysler, that’s a bad bet
because Chrysler is still a question mark,” said Gerald Meyers,
a business professor at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor .
“It will be two to three years before we know whether Chrysler
is going to even be successful, much less sustainable.”  Rating Downgrade  Chrysler, under three different owners during the span of
four years, recorded net losses totaling $34 billion from 2006
through 2010, according to the automaker’s filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Sales of the third-largest
U.S. automaker fell 48 percent to 1.1 million vehicles last year
from 2.1 million in 2005.  Moody’s downgraded Fiat to two notches below investment
grade last month on concern about the financial stability of the
combination with Chrysler. The rating company also cited
infrequent model renewals in  Europe  and increasing competition
in  Brazil , where Fiat is profitable.  Marchionne, who acknowledged in an April interview that he
neglected European operations in favor of a U.S. turnaround,
postponed the launch of new Fiat models when the 2008 financial
crisis hit the car market and is doing the same again.  Aside from a rebadged version of the Dodge Journey, the
overhauled Panda subcompact, which was unveiled last month, was
the first all-new model for the Fiat brand since the retro-
styled 500 in 2007. In the U.S., 75 percent of Chrysler’s lineup
has been updated since the executive took control in June 2009.  Shrinking Share  That product strategy has resulted in Fiat’s European
market share shrinking to 7.3 percent through August from 8.2
percent a year earlier as deliveries tumbled 13 percent,
according to the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association.
Chrysler’s U.S. sales gained 23 percent through September,
beating the industry’s 10 percent growth rate, according to
researcher Autodata Corp.  The Italian carmaker has said it aims to claw back market
share with new models, including a rebadged Chrysler 300 and
Dodge Journey and the new Panda and Lancia Y subcompacts.  Fiat, which expects to increase its holding in Chrysler by
5 percentage points to 58.5 percent by the end this year, is
pushing back the production of new vehicles, including a Jeep,
at its Mirafiori plant in Turin by more than six months to the
second half of 2013. Fiat will also postpone the market entry of
new Alfa Romeo models, including the 4C sports car, delaying the
brand’s return to the U.S. to 2013.  Italian Strike  “We have a negative view on Europe,” Marchionne told
reporters at the Frankfurt motor show last month. “It’s not an
easy market this year and won’t be an easy one even in 2012.”  Fiat’s pessimistic outlook for Europe, where its losses are
estimated at 800 million euros a year, has fueled concerns that
the company is turning its back on  Italy . Those fears were
stoked earlier this month after the company withdrew from the
country’s industrial employers lobby Confindustria to have a
free hand in labor talks.  The manufacturer’s biggest union, Fiom, has called for a
one-day strike on Oct. 21 to protest against proposals to scale
back production increases in Italy. Fiat is planning to shut the
Termini Imerese factory in Sicily at the end of the year, as it
aims to end deficits in the region by 2014.  Fiat’s Italian factories “are part of a much larger
network of manufacturing installations,” which will all compete
for new vehicles, said Marchionne in Montreal. Fiat’s Italian
plants need to as competitive as other plants, he said.  Backed by Chrysler, Fiat now can look forward to generating
cash in the U.S., even as the European business burns up
resources, said Massimo Vecchio, a Milan-based analyst with
Mediobanca.  “Thanks, America,” said Vecchio, who has an
“outperform” rating on Fiat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  