-- 
Harris Names United Technologies M&A Head Brown as New CEO

-- B y   J a m e s   L a n g f o r d   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-10-10T20:07:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/harris-names-united-technologies-deals-head-brown-as-ceo.html
Bill Brown, the  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX)  strategy head who played a pivotal role in the company’s
acquisition of  Goodrich Corp. (GR) , was named chief executive officer
of military communications contractor  Harris Corp. (HRS)   The 48-year-old executive will step into the new role Nov.
1, the Melbourne, Florida-based company said today in a
statement. He succeeds Howard Lance, 55, who has been CEO since
January 2003 and announced in May that he planned to retire.  Lance made 19 acquisitions during his tenure as CEO,
expanding Harris’s businesses to include  cyber security , public
safety, healthcare-information technology and satellite
communication systems. Two of three acquisitions made this year
were valued at about $553 million combined.  Brown’s “first challenge is to continue integration of
those acquisitions and the organic growth program,” Lance said
in a telephone interview today. “Those initiatives take three
to five years and I didn’t have an interest in that kind of
runway.”  Brown was a “catalyst” in United Technologies’ $16.5
billion acquisition of aerospace-parts maker Goodrich, Chief
Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  said in September. The
executive led more than 40 acquisitions as chief of the Fire &
Security unit before Chenevert named him to lead deals and
strategy in March.  ‘Deal Experience’  “I felt to get a larger transaction done, I needed
somebody by my side that had superb deal experience,” Chenevert
said in a Sept. 22 interview after the Goodrich deal was
announced. Brown was “the catalyst to make sure we had the
right data in front of us, and pushed the right agenda.”  Lance said he expects Harris to continue to seek
acquisitions outside the U.S., citing the example of the
company’s recent purchase of a communications unit from
Schlumberger Ltd., an oil-services company. That unit has
expanded Harris’s satellite-based communications into  Asia ,
 Latin America  and  Africa , “all the oil-producing regions
offshore,” Lance said.  Harris climbed 3.7 percent to $35.83 at the close in New
York. The shares have slid 21 percent this year. United
Technologies rose 3.2 percent to $73.75.  Largest Customer  The company posted $5.92 billion in revenue in its fiscal
year ended July, with more than a third generated by the unit
that makes mobile radios and networking applications for defense
and security. Its largest customer was the U.S. government, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Harris began searching for a successor for Lance in May
after he announced his plan to retire, said Jim Burke, a company
spokesman. Lance will remain as chairman through Oct. 31 and
non-executive chairman through Dec. 31. Harris plans to appoint
Brown to its board at its December meeting and name him chairman
later, the company said.  Lance said restructuring the company’s portfolio and
“getting out of commercial telecom that was not a good fit for
the company” were among his accomplishments. “We established
strong organic growth in our core government business both in
the U.S. and internationally.” The unit sells tactical radios
and provides communication systems to defense and intelligence
agencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Langford in  New York  at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net 
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  