-- 
Marx’s Kids Starved as Karl Wrote, Failed Home Economics: Books

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-10-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/marx-s-kids-starved-as-karl-wrote-failed-home-economics-books.html
The only exception I can take to
“ Love and Capital ,” Mary Gabriel’s absorbing, affectionate and
altogether exemplary biography of Karl and Jenny Marx and their
children, is the title. Love the Marxes had, in abundance.
Capital, no.  The book to which Marx gave that name changed the world
without bringing the family a penny in royalties for 16 years,
and by then he was dead. Poverty made their lives a tragedy with
the creditor-dodging contours of a farce.  Marx set out to harness the massive rage that was
percolating among the almost unbelievably downtrodden working
class of the 19th century. He was an organizer, a journalist and
a theoretician -- all jobs that paid miserably -- and he put his
family through horrors for his ideals.  When Gabriel describes, with painful vividness, the death
of the Marxes’ eight-year-old son, in 1855, from intestinal
tuberculosis “exacerbated by ... unhealthy living conditions,”
she adds bluntly that his parents’ bleak soul-searching “could
have led them to only one conclusion -- the revolutionary path
they had chosen had killed him.”  Seven years later, Marx cursed his poverty in a typical
lament to Friedrich Engels: “Every day my wife says she wishes
she and the children were safely in their graves, and I really
cannot blame her, for the humiliations, torments and alarums
that one has to go through in such a situation are indeed
indescribable.”  Financial Angel  Engels was the family’s financial angel. In 1850, at the
age of 30, he made the altruistic choice to go to work at the
family textile mill, Ermen & Engels, in Manchester, setting
aside his own aspirations as a writer to fund Marx and his
growing family.  He was sure that all Marx needed was time (in other words,
money) to “produce a groundbreaking book on political economy
that would go far toward educating the proletariat and preparing
them for revolt.”  He didn’t know it would take Marx 17 years, but no one can
say he wasn’t right.  Gabriel breezily handles material of forbidding breadth,
filling the reader in on the historical, political and
industrial conditions in  Europe  that shaped Marx’s thought
without ever losing her focus on his family. With its suicides,
illicit affairs and even a deathbed revelation by Engels, her
book reads like a Victorian novel.  After Marx  And -- very satisfyingly -- she continues for a hundred
pages after her hero’s death, allowing the reader to watch the
work of a rather obscure political economist explode into the
world-historical force known as Marxism.  (In an irony Marx’s eldest daughter didn’t live long enough
to perceive, she won over a pious older couple, scandalized by a
profession of atheism from their son, with the observation
“that she thought it absurd to make a cult of any ism.”)  Marx’s three surviving daughters all led tragic later
lives, and all for the same reason: They had ruinous taste in
men. In this, it could be argued, they followed their mother’s
example. Jenny Marx, nee von Westphalen, was a beautiful
Prussian aristocrat who could have had her pick of husbands; the
one she settled on brought her a life of misery.  He even, according to Gabriel (though there has been
controversy on the point), fathered a son with one of their
dearest friends. That was the subject of Engels’s deathbed
revelation.  Which is not to say that Karl and Jenny Marx didn’t have a
good marriage -- according to Gabriel, they had a great
marriage. It trembled under the worst strains of poverty and
loss, but it survived. The capital was missing, but never the
love.  “Love and Capital: Karl and Jenny Marx and the Birth of a
Revolution” is published by Little, Brown (707 pages, $35). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 