-- 
Asian Currencies Climb as U.S. Jobs Data Improves Export Outlook

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-10-10T09:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/asian-currencies-climb-as-u-s-jobs-data-improves-export-outlook.html
Asian currencies gained, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit, as an improvement in the U.S. labor market
brightened the region’s export outlook and gains in stock
markets revived demand for higher-yielding assets.  Exchange data showed overseas investors purchased $601
million more South Korean, Taiwanese and Thai equities than they
sold on Oct. 7. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Excluding Japan Index of
shares rose for a fourth day after the Labor Department said
last week American payrolls increased by 103,000 in September,
beating the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists
for 60,000.  China ’s yuan gained the most since its revaluation
in July 2005 after the U.S. said the currency is undervalued.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.4
percent to 115.73 as of 4:24 p.m. in Hong Kong. The ringgit
climbed 1.1 percent to 3.1257 per dollar, the South Korean won
rose 0.6 percent to 1,171.30 and the Philippine peso added 0.4
percent to 43.39. The yuan climbed 0.6 percent to 6.3486 after a
week-long holiday.  “Asian currencies including the won will show a limited
gain as the market prices in upbeat U.S. data,” said Roh Sang
Chil, Seoul-based head of  currency trading  at Kookmin Bank.
“Still, Europe won’t see its troubles fading away easily, which
will weigh heavily on traders’ minds.”  In Europe,  Spain  and  Italy  were downgraded by  Fitch Ratings 
on concern they will struggle to improve their finances. French
President Nicolas Sarkozy, speaking yesterday at a briefing in
Berlin with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, set a deadline to
deliver a response to the Greek crisis and defects in the 17-
nation euro area. He said European leaders would deliver a plan
by the Group of 20 summit on Nov. 3.  U.S. Pressure  President Barack Obama said on Oct. 6 in  Washington  that
China has been aggressive in “gaming the trading system,”
including intervening to keep its currency artificially low. The
People’s Bank of China said on Oct. 4 that the U.S. risks
triggering a trade war through legislation that would punish the
Asian nation for manipulating exchange rates.  “China faces pressure to appreciate the currency as the
U.S. pushes for a stronger yuan,” said Kenix Lai, a senior
market analyst at Bank of East Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “There’s
room for China to allow more yuan gains given its relatively
resilient economy.”  The Purchasing Managers’ Index published Oct. 1 by the
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing rose for a second
month, to 51.2, with export orders gaining. Readings above 50
signal expansion.  The ringgit rose for a fifth day, the longest winning
streak in eight weeks, on speculation investors will pump more
funds into the nation as the economy sustains its recovery.  Malaysia Exports  The currency climbed to its strongest level in more than
two weeks after an Oct. 7 report showed exports rose in August
at the fastest pace in four months and Prime Minister Najib
Razak said economic growth may quicken in 2012. The ringgit
tumbled 7 percent in September, its worst performance since
1998, as  Europe ’s debt crisis spurred demand for dollars.  Investment inflows “will be good as economic growth is
projected to be better,” said Akira Banno, a treasury adviser
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in  Kuala Lumpur . “The Malaysian
currency will continue to trade in a range with developments in
Europe dictating the trend.”  The peso rose to the strongest in three weeks. A rebound in
demand from Japan after March’s earthquake may help shore up
Philippine exports in August, due for release tomorrow,
according to Malayan Banking Bhd.  “Sentiment is much better with the job data, which
presents good buying opportunities in Asian currencies given the
recent selloff,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a foreign-exchange
strategist in  Singapore  at Malayan Banking. “We are looking for
 Japan ’s recovery to beef up Philippine exports.”  Elsewhere,  India ’s rupee gained 0.2 percent to 49.0787 and
Thailand’s baht added 0.1 percent to 30.90. Indonesia’s rupiah
dropped 0.6 percent to 8,958. Markets in  Taiwan  are closed for a
public holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  