-- 
Tata Coffee Gains After Saying May Announce Starbucks Deal

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-10-10T12:10:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/tata-coffee-starbucks-in-talks-to-open-cafes-in-india-huq-says.html
Tata Coffee Ltd. (TCO) , which is in talks
with  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  to open cafes in India, climbed the most in
a month in Mumbai trading after Managing Director Hameed Huq
said the company may announce an agreement in two weeks.  Tata Coffee rose 11 percent, the most since Sept. 6, to 889
rupees at the close in Mumbai trading. The stock was the third-
best performer on the BSE 500 Index. Parent  Tata Global
Beverages Ltd. (TGBL) , which holds a 57.5 percent stake, rose 3.8
percent to 85.65 rupees.  Tata Coffee signed an agreement with Starbucks in January
to supply coffee beans and explore opening stores in India, the
world’s fastest-growing major economy after  China . A deal will
help the world’s largest coffee-shop operator tap a market where
consumption of the beverage risen 80 percent in a decade,
according to data from India’s  Coffee Board .  “That is very much on the cards,” Huq said in a phone
interview today. “We will come to the media, I think hopefully
within a fortnight’s time,” he said, without elaborating.  Starbucks will compete in India with Lavazza SpA’s Barista
Coffee Co., Dunkin’ Brands Inc. and closely held Cafe Coffee
Day, which runs 1,134 stores, according to its  website .  ‘Under Penetrated’  “The market is under-penetrated and there is a lot of
scope in urban areas to expand the market,” said Mehul Desai,
an analyst with K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.
“How fast they are able to open stores and capture the market
will be the deciding factor. The more the number of cafeterias,
the more the acceptance will be by the people.”  Starbucks is finalizing a joint venture agreement with Tata
Coffee to open stores, the Times of  India  newspaper reported
today, citing two people it didn’t identify. Indian laws limit
foreign investment in single brand retail chains to 51 percent.  “We are excited about the great opportunities that India
presents,” John Culver, president, Starbucks Coffee
International, said in an e-mail. “Early this year we signed an
MoU with Tata Coffee for sourcing and roasting high-quality
green coffee beans. We are moving forward with MoU discussions
and planning, and hope to make an announcement soon.”  The first Starbucks store in India will open in about seven
months, Tata Coffee Chairman R.K. Krishna Kumar said in an
interview with Bloomberg UTV in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  