-- 
Laura Dern Threatens Boss; Nobel Winner Aids War-Torn Women: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-10-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/laura-dern-threatens-boss-nobel-winner-aids-war-torn-women-tv.html
Co-workers tend to let elevator doors
close in Amy Jellicoe’s face.  Amy, a walking, chattering nervous breakdown played to the
frazzled hilt by Laura Dern, is the vortex of need and bitterness
in “ Enlightened ,” an irresistible new dramedy on  HBO .  In real life, most of us would press the “close” button
rather than risk even a few minutes of Amy’s draining presence. A
sad sack with a well-honed passive-aggressive streak, Amy coos
upon hearing the news of a friend’s pregnancy, then deflates the
happy talk with, “And, like, your eggs -- that worked out?”  “Enlightened” was developed by Dern with writer, director
and co-star Mike White, whose off-kilter movies about life’s
losers (“Chuck & Buck,” “Year of the Dog”) set the dark comic
tone here.  We meet Amy mid-meltdown. A corporate executive, she’s being
transferred following an ill-conceived fling with her supervisor.
She’s not taking the news well.  “I will kill you!” she screams in full “Fatal Attraction”
mode, mascara streaming down her face.  After an extended stint in a holistic treatment center, Amy
returns to her old life with a newfound, if no less self-
centered, spirituality. Spouting New Age aphorisms,
she’s an even bigger nightmare than she was pre-rehab.  Phoning her married boss to discuss “closure,” she adds with
the barest hint of threat, “Funny, I’m driving through your
neighborhood right now.”  No Sugarcoating  White, who will alternate directing duties with Jonathan Demme, Miguel Arteta and others in the series, doesn’t sugarcoat
Amy’s abrasiveness. Unlike Showtime’s “The Big C,” there’s no
illness to soften the edges, and even a slowly developing
backstory involving a druggie ex-husband (a likable Luke Wilson)
is more explanation than vindication.  Still, a character as finely drawn as Amy Jellicoe merits
our company, sometimes even our sympathy. At one point, she
offers to read a heartfelt, amends-making letter to her
disapproving mother played by Diane Ladd, Dern’s real mom.  “How long will it take?” mom asks, and suddenly Amy doesn’t
seem quite so crazy after all.  “Enlightened” airs tonight on HBO at 9:30 p.m.  New York 
time. Rating: ***  ‘Women, War & Peace’  One Bosnian woman, her voice electronically distorted and
her face hidden, recalls the brutal murders of her children and
husband. Another tells of the beloved Serbian neighbor who turned
bloodthirsty, raping or killing the people with whom he’d once
shared meals.  Their stories are revealed in “I Came to Testify,” the
excellent first installment of PBS’s five-part documentary series
“ Women, War & Peace .” Produced and written by Pamela Hogan,
“Testify” chronicles the courageous decision of 16 Bosnian women
to testify in international court about the systematic use of
rape as a weapon of war by Serbian forces during the 1990s.  Two of the women, identified only as “Witness 99” and
“Z.R.,” share their stories for the first time since the court
appearances. The atrocities they recount are horrific, their
bravery in confronting their tormentors remarkable.  The five hour-long films, featuring celebrity narrators such
as  Matt Damon  and  Tilda Swinton , reflect the changing nature of
war -- from 20th-century battles between nations to current
conflicts among insurgencies, tribes and warrior gangs. Women and
children, the documentaries suggest, have become primary targets
in the new warfare.  Nobel Prize Winner  Future episodes spotlight conflicts in Liberia, Afghanistan
and  Colombia . The final installment, “War Redefined” on Nov. 8,
features interviews with  Hillary Clinton ,  Condoleezza Rice  and
Liberian peace activist Leymah Gbowee, who shared the Nobel Peace
Prize with two other women on Friday.  Grim yet hopeful, the series finds inspiration in the
courage of victims without whitewashing the horrors. Cameras
follow “Z.R.,” the Bosnian refugee in “I Came to Testify,” as she
returns in 2010 to the site of her family’s massacre. No arrests
have been made.  “They are waiting,” she says, “for victims to die.”  “War, Women & Peace” airs tomorrow on PBS at 10 p.m. New
York time. Rating: ***1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 