-- 
Australia Stocks Rise as Commodity Prices Gain on Europe Pledge

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-10-10T23:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/australia-stocks-japanese-futures-rise-as-commodity-prices-gain-on-europe.html
Australian shares rose, led by
commodity producers as oil and metal prices surged after German
and French leaders pledged to stem Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis. Japanese stock futures advanced.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company,
advanced 1.1 percent in Sydney, while Rio Tinto Group, the
second-largest miner by sales, rose 2 percent. American
depositary receipts of Mitsubishi Corp., which gets 43 percent
of its revenue from commodities trading, rose 1.1 percent from
the last closing price in  Tokyo . Chinese banks may be active in
 Hong Kong  after state-run Central Huijin Investment Ltd. said it
began buying shares in the nation’s four biggest lenders
following a drop in valuations below levels reached during the
global financial crisis.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.7 percent to 4,232
as of 10:23 a.m. in Sydney. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.6
percent in Wellington. Japanese markets, which were closed for a
public holiday yesterday, will resume trading today. Futures on
 Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in December closed at
8,790 in  Chicago  yesterday, compared with 8,590 in  Osaka , Japan,
on Oct. 7. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,730 in Osaka at
8:05 a.m. local time.  “There is hope that if a comprehensive European bank
package is announced, the damage on the real economy will be
less than currently expected,” said Belinda Allen, a senior
investment analyst at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management in Sydney, which oversees about $145 billion. “That
would be better news for global growth and commodity demand.”  Europe Debt  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent as commodity
prices advanced after German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President Nicholas Sarkozy pledged at the weekend to deliver a
plan to recapitalize the  Europe ’s banks and address  Greece ’s
sovereign-debt crisis by Nov. 3.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 17 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 5 percent loss for the  S&P
500  and a 14 percent decline for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 11.6 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 12 times for the
S&P 500 and 10 times for the Stoxx 600.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.1 percent
today. In New York yesterday, the gauge rose 3.4 percent, its
biggest rally since August, with all 10 industry groups
advancing. The S&P 500 last week rebounded from the threshold of
a bear market on optimism Europe will tame its debt crisis and
after U.S. economic data improved. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
posted the biggest four-day gain since 2008 yesterday.  Copper, Oil  Copper futures for December delivery climbed 2.9 percent on
the Comex in  New York  yesterday and gold futures rose 2.1
percent, while crude oil for November delivery gained 2.9
percent. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum added 1.7
percent, capping three straight days of gains.  In  China , Central Huijin started acquiring stock in
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., China Construction
Bank Corp., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of China
Ltd., according to a statement on its website. The fund will
continue with “related market operations,” it said, without
providing further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  