-- 
BHP Wins Australia’s Approval for Olympic Dam Expansion

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-10-10T02:32:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/australia-approves-bhp-billiton-s-proposed-olympic-dam-expansion.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, received environmental approval to
expand its Olympic Dam mine in Australia that will make it the
world’s largest uranium operation.  The company must adhere to more than 100 conditions
including protecting native species and groundwater, Australia’s
Environment Minister Tony Burke said today in a statement.  BHP wants to expand mining of uranium, copper and gold at
 Olympic Dam  in  South Australia  to meet rising demand from India
and  China , the world’s largest metal consumer. The mine may
contribute more than A$45 billion ($44 billion) to the state’s
economy, Burke said.  The expansion may cost $27.4 billion, Deutsche Bank AG said
in July. The board of BHP may approve the project next year,
Dean Dalla Valle, president of its uranium customer sector group
division, said in May.  A phased expansion is planned, BHP said Dec. 3, without
disclosing the cost. It aims to boost annual copper output to
750,000 metric tons over 30 years from 180,000 tons, it said.
After the expansion, the mine will also be the fourth-largest
copper and gold operation, South Australian Premier Mike Rann
said in December.  An expansion broken down into 10 smaller projects would
probably cost about $5 billion for each stage, Citigroup Inc.
said in September 2010, citing a presentation by  Andrew Mackenzie , chief executive officer of BHP’s non-ferrous unit.  Olympic Dam, located 560 kilometers (348 miles) north of
Adelaide, is 100 percent-owned by Melbourne-based BHP. It is
also Australia’s largest underground mine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in  Hong Kong  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  