-- 
Automotive Short Interest Belied by Detroit Rising Profits: Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-10-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/automotive-short-interest-surge-belied-by-rising-profits-for-detroit-cars.html
Automotive companies, sold short by
more U.S. investors than any industry except services, are too
cheap when weighed against record vehicle sales and provide
opportunities for bets against a financial collapse.  Short interest, a measure of bets that stock prices will
fall, in automakers and parts suppliers increased by 50 percent
in September to 1.7 percent of total shares, according to
researcher  Data Explorers . The ratio of long to short interest
deteriorated to the lowest this year at the end of last month.  Global auto sales are on pace to reach a record 74.6
million this year, J.D. Power & Associates says. Deliveries in
the U.S. accelerated in September to the fastest pace since
April, and sales in  China  may rise to 17.7 million, the most in
any country ever. At the same time, the 28-member Bloomberg
World Auto Manufacturers Index lost 21 percent through Oct. 7.  “These stocks have gotten hammered and are starting to
represent good value,”  Harry Rady , who oversees $260 million as
chief executive officer of hedge fund Rady Asset Management LLC.
“Obviously it hinges on which way the economy goes, but if
anything even a little better than a very dire scenario
materializes, these stocks could rock.”  Global monetary-policy makers, including the  Federal
Reserve  and  European Central Bank , are expanding efforts to
support their economies as the euro region’s sovereign-debt
crisis roils markets. Morgan Stanley, which rates the U.S. auto
sector “attractive,” said in a report last week that “trading
auto stocks in this macro environment is like playing ping-pong
in a hurricane.”  ‘Real Fears’  “You can’t have this much fear about sovereign risk, and
mentioning  U.S. economy  and depression so frequently, without
creating real fears for the real economy, and that hits auto
sales, mix and pricing,” Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley’s New York-
based analyst, said in a phone interview. “It’s confusing
investors because the bottom-up data does look pretty good.”  General Motors Co. (GM)  may earn $7.83 billion in net income
this year, a 27 percent gain from 2010, according to four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s profit may rise
16 percent from a year earlier to $7.56 billion, the average of
six estimates. Shares of Detroit-based GM have plunged 40
percent this year, while Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford lost 36
percent.  “There are a lot of metrics in this sector that your value
investor would look at and say ‘Wow, that’s pretty cheap,’”
said Dennis Wassung, who helps oversee about $500 million at
Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts .  GM Shorts  Short interest in GM climbed to 2.5 percent of total
shares, about one-fifth of lendable supply, London-based Data
Explorers said last week in a report. Ford’s short interest was
3 percent of total shares, the researcher said.  GM’s pension liabilities “no question” became investors’
biggest concern about the Detroit-based company during the past
quarter, Morgan Stanley’s Jonas said.  The company’s U.S. pension fund, which faced a $12.4
billion shortfall at the end of 2010, may finish the year
underfunded by $18.5 billion, he estimates. The liability will
rise even as GM makes an estimated $6.1 billion in cash and $1.4
billion in stock contributions this year, Morgan Stanley
estimates.  “That’s a huge offset to the very cash-rich balance sheet
they have,” Jonas said. The pension liability “competes with
what was until recently hopes of a cash-return story from GM.
That’s being put to bed.”  Ford’s U.S. pension shortfall may climb to $11.6 billion
this year, from $6.7 billion at the end of 2010, Jonas said.
Morgan Stanley estimates the Dearborn, Michigan-based company
may contribute $1.5 billion to its U.S. plans this year.
Investors also are concerned about GM and other rivals closing a
gap in product quality and “freshness” to Ford, Jonas said.  Ford’s Product  “The competition is going to catch up over the next two
years,” he said. “It won’t be as much of an advantage. GM is
replacing more product over the next two years.”  September U.S. auto sales gains exceeded analysts’
estimates, rising to a seasonally adjusted annualized rate of
13.1 million, according to Autodata Corp. The pace is the
highest since April’s 13.2 million, when lost output caused by
 Japan ’s tsunami started crimping supply of parts and cars.  The U.S. averaged annual sales of 16.8 million vehicles
from 2000 to 2007, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based
Autodata.  Annual U.S. deliveries peaked at 17.4 million in 2000.
China may pass that total for the first time, with sales
increasing about 3 percent to 17.7 million in 2011, according to
 Westlake Village , California-based  J.D. Power . China’s auto
market may exceed 25 million annual light-vehicle sales by 2015,
J.D. Power predicts.  China’s Growth  Regulators have moved to curb growth for China’s auto
market this year by measures such as Beijing’s limits to the
number of license plates available. Zhejiang Geely Holding Group
Co. short interest peaked at 7.6 percent of total shares in
August, almost all of the lendable supply, Data Explorers says.  “There’s a 10-year history there of substantial growth”
in China’s auto market, said Cabot’s Wassung, whose fund holds
shares of automaker Dongfeng Motor Co. “It’s not done. This
year’s going to be a bit of a pause, but it’s likely that this
trend of an emerging middle class that adds hundreds of millions
of new consumers to the market is not over.”  Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer of Renault SA and
Nissan Motor Co., which has a Chinese venture with Dongfeng,
said in an interview that investors are uncertain about the
global economy and that moves in the share prices of his
companies have been “extreme.”  “I am not particularly pessimistic, even though I don’t
think we’re going to go through this very quickly,” Ghosn said
in an Oct. 6 interview from  Rio de Janeiro , where Nissan
announced a new $1.4 billion auto plant in  Brazil .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  