-- 
Avocado Plunge Helps Sap Demand for CPI Bonds: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-10-10T22:35:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/avocado-plunge-helps-sap-demand-for-cpi-bonds-mexico-credit.html
Bond investors are cutting their
Mexican inflation forecasts to a four-month low as the global
economic slump and falling vegetable prices restrain cost-of-
living increases.  The yield gap between inflation-linked debt due in 2013 and
similar-maturity fixed-rate bonds, a gauge of investor
expectations for price increases, has fallen 27 basis points
this month to 357 on Oct. 7, the lowest since June, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called breakeven rate in
 Brazil  climbed 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, during
the same period, while in  Colombia  it rose 29.  Flagging growth in the U.S., Mexico’s biggest trading
partner, is helping drive inflation in  Latin America ’s second-
biggest economy to an almost five-year low. The national
statistics agency said Oct. 7 prices rose at an annual rate of
3.14 percent in September, less than economists forecast and
half the pace in Brazil. Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income
research for Bulltick Capital Markets, said he slashed his year-
end inflation forecast to 2.8 percent from 3.5 percent after the
report.  “It is very clear that we’re seeing subpar economic
growth, and when you have subpar economic growth in your largest
trading partner, there are downside risks to your economy,”
Bernal said in a telephone interview from Miami. “This was a
major adjustment.”  Yields on fixed-rate bonds due in 2013 fell 23 basis points
last week to 4.53 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on inflation-linked bonds due the same
year, whose coupons are linked to the  consumer price index , rose
four basis points to 0.96 percent during the same period.  Avocado Prices  Mexico’s inflation rate in September was the lowest since
March’s 3.04 percent. A 1.5 percent decline in fruit and
vegetable prices helped contain inflation in Mexico last month,
the government said. Avocado prices sank 32 percent, shaving
0.07 percentage point off the consumer price index.  Mexico was the world’s top producer of avocados in 2009,
according to the most recent data available from the United
Nations  Food and Agriculture Organization , and the fruit is an
important part of the national cuisine.  U.S. economic growth will slow to 1.6 percent this year
from 3 percent in 2010, according to the median estimate of 66
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mexico ’s gross domestic product
will grow 4 percent this year after expanding 5.4 percent in
2010, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said Sept. 8.  “Inflation continues to perform favorably,” Alejandro Padilla, a debt strategist at Grupo Financiero Banorte-Ixe, said
in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “The fact that the
economy is having a weak recovery has prevented producers and
retailers from raising prices. Consumers don’t have the money to
spend. They don’t even have the purchasing power.”  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to
248 at 5:17 p.m. Mexico City time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years dropped three basis points to 178 today, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso strengthened 1.7 percent to 13.2374 per  U.S.
dollar  today, from 13.4598 on Oct. 7. It’s down 11.2 percent in
the past three months.  Inflation will quicken to 3.89 percent by the end of the
year as deepening declines in the peso drive up the cost of
imports, according to Benito Berber, a strategist at Nomura
Securities Inc. in  New York . Economists in a monthly central
bank survey published Oct. 3 forecast inflation will end the
year at 3.34 percent. They predicted a rate of 3.52 percent in
August.  Rate Bets  Slowing inflation will prompt the central bank to lower
interest rates to spur economic growth, Bulltick’s Bernal said.
He forecasts policy makers will cut the benchmark rate by 25
basis points to 4.25 percent before the end of the year.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December rose one basis point today to 4.68 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to cut  interest rates 
this year.  A press official at the central bank didn’t respond to an
e-mail and telephone message seeking comment.  “I’m sure that Banxico is going to cut rates very soon in
large part because of the inflation scenario,” Bernal said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  