-- 
Taxing Millionaires Casts Obama as ‘Warrior’ for Middle Class Americans

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-10-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/taxing-millionaires-casts-obama-s-democrats-as-class-warriors-.html
Democrats have turned to an agenda
that Republicans are calling class warfare, as President Barack Obama presses a “Buffett Rule” to tax the rich,  Senate
Democrats  offer a millionaires’ tax instead and party leaders
fulminate against Bank of America’s $5 debit-card service fee.  Campaigning for re-election, Obama welcomes the charge.  “Then guess what? I’m a warrior for the middle class,” he
declared Sept. 22, standing at a Cincinnati bridge linking the
home states of the Republican leaders of the House and Senate
and setting a new course for his own party.  “The president tried to be the great conciliator and
suffered politically for it,” said Dan Schnur, director of the
Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of
 Southern California  and a former adviser to Republican Senator
 John McCain . “The message this fall is no more Mr. Nice Guy.”  As the Occupy  Wall Street  protests that have gained
strength in recent weeks expanded to Washington, Obama offered a
measure of solidarity, saying in an Oct. 6 news conference the
demonstrators were “giving voice to a more broad-based
frustration about how our financial system works.”  “Americans understand that not everybody has been
following the rules,” said Obama, who stopped short of
endorsing the protests. “These days a lot of folks that are
doing the right thing aren’t rewarded, and a lot of folks who
aren’t doing the right thing are rewarded.”  The populist causes Obama and his Democratic allies are
beginning to champion may provide some inoculation against the
broad public frustration with the economy that is shaping the
contest for the White House in 2012.  A New Turn  This is the latest turn for a president who over the course
of his tenure in office has oscillated in his public
relationship with the nation’s business elite between chastising
“fat-cat” bankers for large bonuses taken during the financial
crisis and traveling to U.S. Chamber of Commerce headquarters to
court corporate leaders.  Tension over how harshly to deal with the financial
establishment has played out behind the scenes since Obama’s
early days in office. Political aides such as former senior
adviser  David Axelrod  and former White House Press Secretary
 Robert Gibbs  argued for tougher rhetoric against banks in the
aftermath of bailouts while a softer line was urged by economic
aides such as Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and former
National Economic Council Director Larry Summers.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  criticizes the comfort
Democrats provide to those he says would divide the country.  Comforting ‘Mobs’  “If you read the newspapers today, I, for one, am
increasingly concerned about the growing mobs occupying Wall
Street and the other cities across the country,” Cantor, a
Virginia Republican, said Oct. 7 at a “Values Voter Summit” in
Washington organized by the Family Research Council’s advocacy
arm. “Believe it or not, some in this town have actually
condoned the pitting of Americans against Americans.’  The Democrats’ populist stance also complements a potential
line of attack against the candidate many Democratic strategists
believe is most likely to win the Republican presidential
nomination,  Mitt Romney . The extent of the former private equity
executive’s personal wealth was underscored with the disclosure
in August that he had applied for permits to quadruple the size
of a $12 million oceanfront home he owns in the La Jolla section
of  San Diego ,  California .  Democratic political strategist Paul Begala already has
come up with a sharp-edged corollary to the “Buffett Rule”
Obama has proposed for a tax overhaul which holds that wealthy
taxpayers shouldn’t pay a lower rate than middle-class workers.  ‘Romney Rule’  Begala calls it the “Romney Rule,” under which
millionaires “pay a lower  tax rate  than maids.” Like  Warren Buffett , the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Romney
receives most of his income from investments, typically taxed at
a lower rate than wages.  Obama has little to lose by alienating Wall Street. While
the president enjoyed strong support from the financial industry
in his last election bid, much of that money has switched sides
to the Republicans, mostly Romney. At least 100 of Obama’s Wall
Street donors from 2008 are now with Romney.  The populist turn “is long overdue,” said Andrew Baumann,
a vice president of the Washington-based Democratic polling firm
Greenberg Quinlan Rosner. His firm has been advising clients,
including House, Senate and gubernatorial candidates, to focus
their campaigns on “a priorities debate about whose side you’re
on.”  “This is where you want to go in an election like this,
where the economy is bad and not likely to get better,” Baumann
said.  Economic Troubles  Democrats’ hopes of easing Americans’ economic pain in time
for the president’s re-election have faded. Growth weakened
during the first half of the year to its slowest pace since the
recovery began, escalating concern over the European debt crisis
has roiled financial markets, and worries of a double-dip
recession are mounting.  While payroll growth in September beat forecasters’
expectations and added 103,000 jobs, the pace barely kept up
with  population growth  and didn’t budge the  unemployment rate 
from 9.1 percent, where it has been stuck for three months. The
median forecast for the average unemployment rate during the
election year isn’t much lower, at 8.8 percent, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists taken in September.  The slow progress has hardened economic divisions.  Among Democrats, 59 percent say the country is split
between “haves” and have-nots,” up from 47 percent who said
so in April 2009. Among independents, the portion is 47 percent,
up from 32 percent in 2009, according to a poll conducted by the
Pew Research Center Sept. 22-25.  Standards of Living  Of greater political consequence, standards of living have
been falling for the nation overall. Per capita real disposable
personal income -- the average after-inflation value of the
amount of money going into Americans’ pockets -- has dropped 0.5
percent during the 12 months ended in August and is lower than
it was when Obama took office in January 2009.  Income growth has been the best economic predictor of
presidential election results since 1952, according to research
by Douglas Hibbs, a former government professor at  Harvard
University  and economics professor at  Sweden ’s Gothenburg
University. Hibbs tested factors such as per-capita real
disposable personal income growth and fatalities in foreign wars
against a range of models using other economic data.  ‘Pent-Up Anger’  Senator Dick Durbin, an Illinois Democrat who was one of
Obama’s early supporters, cites public frustration with growing
disparities between the wealthy and working class.  “What you hear being expressed in many places -- on the
floor of the Senate, in the House, even in the streets -- is
this pent-up anger over the inequality of income in this country
and the difficulties working families face,” said Durbin,
second-ranking Democratic leader in the Senate. “It’s a
cumulative impact this economy has had on working families: They
are falling farther and farther behind.”  After Bank of America imposed a new $5-a-month fee for
accountholders who use debit cards, Durbin went to the Senate
floor Oct. 4 to urge customers to “get the heck out of that
bank.” Representative Brad Miller, a North Carolina Democrat,
followed up by introducing legislation to bar banks from
charging customers fees to close accounts.  Vice President Joe Biden tapped public anger over the
nation’s $700 billion bank bailout in denouncing the debit-card
fee, which the bank said it was charging to recoup income lost
by a new law limiting debit-card transaction costs for
retailers.  Public Perceptions  “Look, the American people know -- they don’t guess --
they know the reason the CEO of the Bank of America or any other
body in that business is in the business is because they -- that
guy making 50,000 bucks -- bailed him out,” Biden said Oct. 6
at a forum in  Washington .  He went on to question whether banks are “paying their
fair share of the bargain” while “middle class people are
getting killed.”  Only a year ago, Senate Democratic leaders avoided a vote
on ending the Bush administration’s tax cuts for the wealthy as
midterm congressional elections loomed. Last week, Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, coupled a 5
percent surtax on people who earn at least $1 million to Obama’s
jobs plan, inviting a vote on the proposal as a line of
demarcation against Republican opponents.  Shift in Stance  For the president, the new approach represents a break from
the “above-the-fray” stance he took in July and August during
debt-limit negotiations with Republican congressional leaders,
when he showed a willingness to give ground on traditional
Democratic priorities such as Medicare and Social Security to
try to forge a broad bargain on long-term deficits, according to
Schnur, who was a campaign adviser to McCain, a senator from
 Arizona , in his 2000 presidential campaign.  The more confrontational approach carries a risk of
clashing with the public persona of a political figure who was
introduced to the nation as a unifying figure and has mostly
eschewed divisive public rhetoric, Schnur said.  “As much as Obama knows intellectually this is the right
political path to take, it’s still not who he is,” Schnur said.
“At heart, he’s still a conciliator.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 