-- 
Banks May Still Face Fraud, Municipal Lawsuits After Foreclosure Agreement

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-10-11T18:50:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/banks-may-still-face-fraud-municipal-claims-under-foreclosure-settlement.html
U.S. banks may still face state
securities-fraud claims and municipal lawsuits over unpaid
mortgage fees under a settlement that is “getting closer,” the
official leading talks for state  attorneys general  said.  Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller said in an interview
yesterday that any settlement wouldn’t prevent a growing number
of municipalities from suing banks for allegedly cheating them
out of millions of dollars in filing fees, or individual states
from pursuing securities claims against banks.  “They won’t be released. They will go forward,” Miller
said about securities claims brought by states. “There will be
ongoing litigation” against the banks, he said.  State attorneys general and federal officials have been
negotiating a settlement with the largest mortgage servicers,
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , based in Charlotte,  North
Carolina , and New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Officials are
seeking an agreement that would fund loan modifications for
homeowners and set requirements for how the banks conduct
foreclosures.  “We’re getting closer to resolving it,” Miller said. “We
still have issues that could frustrate the agreement, but we’re
getting closer.”  Bank Representatives  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , one of the five banks involved in the talks, declined to
comment on them. Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based
Ally Financial Inc.;  Jason Menke , a spokesman for San Francisco-
based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ; and Thomas A. Kelly, a JPMorgan
spokesman, also declined to comment. Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of
America representative, didn’t answer an e-mail.  An agreement is “essentially done” on the standards for
how the banks will service mortgage loans, Iowa Assistant
Attorney General Patrick Madigan said in an interview.  “It’s in many ways the most important work that we’ve done
here,” he said of the servicing rules. “That’s something
nobody else has been able to achieve, not Congress, not the
federal banking regulators. This is something we’ve been able to
achieve, and we’re very proud of it.”  Several attorneys general, including New York’s  Eric Schneiderman , Delaware’s  Beau Biden , and  Massachusetts ’s  Martha Coakley , have raised concerns about the scope of the liability
releases that would be given to the banks as part of any deal.  Bank Issues  They have said the banks shouldn’t receive releases for
matters that haven’t been fully investigated, including the
packaging of  mortgage loans  into securities and the use of a
mortgage database known as MERS.  California Attorney General Kamala Harris said Sept. 30
that she was rejecting a proposed settlement with the banks and
would conduct her own mortgage investigation because the state
“was being asked for a broader release of claims than we can
accept and to excuse conduct that has not been adequately
investigated.”  “In return for this broad release of claims, the relief
contemplated would allow too few California homeowners to stay
in their homes,” she wrote in a letter to Miller and the
 Justice Department .  Coakley said in a statement last week that she was
preparing to sue banks because she had “lost confidence” an
agreement would be reached that holds the companies
“accountable for wrongful foreclosures.”  In the interview, Miller said the agreement wouldn’t cover
claims by county and state governments over unpaid mortgage
filing fees.  States’ MERS Suit  Officials in  Texas ,  Michigan  and Kentucky sued Mortgage
Electronic Registration Systems Inc. and lenders including Bank
of America, claiming cash-strapped counties were cheated out of
fees by an electronic system used to transfer mortgages.  Merscorp Inc.’s MERS tracks servicing rights and ownership
interests in mortgage loans on its electronic registry, allowing
banks to buy and sell loans without recording transfers with
counties.  MERS acts as the lender’s nominee and remains the mortgagee
of record as long as the note promising repayment is owned by a
MERS member. Dallas County claims this allows banks to buy and
sell loans without properly recording transfers with counties
and paying the fee.  County and state officials across the U.S. have expressed
interest in the litigation, Dallas County District Attorney
Craig Watkins said after filing one of the suits last month.  County Lawyers  Lawyers for Harris County, Texas, which includes Houston,
said last week they would ask the county government for
permission to hire outside counsel to file a similar claim. The
request, initially set for consideration today, likely will be
heard by the Harris County Commissioners Court on Oct. 25,
lawyers for the county said.  John Odam, Harris County assistant county attorney, said he
was “definitely pleased” that the 50-state attorney general
group wasn’t going to resolve claims over fees in settlement
talks with the banks. “This is a local issue,” Odam said today
in an interview. “The county attorneys want a seat at the table
and to be part of any discussion.”  The clerks of  Kentucky ’s Christian and Washington counties
sued MERS, Chase Home Mortgage Corp., CitiMortgage, Wells Fargo,
Bank of America and others in federal court in Louisville in
April over unpaid fees, seeking to represent all 120 counties in
the state.  Washington County,  Pennsylvania , sued U.S. Bank NA in state
court over fees last month, contending that MERS was set up
“for the express purpose of circumventing the payment of
assignment of mortgage fees to county governments.” The suit,
brought on behalf of all counties in the state, doesn’t name
MERS as a defendant.  Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Reston, Virginia-based
Merscorp, declined to comment, saying in an e-mail that the
company hasn’t been involved in the settlement discussions with
state and federal officials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York 
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 