-- 
Basel Levy for Systemic Banks Won’t Hit Recovery, Regulators Say

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/basel-levy-for-biggest-banks-won-t-hurt-recovery-regulators-say.html
Capital surcharges of as much as 2.5
percentage points on the world’s biggest banks will have only a
“modest impact” on the economic recovery and may eventually
help spur growth, according to global regulators.  The proposals, coupled with other rules to force banks to
build up their reserves, will cut economic output by a maximum
of 0.34 percent during a transition period, the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  and the Financial Stability Board said in
a report yesterday. Longer term, the combined plans will bolster
output by as much as 2.5 percent a year because of the reduced
risk of financial turmoil.  The permanent benefits from the two measures would be
“many times the costs of the reforms in terms of temporarily
slower annual growth,” the regulators said. Given the “unique
role” of systemic banks, “it could be argued” that the report
underestimates the initial impact of the measures. “But if this
is the case, then the benefits from strengthening their balance
sheets, and thereby reducing the risk of a devastating financial
crisis, should be greater as well.”  Regulators have clashed with lenders including  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  over the plans,
with banks warning that the measures may constrain lending and
hurt the economy.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has said that the U.S. should consider
withdrawing from the Basel committee and that the rules it sets
are “anti-American.”  The Basel committee agreed to press ahead with the
surcharges at a meeting last month, while proposing changes to
how they calculate the size of levies individual banks should
face. As many as 28 banks may face the extra capital rules, the
group has said, without naming the lenders. The FSB endorsed the
surcharge plans at a meeting in Zurich last week.  Interconnectedness  Banks would face surcharges based on their size,
interconnectedness, complexity, global reach, and the ability of
other firms to take over lenders’ functions if they fail. The
proposals will be sent by regulators for approval by the Group
of 20 countries at a summit on Nov. 3 and 4.  “Additional  capital requirements  have consequences for the
ability of banks to provide support to the real economy,” HSBC,
 Europe ’s largest bank, said in  response  to a consultation on the
plans by the Basel committee that closed in August. The plans
may discourage banks “from facilitating global trade,”
 Citigroup  said.  Lenders have also complained that the method for
calculating the surcharges has been poorly designed, including
that it is  too focused  on banks’ size, while  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  has said that the plans could “exacerbate apparent
inconsistencies that already exist” between how different banks
calculate the capital they must hold.  Tripling of Capital  The surcharge plans come on top of a tripling of minimum
capital rules for all internationally active banks, known as
Basel III, that was agreed on by the Basel committee last year.  Each one percentage point increase in the amount of capital
that big banks have to hold above Basel III will initially lower
economic output by “less than one one-hundreth of a percentage
point,” according to yesterday’s report.  Banks in the 27-nation European Union will need to raise an
extra 423 billion euros ($578.8 billion) by 2019 to comply with
the Basel III requirements, according to an impact study by the
European Commission.  Basel III will be phased in between Jan 1. 2013 and 2019,
while the Basel group anticipates phasing in the surcharges for
the biggest banks between 2016 and the end of 2018.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Basel at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 