-- 
Bertelsmann Names Thomas Rabe CEO to Succeed Hartmut Ostrowski on Jan. 1

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-10-10T17:20:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/bertelsmann-names-thomas-rabe-ceo-to-succeed-hartmut-ostrowski.html
Bertelsmann AG, Europe’s biggest
media company and owner of publisher  Random House , named Chief
Financial Officer Thomas Rabe as chief executive officer to
succeed Hartmut Ostrowski as it aims to expand via acquisitions.  Rabe, 46, will take over on Jan. 1 and Ostrowski, 53, will
join the company’s supervisory board, the Guetersloh, Germany-
based company said in a  statement  today. Ostrowski is resigning
from the executive board for “personal reasons,” Bertelsmann
said, adding that the change are taking place “amicably and by
mutual consent.”  Rabe , who on Aug. 31 said that music company EMI Group Ltd.
would fit into the acquisition strategy of Bertelsmann’s BMG
Rights Management unit, has been CFO at Bertelsmann since 2006.
Months after taking over, he helped to orchestrate the 4.5
billion-euro ($6.2 billion) buyback of a Bertelsmann stake from
Belgian billionaire  Albert Frere . One of Rabe’s main challenges
is to bolster the digital business, said Thilo Mueller, CEO of
MB Fund Advisory, which manages 120 million euros.  The transition to new digital platforms such as Apple
Inc.’s iPad “is very important for a company like Bertelsmann”
and its success is “closely linked with the management,”
Mueller said. “With media executives, their far-sightedness,
creativity and strategic approach are far more important” than
in other industries,” he said.  Web Push  Media businesses such as Bertelsmann, whose assets also
include Europe’s biggest magazine publisher Gruner + Jahr, are
trying to bolster revenue from digital and Web assets to make up
for slower growth at traditional newspaper, magazine and
printing services. Axel Springer AG,  Europe ’s largest newspaper
publisher and Bertelsmann’s biggest German rival, said Aug. 3
that it wants to generate about half of revenue from Internet
channels such as publications’ websites and advertising portals
within seven years.  Bertelsmann is looking for acquisitions after it returned
to profit this year helped by rising advertising sales at
broadcaster RTL Group, Europe’s biggest broadcaster. Rabe was
finance chief of RTL from 2000 to 2005. He also had stints at
the European Commission and law firm  Forrester, Norall & Sutton .  Rabe was in charge of negotiating deals such as the sale of
the music-publishing business to Vivendi SA in 2006 and the
disposal of a 50 percent stake in the recorded-music unit in
2008. Rabe, who once played bass guitar in a band, also
supervised the takeover of music publishers such as Cherry Lane
Music Publishing and Evergreen Copyrights by BMG Rights
Management, the company’s music rights venture with KKR & Co.  EMI Sale  Citigroup Inc. (C)  may receive lower bids than expected for EMI
Group due to tight credit markets and may be forced to break up
the record label or halt the sale, several people with knowledge
of the matter said this month. Vivendi SA’s  Universal Music
Group  is interested in EMI’s recorded-music business, these
people said. Sony Corp. and BMG Rights Management are separately
interested in EMI’s publishing business, said two people.  BMG Rights Management also made bids for three different
sets of assets from  Warner Music , two people familiar with the
talks said March 23. Warner Music this year agreed to be
acquired by billionaire Len Blavatnik for almost $3 billion.  Asked whether Bertelsmann would consider bidding for EMI,
Rabe told reporters in August that the company has more
flexibility in financing acquisitions because it is closely
held. He declined to comment further on the EMI sales process,
adding that Europe’s largest media company is as “prudent” as
before and that its spending policy hasn’t changed amid the
turmoil in capital markets.  ‘Next Expansive Stage’  “The groundwork has been laid for leading Bertelsmann into
the next expansive stage of development,” supervisory board
Chairman Gunter Thielen told employees in an internal letter
obtained by Bloomberg News. “In Thomas, I am positive that we
have an entrepreneur at the top who will lend momentum to
Bertelsmann’s growth strategy and future development.”  Bertelsmann’s debt ballooned in 2006 through the buyback of
a stake from Albert Frere’s Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA. The
purchase returned full control of the company to the Mohn
family. Following the deal, Rabe oversaw the reduction of debt
and the company said in March that it could spend as much as 1
billion euros on acquisitions this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  