-- 
Bharti Says India Airwave Share Plan to Add ‘Needed’ Capacity to Carriers

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-10-11T04:57:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/bharti-says-india-airwave-share-plan-to-add-needed-capacity.html
India’s plan to make more spectrum
available to mobile-phone operators and allow sharing and
trading of airwaves will provide carriers with “much needed”
extra capacity,  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  said.  Airwaves held by some government departments, companies and
telecommunication services providers may be freed up,  Kapil Sibal , India’s telecommunications minister, said at a news
conference in New Delhi yesterday. India will “facilitate
consolidation” in the industry while ensuring competition,
create a single nationwide permit, separate the sale of spectrum
and licenses, and audit use of airwaves, he said.  Bharti, the nation’s largest mobile-phone company, said
last year its plans to offer nationwide high-speed services in
the world’s second-largest wireless market were thwarted after a
“severe spectrum shortage” contributed to driving up prices at
an auction for third-generation airwaves. Nine of India’s 15
mobile-phone service providers have 3G spectrum, with Bharti
owning permits for 13 of the nation’s 22 telecommunications
zones and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  holding nine.  “Spectrum sharing is a very critical aspect because none
of the operators have third-generation spectrum on a pan-India
basis,” said Naveen Kulkarni, an analyst at MF Global Sify
Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. Companies including  Telenor ASA (TEL) ’s
local unit that don’t have 3G permits “can actually frame a
long-term strategy if there is a proper framework for sharing.”  ‘Market-Related Processes’  Shares of Indian telecommunications companies rose. Bharti
rose as much as 4.7 percent to 380.45 rupees,  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  gained 3.4 percent and  Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA) 
4.8 percent. The benchmark index advanced 1.3 percent.  The airwaves will be allocated in a “transparent manner
through market-related processes,” Sibal said. The department
also will work toward getting the telecommunications industry
the status of infrastructure, he said without elaborating.  “The proposal to give infrastructure status to the telecom
sector and rationalization of taxes and levies will provide
much-needed relief to the sector,” Bharti said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “This will help in further expansion of
networks.”  India  aims to provide phones to every villager by 2020 from
about 35 per 100 now, Sibal said. The government targets to
provide broadband on demand by 2015 and achieve 600 million
broadband connections by 2020, he said.  December Deadline  “We want all citizens of India, all businesses in India,
both rural and urban, to participate in the Internet and web
economy to ensure equitable and inclusive development,” Sibal
said. “The objective is to enhance affordability, increase
access, delivery of multiple services and reduce costs.”  The government will make unlicensed spectrum available and
prepare a “road map” for additional airwaves every five years,
Sibal said. India will also formulate an “appropriate exit
policy for the licensees,” he said without elaborating.  A company with a license to provide phone services can’t
sell a stake for three years, according to existing rules. Each
of India’s telecommunications zones needs to have a minimum of
three carriers.  India will promote the production of telecommunications
equipment with 65 percent value addition locally to meet 80
percent of the industry’s demand by 2020, Sibal said. The
government proposes to set up Telecom Finance Corp. to fund
projects, he said.  The government will seek feedback and formulate the new
rules by Dec. 31, Sibal said.  Corruption Charges  The wireless market in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy is
forecast by research firm Gartner Inc. to exceed 872 million
active users by the end of 2014, compared with  601.7 million  at
the end of July. The country had 858 million mobile phone
accounts at the end of July, according to the phone regulator.  Competition among the 15 mobile phone service providers has
pushed call charges to less than one U.S. cent a minute, eroding
profitability at the carriers.  The proposal to change rules for the first time in more
than a decade comes amid an investigation into the granting of
wireless permits in 2008.  Kunal Bajaj, director of New Delhi-based consulting company
Analysys Mason India Pvt., said the government needed to provide
more details of how its proposals will be implemented.  “A lot of people in the industry, a lot of investors, are
actually expecting answers to come out of this policy and they
are going to be a little bit disappointed,” Bajaj said by phone
from  Hanoi  yesterday. “If we get a real spectrum road map for
the release of spectrum in a reasonable period of time, that
could be the most positive thing.”  The government is cracking down on corruption after Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  vowed to punish anyone found guilty of
violating rules in the sale of phone licenses. The auditor said
last year the spectrum sale was “arbitrary, unfair and
inequitable.”  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , who is
accused of conspiring to sell the permits at below-market rates;
Kanimozhi, a lawmaker; former bureaucrats; and company officials
are in jail awaiting trial in the case. Both Raja and Kanimozhi
have denied wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  