-- 
Billionaires Head for $350 Million Frieze Amid Art Price Worry

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-10-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/billionaires-head-for-350-million-frieze-amid-art-price-worry.html
Billionaire collectors are gathering
for the contemporary-art market’s latest test as volatile
financial markets threaten to slow big-ticket spending.  Dealers are watching to see if demand holds up at the
 Frieze  fair in  London . This year, the five-day Regent’s Park
event is offering $350 million worth of art, $25 million less
than last year, according to the estimates of insurer  Hiscox
Ltd. (HSX)  The VIP preview tomorrow is the centerpiece of a crowded
week of satellite fairs, museum shows, gallery openings and
auctions valued at more than $500 million.  Frieze is Europe’s biggest commercial event focused
primarily on the work of living artists. The ninth edition comes
after stocks dived amid worries about government debts.  “Collectors are being more cautious,” said the London-based
adviser Tania Buckrell Pos, who has Russians and Asians among
her clients. “A few indicated they thought prices may even come
down a little. Nonetheless, Frieze will attract a lot of
attention and there will be some solid buying activity.”  Frieze, sponsored by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , will look different
this year. The architecture firm  Carmody Groarke  has designed a
series of interlinked temporary structures to house dealer
booths and hospitality functions, replacing the single tent of
previous years. The number of galleries is unchanged at 173.  New York-based  Pace  is one of four dealerships making their
debut at the fair. The Manhattan gallery’s booth will show Chuck Close’s 1993 portrait “Joel,” priced at about $5 million. In 
addition, it will be opening a first-floor gallery at 6-10 
Lexington Street in the Soho area of the U.K. capital.  Mayfair Gallery  “This space will be by appointment,” Jennifer Joy, the 
gallery's public relations manager said in an interview. “We're 
planning to open a gallery in Mayfair in 2012. We're still
working on the details.”  New works priced at less than $500,000 tend to be the main
draw for collectors who fly in for Frieze and its satellite
events. Sculpture looks set to be the flavor of the week.  London exhibitor  Anthony Reynolds  has already sold 10 of an
edition of 35 apartment-friendly replicas of  Mark Wallinger ’s
“White Horse” sculpture planned for Ebbsfleet in Kent. Initially
pitched at 10,000 pounds ($15,660), the 1/250th scale polyester
resin and chalk powder versions have yet to be priced.  London and Zurich dealer  Hauser & Wirth  now represents the
British sculptor  Thomas Houseago . His bronze “Hermaphrodite”
will be shown in Frieze’s sculpture park, priced about $400,000, 
while a mask piece will be available at $100,000.  The bronze “Ghost of Humankindness” by New York State-based
sculptor Huma Bhabha will be shown on the booth of the London
dealer  Stephen Friedman . The unique sculpture will be priced at
about $250,000, with accompanying drawings starting at $25,000.  Future Can Wait  Away from Frieze, works by emerging artists can be snapped 
up for less than $20,000 at events like the  SUNDAY  fair at 35 
Marylebone Road, or the Saatchi Gallery & Channel 4 New 
Sensations and The Future Can Wait show at Victoria House in 
Bloomsbury Square.  “My clients are ready and itching to buy work,” said the
New York-based adviser Heather Flow, who will be visiting Frieze
and its satellite events. “The majority are American and our
focus is on works under $30,000. The price point is at a level 
that doesn't threaten my collectors' bank accounts. On average 
they buy eight works a year and this is continuing in 2011.”  Others are less confident about the outlook for
contemporary pieces. Robert Read, fine art expert at specialist
art insurer Hiscox, regards the “cutting-edge” material on offer
at Frieze and elsewhere as the most volatile and speculative 
sector of the market. In 2009, in the aftermath of the collapse 
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., prices declined by as much as 
50 percent.  Piles of Cash  “It sells when the economy is booming,” Read said in an 
interview. “It can feel a less safe investment when things 
become difficult. That said, there are plenty of people out 
there sitting on piles of cash trying to work out where to put 
it.”  Next year, as well as opening a new fair in  New York  in
May, Frieze will be bolstered in London in October by its own
separate “Masters” event with dealers offering pre-1950 works by
artists with established reputations.  In the meantime, the boutique  Pavilion of Art & Design
London  fair in Berkeley Square will be the shop window for such
classic works.  Barcelona dealer  Manuel Barbie  will be offering three
pieces by  Pablo Picasso  never put on the market before. Acquired
from the German-based collection of Richard von Radack, they 
include a 1922 Synthetic Cubist still-life painting at 2 million
euros ($2.73 million) and a 1915 Analytical Cubist collage at 
1.8 million euros.  Pavilion Fair  The fifth edition of the French-owned  Pavilion fair  will
preview today.  “We meet the best collectors from the U.S. and  Europe ,” 
Barbie, one of 58 exhibiting dealers, said in an interview. 
“People are flying in for Frieze and for the sales, and the 
Pavilion is just a few meters away from the auction houses.”  London dealer  Simon Dickinson Fine Art  will be showing two
Gerhard Richter abstracts at the fair to coincide with the
artist’s retrospective at  Tate Modern . Both offered on
consignment from collectors, the 1976 monochrome “Grau” is
priced at 1.4 million euros and the 1982 turquoise, green and
red “Abstraktes Bild” at 4.2 million pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 