-- 
Buyout Loans Discounted to Lowest Since ’08 to Lure Crisis-Weary Investors

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-10-10T11:44:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/lbo-loans-in-europe-discounted-to-deepest-since-2008-on-crisis.html
Banks are offering the deepest
discounts on new leveraged buyout loans to attract investors
concerned about policy makers’ ability to contain Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis since 2008.  The average offer price for buyout loans dropped to as low
as 94 percent in Europe last week from 97 percent in the first
nine months of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The lower the so-called original issue discount, or
OID, the bigger the yield for investors.  German chancellor  Angela Merkel  met with French president
 Nicolas Sarkozy  yesterday in Berlin to forge a “durable”
solution to  Greece ’s debt load threatening losses at European
lenders. Banks are offering bigger discounts to attract
investors to new loans as prices of existing loans in the
secondary market drop below 90 percent of face value, according
to Markit Group Ltd. data.  “Banks are doing the right thing to mark the loans to
market level so they can get the deals out of the book and move
on instead of sitting on it,” said Richard Munn, London-based
co-head of European investments at Oak Hill Advisors.
“Arrangers have realized that they need to increase the OID on
primary deals to a new level to be competitive with the
secondary market and to attract investors’ capital.”  ‘Broader Concern’  Com Hem, the Swedish cable operator being acquired by BC
Partners Ltd., is offering euro-denominated loans at 94 percent
to 95 percent of face value, compared with about 98 percent last
month, people with knowledge of the deal said Sept. 30. The
buyout financing totals 7.1 billion kronor ($1 billion).  Bureau van Dijk Electronic Publishing, a Brussels-based
business-information publisher being bought by Charterhouse
Capital Partners LLP, also reduced the proposed offer price on
loans sold to non-bank investors to 94 percent of face value
from 98 percent in August. It increased interest by 25 basis
points to 500 basis points more than the euro interbank offered
rate, Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  “This is a reflection of broader concern on the sovereign
crisis in  Europe ,” said Patrice Maffre, co-head of EMEA
acquisition and leveraged finance at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
London. “The market is in price-discovery mode with investors,
who have the options of not investing, buying in primary,
picking up things in secondary” and investing in the U.S.  Loans to fund the acquisition of Bavaria Yachtbau GmbH by
Bain Capital LLC were sold in 2008 at 65 percent of face value
in the biggest disclosed discount, according to the data.  Henry Kravis , co-founder of KKR & Co., said on Sept. 28
private-equity deals are becoming more expensive as the
reluctance of banks and investors to lend drives up borrowing
costs. The cost of capital for LBOs has risen more than 2
percentage points since KKR agreed to buy Pfizer Inc.’s Capsugel
unit in April, forcing buyers to put up more cash for deals and
borrow less, he said.  Banks “underwrote these deals in the first half of the
year when we were in a different world but now things have
changed and they have learnt the lessons of 2008 and 2009,”
Munn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  