-- 
BOE Stimulus Expansion May Not Prevent U.K. Recession, BCC Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/boe-stimulus-expansion-may-not-prevent-u-k-recession-bcc-says.html
The  Bank of England ’s expansion of
stimulus may not be enough to prevent the U.K. economy slipping
back into recession, the British Chambers of Commerce said.  “Given the worsening international situation and the acute
problems facing the  euro zone , there is a clear need for the
Monetary Policy Committee and the government to make every
effort to avert risks of recession,” BCC Chief Economist  David Kern  said in an e-mailed statement in London today. “The recent
increase” in so-called quantitative easing “is welcomed, but
more radical measures are needed.”  The Bank of England raised the ceiling for bond purchases
to 275 billion pounds ($431 billion) from 200 billion pounds on
Oct. 6, the biggest expansion since the first round of stimulus
in March 2009. Governor  Mervyn King  said the move was a response
to what may be the worst financial crisis ever.  Data last week showed the U.K. economy grew just 0.1
percent in the second quarter, less than previously estimated. A
survey by the BCC published today showed measures of domestic
and export sales at manufacturers and services companies
declined in the third quarter.  An index of domestic factory sales fell 15 points to 3, the
lowest since the first quarter of 2010, while a gauge of
domestic sales at services companies dropped 10 points to zero.
Measures of export sales and orders at both industries dropped
to their lowest since 2009. The employment outlook and
confidence also fell, according to the survey, which covered
6,702 companies between Aug. 29 and Sept. 21. The results are
“disappointing and worrying,” the BCC said.  There are “signs of stagnation in the domestic economy,”
Kern said. “The forward-looking home order balances moved into
negative territory, for both manufacturing and services,
pointing to risks of recession.”  He said authorities should focus further measures on
purchasing securitized small- and medium-sized enterprise loans
and other private sector assets. While another recession “can
be avoided,” the BCC will probably lower its September
forecasts for growth of 1.1 percent in 2011 and 2.1 percent in
2012, Kern said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  