-- 
Bond Auction Demand Sinks 52% as Yields Lower Than Cash: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-10-11T04:35:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/bond-auction-demand-sinks-to-least-since-08-australia-credit.html
Investor demand for Australian bonds
at government auctions fell to the weakest in more than three
years as yields held below the cash rate for two months and amid
signs the domestic economy remains resilient.  Tenders  in September drew bids worth 2.3 times the
securities offered, the smallest average bid-to-cover ratio
since January 2008, and compared with as high as 4.8 in April.
Demand at sales of 10-year U.S. Treasuries averaged 3.2 this
year, up from 3.09 in 2010 and heading for the strongest year
since at least 1994, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
Sept. 28 sale of  Australia ’s 2021 security drew the weakest
demand for any of the nation’s auctions since January 2010.  Investor demand for Australian debt, the world’s best-
performing sovereign bonds in the past year, is faltering after
the nation’s exports grew to a record and consumer spending
outpaced economists’ forecasts. Yields on 10-year notes rose a
fifth day, the longest stretch of gains since February, after
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  committed to devising a plan to recapitalize European
banks and address Greece’s debt crisis.  “The tone of the auctions has been weaker for a while,”
Adam Donaldson, head of debt research at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia  said in an telephone interview from Sydney. Certain
buyers “are staying out of the market a bit at these
unappealing yields,” he said.  Rally Falters  All Australian  government bonds , the longest-dated of which
mature in 2023, have yielded less than the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia’s 4.75 percent key rate since Aug. 9. Offshore
investors held 75 percent of the nation’s bonds as of June 30,
according to data from the central bank and statistics bureau.  Benchmark 10-year government bonds fell for a second week
in the five days ended Oct. 7 and yields have advanced to 4.33
percent from 4 percent on Oct. 4, the least since January 2009.
Yields are 219 basis points, or 2.19 percentage points, more
than U.S. Treasuries of similar maturity, down for this year’s
high of 248 basis points on Aug. 10.  Ten-year Australian yields rose four basis points today,
paring this year’s drop to 122 basis points. A gain in October
would halt nine months of declines, the longest stretch since at
least 1978.  Auction Results  A Sept. 28 auction of the May 2021 security drew bids worth
1.58 times the amount offered, bringing the average for 10-year
bond auctions in Australia this year to 2.8, according to data
from the  Australian Office of Financial Management . An Oct. 7
auction for notes maturing in June 2014 had a bid-to-cover ratio
of 3.3, the lowest for a security due that year since May.  “Longer-dated bonds typically benefit less from the
flight-to-safety bid than the front end of the curve enjoys,”
said Commonwealth Bank’s Donaldson. “We are suggesting that the
yield curve is going to steepen in Australia with the front-end
getting a lot of support from this view that the RBA could cut
rates and the back-end struggling a bit.”  Commonwealth Bank predicts the difference between three-
and 10-year bond yields will widen toward 95 basis points by
December from 63 today. That gap is 163 for U.S. securities of
similar maturities and 80 for  Japan .  The bid-to-cover ratio at the U.S. Treasury Department’s
Sept. 29 auction of seven-year notes rose to 3.02 from 2.76 at
the last seven-year note sale. A Sept. 28 sale of five-year
notes saw the coverage ratio rise to 3.04 from 2.71.  Rate Outlook  Japan’s auction of 20-year debt on Sept. 13 drew bids for
3.39 times the amount of bonds available, the most since May,
and the last 30-year sale on Sept. 6 drew a higher price than
traders expected.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  indicated Oct. 4 that he’s
willing to cut the developed world’s highest benchmark interest
rate “should that prove necessary.”  Three of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict
the RBA will lower rates to 4.5 percent at the next policy
meeting on Nov. 1. Eighteen expect no change. The central bank
will reduce its benchmark by 133 basis points within a year,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps.  Australia is the only developed nation to avoid the global
recession of 2009 as the nation benefited from demand for its
commodities from countries including  China  and  India .  Record Exports  The nation’s exports surged to A$28.4 billion ($27.9
billion) in August on coal shipments, and the A$3.1 billion
trade surplus was the second-widest on record, the Bureau of
Statistics said Oct. 4. Retail sales rose more than economists
forecast for a second-straight month in August, data the
following day showed.  An Oct. 13 report is forecast to show Australian employers
added 10,000 jobs last month, ending two months of declines,
according to a survey by Bloomberg News.  “We may have seen the low in yields for this cycle,” said
Sally Auld, a Sydney-based interest-rate strategist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. “People want to be short here, but it’s hard when
all it takes is for one tactless politician or some headline in
 Europe  to reverse any run-up in yields. You’re very exposed to
those risks and it’s hard to hedge against them.”  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 10 basis points to
199 as of 3:18 p.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking Corp. prices
show. A close of 199 would be the lowest since Sept. 21,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Bond Returns  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
corporate bonds instead of government debt fell to 248 basis
points on Oct. 11, after reaching 249 on Oct. 6, the highest
since August 2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Australia’s sovereign debt returned 9.6 percent over 12
months, the best performance among 26 markets tracked by
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes, as investors sought alternatives to
assets denominated in dollars and euro as both regions struggle
to curb deficits and support growth.  Under rising pressure to defuse turmoil that’s raged for 18
months, and facing growing concern  Greece  is headed to a
default, Merkel said Oct. 9 that European leaders will do
“everything necessary” to ensure that banks have enough
capital. Sarkozy said they would deliver a plan by the Nov. 3
Group of 20 summit.  European Central Bank council member Erkki Liikanen said
yesterday that Europe’s banks are encountering difficulties in
obtaining funding on the markets.  Bank Rates  “The lack of long-term funding is crimping investment,”
Liikanen, who also heads the Bank of  Finland , said in a
television interview on Finland’s YLE TV1. He said the main
responsibility for recapitalizing banks lies with the owners.  The spread between the interest Australian banks pay when
borrowing from each other for three months and swaps tracking
expectations for the RBA’s benchmark rose two basis points to 34
basis points. The gap, which is a gauge of banks’ difficulty in
accessing funds, closed at 61 basis points on Aug. 8, the
highest since January 2009.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, traded at 99.60 U.S. cents as of 3:20 p.m. in Sydney,
after gaining 2.3 percent yesterday, the steepest advance in
more than a year.  “In the absence of a sharp slowdown in China and
significant falls in Australia’s key commodity prices of coal
and iron ore, it’s hard to see the RBA slashing  interest rates 
by the 150 basis points currently priced by the market,”  Peter Jolly , the Sydney-based head of market research at National
Australia Bank Ltd., the nation’s largest lender to businesses,
wrote in a note yesterday. “Without a sharp compression in the
Australian dollar’s official interest-rate advantage it’s hard
to see the currency being sustained below parity.”  The RBA’s commodity price index, measured in Australian
dollars and based on 18 major raw materials exported by the
nation, rose to 115.4 in September, the highest since November
2008, a report showed Oct. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  