-- 
Brazilian Real Rises to Three-Week High on European Sovereign Debt Outlook

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-10-10T22:31:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/brazil-real-gains-to-three-week-high-on-european-debt-outlook.html
Brazil ’s real rose to the strongest
level in three weeks after French and German leaders pledged to
deliver a plan to recapitalize European banks.  The real climbed 0.5 percent to 1.7632 per dollar today,
from 1.7715 on Oct. 7. It earlier touched 1.7369, the strongest
since Sept. 16.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said yesterday they will deliver a plan to
recapitalize European banks and address the Greek debt crisis by
the Nov. 3 Group of 20 summit. The Polish zloty, the Hungarian
forint and the Czech koruna are among the emerging-market
currencies that rallied more than 2 percent today against the
dollar. The Standard & Poor GSCI gauge of raw materials
increased 2.1 percent.  “The statements by Sarkozy and Merkel were very
positive,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital
Markets Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “The euro and
commodities are higher. This favors the real.”  The real has gained 6.6 percent this month, beating all the
other 24 major currencies in emerging markets. The real has
recouped some of its 15.4 percent losses in September when the
deepening debt crisis in the  euro zone  prompted investors to
reduce holdings of emerging market assets.  Brazil’s interest rates are “still high,” favoring the
currency, said Fernando Honorato Barbosa, chief economist at
Banco Bradesco SA.  Interest Rate  The central bank unexpectedly lowered the benchmark
interest rate, known as Selic, a half percentage point to 12
percent on Aug. 31 on concern the slowing global economy would
crimp growth in Brazil. The U.S.’s key lending rate is in a
range between zero and 0.25 percent.  “Even amid the crisis, Brazil still has good growth and
long-term investments are preserved,” Barbosa said in an
interview by telephone from Sao Paulo.  Yields on Brazilian  interest-rate  futures contracts due in
January 2013 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
10.49 percent. Futures contracts suggest traders are betting the
central bank will lower the benchmark interest rate at least 50
basis points at its Oct. 19 policy meeting, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Policy makers will refrain from accelerating the pace of
interest-rate cuts because “the communication of the central
bank has indicated a moderate adjustment of the Selic rate,”
Pedro Henrique Castro, an economist at SPX Resource Management
Ltd., which manages 2.3 billion reais ($1.3 billion), said in a
telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  ‘Moderate’ Cuts  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini last week said
that “moderate” cuts in rates will help shield the economy
from the European debt crisis without compromising the country’s
inflation target. Tombini has repeatedly pledged to slow
inflation to the bank’s 4.5 percent target by the end of 2012
from 7.31 percent in September.  Economists covering Brazil raised their 2012 inflation
forecast for a sixth straight week after commodity prices rose
and the central bank signaled it will cut borrowing costs to
protect the country from turbulence in world markets.  Consumer prices will rise 5.59 percent next year, according
to the median forecast in an Oct. 7 central bank survey of about
100 economists published today, up from a forecast of 5.53
percent the previous week. The economists forecast annual
inflation of 6.52 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  