-- 
Milwaukee Brewers’ Six-Run Inning Beats Cardinals in Game 1 of NL Series

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-10T04:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/brewers-beat-cardinals-9-6-in-mlb-series-opener-rangers-tigers-rained-out.html
The  Milwaukee Brewers  won Game 1 of
the National League Championship Series by scoring six runs in
the fifth inning to beat the  St. Louis  Cardinals 9-6 and keep
Zach Greinke’s perfect home record intact.  The  Texas  Rangers and  Detroit Tigers  were rained out in
Game 2 of their American League Championship Series yesterday.  The Brewers rallied from a 5-2 deficit in the fifth at
Miller Park in Milwaukee,  Wisconsin , to improve to 17-0 in
Greinke’s 17 home starts this season. Ryan Braun drove in four
runs, including a two-run double in the fifth, when Prince Fielder and Yuniesky Betancourt each added two-run home runs for
the NL Central-champion Brewers.  “It’s a good feeling, because we’re down there for a
while, and obviously that doesn’t feel good,” Fielder said at
his post-game news conference. “Whenever we come back real
quick, it’s a little extra boost.”  Milwaukee , which is back in a league championship series
for the first time since 1982, hosts Game 2 of the best-of-seven
Major League Baseball matchup today.  The Rangers and Tigers are also scheduled to play today
after weather postponed yesterday’s ALCS Game 2 in Arlington,
Texas. The Rangers won the opening game 3-2.  The Brewers fell behind 5-2 yesterday as Greinke, their
starting pitcher, allowed five runs over the first five innings.
David Freese hit a three-run homer, and Matt Holliday and  Lance Berkman  added run-scoring singles for St. Louis.  Milwaukee rallied in the bottom of the fifth as five of the
first six batters had hits off Cardinals starting pitcher Jaime Garcia and reliever Octavio Dotel.  Milwaukee Leads  Fielder’s home run put the Brewers up 6-5 and Betancourt
followed two batters later with another two-run homer.  After the Cardinals added a run in the top of the seventh,
the Brewers pushed the lead back to three in the bottom of the
inning on a run-scoring single by Jonathan Lucroy.  Greinke was the winning pitcher, improving his record to
12-0 at home this season, even though he allowed six runs on
eight hits and two walks over six innings. Garcia took the loss
for the Cardinals, giving up six runs in four innings.  “You can count on a couple of runs every game for the most
part, or at least an opportunity to score a couple of runs,”
Greinke said about the Brewers’ offense. “It seems like right
now every time it comes to the middle of the lineup there’s an
opportunity.”  The Brewers, who ousted the  Arizona Diamondbacks  in a five-
game first-round series, are in the league championship series
for the first time since winning the ALCS and then losing to the
Cardinals in the  World Series  29 years ago.  The Cardinals, who ousted the 102-win  Philadelphia Phillies 
in the opening round, are in the NL Championship Series for the
10th time in franchise history and first since 2006, when they
went on to win the World Series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  