-- 
Brown University Ordered to Disclose Fundraising Records in Rape Lawsuit

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-10-10T18:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/brown-university-ordered-to-disclose-fundraising-records-in-rape-lawsuit.html
Brown University  was ordered by a
federal judge to produce fundraising documents from an alumnus
whose daughter accused a fellow student of rape.  U.S. District Judge John McConnell in Providence,  Rhode
Island , granted a request by William McCormick III, who was
accused of rape in a school internal investigation, and his
parents to compel the university to produce the records of
Richard Dresdale, the father of the alleged victim, within 14
days, according to an order dated Oct. 7.  The McCormicks sued Brown, the student who said she was
raped, and her father in October 2009, claiming that the
university falsely accused McCormick of sexual assault. In an
amended complaint filed in December 2009, the McCormicks said
that the Dresdales had libeled their son and caused him to be
expelled from the college.  Dresdale is “an alumnus of Brown and has raised very
substantial sums of money for Brown,” the McCormicks said in
the complaint.  The plaintiffs sought information on Dresdale’s fundraising
activities for Brown from January 2000 through the present.
Brown, located in Providence, argued in court papers that
Dresdale, not the university, should be the source of the
information.  Marisa Quinn, a spokeswoman for Brown, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message seeking comment on the order. Brown
is closed today for the Columbus Day holiday.  Ranked Wrestler  McCormick, whose family lives in Waukesha,  Wisconsin , was a
nationally ranked wrestler in high school, according to court
papers. He was awarded a scholarship to Brown, enrolled in
September 2006 and was sent home two weeks later, court records
show. A court filing states that he agreed to give up his
education and scholarship “under duress and under the implied
threat of false criminal rape charges.”  No criminal complaint was filed in the alleged incident.  The case is McCormick v. Dresdale, 09-00474, U.S. District
Court, District of Rhode Island (Providence).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  