-- 
Brown Signs Bill to Limit Municipalities in California From Bankruptcies

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-10-10T06:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/brown-signs-bill-to-limit-municipal-bankruptcies-in-california.html
Municipal bankruptcies will face new
hurdles under a bill signed by California Governor  Jerry Brown 
in the wake of the Vallejo fiscal meltdown and the earlier
Orange County debacle.  After the  law  takes effect in 90 days, municipalities in
the most-populous state will have to submit to a neutral review
of their finances, or demonstrate a fiscal emergency, before
seeking Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection in federal court.  California had no such requirements in place during the
2008 filing by the city of Vallejo, the 2001 case of the city of
Desert Hot Springs or the reorganization of Orange County that
began in 1994 and remains the largest municipal bankruptcy in
U.S. history. Municipal bankruptcies can harm a state’s credit
rating, increasing its borrowing costs.  “We need to educate the creditors and the public entity
about what Chapter 9 is, what are the implications,” said
Assemblyman Bob Wieckowski, the Fremont Democrat who wrote the
bill, in an interview Sept. 9. “There’s a misconception on the
part of the cities that they should have unfettered access to
Chapter 9.”  Under the law signed yesterday, a neutral evaluator would
analyze a struggling municipality’s finances. The results
wouldn’t prevent a bankruptcy filing. Municipal labor unions had
pressed to make the evaluator’s approval a requirement before
filing.  City or county councils and other elected bodies can bypass
the evaluation process by a majority vote declaring a fiscal
emergency. To qualify, the government would have to show that
its financial situation “jeopardizes the health, safety, or
well-being of the residents” or that it will run out of money
within 60 days, according to a legislative  analysis .  The number of local-government bankruptcy filings has
declined nationwide. Five municipal entities sought protection
in 2010 compared with 10 in 2009, according to data compiled by
 James Spiotto , head of the bankruptcy practice at Chapman &
Cutler, a Chicago law firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  