-- 
California Nears Automatic Spending Cuts With Revenue $705 Million Short

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-10-10T22:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/california-nears-automatic-spending-cuts-with-revenue-705-million-short.html
California ’s revenue for the fiscal
year that began three months ago has fallen $705 million below
what Governor  Jerry Brown  and Democrats projected, approaching a
level that may trigger automatic university spending cuts and
higher community college fees.  September revenue came in $301.6 million below estimates,
Controller John Chiang, a Democrat, said in a report today.  July 
was $538.8 million less than forecast, Chiang said Aug. 9.
Revenue in August was $135 million more than expected.  The $86 billion general-fund spending plan Brown signed in
June included a series of cuts activated if higher revenue
doesn’t materialize. The first, if the shortfall is $1 billion,
would trim  University of California  and California State
University budgets each by $100 million and increase community-
college fees by $10 million.  With a $2 billion gap, the contraction would mean a seven-
day reduction in the public-school year to save $1.54 billion
and an end to $248 million in home-to-school busing subsidies.
Brown’s finance department will determine in December if the
cuts are needed based on revenue projections for the remainder
of the fiscal year.  “The potential for revenue shortfalls is precisely why the
Governor and Legislature included trigger cuts in this year’s
state spending plan,” Chiang said in a statement. “September’s
revenues alone do not guarantee that triggers will be pulled.
But as the largest revenue month before December, these numbers
do not paint a hopeful picture.”  Washington  Supercommittee  California’s situation has parallels in Washington, where a
congressional supercommittee must agree on at least $1.2
trillion in savings or the U.S. will face automatic cuts of that
amount.  Brown and Democrats conceived the triggers after failing to
get Republican support for a referendum that would have extended
expiring taxes and fees to help erase what was a combined $26
billion shortfall. To balance the budget, lawmakers cut spending
by $12 billion. They also counted on an equal amount of higher
revenue, including $4 billion Brown and fellow Democrats said
the recovering economy would deliver.  At the time, it appeared the U.S. economic recovery was
picking up pace. But California’s unemployment rate was back up
to 12.1 percent in August after falling to 11.7 percent in May.
In the first three months of the fiscal year, the only  revenue 
to exceed projections is personal income taxes, at $502 million
more than estimated.  Bond Sales  California Treasurer Bill Lockyer is scheduled to sell
$483.5 million of tax-exempt public-works bonds beginning Oct.
13. California debt yields about 1.14 percentage points more
than top-rated municipal debt, compared with a peak yield spread
this year of 1.47 percentage points in June, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  When California sold $2.4 billion of general-obligation
bonds last month, the debt was priced to yield 3.17 percent on
10-year maturities, as much as 109 basis points above top-rated
tax-exempt debt. That compares with a 160 basis-point premium on
similar bonds sold in March 2009. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  