-- 
Catholic Group Dropped From U.S. Aid Contract Linked to Abortion

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-10-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/catholic-group-dropped-from-u-s-aid-contract.html
A Catholic group lost a bid to
continue providing assistance to victims of human trafficking
for what it says may be the Obama Administration’s support for
abortion rights.  The U.S. Conference of  Catholic Bishops  was awarded a five-
year contract that paid it $19 million to coordinate the
services during the administration of President  George W. Bush .  The contract was extended briefly in March, and the group
said it was informed recently that its grant request to continue
the work was turned down. Starting today, three other non-profit
groups will provide case-management services for victims such as
helping them obtain food, clothing and access to medical care.  “We hope our religious beliefs didn’t come into play,”
said Sister Mary Ann Walsh, a spokeswoman for the Catholic
Bishops in an interview. “Abortion politics will not find homes
for minors being sold into sex slavery.”  The organization, which does not refer clients for
abortions or provide contraceptives, has helped more than 2,700
victims of human trafficking since the group was awarded the
contract in 2006, Walsh said. She said group leaders told her
they don’t know why they didn’t receive a grant.  Comprehensive Services  Marrianne McMullen, spokeswoman for the U.S. Health and
Human Services department’s Administration for Children and
Families, wouldn’t say whether abortion or contraceptive policy
played a role in the awards.  “HHS’s primary focus in serving victims of human
trafficking is ensuring that they have access to the high
quality and comprehensive case management services they need,”
she said in an e-mail. “These are individuals who have endured
traumatic experiences in many cases and who face uniquely
complex challenges.”  HHS’s written instructions for groups seeking grants
through the Trafficking Victims Protection Act said that the
agency would give “strong preference” to applicants willing to
offer referrals for the “full range of legally permissible
gynecological and obstetric care,” including family planning
services.  ACLU Lawsuit  The  American Civil Liberties Union  said in a 2009 lawsuit
that the contract with the Catholic groups was unconstitutional
because the bishops group won’t coordinate or refer people for
medical services such as abortion that conflict with its
religious teachings.  “We applaud the federal government for recognizing that
trafficking victims need reproductive-health series and making
awards based on those needs,” Brigitte Amiri, an attorney for
the ACLU, said in an interview. “This has little to do with
religion and everything to do with what the trafficking victims
need.”  The three groups received grants worth a total of about $5
million for the first year, with a possibility of two additional
years. The three are  Tapestri  of Atlanta,  Heartland  Human Care
Services of  Chicago  and the U.S.  Committee  for Refugees and
Immigrants of  Washington .  It is vital for human trafficking victims to receive
guidance if they’re interested in seeking abortions, Maja Hasic,
Tapestri’s anti human-trafficking program director, said in an
interview.  “It is solely their decision, we never push one way or
another,” Hasic said.  U.S. District Court Judge Richard Stearns in  Boston  ruled
last year that the ACLU lawsuit, filed on behalf of people who
objected to religious considerations in the spending of their
tax dollars, could proceed.  The bishops’ group won the contract after telling the
government it “cannot be associated with an agency that
performs abortions or offers contraceptives,” Stearns said in
the March 2010 ruling. Oral arguments in the case are scheduled
for Oct. 18 in federal court in  Massachusetts , said Amiri, who
will argue on behalf of the civil liberties group.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  