-- 
China’s Banks Rally as State Investor Buys Shares After Valuations Slump

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-10-11T09:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/central-huijin-buys-shares-in-china-s-four-biggest-banks.html
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) 
jumped a record 12.8 percent in Hong Kong, leading a rally in
the nation’s financial shares after state-run Central Huijin
Investment Ltd. started buying the stocks.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s
biggest lender by market value, gained 6.7 percent to close at
HK$4.31 while  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  climbed 7.7 percent after the
arm of China’s sovereign wealth fund said it began buying shares
yesterday in the four biggest banks. The cost of protecting
China’s bank debt fell.  Central Huijin, set up to hold the government’s stakes in
the banks, boosted its holdings after valuations sank below the
level reached during the global financial crisis. Huijin helped
spur a 21 percent week-long rally in the  Shanghai  Composite
Index when it bought bank shares in 2008 as part of a series of
steps taken by China aimed at supporting the market.  “Huijin’s move shows that banks are still a priority for
the Chinese government,” Grace Wu, head of  Hong Kong  and China
bank research at Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd., said by
telephone today. “Huijin is supporting the share prices of the
state-owned banks.”  The investment company didn’t provide details about how
much it will invest and whether it will buy the shares in Hong
Kong or Shanghai. Huijin also didn’t say why it was increasing
its stake in the lenders.  Plunging Valuations  The MSCI China Financials Index traded as low as 5.6 times
estimated earnings earlier this month, below the 6.9 reached
during the 2008 crisis, after slumping on speculation defaults
will rise as the economy slows. The gauge has lost 32 percent
this year as China’s  property market  showed signs of cooling and
concern grew that $1.7 trillion of local-government debt will
lead to bad loans.  Huijin bought 14.6 million shares in ICBC, 7.38 million
shares of  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , 39.1 million shares in
Agricultural Bank and 3.5 million shares in  Bank of China  on the
Shanghai exchange, the four Beijing-based lenders said in
separate statements to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.  Those purchases would have cost Huijin about 197.5 million
yuan ($31.1 million), based on yesterday’s closing prices for
the lenders’ Shanghai-listed shares, according to data complied
by Bloomberg. The banks and Huijin didn’t disclose the price the
shares were acquired at.  The cost of protecting debt of Bank of China against non-
payment for five years declined 13.5 basis points to 297.5
basis points as of 4:17 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to data
provider CMA. A decrease signals improving perceptions of
 credit quality .  Not  Warren Buffett   Last month’s announcement that Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. would repurchase stock for the first time in four
decades was very different from what Huijin is doing, said
Vitaliy Katsenelson, chief investment officer at Denver-based
Investment Management Associates, which manages $60 million.  “ China ’s sovereign wealth fund is not Warren Buffett,”
said Katsenelson, who said his long-only fund has avoided
investments that have any exposure to China. “When Warren
Buffett says he’s buying Berkshire Hathaway, he actually thinks
it’s undervalued. China says that, but it doesn’t necessarily
mean that, they’re just trying to create confidence.”  While the purchases didn’t significantly increase Huijin’s
holdings of 35.4 percent in ICBC, 57.1 percent in Construction
Bank, 40 percent in Agricultural Bank and 67.6 percent in Bank
of China, the fund plans to make further acquisitions over the
next 12 months, the lenders said.  Huijin sold 40 billion yuan of bonds in August as it
increased investment in banks, according to the website of
Chinabond, the official bond clearing house. The Beijing-based
 investment company , set up in 2003, became a subsidiary of CIC
in 2007 when the sovereign wealth fund was established.  Bolstering Confidence  China’s home transactions fell during last week’s public
holidays after residential prices posted their first monthly
decline in a year, according to Soufun Holdings Ltd., the
country’s biggest real estate website owner. The decline in
sales volume during Golden Week, traditionally a peak period for
developers, may mark a turning point for the property market.  Emerging-market stocks are “cheap” and Pacific Investment
Management Co. is buying in China after the nation’s shares
tumbled this year, Maria Gordon, an emerging-market equity-fund
manager at Pimco, said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  