-- 
Cerberus Said to Reach Settlement With Innkeepers on Takeover Deal Breach

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-10-10T17:58:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/cerberus-said-to-reach-settlement-with-innkeepers-on-takeover.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP
reached a tentative settlement with Innkeepers USA Trust over
claims that it breached an agreement to buy the hotel company,
according to two people with knowledge of the discussions.  Under the settlement Cerberus and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT) 
will cut the amount they pay for Innkeepers, said the people,
who didn’t disclose the new price and asked not to be named
because the talks are private. The accord, which capped a
weekend of negotiations, isn’t final and could fall apart, they
said. A definitive agreement is subject to approval by the  U.S.
bankruptcy court  judge overseeing Innkeepers’ restructuring.  Cerberus, a New York-based private-equity firm, and Chatham
in August terminated their $1.1 billion agreement to buy 64
hotels from Innkeepers, citing a clause that allowed them to
back out if there was an adverse change in the lodging company’s
business. Innkeepers, which sued to force the buyers to go
through with the May 16 deal, would have had to rework its
reorganization plan if it lost the case.  “If the buyer’s willing to pay less but its still an
acceptable price, you take that rather than risk it all in the
litigation,” said  Evan Flaschen , chair of the financial
restructuring group at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in Hartford,
 Connecticut , who isn’t involved in the case.  “The parties are in negotiations but no settlement has
been reached yet,” Marc Beilinson, chief restructuring officer
of  Palm Beach , Florida-based Innkeepers, said in a statement.
“The trial is currently set to begin tomorrow at 10 a.m., and
Innkeepers will be fully prepared to proceed with litigation if
a settlement is not reached today.”  Officials at Cerberus and Chatham declined to comment.  Innkeepers’ Claims  Cerberus and Chatham said in court papers that the
downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt by  Standard & Poor’s , reduced
expectations for the economy and a decline of 30 percent to 40
percent in the equity market value of similar companies
triggered the so-called material adverse effect clause in the
takeover deal.  The firms had sought return of their $20 million deposit,
and said that while Innkeepers can fight over whether it’s
entitled to keep the deposit, the terms of the agreement bar
them from suing for damages.  “There is no dispute that the lodging industry is highly
sensitive to macroeconomic factors,” lawyers for Cerberus and
Chatham wrote.  Price Negotiation  Cerberus and Chatham cited the material adverse effect
clause to end the deal because they wanted to renegotiate a
better price, lawyers for Innkeepers said in court papers,
adding that internal communications at Cerberus confirmed that
objective. The MAE clause isn’t a “tool to extract additional
profits from a debtor,” lawyers for Innkeepers wrote.  “These hotels’ brightest days are ahead of them,” the
Innkeepers lawyers said in court papers. “The lodging cycle is
on the upswing.”  Chatham’s Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Fisher, was
previously a CEO and president at Innkeepers for 13 years, and
the companies have similar businesses, making Fisher aware of
hotel industry trends, Innkeepers said in court papers.  Innkeepers owns hotels in 20 U.S. states and the  District
of Columbia , including Residence Inns by Marriott and Hampton
Inns.  A trial on the dispute, scheduled to start today, was
adjourned until tomorrow, according to court papers. Innkeepers
lawyer Paul Basta and Cerberus lawyer Howard Godnick didn’t
immediately return calls for comment.  “People would have liked to see a decision to get more
jurisprudence on MAE clauses at this particular time for the
economy,” Bracewell & Giuliani’s Flaschen said.  Echoes of Crisis  Private-equity buyers resorted to MAE clauses in the depths
of the collapse of credit markets in 2007 and subsequent
recession, aborting takeovers of companies including Canadian
phone company  BCE Inc. (BCE) , which at the time would have been the
largest leveraged buyout on record. Today, a surge in borrowing
costs, concern that the economy has stalled and skittish lenders
are again threatening deals, including in cyclical industries
such as travel.  Cerberus and Chatham won an auction to acquire the
Innkeepers hotels after topping a $970.7 million offer from a
unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Five Mile Capital
Partners. Innkeepers’ initial Chapter 11 petition listed assets
of $1.5 billion against debt of $1.52 billion.  Plan Rejected  Innkeepers, whose parent is managed by an affiliate of  Leon Black ’s private-equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC, had a
prearranged reorganization plan proposed by Apollo and Lehman
Ali, a unit of bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings, when it first
filed for bankruptcy. Creditors rejected that plan.  Chatham, a Palm Beach-based hotel-investment company, owns
properties under Hilton brands including DoubleTree and Hampton
Inn, and Marriott brands including Courtyard and Residence Inn,
according to its website.  The lawsuit against Cerberus is  Innkeepers USA Trust  v.
Cerberus Four Holdings LLC (In re Innkeepers USA Trust),
11-02557, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
( Manhattan ). The Chapter 11 case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust,
10-13800, in the same court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 