-- 
China Unlikely to Raise Rates, Securities Journal Editorial Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-10T04:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/china-unlikely-to-raise-rates-securities-journal-editorial-says.html
The likelihood  China  will raise
 interest rates  and banks’ reserve requirements this quarter is
“very small,” as further tightening may hurt growth, the
official China Securities Journal said in an editorial.  The central bank’s existing monetary stance will continue
into next year, barring any significant changes in the economic
environment, to control inflation expectations, the newspaper
said in a front-page commentary today.  Emerging-market central banks from China to  Brazil  have
left interest rates unchanged in recent weeks or cut borrowing
costs to support growth as a deepening debt crisis in  Europe 
threatens global expansion. Consumer-price gains in the world’s
second-biggest economy may have exceeded 6 percent for the
fourth month in September and People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan said last month that “high inflation” remains
his top concern.  Monetary policy  may enter an “observation period,” the
Securities Journal said. When the trend of moderating inflation
is consolidated, the government should fine tune its policies
and make them more forward looking to avoid hurting economic
growth, it said. The possibility of a cut in the amount of
deposits lenders must set aside as reserves can’t be excluded if
the cash squeeze affecting some industries needs to be eased,
the newspaper said.  “Tight monetary policy should be maintained as long as
there is no big reversal in the economic situation,”  Li Yang , a
former academic adviser to the PBOC, said in an interview in
today’s Shanghai Securities News. “It is still too early to
talk about changing the monetary policy stance.”  Slowing Growth  Economic growth in the first half of 2012 will slow more
“obviously” compared with the second half of this year, Li,
who is now the vice president of the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences , was quoted as saying by the newspaper. As long as the
slowdown doesn’t threaten job growth it should be tolerated, he
said.  China’s gross domestic product expanded 9.5 percent in the
second quarter compared with a year earlier, slowing from 9.7
percent in the first three months. That pace could fall to as
low as 7.7 percent in the first quarter of next year as
faltering expansion in the U.S. and Europe weakens China’s
export growth, UBS AG economist  Wang Tao  wrote in a Sept. 30
research note.  The PBOC has increased interest rates five times and
boosted banks’ reserve requirements nine times over the past
year to rein in prices and curb speculation in the  property
market . Wen said last week that initial progress has been made
in containing inflation.  Moderating Inflation  Consumer-price gains may have eased to 6.1 percent in
September from a year earlier, the second straight decline from
a three-year peak of 6.5 percent in July, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists. The
inflation rate has climbed by more than the government’s 2011
target of about 4 percent every month.  The statistics bureau is scheduled to release September
inflation data on Oct. 14.  The government’s campaign to curb lending has led to a
credit squeeze among smaller companies. During a visit to the
eastern city of Wenzhou last week, Wen urged banks to improve
financial support for such businesses, the Xinhua news agency
reported on Oct. 5.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  