-- 
China’s Stock Futures Rise as Retail Sales Jump During Holiday

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-10T01:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-after-retail-sales-jump-during-holiday.html
China ’s stock futures rose,
signaling gains for the benchmark index, after retail sales
jumped during a week-long holiday and the biggest two-day rally
in Hong Kong-traded shares of Chinese companies since 2008.  Futures on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  expiring in October added 0.5
percent to 2,600.20 as of 9:16 a.m. local time. Shanghai Bailian
Group Co. and Dashang Group Co. may pace advances for department
store operators. China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s
largest carrier, may lead airlines higher as a cut in fuel
prices will reduce costs.  “Retail sales growth may help boost companies earnings and
be viewed as a positive factor to sustain China’s growth through
consumption,” said Tu Jun, a strategist at Shanghai Securities
Co. “The market also will catch up with gains it missed last
week. The government’s policies can’t be any tighter and this
may serve to ease investors’ concerns.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 6.12 points, or 0.3 percent, to
2,359.22 on Sept. 30. The CSI 300 Index lost 0.3 percent to
2,581.35. The MSCI China Index, which mostly tracks shares of
Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong , advanced 10 percent on
Oct. 6-7, the most since December 2008. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of so-called H shares surged 9.7
percent.  The Shanghai Composite sank 15 percent last quarter, the
biggest loss since the three months to June 2010. The index has
tumbled 16 percent this year as the government raised interest
rates and reserve-requirement ratios for banks to cool inflation
that’s at the highest level in almost three years. The stock
measure is valued at 10.9 times estimated profit, the lowest
level on record, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Upbeat’ Sales  Chinese consumers were “upbeat” during the so-called
Golden Week holiday with retail sales growing 17.5 percent in
the period, up from 16.9 percent during the first eight months
of the year, according to Bank of America Corp.  “The consumption is supportive of a soft landing,” Ting
Lu, Hong Kong-based economist at the bank’s Merrill Lynch unit,
said in a report to clients. High-speed rail passengers surged
during the holiday, he said.  China’s home prices will gradually ease because of rising
inventories and a slump in property market transactions, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  The housing market slumped during the National Day holiday,
typically a strong period for housing sales, Xinhua reported.
Official statistics showed 1,039 housing units were sold in
Beijing during the holiday, 22.8 percent fewer than during the
same period last year, the report said.  Rate Outlook  The chance that China will increase  interest rates  and the
reserve requirement for banks in the fourth quarter is very
small, with monetary policy possibly entering a “observation
period,” the China Securities Journal said in a front-page
editorial today.  Prudent monetary policy will continue into next year if
there are no great changes in the economic environment, the
editorial said. The possibility of cutting bank’s reserve
requirements can’t be excluded under conditions in which cash
shortages for some industries need to be eased, the newspaper
said.  China’s central bank has reiterated stabilizing overall
price level remains top priority of macro-economic policy,
Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing information from
a People’s Bank of China’s meeting of its monetary policy
committee. Prudent monetary policy will continue, as
inflationary pressure has eased but still remains high, the
newspaper said.  Fuel Prices  Policy makers of the world’s second-largest economy are
trying to cool inflation while sustaining growth as a deepening
debt crisis in  Europe  and faltering growth in the U.S. threaten
to sap export demand. The increase in China’s consumer price
index eased to 6.2 percent in August after hitting a three-year
high of 6.5 percent in July.  China’s ex-factory gasoline and diesel prices were both
reduced by 300 yuan ($47.20) a metric ton, effective yesterday,
the National Development and Reform Commission, the nation’s top
economic planner, said. That represents a 3.5 percent drop for
gasoline and 3.9 percent for diesel, according to prices
provided in an Oct. 8 statement by the NDRC.  China Shares  Having missed a week of trading, China’s shares “are going
to go up,”  Todd Martin , a Hong Kong-based Asia equity
strategist for  Societe Generale , said in an Oct. 7 phone
interview. “We have been having good macro data and new
information since China has been closed.” He expects shares to
rise “at least 2-3 percent” and favors building and consumer
stocks.  The rally in the Hong Kong-traded shares of Chinese
companies signals mainland stocks may rise amid speculation
inflation is slowing and the European debt crisis may be
contained. Data due on Oct. 14 may show China’s inflation rate
slowed for a second month.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said European leaders will
do “everything necessary” to ensure that banks have  adequate
capital.  Merkel joined French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to persuade
investors they can stamp out the debt crisis roiling global
markets. At a joint press conference in Berlin, Sarkozy set a
Nov. 3 deadline for a response that addresses the immediate
crisis in  Greece  and what he called the structural defects in
the 17-nation euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  