-- 
China’s ‘Golden Week’ Home Sales Volume Falls as Monthly Prices Decline

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-10T07:46:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/china-s-golden-week-home-sales-volume-falls-as-monthly-prices-decline.html
China ’s home transactions fell
during the week-long public holiday after residential prices
posted their first monthly decline in a year, according to
 Soufun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)   Transactions in 20 major cities slipped by an average 32
percent from a year earlier during last week’s National Day
holiday that’s also known as “golden week,” Soufun said in a
report on Oct. 8.  Home prices  slid 0.03 percent in September
from the previous month, the country’s biggest real estate
website owner said.  The decline in sales volume last week, traditionally a peak
period for developers, may mark a turning point for a property
market that had defied the government’s efforts to contain
surging home values, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. China
is focusing the curbs on excessive gains in home prices in less-
affluent cities, after boosting restrictions in metropolitan
areas including  Shanghai  and Beijing.  “We expect further downside for both property prices and
transaction volumes for the rest of the year,” said Jinsong Du,
a Hong Kong-based property analyst for Credit Suisse. “But most
developers were still not willing to cut prices beyond marketing
gimmicks, hoping for the government to loosen the tightening
measures soon.”  ‘Very Small’  The chance that China will increase  interest rates  and the
reserve requirement for banks in the fourth quarter is very
small, with monetary policy possibly entering an “observation
period,” the China Securities Journal said in a front-page
editorial today.  Home sales in Shanghai dropped 40 percent to 85,400 square
meters in the week ended Oct. 9 from the previous week, property
consulting company Shanghai UWin Real Estate Information
Services Co. said in an e-mailed report today.  A gauge tracking property shares in Shanghai Composite
Index fell 2.7 percent at the close today to the lowest in 2 ½
years. It’s also the biggest decline among the five industry
groups on the benchmark measure.  The country’s home prices will gradually ease because of
rising inventories and a slump in  property market  transactions,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  Transaction volume in the capital city of Beijing declined
10 percent in the first three quarters from the same time last
year, while sales were down 5 percent in Shanghai, Soufun said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  