-- 
China to Extend Oil, Gas Resource Tax Nationwide Next Month

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-11T08:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/china-resource-tax-for-crude-oil-gas-set-at-5-10-of-sales.html
China  will extend a value-based tax
on sales of oil and natural gas nationwide starting next month
to help save energy in the world’s fastest-growing major economy
and boost local government revenues to develop inland provinces.  The oil and gas  tax , ranging from 5 to 10 percent of sales,
will be levied on both domestic producers and joint ventures
with overseas companies, the Ministry of Finance said in a
 statement  today. China will impose a value-based tax on other
commodities when the time is right, it said.  China, which currently levies the tax based on volume,
rolled out a 5 percent tax on oil and gas sales in Xinjiang on a
trial basis in June last year to help fund development of the
western province. The new regulation may crimp the earnings of
companies including PetroChina Co. and  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028) , known as Sinopec.  “The tax change will slash our earnings forecast for
PetroChina and Sinopec by 2 percent in 2011 and 11 percent in
2012,” Anna Yu, a Hong Kong-based energy analyst with ICBC
International Research Ltd., said by telephone.  PetroChina fell 1.7 percent to close at HK$9.02 in Hong
Kong trading, while Sinopec declined 1 percent to HK$7.09. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained 2.4 percent.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore energy explorer,
advanced 3.9 percent to HK$13.72, the highest since Sept. 16.
Ventures with overseas partners account for 31 percent of the
company’s projects, according to ICBC’s Yu.  “The impact on Cnooc should be non-material given the tax
is replacing royalties that offshore explorers currently pay,”
she said.  Funds for Development  The government is planning 23 projects in West China at a
cost of 682.2 billion yuan ($107 billion), the National
Development and Reform Commission, the country’s top economic
planner,  said  last year. The projects include the construction
of roads and railways, wind farms and a nuclear power plant.  “China will likely apply a 5 percent tax rate nationwide
in the short term as they did in the western regions,” said  Qiu Xiaofeng , an analyst at Beijing-based Galaxy Securities Co. “A
10 percent rate would be too heavy for oil and gas producers.”  China Shenhua Energy Co., the country’s biggest coal
producer, was unchanged at HK$31, while China Coal Energy Co.
surged 6.9 percent to HK$8.17.  “Tax levies on coal mining are still volume-based and
Chinese listed coal miners currently pay taxes within today’s
range,”  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian
Ltd., said by telephone. “We don’t expect the government to
change the tax to a value-based one in the short term as they
did to oil and gas.”  Coal, Metals  On a volume basis, China will levy a tax of 8 to 20 yuan on
every metric ton of coking coal sold and 0.3 to 5 yuan a ton for
other coal grades starting next month, the government said
yesterday, without stating current tax rates.  The tax on coking coal is 8 yuan a ton at present and 0.3
to 5 yuan a ton for other coal grades, according to ICBC’s Yu.  Starting in November, the levy on iron ore sales will be 2
to 30 yuan a ton, the tax on rare-earth minerals 0.4 to 60 yuan
a ton, and the rate on nonferrous metal ore 0.4 to 30 yuan a
ton, according to the government.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net . 