-- 
China to Hold Second Shale-Gas Auction in Fourth Quarter, Official Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-10T05:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/china-to-hold-second-shale-gas-auction-in-fourth-quarter-official-says.html
China , estimated to have more gas
trapped in shale than the U.S., will hold a second auction of
exploration blocks in the fourth quarter.  More domestic companies will be invited to participate
compared with the first auction in June, Zhang Dawei, deputy
director of oil and gas strategy research at the Ministry of
Land and Resources, said by phone from Chongqing today.  “A detailed plan hasn’t been finalized yet,” Zhang said.
“We aim to complete it by the end of the year.”  China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, aims to triple
the use of gas to about 10 percent of energy consumption by 2020
to cut its reliance on more polluting coal and oil. It may have
1,275 trillion cubic feet of shale gas, 48 percent more than the
U.S., the Washington-based Energy Information Administration
said in a report in April.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  and Henan Provincial Coal
Seam Gas Development and Utilization Co. won exploration rights
in the country’s first auction of shale-gas blocks, the Ministry
of Land and Resources said in July. Sinopec, as China Petroleum
is known, was “initially selected” to explore the Nanchuan
block in the country’s southwest, according to the ministry.
Henan won the right to search for shale gas at the Xiushan block
in the same region.  Foreign Interest  Foreign companies were barred from bidding.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
BP Plc and Statoil ASA are among international explorers that
have entered talks to form joint ventures in China to tap shale-
gas assets. China National Petroleum Corp. agreed in June to
form a venture with Royal Dutch Shell Plc to improve its
drilling efficiency after taking 11 months to complete the
country’s first shale well.  Sinopec parent China Petrochemical Corp. yesterday agreed
to buy Daylight Energy Ltd. for about C$2.2 billion ($2.1
billion) to gain Canadian shale-gas reserves in the company’s
largest acquisition this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  