-- 
China’s Yuan Strengthens Most Since July 2005 Amid U.S. Currency Pressure

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-10-10T08:49:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/china-s-yuan-strengthens-most-since-july-2005-amid-u-s-currency-pressure.html
China ’s yuan advanced the most since
the currency’s July 2005 revaluation on speculation policy
makers will tolerate gains after the U.S. said the Asian nation
undervalues its currency.  The yuan appreciated 0.6 percent to 6.3486 per dollar in
Shanghai, the strongest closing level since the country unified
the official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. That was
biggest daily increase since China loosened the yuan’s peg to
the dollar on July 21, 2005. China’s financial markets were
closed for National Day holidays last week.  “China faces pressure to appreciate the currency as the
U.S. is pushing for a stronger yuan,” said Kenix Lai, a senior
market analyst at Bank of East Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “There’s
room for China to allow more yuan gains given its relatively
resilient economy.”  China has been aggressive in “gaming the trading system,”
including intervening to keep the value of its currency
artificially low, President  Barack Obama  said in  Washington  last
week. The People’s Bank of China said on Oct. 4 that the U.S.
risks triggering a trade war through legislation that would
punish the Asian nation for  exchange-rate  manipulation.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.4 percent
to 6.3976, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards increased 0.3 percent to 6.3570, a 0.1
percent discount to the onshore spot rate.  The People Bank’s of China set the daily  reference rate 
0.06 percent weaker at 6.3586. The exchange rate is allowed to
fluctuate 0.5 percent on either side of the daily fixing.  Inflation Fight  Stabilizing overall price levels remains a priority after a
meeting of the People’s Bank of China’s monetary policy
committee,  Shanghai  Securities News reported today. The National
Development and Reform Commission cut fuel prices for the first
time this year on Oct. 9 after crude oil costs plunged.  Consumer prices climbed 6.1 percent in September from a
year earlier, compared with August’s 6.2 percent inflation rate,
according to the median estimate of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before data due on Oct. 14.  “Yuan appreciation is still one of the best tools for
China to lower imported prices as inflation hovers at high
levels,” Lai said.  Currency Forecast  Obama warned that legislation in the Senate to penalize
China risked triggering a trade war. A final Senate vote on laws
allowing U.S. companies to seek duties to compensate for the
undervalued yuan is scheduled for this week.  The yuan will appreciate by 4 percent to 5 percent against
the dollar this year,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank
of China, said in  Chile  on Oct. 4.  The currency will gain as China seeks to avert a trade war
with the U.S., said Leong Sook Mei, the regional head of global
foreign-exchange research at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,
the most-accurate yuan forecaster in the six quarters ending
Sept. 30. Leong predicts 0.8 percent appreciation to 6.3 per
dollar by March 31.  “Especially with pressure from the senators, Chinese
authorities can still afford to set a stronger yuan for now,”
Singapore-based Leong said in an interview on Oct. 6. “One gift
China can give to the rest of the world through the end of this
year is to allow the yuan to be a bit stronger.”  Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , the second-most accurate
forecaster, estimates a 1.1 percent advance to 6.28 by yearend.
The yuan advanced 1.2 percent in the third quarter, the only one
of 25 developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg to gain.  -- With assistance Yumi Teso in Bangkok and Lilian Karunungan in
 Singapore . Editor: Sandy Hendry  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 