-- 
Cisco Investor Nader Asks Chambers to Issue, Raise Dividend

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-10-11T00:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/cisco-shareholder-ralph-nader-urges-ceo-chambers-to-issue-raise-dividend.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  shareholder  Ralph Nader , a former presidential candidate and consumer advocate,
reiterated a call for Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  to
issue a special dividend and increase the existing one.  “My sense is that you really do not resonate with your
shareholders who trusted you and relied on you,” Nader said in a
statement. “Give them the dividend respect their continuity
with you deserves.”  Nader is putting pressure on Chambers to use part of
Cisco’s $38.9 billion in cash and short-term investments to more
than double its dividend, now at 24 cents a year. He also urged
the company to issue a one-time dividend of $1 a share. Cisco’s
stock has come under pressure as the company scales back sales-
growth projections amid price competition and slow demand.  “We engage with our shareholders consistently and value
their input,” said Karen Tillman, a spokeswoman for  San Jose ,
California-based Cisco. “We have moved aggressively and
decisively with our action plan to deliver profitable growth and
we continue to evaluate optimal use of capital, with a clear
focus on providing consistent, meaningful return to
shareholders.”  Nader initially made the dividend demands, including a
request for 50 cents a year, in June. He said in an interview
that the company’s responses indicate it’s not taking his
request seriously.  Watchdog Needed?  If the company doesn’t announce the one-time dividend and
an increase by the end of the month, Nader plans to ask Cisco
shareholders to pledge a penny for each share they own, to pay
the costs of assigning a “watchdog” to monitor the company’s
behavior. The watchdog could be a public interest lawyer or an
“out-of-work investigative journalist,” Nader said in an
interview. “I hear there are some of those around.”  Nader said investors would not need to send any money until
enough had been raised to pay the advocate.  Cisco said in November it was adding $10 billion to a stock
repurchase program. The company’s board had previously given a
green light to as much as $72 billion in repurchases.  Cisco rose 43 cents to $17.09 today in  New York .  The company said on Sept. 13 that it expects sales growth
of 5 percent to 7 percent by 2014, ditching an earlier forecast
for growth of 12 percent 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  