-- 
Citigroup Says Hurricane May Hurt Aeroportuario del Pacifico

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-10-10T21:57:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/citigroup-says-hurricane-may-hurt-aeroportuario-del-pacifico-1-.html
Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacifico
SAB, the operator of airports in the Pacific and central regions
of  Mexico , may have “significant” traffic interruptions if
Hurricane Jova hits the coast, Citigroup Inc. said.  The storm’s slow movement increases the risk that its
strong winds will cause “considerable damage” to the Pacific
coast region, which typically benefits from its mountainous
landscape that can act as a shield against weather, Citigroup’s
Acciones y Valores brokerage wrote in the e-mailed statement.  The Mexican government issued a tropical storm watch for
part of the northwestern coast after Jova turned toward land as
a strong Category 3 system, the U.S. National Weather Service
said in an advisory at about 4:40 p.m. East Coast time.  The hurricane is unlikely to have an impact on monthly
traffic numbers because travelers whose trips are delayed will
still eventually travel on a rescheduled flight, said Miguel Aliaga, an investor relations official. The company’s airports
are currently operating normally in Manzanillo and Puerto
Vallarta, the two areas most likely to be hit by the storm, he
said.  The Puerto Vallarta airport serves about 8,000 passengers a
day, while Manzanillo gets about 600, according to the company.  “We’re constantly watching the updates on the hurricane
issue,” Aliaga said. “The most that usually happens for
airports is that a few flights are cancelled.”  Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte SAB, which operates
airports including in the Pacific coast resort of  Acapulco , may
have “minimal” impact from the storm, the Citigroup research
note said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at
   jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  