-- 
Commodity Shipping Jumps to Highest This Year as Price Rout Spurs Demand

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n   a n d   A l   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-10-10T13:36:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/commodity-shipping-jumps-to-highest-this-year-as-price-rout-spurs-demand.html
The cost of hauling coal,  iron ore 
and grains by sea rose to its highest this year as a five-month
rout in raw-material prices spurred demand from consumers
seeking to build stockpiles.  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of charter costs for four
classes of vessel, gained 1.6 percent to 2,032 points today,
according to the London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes
rates for more than 50 maritime routes. The gauge advanced to
the highest since December. Daily returns on capesizes, the
biggest component of the index, jumped 2.2 percent to $28,483, a
sixfold increase from the end of February.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities tipped
into a  bear market  last month after dropping more than 20
percent, on mounting concern that slowing growth will erode the
chances of shortages. The price of iron ore, the biggest
commodity carried by ships in the Baltic Dry Index, fell 13
percent since February, based on prices in  China , the largest
consumer of the raw-material used to make steel.  “Gloom and doom makes key commodity prices go down which
means the buying of those commodities is more attractive,” said
Georgi Slavov, head of freight and basic resources research at
ICAP Shipping International Ltd. in  London . “The market was
artificially depressed in the first half” as flooding shut
mines from  Australia  to  Brazil , he said.  Chinese imports of iron ore have increased for two
consecutive months and to the highest since January, customs
data show. The Asian nation, which accounts for about two in
every five metric tons of global steel production, will expand
9.3 percent this year and 8.7 percent in 2012, according to the
median of 10 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. China
buys about 62 percent of all seaborne iron ore supply.  Freight Agreements  Quarterly forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and
used to bet on future transport costs, jumped to the highest
since February. The fourth-quarter contract is trading at
$20,875, the highest since February, according to Clarkson
Securities Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  Growth prospects in the U.S., the world’s largest economy,
may also be rebounding. Data this week may show U.S. retail
sales increased in September at the fastest pace in six months,
helping to ease concern the recovery is faltering.  Shipping rates advanced for all four vessel types that the
Baltic Dry Index tracks. Panamaxes, the largest to navigate the
Panama Canal, gained 1.5 percent to $15,561 a day. Smaller
supramaxes rose 0.8 percent to $16,150 and handysizes added 1.5
percent to $11,435.  “Lower commodity prices are increasing global movement and
seaborne demand for coal and iron-ore cargo,” Richard Lee, an
iron-ore and freight trader at  Barclays Capital  in London, wrote
in an e-mail. More cargoes means a decline in the supply of
ships competing for business in the Atlantic Ocean, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  