-- 
Copper Rises for Fourth Day in New York as Crisis Concern Eases

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-10-10T11:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/copper-drops-first-time-in-four-days-on-chinese-demand-outlook.html
Copper rose for a fourth day in New
York after the leaders of France and  Germany  pledged a plan to
stem  Europe ’s debt crisis in three weeks.  The crisis is the biggest risk for industrial metals, with
a possible Chinese slowdown viewed as less of a concern,
Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a report today. Metals are
oversold, with “macroeconomic fear currently outweighing still-
robust fundamentals,” the bank said, citing a poll taken during
last week’s  London  Metal Exchange Week.  “News out of the  euro zone  looks to be constructive,” RBC
Capital Markets LLC said in a report. “This week we should
continue to see a more positive view of commodities as last
week’s progress on dealing with global economic issues and a
relatively positive U.S. employment report help turn sentiment
more neutral than what had been outright bearish.”  Copper for December delivery climbed 5.6 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $3.3295 a pound by 7:01 a.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Prices reached $3.3485, the highest level since Sept. 28.
Copper for three-month delivery was little changed at $7,367 a
metric ton on the LME.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy promised to deliver a plan for recapitalizing
European banks by the Nov. 3 Group of 20 summit. The euro gained
as much as 1.7 percent versus the dollar and futures on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose.  Bearish Bets  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-short position in New York copper futures in the week
ended Oct. 4, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Short positions are bets on lower prices.  In  Indonesia , two workers from Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc.’s strike-hit Grasberg mine were shot by police after
protesters burned three company vehicles in a bus depot,
according to a police spokesman. About 8,000 workers, or 70
percent of the mine’s workforce excluding contractors, started a
month-long strike on Sept. 15 for higher wages.  “The strike at Grasberg seems to be escalating,”
Commerzbank AG said in a report today. “Consequently,
production shortages are increasingly likely, which is likely to
intensify the already tight supply situation in the global
copper market.”  Copper inventories monitored by the LME fell 1 percent to
462,525 tons, the lowest level since Aug. 15, daily exchange
futures showed. Canceled warrants, or orders to draw copper from
LME inventories, slid 4 percent to 52,625 tons today, with the
biggest declines in  South Korea . The warrants climbed 71 percent
last week to 54,825 tons as of Oct. 7, led by gains in  Singapore 
and South Korea, the closest locations to  China .  Markets in China reopened today after a week of public
holidays. Import and export figures for September are scheduled
for release Oct. 13.  Zinc, lead, tin and nickel gained in London. Aluminum
slipped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  