-- 
Corporate Speech, EU Transaction Tax, Brazil: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-10T12:28:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/corporate-speech-eu-transaction-tax-brazil-insider-trading-compliance.html
Business groups appealed to the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  not to use its
$218 billion power as the largest U.S. public pension to push
the boards of corporations in which it invests to vote on
political donations and disclose them annually.  A coalition led by the  California Chamber of Commerce , the
state’s biggest business group, said the proposed  policy  would
handcuff publicly traded companies in the political arena.  The U.S. Supreme Court, citing free-speech protections,
ruled last year that corporations and unions could spend their
own money on elections, not just contributions from employees
and political-action committees.  The pension’s proposal “is an unfair and discriminatory
mandate on corporate boards of directors,” that will chill the
ability of businesses to defend themselves from political
attacks, the business organizations said yesterday in a letter
to the Calpers board.  The proposed rule would require boards to “ensure that
only contributions consistent with and aligned to the interests
of the company and its shareowners are approved.” It also would
require corporations to disclose political contributions every
year, including those to third-party groups that attempt to
influence elections.  The proposed policy was reviewed by a subcommittee in
August and awaits approval by the full investment committee.  The California State Teachers’ Retirement System is
considering a similar  policy .  Compliance Policy  Europe Financial Tax Would Have ‘Dramatic’ Impact, Banker Says  The  European Commission ’s proposed financial-transaction
tax, which imposes a levy on stock, bond and derivative trading,
would push business out of Europe and hurt its economic
recovery, the head of the Nordic region’s biggest bank said Oct.
7.  Christian Clausen, chief executive officer of  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA)  and president of the European Banking Federation, said in a
phone interview that the financial markets are “very fragile”
right now. “Any tax of this magnitude would impact banks and
society quite a lot.”  The plan, set to take effect in 2014 and raise about 57
billion euros ($76.5 billion) a year, would set minimum tax
rates for financial transactions throughout the 27-nation EU,
the commission, the European Union’s Brussels-based executive
body, said in a Sept. 28 statement. Clausen said the tax would
have “dramatic” financial consequences as it would reduce
liquidity to Europe’s markets and push trading out of the
region.  The proposal would assess trading of stocks and bonds at a
0.1 percent rate, with a 0.01 percent rate for derivatives
contracts. The tax is meant for banks, investment firms,
insurance companies, pension funds, stockbrokers and  hedge
funds , among other types of financial firms, the EU said.  Other countries, such as Britain, home to Europe’s biggest
financial center, Sweden and the Netherlands have opposed the
plan, with some saying it is unworkable if not enacted on a
global basis.  The EU said it is seeking to insulate households and small
businesses from the tax.  Thailand’s New Telecom Regulator Receives Royal Endorsement  Thailand’s new telecommunications regulator received the
endorsement of King Bhumibol Adulyadej, and plans to start work
on Oct. 10, said Thakorn Thantasit, the agency’s acting
secretary-general.  The Senate earlier this month chose 11 members of the new
regulator, the  National Broadcasting and Telecommunications
Commission . The agency will be responsible for setting the
framework for the sale of so called third-generation mobile-
phone licenses in Thailand.  Compliance Action  Brazil Starts  Insider-Trading  Probe Related to Earning Reports  Brazil is stepping up efforts to fight insider trading
related to earnings releases after identifying suspicious
patterns, chief securities regulator Maria Helena Santana said
in an interview Oct. 7 at Bloomberg’s office in  Sao Paulo .  The new system being developed will monitor markets and
detect trading patterns on the days before earnings releases,
Santana said.  She declined to comment on the number or names of the
companies and investors being investigated.  The use of non-public information to trade securities is a
crime in Brazil and penalties range from one to five years in
prison and a fine of as much as three times the illegal profit.  Hedefonline Among Turkish Currency Platforms Facing Ban  Hedefonline ,  Youtradefx  and  Finexo  are among 32 web-based
foreign currency trading platforms that face closure after a
legal complaint by the market regulator that they’re operating
without the required permission.  The regulator in Ankara made a request to prosecutors to
shut down the platforms and end their operations, according to a
statement on its website Oct. 6. The move follows a probe into
their activities that found they were operating illegally, it
said.  Turkey plans to limit web-based trading to authorized
brokers.  Vedat Akgiray, Turkey’s chief market regulator, warned on
Aug. 23 that investors may lose cash invested in foreign
exchange trading even after making a profit, because
unauthorized trading platforms may not pay up.  Erste May Give Up 2011 State Refund Plan, Analyst Poll Shows  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , Austria’s biggest lender, may not
repay 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) in state capital until at
least next year, 12 of 15 analysts polled by Bloomberg News
estimate.  Erste, which is also the second-biggest bank in eastern
Europe, has already missed its goal to redeem the funds in the
third quarter. Of the 12 analysts that don’t expect repayment
this year, 10 predict it to start next year.  Banks and regulators may be keen on retention of the
capital as sentiment about Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
worsens and policy makers consider rescuing the banking system,
analysts said.  Erste rival  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , the third-
biggest lender in eastern Europe, has said it doesn’t plan a
refund for now. Analysts in the poll are split on Raiffeisen’s
repayment schedule, with six estimating it will start in 2012
and six saying repayment will begin even later.  Erste was the first bank in Austria to get the non-voting
participation capital from the state in 2009, along with 540
million euros from private investors. The bank may join
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , whose planned repayment of 300
million euros of state aid this year may fail as supervisors are
concerned the lender’s capital is insufficient, three people
familiar with the situation have said.  For more, click here.  EU Leaders Under Pressure for Bank Rescue Plan Before G-20  European Union leaders are under pressure from investors to
devise a comprehensive plan to rescue the region’s banks before
a Group of 20 summit in November.  Plans to inject capital into Europe’s banks are “well
under way,”  European Commission  President  Jose Barroso  said
Oct. 7. The  European Central Bank  also reintroduced yearlong
loans, giving banks unlimited access to cash through January
2013. Lenders in the region may need as much as 200 billion
euros ($269 billion) of additional capital, according to the
International Monetary Fund’s European head Antonio Borges.  Speculation that EU leaders may agree on a comprehensive
recapitalization plan has helped to boost the Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index 9 percent during Oct. 6 and
7. Bank stocks dropped 30 percent this year as investors became
concerned that financial firms will have to write down their
holdings of Greek, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese government
bonds.  Even a recapitalization of European banks may fail to
reassure investors because they will still question the ability
of governments to meet their borrowing costs. EU leaders must
decide who provides additional capital to the banks and what
form it will take. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on Oct.
5 that Europe’s rescue fund should be relied upon only as a last
resort.  For more, click here.  Gagfah Says BaFin Lodges Complaint on Suspected Insider Trading  Gagfah SA (GFJ)  said its management informed the company’s board
that Germany’s BaFin financial services regulator lodged a
complaint with prosecutors against five people relating to
suspected insider trading. The company’s management also said
they were unaware against which people the complaint was
directed, and BaFin hadn’t contacted them directly.  The company will cooperate with authorities on this issue,
Gagfah said.  Italy Downgrade Rules Out Bonds From FSA Buffer, JPMorgan Says  Italy’s credit downgrade by  Fitch Ratings  means the bonds
will no longer be eligible for inclusion in the liquidity asset
buffer required by the U.K. Financial Services Authority,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said.  Fitch cut Italy’s credit rating to A+ from AA- on Oct. 7.
The nation is graded A2 with Moody’s Investors Service and A
with  Standard & Poor’s .  Courts  Galleon’s Rajaratnam Expected To Be Sentenced This Week  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam is set to be
sentenced this week for insider trading after being convicted by
a jury in Manhattan federal court for directing the biggest
insider-trading scheme in a generation.  Prosecutors say Rajaratnam, who was convicted in May,
should serve as long as 24 1/2 years in prison, calling him the
“modern face of insider trading.” Last month, judges in
Manhattan sentenced two other convicted insider traders -- Zvi
Goffer and Winifred Jiau -- to prison terms of 10 years and four
years, respectively. Emanuel Goffer, Zvi’s brother, got a three-
year sentence Oct. 7.  Since Rajaratnam’s arrest in October 2009, judges in
 Manhattan federal court  have sentenced 13 defendants in cases
linked to Galleon. All but two pleaded guilty. The average
prison term has been 35.8 months, or almost three years behind
bars.  Typically, those convicted at a trial get longer prison
terms than those pleading guilty. In addition to the two Galleon
defendants who took their cases to a jury, Manhattan judges
since 2003 have imposed sentences in three other cases where the
main charge was insider trading and a jury returned a guilty
verdict.  The average sentence has been six years and two months.  The Rajaratnam case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Fed’s Lockhart Says Regulators Must Work to End Bailouts  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said regulators haven’t yet put in place a system that would
allow orderly failures of the largest financial firms without
taxpayer rescues.  “The system we should work toward is one in which no
institution is too big to fail,” Lockhart said Oct. 7 in a
speech in Atlanta at Emory University’s Goizueta Business
School. “Much is being done in the aftermath of the Fed’s and
the Treasury’s emergency interventions of 2008 to get to this
state of affairs, but, in my view, this is a longer-term
aspiration at this moment.”  The Fed and other banking regulators are working to avoid
more taxpayer-funded bailouts following the rescues of insurer
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which
stoked public anger against the central bank and Congress.  Lockhart said regulators must raise required levels of
capital to protect against failure of the biggest banks.  “Maintaining this buffer is especially important for the
larger, systemically-important institutions,” Lockhart said. He
stressed the importance of shifting the risk to private
shareholders and creditors, and away from taxpayers.  Merkel Says Bank Capitalization to Be EU Summit Topic  European Union leaders will discuss banks’ capital at their
summit on Oct. 17-18, with finance ministers left to carry out
the “implementation,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel said.  Merkel, speaking to reporters in Berlin Oct. 7 after talks
with Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, reiterated that she is
willing to look into bank recapitalization. Even so, using the
enhanced European rescue fund for banks should only be permitted
as a measure of last resort, she said.  “This summit should deliver a signal related to the way we
proceed on bank recapitalization,” Merkel said. “The finance
ministers will have to work out the details and the
implementation. In any case, I believe we will discuss it.”  Merkel’s comments are her most explicit backing yet for
European steps to help shelter banks from the spillover effects
of the region’s sovereign-debt crisis centered on Greece.  “We agree that we will follow the advice of the experts
that if there are proposals on how we could recapitalize the
banks, then we will of course do that,” Merkel said. The
European Banking Authority should make proposals on capital, she
said.  For more, click here and click here.  Comings and Goings  BaFin’s Appointment of Koenig as Head May Be Delayed, FTD Says  The planned appointment of Elke Koenig as the head of
German financial regulator BaFin may be delayed, Financial Times
Deutschland reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Koenig isn’t likely to be named the successor of Jochen
Sanio by the end of the year because of legal changes required
to fulfill her pay request, the newspaper reported.  Brit Insurance Says Dane Douetil to Step Down From Oct. 27  Brit Insurance Holdings BV’s Chief Executive Officer Dane
Douetil plans to step down, effective Oct. 27, according to a
statement today on the exchange.  Douetil will be replaced by Mark Cloutier, subject to
approval from the U.K. Financial Services Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 