-- 
Crew Abandon Stricken Ship Off New Zealand as Oil Spill Worsens

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-10-11T05:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/crew-abandon-stricken-ship-off-new-zealand-as-oil-spill-worsens.html
Personnel abandoned a container ship
that’s stranded and leaking oil off New Zealand’s  northeastern
coast  in the nation’s worst such catastrophe as the vessel was
rocked by waves as high as 4 meters (13 feet).  The stricken ship, carrying 1,700 metric tons of fuel oil
and potentially dangerous chemicals, ran aground Oct. 5 in the
Bay of Plenty near Tauranga, 100 miles (160 kilometers)
southeast of Auckland. While the vessel, named Rena, is more
upright after shifting on the reef, it has sustained damage and
is leaking a “significant amount” of oil,  Maritime New Zealand 
said in a statement on its website.  “It is New Zealand’s most significant maritime
environmental disaster,” Environment Minister Nick Smith told
reporters in Tauranga today. His remarks were broadcast on TV3.  New Zealand  officials are seeking to determine how the
vessel settled on the Astrolabe Reef after interviewing crew on
duty during the accident and seizing recording and navigation
equipment, according to a statement on the  Transport Accident
Investigation Commission’s website . The inquiry’s final analysis
may not be ready until the middle of 2012, the statement said.  “I want answers and I think we are entitled to those
answers,” Prime Minister John Key told  Television New Zealand’s
Breakfast  yesterday. “Every year around the world there are
ships that get into grief but not ones that plow into an
extremely well documented reef in very calm waters at high speed
as this one did.”  Oil Leak  Bad weather is disrupting plans to remove  fuel oil  from the
ship, while limiting the quantity that is escaping into the
surrounding ocean and washing up on the region’s beaches.
Salvage experts are grappling with how to remove containers from
the vessel and refloat it, while gauging the risk of the ship
breaking up.  “The Rena is still intact, but it is moving around in the
weather conditions,” the agency said. “All personnel have now
been taken off the vessel as a precautionary measure.”  As much as 350 tons of oil may have leaked from the vessel,
according to Maritime New Zealand. That makes it the worst  oil
spill  the nation has experienced, exceeding the previous record
20 tons that were lost by the Jody F Millennium when it grounded
near Gisborne in 2002.  Gale Warning  Recovery teams were able to pump about 10 tons of oil from
the Rena to a bunker barge alongside the ship on Oct. 9 before
efforts were delayed by the changing weather. The barge has been
damaged and is undergoing repairs, while the weather will
prevent a resumption of pumping, Maritime New Zealand said.  New Zealand’s  MetService  has a gale warning in place for
the Bay of Plenty coastal region, with very rough sea
conditions, rain and limited visibility until at least late
tomorrow.  Oil has come ashore at Mount Maunganui beach and is
expected to enter Tauranga harbor and affect other beaches on
the coast, Maritime New Zealand said. There is a public health
warning in place and people are being urged to stay away from
the oil that has come onto beaches. A cleanup will begin later
today at low tide, the agency said.  New Zealand has deployed 500 defense personnel and four
naval vessels, as well as underwater and aerial assessment teams
to prepare for the cleanup.  Oil-Covered Penguins  Salvage and environmental experts have arrived in Tauranga
and nearby islands and reefs to consider ways to protect the
shoreline. About 14 teams are checking beaches for affected
wildlife. Seven blue penguins and two shags covered in oil have
been taken to a wildlife response center for treatment,  Maritime
New Zealand  said.  There are 2,171 containers on the 32-year-old, Liberian-
flagged Rena, according to  Maritime New Zealand.  The cargo
includes four containers of ferrosilicon, a solid substance that
can be hazardous when in contact with water and can emit
hydrogen, the agency said.  An aerial survey of the vessel showed no obvious signs of
deformation, the agency said today. No containers have come off
the ship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  