-- 
Texas Christian to Rekindle Local Rivalries as Member of Big 12 Conference

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-10-11T04:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/tcu-will-join-big-12-in-2012-after-dropping-commitment-to-move-to-big-east.html
Texas Christian University  put its
desire to rekindle local rivalries ahead of an undertaking to
join the  Big East  as it accepted an invitation to become the
10th member of the Big 12 Conference.  TCU will join the Big 12 in 18 sports, Interim Commissioner
Chuck Neinas said at a news conference yesterday in  Fort Worth ,
 Texas . The Horned Frogs will become a member on July 1, TCU
Athletic Director Chris Del Conte said.  TCU will join a league that includes former Southwest
Conference rivals Texas, Baylor and Texas Tech after the
school’s board of trustees unanimously accepted the  Big 12 ’s
Oct. 6 invitation, Del Conte said.  “Joining the Big 12 brings us back to share a rich
tradition with a lot of schools that we already have natural
rivalries with,” TCU Chancellor Victor J. Boschini Jr. said at
the news conference.  Since forming in 1996 after the dissolution of the
Southwest Conference, which included TCU, the Big 12 has had 42
team NCAA titles and 492 individual national championships,
according to its website. Last season, the conference had the
nation’s top team in eight of the 23 sports in which it
competes.  The TCU football team has qualified for postseason bowl
games in 12 of the past 13 seasons and last year became the
first school from a non-automatic-qualifying conference to play
in two consecutive Bowl Championship Series games. The Horned
Frogs won the 2011  Rose Bowl  with a 21-19 victory over  Wisconsin 
and finished the year ranked No. 2 in the Associated Press poll.  Basketball Program  The university’s basketball team last made the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament in 1998 and hasn’t
had a winning season in six years. It will join a Big 12 that
has earned 42 bids to the NCAA tournament in the past eight
years.  The school is spending $105 million on a new press box and
more seating for the start of the 2012 football season at  Amon
G. Carter Stadium .  TCU isn’t bound by a 27-month notice period to leave the
Big East, though it will have to pay an exit fee, which Del
Conte declined to disclose. The amount is $5 million, the
 Associated Press  reported.  The defection to the Big 12 may trigger a new wave of
conference switches. If the  University of Missouri  stays in the
Big 12, the conference will probably stay at 10 teams,
CBSSports.com reported last week.  If the  Tigers  leave, the conference might look to add three
more schools. Leading candidates include Louisville,  West
Virginia  and Cincinnati from the Big East and Brigham Young, an
independent, according to CBSSports.com.  The Big East announced that it will consider adding six
football-playing schools to bring its membership to 12.
Pittsburgh and Syracuse said Sept. 18 they’ll leave the Big East
for the Atlantic Coast Conference.  The Big 12 has lost three members in the past two years.
Nebraska joined the Big Ten,  Colorado  joined the Pacific 12
before the start of this season and  Texas A&M  said last month it
will leave for the Southeastern Conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  