-- 
Czech Inflation Is Below Central Bank Goal for Fourth Month

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-10-10T11:08:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/czech-inflation-stays-below-central-bank-target-for-fourth-month.html
Czech September inflation was below
the central bank’s 2 percent target for a fourth month as policy
makers debate whether to cut  interest rates  from a record low to
steer the economy through a slowdown sparked by the euro-area’s
debt crisis.  Inflation quickened to 1.8 percent, compared with 1.7
percent in August, the Statistics Office in Prague said today on
its website. The median estimate of 13 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was 1.7 percent. Consumer prices fell 0.2 percent in the
month.  An economic slowdown in the euro area, the main market for
Czech exports, and a lower outlook for borrowing costs than
previously thought in the currency bloc, have postponed raising
Czech rates until around the end of this year, according to a
central bank forecast from August. If the debt crisis deepens, a
rate cut may follow, Governor Miroslav Singer said after the
last rate meeting Sept. 22.  The Ceska Narodni Banka has bucked monetary tightening this
year as central banks across  Europe  increased credit costs to
fend off inflation pressures. All seven board members voted to
leave the two-week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent in September,
half of the  European Central Bank ’s main rate. It was the 11th
consecutive meeting where the benchmark was left unchanged.  Record-Low Rates  The central bank has maintained record-low borrowing costs
as budget cuts constrained domestic demand, helping to tame
inflation. The bank, whose mandate is  price stability , had cut
the main rate by 3 percentage points during the global economic
crisis that sparked the worst Czech recession since the end of
communism in 1989.  September’s inflation was 0.4 percentage points below the
central bank’s forecast for the month mainly due to food prices,
the central bank said in a statement on its website. Even with
the deviation, inflation data are “roughly in line” with the
forecast, which sees “insignificant” domestic inflationary
pressures, the bank said.  The economic recovery is dependent on European Union demand
for its products, which include Skoda Auto AS vehicles and car
parts. The bloc purchases about 80 percent of Czech exports,
with Germany alone accounting for a third.  Czech growth eased in the second quarter for the first time
since a 2009 recession as a slowdown in the EU dented demand for
exports and government austerity measures curbed domestic
spending.  Gross domestic product rose 2.2 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, after growing 2.8 percent in the
first three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  