-- 
Jobs’s Death Increases Plea for Releasing $76 Billion Cash: Tech

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-10-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/death-of-jobs-increases-plea-for-release-of-apple-s-76-billion-cash-tech.html
At a meeting with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  finance
chief  Peter Oppenheimer  this year, investor Kishore Rao asked
the company to tap its billions in cash to pay a dividend.  Oppenheimer had heard the request before and explained that
Apple is keeping its powder dry for “strategic opportunities,”
without elaborating on what those could be, Rao said. The stock
had almost doubled in the year before that meeting, and
Oppenheimer argued Apple has been a good steward of its cash and
investments, currently worth $76.2 billion.  The drumbeat to open that treasure chest may now grow
louder following the Oct. 5 death of  Steve Jobs , Apple’s former
chief executive officer. Jobs, who rescued Apple from near-
bankruptcy and turned it into the most valuable technology
company, engendered faith in his insistence on hoarding cash. In
his absence, as the stockpile grows, Oppenheimer faces renewed
calls to fund a dividend or stock buyback.  “They don’t need all that cash,” said  Keith Goddard , CEO
of Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Capital Advisors Inc., whose largest
holding is Apple. “It won’t change their growth rate to pay a
dividend.”  Apple, which almost couldn’t make payroll when Jobs
returned as CEO in 1997, has more than doubled its cash and
investments in the past two years, fueled by sales of the iPhone
and iPad. Jobs resisted returning money to shareholders as he
pushed Apple into new markets.  Component Supplies  The company has used the money to buy long-term supplies of
certain critical components, such as memory chips and touch-
screen panels. Oppenheimer, 48, said in January that Apple would
spend about $3.9 billion over the next two years on unspecified
component prepayment and capital expenditures.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, reiterated the company’s longstanding position that it
has a good track record of managing cash and is keeping it
available for potential strategic opportunities.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  started paying a dividend earlier this
year when its cash and investments reached about $40 billion.
And Apple’s competitors, including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Google
Inc., have devoted their cash to making big acquisitions --
something Apple has avoided. As sales keep growing, the company
will have to find ways to spend its capital, said  Ryan Jacob ,
chairman of Jacob Asset Management in  New York .  “They have a high-class problem,” said Jacob, whose firm
owns Apple shares. “They’re generating so much quarter after
quarter, and it’s just growing.”  Soaring Profit  Profit more than doubled to $7.31 billion in the third
quarter, adding to Apple’s coffers. The stock has climbed 15
percent this year, defying a stock-market slump and concerns
about Apple’s CEO succession. With a valuation of $342.8 billion,
Apple is almost 60 percent bigger than the second most valuable
technology company, Microsoft.  Rao, the investor who met with Oppenheimer, complimented
the company for its overall business performance. He said
dipping in to its cash wouldn’t affect Apple’s long-term plans.  “We have a slight difference of opinion on whether they
have sufficient cash to meet all their strategic objectives,”
Rao, a research principal at Sustainable Growth Advisers in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an interview. “We think they do
and say they can be paying a dividend.”  Prior to joining Apple, Oppenheimer  served  in the finance
department of  Automatic Data Processing Inc. (ADP) , the provider of
payroll services, and as a consultant at Coopers & Lybrand. He
has a bachelor’s degree from California Polytechnic University
in San Luis Obispo and a master’s in business administration
from the University of  Santa Clara .  ‘Conservative and Cautious’  Oppenheimer arrived at Apple in 1996 as controller of the
Americas and was promoted the following year to vice president
and later to corporate controller. As chief financial officer,
he oversees  investor relations , tax information and internal
audits.  “Peter is pretty conservative and cautious, and he’s
managing the company’s financial resources in the same way,”
Rao said.  Oppenheimer took the CFO job in 2004 when Fred Anderson
retired. At the time, the company had about $5 billion in cash
and investments. That number almost tripled over the next three
years to $13.8 billion and then soared again in the following
three years to more than $40 billion by mid-2010.  “It’s been ridiculous for a long time, whether it’s $75
billion or $35 billion or $25 billion,” said  Andy Hargreaves ,
an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon , who
recommends Apple stock and doesn’t own it himself. “Apparently
the board feels nothing has been necessary to this point.”  New IPhone  The day before Jobs’s death, CEO Tim Cook unveiled the
iPhone 4S, which has an upgraded processor, camera and software.
He also introduced a voice-recognition system called Siri that
turns the device into a hands-free personal assistant.  That technology came from the acquisition of Siri Inc. last
year for an undisclosed sum. While Apple will continue buying
companies to gain technologies, it’s unlikely to spend much of
its cash on big deals, Hargreaves said.  “That just hasn’t been their style historically,” he said.
“It’s questionable what they could buy to add a lot of value.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net  