-- 
Denizbank Surges on Bets Dexia Will Sell Under Rescue Plan

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-10-10T15:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/denizbank-jumps-on-bets-dexia-to-sell-bank-under-rescue-plan-1-.html
     Oct. 10 (Bloomberg) --  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , the unit of  Dexia SA (DEXB) 
in  Turkey , jumped the most in 20 months, making the share among
the most expensive regionally when compared to book value, on
bets that it will be sold under a rescue plan agreed with the
French and Belgian governments.  Denizbank advanced 1.72 liras, or 20 percent, to 10.12
liras at 5:30 p.m. in Istanbul, the biggest increase since
February last year and valuing the bank at 7.25 billion liras
($4 billion.) That equates to 1.8 times book value, the highest
among more than two-dozen local and regional peers tracked by
Bloomberg. Dexia owns more than 99.8 percent of Denizbank, with
the remainder traded on the exchange, Bloomberg data show.  The bank is likely to be sold, though unlikely to fetch the
same premium of three times book value that it reached in 2006,
when Turkish billionaire Ahmet Nazif Zorlu sold a 75 percent to
Dexia for $2.4 billion, banking analyst Nergis Kasabali at Ata
Invest in Istanbul said in a telephone interview today.  ‘Alternatives’  “Currently, the average is around 1.4 times book for the
sector in general, and there are lots of alternatives around the
world of banks trading below book,” Kasabali said.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s biggest bank, trades
at 1.64 times book value. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added Garanti
to its “focus sell” list last week, saying the stock is
vulnerable to losses as economic growth slows. The average price
to book ratio for Turkish banks is 1.45.  Dexia’s board met yesterday, when it reviewed a plan under
which the lender would set up a bad bank for its troubled
assets, hive off its French municipal loan book and seek buyers
for remaining units.  OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest bank, hired Deutsche Bank AG
and Troika Dialog Group Ltd. to advise on a possible offer for
Denizbank, Kommersant newspaper reported.  Dexia bought Denizbank in May 2006 joining  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in a market where economic growth is more
than three times the European Union average. Dexia increased its
stake via an offer to minority shareholders.  Denizbank had net income of 137.2 million liras in the
second quarter compared with 140 million liras a year
previously. Net interest income was 385.8 million liras in the
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  