-- 
Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Review Said to Cover Derivatives, Clearing

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-10-10T17:20:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/deutsche-boerse-nyse-review-said-to-cover-derivatives-clearing.html
European antitrust regulators are
studying how  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s takeover of  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  will
affect derivatives trading, clearing and index licensing, three
people with direct knowledge of the review said.  Regulators stopped short of offering possible remedies in a
statement sent to the companies last week, the people said,
declining to be identified because the document is private.
 Deutsche Boerse  agreed in February to acquire NYSE Euronext,
creating the world’s largest futures exchange.  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for Deutsche Boerse in
Frankfurt, Caroline Nico, a spokeswoman for NYSE Euronext in
Paris and Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the European
Commission in Brussels, declined to comment.  The so-called statement of objections, sent last week to
the two exchanges from Brussels-based regulators, is the latest
step in a process that started June 29 when the companies sought
regulatory approval to merge. The EU Competition Commission said
in August that it will conduct an expanded probe and set a Dec.
13 deadline to give its final opinion.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner, expressed
concern last month the deal maymonopolize the derivatives
market. Regulators have also cited concern that the merger will
lead to reduced innovation in derivatives products and
technology and less competition for post-trade clearing
services. Deutsche Boerse’s “vertical silo,” which routes all
trade clearing through its own services, was targeted by Almunia
in March. He said he preferred a “more open business model”
for markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  