-- 
Dexia Breakup Shows Constraints on Indebted EU Governments Rescuing Banks

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i
-- 
2011-10-10T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/dexia-breakup-shows-constraints-on-indebted-states-saving-banks.html
France and  Belgium ’s decision to
break up  Dexia SA (DEXB)  three years after bailing the lender out shows
how European governments are being hampered in rescuing banks
without jeopardizing sovereign credit ratings, analysts said.  The two governments chose yesterday to preserve Brussels-
and Paris-based Dexia’s consumer bank in Belgium and municipal
lending unit in France because those operations were considered
systemically and politically important, said people with
knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified because
the discussions are private. Dexia’s other assets will be sold
to limit the cost of the bailout, the people said.  “France and Belgium have had to take a more drastic
approach to keep the bill at a minimum this time,” said Jean- Pierre Lambert, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Ltd. in
London. “That means if something happens to a French bank, for
example, France would probably fight to protect the domestic
retail network but push the bank to sell non-core activities to
reduce the costs and preserve the country’s AAA rating.”  The decision to dismantle Dexia coincides with a vow by
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and  Angela Merkel  to outline a plan this month
to recapitalize European banks as investors hesitate to extend
short-term funding to banks on concern they will have to write
down their holdings of Greek and other peripheral European
sovereign debt. European governments are also facing growing
pressure on their credit ratings as the region’s economy slows
and the cost of bailing out banks increases.  Debt Guarantees  Belgium, France and Luxembourg yesterday provided a 90
billion-euro ($123 billion) 10-year guarantee to cover Dexia’s
funding needs. Belgium will provide about 61 percent of the
cover and France about 37 percent of the backing.  The Belgian government is buying Dexia’s national consumer
lending unit for 4 billion euros while French state-owned banks
Caisse des Depots et Consignations and La Banque Postale are in
talks to take over the bank’s French municipal lending unit,
which provides loans to local governments.  France  and Belgium each tried to get the other to provide a
bigger share of the guarantee than their proportionate stakes in
Dexia, the people said. The French state directly and indirectly
controls about 26 percent, and Belgian entities own 44 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service placed Belgium’s Aa1 local- and
foreign-currency ratings under review for a downgrade on Oct. 7,
citing rising funding risks for nations with high levels of debt
and the cost of additional support measures for banks including
Dexia. The Dexia debt guarantee equals about 15 percent of the
country’s gross domestic product, and 2 percent of France’s,
according to estimates by KBW’s Lambert.  Impact on France  Moody’s yesterday said it saw “limited impact of Dexia’s
bailout on France’s Aaa rating.” In a May report, it said
French banks’ holdings of euro-peripheral sovereign bonds “are
a contingent liability on the government’s balance sheet.”  “In the back of people’s minds, if the senior  debt market 
doesn’t restart and banks had to start to turn to government
debt guarantees to raise financing, it would be another thing
weighing on the credit worthiness of some countries,” Nomura
Holdings Inc. analyst  Jon Peace  said. “If you look at debt and
deficit levels,  Italy  and Spain and France have less room than
Germany to avoid a potential downgrade through bailouts.”  France’s effort to protect its AAA credit rating isn’t
helping negotiations with Germany about how to recapitalize
European banks, said Philippe Waechter, chief economist at
Natixis Asset Management in Paris.  France, Germany  Their views vary on how to use the European Financial
Stability Facility, he said. The fund, set up in 2010, is being
given increased flexibility -- including the ability to channel
funds to national governments to support banks -- under the
terms of an agreement reached July 21 by European leaders.  “The Germans aren’t so keen to use the European Financial
Stability Facility as a means to recapitalize the banks while
the French want to use it precisely because it wouldn’t
jeopardize their country’s AAA,” Waechter said. “We’re finding
ourselves in a complicated situation in  Europe  where states are
constrained, but really need to prop up banks’ capital.”  German  Chancellor Merkel  and French President Sarkozy
pledged in Berlin two days ago to come up with a plan to
recapitalize Europe’s banks. Sarkozy said they would deliver a
plan by the Group-of-20 meeting in Cannes, France on Nov. 3.  The two leaders have yet to detail how the bailout fund
would be used to help European banks. The region’s banks may
need between 100 billion euros and 200 billion euros of capital
provided through a European-wide program akin to the U.S.’s
Troubled Asset Relief Program, according to estimates by
analysts at Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Cazenove and Nomura.  ‘Too Much’  “In 2008, France put on the table a total of 360 billion
euros in capital and guarantees for banks, about 20 percent of
GDP,” said Christophe Nijdam, a Paris-based analyst at
AlphaValue. “Today, that would be too much.”  France pledged to make available as much as 40 billion
euros to bolster capital levels at its largest banks after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy. Sarkozy also set up
a 320 billion-euro fund to guarantee bank debt.  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said in a Sept. 24
interview he sees “absolutely no reason” to reactivate that
support system.  Germany  has said it may turn to the fund it set up to
rescue banks in 2008. The Soffin fund may need to be reinstated,
a spokesman for Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
reporters in Berlin last week. The government has spent about a
tenth of the 480 billion-euro fund.  Under pressure by regulators to shrink their balance
sheets, banks may speed up asset sales to free capital. European
lenders are selling more than 30 billion euros of loans and non-
core units, up from 26 billion euros so far this year, according
to a KPMG LLP study released last week.  This is a small portion of the 1.3 trillion euros of non-
core assets European banks could potentially offload over the
next years, according to an April report by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “Asset disposals will very much pick up,” Nomura’s Peace
said. “Some banks such as the French have already committed to
sales, but it’s not a seller’s market at the moment and
difficult to achieve good prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net .
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net 
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 