-- 
HDFC Bank’s Puri Says India May Disregard Lenders’ Rate Plea

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-10T09:25:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/hdfc-bank-s-puri-says-india-may-disregard-lenders-rate-plea.html
India ’s central bank is likely to
boost interest rates this month even after the nation’s lenders
urged a pause at a meeting with the central bank last week,  HDFC
Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  Managing Director Aditya Puri said.  The  Reserve Bank  of India, which has increased interest
rates by 350 basis points since mid-March 2010, may increase
borrowing costs by another quarter percentage point this month,
Puri said in an interview in Mumbai on Oct. 7. The Reserve Bank
is scheduled to hold its next policy review on Oct. 25. Indian
bankers met Governor Duvvuri Subbarao last week to discuss their
concerns.  India’s central bank, which broke ranks with other so-
called BRIC nations last month to raise  interest rates , is
focused on curbing inflation, Puri said. Inflation rate remains
above the level the central bank deems acceptable, Subbarao said
on Sept. 26, signaling pressure remains for monetary tightening
in  Asia ’s third-largest economy. Lenders’ bad debts are likely
to climb as growth slows, Puri said.  “Everybody is saying that interest rates have risen, the
economy is slowing, and if further interest rate increases are
necessary or not?” Puri said. “But the central bank has its
own compulsions in terms of what is going to happen to
inflation.”  Power Sector Debt  The Reserve Bank may increase its repurchase rate to 8.5
percent from 8.25 percent by the end of December, according to
11 of 16 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The rest expect
no change.  HDFC Bank, which toppled  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , as India’s
second-largest lender by market value in August, rose 1.3
percent to 455.95 rupees at 1:26 p.m. in Mumbai.  Indian lenders may have to restructure some of the credit
to the power sector, Puri said. The revamp process may lead to
the equity investors of such projects losing their money, while
banks may have to agree to a 10 percent reduction in repayment,
he said, declining to give examples.  HDFC Bank won’t be affected by the debt restructuring in
the sector, Puri said.  Credit growth may meet the regulator’s reduced target of 18
percent for the year ending March 31, Puri said. Still, the
increase in bad loans will not pose a risk to the banking
system, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net 
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  