-- 
DLF Files Case Challenging Indian Antitrust Agency’s Order

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-10-10T11:04:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/dlf-files-case-challenging-indian-antitrust-agency-s-order.html
DLF Ltd. (DLFU) ,  India ’s biggest developer,
filed a case challenging the antitrust agency’s order that fined
the company 6.3 billion rupees ($139 million) for “abuse of
dominance” related to the sale of apartments.  The first hearing will be held on Nov. 9, DLF spokesman
Sanjey Roy said in a phone interview today. DLF shares rose 4.8
percent to 228.65 rupees at the close of trading in Mumbai today,
its highest level in two months.  The  Competition Commission  of India, the nation’s antitrust
agency, said August DLF had imposed unfair conditions in the
sale of homes in the city of Gurgaon, and imposed a penalty that
amounted to 7 percent of its average annual turnover over the
past three years. DLF said then it would examine all options
including an appeal to the Competition Appellate Tribunal.  “If the infringement decision is upheld against DLF, it
would mean that DLF as an enterprise found to be dominant would
be prohibited from imposing the terms and conditions it did,”
Suzanne Rab, a partner at London-based King & Spalding said in
an e-mailed statement. “Yet other construction firms not found
to be dominant would not face competition law problems in
imposing such terms.”  Ashok Menon, the registrar at the Competition Appellate
confirmed the DLF case and date of hearing.  The penalty came after the Belaire Owners’ Association,
representing buyers at the Belaire housing complex in DLF City
in Gurgaon, complained that DLF delayed the project and inserted
one-sided contract clauses. The order said that DLF collected
money from the buyers before they were provided the sale
agreements.  The commission also directed the developer to modify
“unfair conditions” within three months, according to the
August order posted on the agency’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Mumbai  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  