-- 
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Fails to Elicit a ‘Final’ Hertz Bid at Deadline

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-10-10T21:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/dollar-thrifty-fails-to-elicit-final-bid-from-hertz-at-deadline.html
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group
Inc. (DTG) , the target of 18 months of bidding, failed to flush out a
“best and final” offer from  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  by
today’s deadline.  Hertz, the second-largest U.S. car-rental company, is
 Dollar Thrifty ’s lone suitor after  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR) 
dropped its pursuit Sept. 14. Dollar Thrifty told Hertz and Avis
in letters dated Sept. 6 it wanted final bids submitted by 5
p.m. New York time today.  Hertz has been seeking U.S. Federal Trade Commission
approval to buy Dollar Thrifty, the fourth-largest U.S. rental-
car chain. Hertz is trying to divest its Advantage brand to help
smooth that approval.  “When Avis dropped out, Dollar Thrifty lost control of the
process,” Fred Lowrance, a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst
at Avondale Partners LLC, said in a phone interview. “Now
they’re just waiting on Hertz.”  Hertz wants to buy Dollar Thrifty to keep its position
behind Enterprise Holdings Inc. The nation’s four biggest car-
rental chains generate 83 percent of U.S. car-rental sales,
according to a September report from IBISWorld, the  Santa
Monica , California-based industry researcher.  Closely held Enterprise had a 40 percent share, followed by
Hertz with 20 percent and Avis with 17 percent. Dollar Thrifty
accounted for 5.7 percent of the industry’s sales, IBISWorld
said.  Dollar Thrifty shareholders rejected Hertz’s offer in
September 2010. Hertz, after calling that bid “final,” renewed
its pursuit in May with an offer valued at $1.92 billion. Dollar
Thrifty recommended on June 6 that investors not accept Hertz’s
bid because it undervalues the company.  “Hertz remains interested in acquiring Dollar Thrifty and
continues to pursue an FTC consent decree,” Rich Broome, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Shares of Dollar Thrifty rose 1.2 percent to $60.40 at the
close in  New York . Hertz gained 4.6 percent to $10.08 while Avis
shares increased 5.6 percent to $11.22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  