-- 
Don’t Dump the Volcker Rule Just Because It’s Not Perfect: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-10T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/don-t-dump-the-volcker-rule-just-because-it-will-be-far-from-perfect-view.html
Would you have provided motorcycle
insurance to Evel Knievel? That is, in essence, what U.S.
taxpayers are doing for risk-loving traders in some of the
world’s largest banks.  This week, the first of several regulatory agencies will
consider a measure aimed at ending the practice. Known as the
Volcker rule, after  Paul Volcker , the former  Federal Reserve 
chairman, the measure would curb federally insured banks’
ability to make speculative bets on securities, derivatives or
other financial instruments for their own profit -- the kind of
“proprietary” trading that can lead to catastrophic losses.
Whatever form it takes will be far from perfect. It will also be
better than the status quo.  The bank bailouts of 2008, and the public outrage over
traders’ and executives’ bonuses, laid bare a fundamental
problem in big institutions such as Bank of America Corp.,
Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. They attempt to combine
two very different kinds of financial professionals: those who
process payments, collect peoples’ deposits and make loans, and
those who specialize in making big, risky bets with other
peoples’ money.  When these big banks run into trouble, government officials
face a dilemma. They want -- and in some ways are obligated --
to save the part of the bank that does the processing and
lending, because those elements are crucial to the normal
functioning of the economy. But in doing so, they also end up
bailing out the gamblers, a necessity that erodes public support
for bailouts and stirs enmity for banks.  Gamblers’ Threat  Although the gambling arms of the big banks weren’t the
proximate cause of the last financial crisis, they do present a
threat. If a big bet goes wrong -- as it has for so-called rogue
traders at  UBS AG (UBS)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA -- it can deplete the
capital a commercial bank needs to fulfill its basic functions.
That can hurt millions of people by curtailing lending and
slowing economic growth.  The six largest U.S. banks lost a combined $15.8 billion on
proprietary trading from the third quarter of 2007 through the
fourth quarter of 2008,  according  to the Government
Accountability Office. Because banks use leverage -- typically
lending or investing about $10 for every $1 in capital -- a $1
billion loss can pull $10 billion out of the economy.  No Easy Task  Separating the bankers from the gamblers is no easy task.
Commercial banks’ explicit federal backing -- including  deposit
insurance  and access to emergency funds from the Federal Reserve
-- is attractive to proprietary traders, who can use a
commercial bank’s access to cheap money to boost profits. Bank
executives like to employ traders because they generate juicy
returns in good times that drive up the share price and justify
large bonuses. In effect, both traders and managers are reaping
the benefits of a government subsidy on financial speculation.  The Volcker rule will not -- and probably cannot -- fully
dissolve the union of bankers and gamblers. The outline of the
rule in the Dodd-Frank Act passed by Congress last year
contains loopholes, such as one allowing banks to take on short-
term trading risks as part of so-called market-making
activities, in which they facilitate customers’ securities
trades.  Judging from an early  draft  of the rule made public last
week, regulators are looking at ways to narrow the exemptions
and define proprietary trading as broadly as possible. One
promising proposal would forbid banks from designing traders’
pay in ways that reward risk-taking. If such efforts prompt
banks to view market making and the underwriting of companies’
stock and bond issues as too burdensome, that would be no great
loss. Brokerage firms performed those functions successfully for
decades before the 1999 repeal of the  Glass-Steagall Act , which
largely prevented commercial banks from entering the securities
business.  No Guarantee  The rule also does nothing to address another problem: the
teetering trading firm that is so interconnected and
systemically important that the government will feel compelled
to bail it out. Avoiding a repeat of the Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. debacle is the role of other financial reforms,
such as prudent  capital requirements , centralized clearing of
derivatives trades, and mechanisms that allow officials to take
over and wind down financial institutions.  Even with all these drawbacks, the Volcker rule is worth
doing. The greater the barriers become, the more likely gamblers
will be to take their act elsewhere -- to hedge funds, for
example. There’s absolutely nothing wrong with proprietary
trading -- it just shouldn’t be done within the walls of
federally insured, deposit-taking banks.  We understand the criticisms. Banks believe the Volcker
rule will leave them at a competitive disadvantage to European
and Asian counterparts that don’t face similar restrictions.
That argument lost some weight last month, when the U.K.
government endorsed rules that will require financial
institutions to separate commercial banking from other
activities.  Beyond that, it’s hard to imagine why safety wouldn’t be a
selling point to potential investors, customers and creditors
for a commercial bank. And if the U.S. government doesn’t
provide subsidies to most other businesses, why should it
provide them to the financial equivalents of Evel Knievel?  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 