-- 
Dragons, Virgins Beguile in Paris Fra Angelico Exhibit: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-10-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/dragons-virgins-beguile-in-paris-fra-angelico-exhibit-review.html
Painters are no saints, except
perhaps one: In 1984, Pope  John Paul II  beatified  Fra Angelico ,
the first step in the process toward sainthood.  The pope also appointed him the Roman Catholic Church’s
official patron of the arts.  Exhibitions of Fra Angelico’s work are rare events. His
masterpieces -- especially the frescoes in the dormitory cells
at the convent of San Marco, one of Florence’s most popular
tourist attractions -- don’t budge. His large altarpieces are
too delicate to travel.  That explains why the show at the  Musee Jacquemart-Andre  in
Paris is the first organized in  France .  To bring together 25 of Fra Angelico’s works, mostly from
Italian collections, is no mean feat: Many curators strongly
object to lending paintings on wood.  They are embedded in an equal number of paintings by
contemporaries such as Lorenzo Monaco, Fra Angelico’s teacher,
Filippo Lippi and Benozzo Gozzoli.  It’s a small yet delightful show.  Fra Angelico (ca 1395-1455) was born near Florence as Guido
di Pietro. Around 1420, he joined the Dominican order adopting
the name Fra (Brother) Giovanni.  The name by which we know him was inspired by Giorgio Vasari’s 1568 “Lives of the Painters,” which praised his
luminous colors as worthy “of a saint or an angel.”  Much of his fame rests on the elaborate golden haloes
around the heads of divine or holy figures.  Naive Image  Vasari portrayed Fra Angelico as a naive artist of
endearing simplicity who worked directly from divine
inspiration, even refusing to retouch his pictures because he
believed them to be “the will of God.”  That image was further sentimentalized by the Nazarenes and
the Pre-Raphaelites in the 19th century, who claimed to pick up
where Fra Angelico and other “Primitives” had left off. Research
has shown that to be mostly wishful thinking.  The painting monk may have been humble, yet he also was a
professional artist of great subtlety and sophistication.  Looking at his Virgins, Crucifixions and Last Judgments,
you realize that neither the style nor the choice of subjects
was revolutionary. The Dominicans were known for conservative
views. It’s no accident that the popes, after having launched
the Inquisition, entrusted them with administering it.  While Fra Angelico was busy decorating his monastery in
Fiesole, his fellow Dominican Pierre Cauchon oversaw the trial
of Joan of Arc that ended with her death at the stake.  In the 1440s, the painter was twice called to  Rome  to
decorate two chapels at the Vatican. Here, far from the strict
rules of his order, he opened up and took new artistic risks,
even toying with the great novelty of his age -- perspective.  One of the inventors of that novelty was Paolo Uccello
(1397-1475). His “ St. George  Slaying the Dragon,” from the
museum’s own holdings, is the most original -- and the most
amusing -- picture in the show.  “Fra Angelico et les Maitres de la Lumiere” is supported by
 GDF-Suez (GSZ)  SA and runs through Jan. 16, 2012. Information:
 http://www.musee-jacquemart-andre.com  or +33-1-4562-1159.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 