-- 
Saudi Shares Rise to 3-Week High on Earnings Optimism, Europe

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-10-10T13:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/dubai-shares-fall-most-in-week-on-europe-debt-crisis-concerns.html
  Saudi Arabia ’s shares rose to the
highest in almost three weeks on bets quarterly results will
beat estimates and as oil gained after European leaders pledged
to create a plan to recapitalize banks to tame the debt crisis.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , which may post a 45 percent
increase in third-quarter profit next week, gained for a third
day. Yanbu Cement Co., a Saudi Arabian maker of building
materials, advanced the most since August. The  Tadawul All Share
Index (SASEIDX)  climbed 0.6 percent to 6,136.97 at the 3:30 p.m. close in
 Riyadh , the highest level since Sept. 21. The  Bloomberg GCC 200
Index (BGCC200)  added 0.2 percent.  “On the domestic front so far the earnings that have come
through have been positive; optimism is building up for Sabic,”
said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity analyst at Riyad Capital. “There
seems to be some light at the end of the tunnel that the
European debt crisis is actively being worked on and there could
be a resolution.”  Saudi Arabian companies have posted higher third-quarter
results since the earnings season began last week. Saudi Arabian
Fertilizer Co., a unit of Saudi Basic, yesterday said profit
doubled, beating analysts’ estimates. Saudi Basic, the world’s
biggest petrochemicals maker, may say profit rose to 7.7 billion
riyals after 5.33 billion riyals in the year-earlier period,
according to the median estimate of four analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Saudi Basic shares gained 0.5 percent to 92.25 riyals, the
highest since Sept. 28.  Yanbu Cement (YNCCO)  rallied 3.6 percent, the most since Aug. 23,
to 58 riyals. The company posted a 33 percent increase in third-
quarter profit on Oct. 5 as sales rose on higher demand.  Awaiting Sabic  The STOXX  Europe  600 Index gained 0.5 percent at 2:12 p.m.
in  London  and S&P 500 futures increased 1.3 percent. German
chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
set an end-of-October deadline to devise a plan to recapitalize
banks, get  Greece  on the right track and fix Europe’s economic
governance.  Crude for November delivery jumped as much as 2.3 percent
to $84.92 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The Gulf Cooperation Council, which
includes Saudi Arabia and the  United Arab Emirates , holds more
than a third of the world’s proven oil reserves, according to
data from BP Plc.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  advanced 0.2 percent and Oman’s MSM 30
Index gained less than 0.1 percent. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
declined 0.6 percent and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index fell 0.9
percent. Kuwait’s gauge and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  lost
less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  