-- 
ECB Says It Settled Fewer Government Bond Purchases Last Week

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-10-10T13:31:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/ecb-says-it-settled-fewer-government-bond-purchases-last-week.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
spent less on government bond purchases last week.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said today it settled 2.3 billion
euros ($3.1 billion) of bond purchases in the week through Oct.
7, down from 3.8 billion euros in the previous week. The central
bank will take seven-day term deposits from banks tomorrow to
absorb the 163 billion euros of liquidity created since its bond
program started on May 10, 2010, a practice it employs to ensure
the purchases don’t fuel inflation.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Oct. 6 the
central bank will spend 40 billion euros on covered bonds
starting next month and will offer banks two additional
unlimited loans of 12 and 13-month durations to help fight the
region’s fiscal crisis. He also said that policy makers agreed
to lend banks as much money as they need in their regular
refinancing operations at least until July 2012.  The ECB was forced to buy Italian and Spanish government
bonds after  Europe ’s debt crisis pushed the nations’ yields to
euro-era records. Policy makers are increasingly split over the
best way to fight the turmoil. Juergen Stark on Sept. 9
announced he will resign from the ECB’s Executive Board in
protest at the purchases and Governing Council member Jens
Weidmann said last month the bank should reduce the risks on its
balance sheet rather than increase them.  German lawmakers on Sept. 29 approved an expansion of the
region’s rescue fund, setting the stage for the overhauled 440
billion-euro facility to be in place by mid-October. If approved
by all 17 member states, it will obtain the powers to buy bonds
on the primary and secondary markets.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said today the region’s
bailout fund should support new bond issuances by Italy and
 Spain . While recapitalizing banks is “important,” the
priority at the moment for the European Financial Stability
Facility “is to provide support to new bond issuance by, for
instance, Italy or Spain,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  