-- 
ECB Financing to Portuguese Banks Fell to 45.6 Billion Euros in September

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-10-10T16:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/ecb-financing-to-portuguese-banks-fell-to-45-6-billion-euros.html
The  European Central Bank ’s
financing to Portuguese lenders fell in September from the
previous month, the first decline in three months, the Bank of
Portugal said.  ECB financing decreased to 45.6 billion euros ($62 billion)
from 46 billion euros in August, the Lisbon-based Bank of
Portugal said today on the BPStat portion of its website. ECB
financing levels peaked at 49.1 billion euros in August 2010.  Portugal in April became the third euro-area country to
seek a bailout after Greece and Ireland. It will receive 78
billion euros under the agreement with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on April 7 that the central bank “encouraged”
Portugal to seek aid and urged the country’s banks to reduce
their reliance on ECB funding.  Portuguese lenders have turned to the ECB because the
government’s struggle to narrow its  budget deficit  has
restricted their ability to borrow. The aid plan earmarks 12
billion euros for Portugal’s lenders.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the debt ratings of nine
Portuguese banks by one or two levels on Oct. 7, citing concerns
about funding, bad loans and holdings of government debt.
Moody’s lowered the “standalone” ratings of three banks,  Banco
Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  and  Banco BPI
SA (BPI) , by two levels, the company said in a statement.  Stress Tests  On May 12, the Bank of Portugal said domestic banks must
have a core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 9 percent by the
end of this year, as set out in the bailout package. That ratio
must be at least 10 percent by the end of 2012.  All of Portugal’s lenders passed the European Banking
Authority’s stress tests in July with core Tier 1 capital ratios
higher than the 5 percent minimum requirement. Still, Portugal’s
central bank said on July 15 that Banco Comercial and Espirito
Santo Financial Group SA should reinforce capital so they can
exceed the minimum capital level “even more comfortably” and
established a reference level of 6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  