-- 
ECB Said to Oppose German Push to Alter July 21 Rescue Accord

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-10T16:08:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/ecb-said-to-oppose-german-push-to-alter-july-21-rescue-accord.html
The  European Central Bank  opposes
 Germany ’s push to rewrite the euro area’s 12 week-old-rescue
plan as leaders prepare the ground for a potential Greek
default, a central bank official said.  ECB policy makers inserted a line into last week’s monthly
 policy statement  that was aimed at Germany’s push to impose
bigger haircuts on European banks, the official said under
condition of anonymity. The sentence, read out by President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  at a press conference in Berlin, urges “all
euro area governments to fully implement all aspects” of the
July 21 summit agreement.  German and French leaders are moving beyond the July
accord, which targets bank losses of 21 percent on Greek debt,
amid rising pressure to stem a crisis that threatens the world
economy.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and President Nicolas Sarkozy
yesterday pledged to provide a blueprint for recapitalizing
European banks that would help them survive any Greek default.  Merkel has said that  Europe ’s bailout fund could be used to
inject more funds into banks. The ECB is concerned that this
would erode the facility’s ability to start buying the bonds of
debt-strapped nations, a task currently undertaken by the ECB.  While recapitalizing banks is “important,” the priority
at the moment for the European Financial Stability Facility “is
to provide support to new bond issuance by, for instance, Italy
or  Spain ,” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said in a speech
in Milan today.  Trichet’s Statement  While Trichet and other policy makers have publicly urged
governments to stick to the July 21 agreement, this month’s
introductory statement was the first to include a specific
reference urging ratification of the accord. An ECB spokesman
declined to comment.  As part of the second Greek bailout in July, euro-area
leaders asked bondholders to contribute by accepting losses of
21 percent through debt exchanges and rollovers. The summit also
gave the go-ahead for the region’s temporary rescue fund -- the
EFSF -- to gain the authority to buy sovereign bonds on the
secondary market, help recapitalize banks and offer credit lines
to governments. The EFSF’s current role is to sell bonds to
finance rescue loans.  Finance ministers on Oct. 4 hinted that bondholders may be
saddled with bigger losses on Greek debt and that the July
agreement might be recrafted. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said then that “adjustments” may be needed.  ECB’s Burden  The ECB has so far been left to shoulder the main burden of
the 21 month-old debt crisis. It is giving banks as much
liquidity as they need against collateral and has bought 163
billion euros ($223 billion) worth of  government bonds  since May
2010, a decision opposed by some policy makers. Juergen Stark on
Sept. 9 announced he will resign from the ECB’s Executive Board
in protest at the purchases and Governing Council member Jens Weidmann said last month the bank should reduce the risks on its
balance sheet rather than increase them.  The central bank official rejected suggestions of involving
the ECB in EFSF leverage to increase the fund’s firepower. That
might involve either issuing the EFSF with a banking license,
allowing it to refinance itself via the ECB or even guaranteeing
a proportion of losses on government bond purchases if the ECB
were continue to buy them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  