-- 
ECB Backs Bond Guarantee Option to Magnify Europe’s Crisis Rescue Facility

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/ecb-backs-guarantee-option-to-leverage-europe-s-bailout-fund.html
The  European Central Bank  says the
firepower of Europe’s bailout fund should be magnified by using
government guarantees rather than the central bank’s money
market operations.  The ECB says governments should use the 440-billion-euro
($603 billion) European Financial Stability Facility to insure a
portion of new bonds issued by debt-strapped nations. That would
leverage the amount available to protect member states from the
region’s debt crisis.  EFSF resources “should be dedicated to enhance sovereign
debt new issuance of securities, thus multiplying their
effect,” ECB Vice President Vitor Constancio said in a speech
in Milan yesterday.  Policy makers are trying to build a “firewall” around
large European countries like Italy and Spain whose size would
make them difficult to rescue if their debt became
unsustainable. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  opposes
suggestions that the central bank should lend to the EFSF to
boost its capacity, saying such a move would not be
“appropriate.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank maintains any such
arrangement would constitute monetary financing of governments.
A guarantee program would allow countries to access more capital
without the EFSF exhausting its finite capital reserves.  ‘Double or Quits’  “You could basically guarantee a country’s issuance through
a so-called zero-coupon bond, assuring investors their capital
is not at risk,” said  James Nixon , chief European economist at
Societe Generale SA in London. “The great advantage is that it
is leverage. It is possible it amounts to four or five times the
size of the EFSF. The disadvantage is that it is essentially
double or quits.”  European leaders may discuss leveraging the EFSF during an
Oct. 23 meeting that gropes toward dealing with  Greece ’s
oversized debt, insulating the Spanish and Italian markets, and
shielding banks from the fallout.  While European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on Oct. 3 that including the ECB in
leveraging plans was still on the table, the ECB has underlined
its resistance. Economists  Daniel Gros  and  Thomas Mayer  have
suggested that the EFSF should operate like a bank and borrow
from the ECB, using the bonds it purchases as collateral.  “There has been a clear understanding that no direct ECB
funds will be used,” Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny told
reporters in Vienna yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  