-- 
Economists Call for Crop-Trading Limits to Curb Volatility

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-10-10T22:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/economists-call-for-crop-trading-limits-to-curb-volatility.html
Hundreds of  economists  including
scholars from Oxford University and the  University of
California , Berkeley, are asking the Group of 20 nations to
impose limits on speculative positions in food commodities to
curb volatility in crop prices.  “With around 1 billion people enduring chronic hunger
worldwide, action is urgently needed to curb excessive
speculation and its effects on global food prices,” according
to a  letter  signed by 461 economists and sent to finance
ministers from the G-20, which includes the world’s richest
nations. The letter, dated today, was posted on Oxfam America’s
website.  Research sponsored by the  United Nations ,  International
Monetary Fund  and other global organizations suggest speculation
in crop futures by  index funds  and large banks may cause price
spikes that can put grocery costs out of reach for poorer
people. Global regulation of speculators has been a goal of
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  during his term as leader of
the G-20 this year.  EU finance ministers last week agreed to a derivatives-
regulation plan that may require exchanges and other venues to
share trading data with rival clearinghouses to make futures
speculation more transparent. In the U.S., some rules on
commodities trades under a financial-reform law passed in 2010
won’t be completed until at least the first quarter of 2012,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  said
last week. A CFTC vote on position limits, one of the bill’s
most contentious components, could happen as soon as Oct. 18.  Facing Choices  “There is a choice that the CFTC and the EU have to
make,” Rohit Malpani, an adviser to  Oxfam America , the U.S. arm
of Oxford, U.K.-based Oxfam International, one of several groups
that helped organize the letter, said last week in a telephone
interview. “Listen to experts or those impacted by high food
prices, or listen to those who are benefiting from volatility,
largely the banks and funds that have increasingly moved to
these markets.”  The CFTC’s proposals on position limits and derivative
exchanges “often represent an overstepping of the commission’s
authority” under financial regulations set by the 2010 Dodd-
Frank Act,  Terrence Duffy , the executive chairman of CME, the
world’s largest futures trader, said in  testimony  submitted to
the Senate Banking Committee in April. Numerous  published
studies  question any connection between speculation and price
volatility.  CFTC Member Response  The economists’ letter was also sent to CFTC members and to
 Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial-services
commissioner.  “For those who say no evidence exists linking excessive
speculation and prices, they just aren’t looking,” CFTC
Commissioner Bart Chilton said today in a statement. “Scores of
studies and papers exist which document the linkage.”  Global food prices have increased 16 percent in the past
year, the UN says. The world’s population is forecast to jump to
9.3 billion by 2050 from an estimated 6.9 billion in 2010,
requiring a 70 percent increase in  food production , according to
the agency. In February, when costs peaked, the  World Bank  said
the increased expense had pushed 44 million people into
“extreme poverty” in a little over half a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 