-- 
Ledbury, Invaded by Rioters, Retains Best U.K. Restaurant Title

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-10-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/ledbury-invaded-by-rioters-retains-best-u-k-restaurant-title.html
The Ledbury was last night named the
U.K.’s best restaurant in the National Restaurant Awards for a
second year, further recognition for a London establishment that
garnered international attention when it was invaded by rioters.  Pollen Street Social, chef Jason Atherton’s new venue in
Mayfair, came second, beating Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal , its
rival as London’s best new restaurant of the year. Blumenthal’s
Fat Duck fell to fourth from  second last year .  The Ledbury -- chef  Brett Graham ’s venue near  Notting Hill 
-- has this year already been named best for food by Zagat and
best new restaurant by Harden’s guide. In August, chefs and
waiters brandishing kitchen equipment  repulsed robbers  who
smashed down the front door and robbed diners at knifepoint.  Among other awards: One to watch: Hedone; front of house:
the Ledbury; wine list: Galvin La Chapelle; restaurateurs’
choice: Hawksmoor Seven Dials; personality: Fred Sirieix
(Galvin); chefs’ chef: Simon Rogan (L’Enclume, Roganic);
gastropub: Sportsman; highest new entry: Pollen Street Social.  The National Restaurant Awards are just one of several U.K.
industry events. The next come as early as Oct. 12, when the
Observer Food Monthly annual winners will be announced, followed
by the Sunday Times Food List, with Harden’s, later this month.  The winners are picked by the  National Restaurant Awards 
academy, made up of more than 300 chefs, restaurateurs and
critics, of whom I am one. (One of the awards in last night’s
event at the Grand Connaught Rooms in  London  was also presented
by myself.)  Here is the National Restaurant Awards Top 100:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 