-- 
Rajaratnam May Get Quarter Century Term Under Guidelines

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-10T20:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/hedge-fund-insider-trading-sentence-for-raj-rajaratnam-may-be-longest-ever.html
Galleon Group LLC’s  Raj Rajaratnam 
faces a federal judge this week who will weigh wildly divergent
portraits of the disgraced hedge fund manager while interpreting
guidelines that may call for one of the longest insider trading
sentences in U.S. history.  Prosecutors paint Rajaratnam as a “serial insider trader”
who corrupted friends and business associates to illegally make
profits or avoid losses totaling $72 million. Defense lawyers
say Rajaratnam is a generous man who committed victimless
crimes. A prison stretch would kill him, they claim.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan, who will
sentence Rajaratnam Oct. 13, presided over the  jury trial  in
which the fund manager was convicted of running the biggest
insider trading ring in a generation. The judge will consult
nonbinding sentencing guidelines that sometimes recommend longer
terms for white-collar criminals than some violent offenders.  “The sentence called for by the guidelines is likely to be
excessive,” said Barry Boss, a partner in the Washington office
of Cozen O’Connor and co-chairman of the  American Bar
Association ’s Criminal Justice Section Sentencing Committee.  All 14 Counts  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of 14 counts of
 securities fraud  and conspiracy. Prosecutors asked Holwell to
give him a prison sentence of 19 1/2 to 24 1/2 years, which they
said is within the guidelines. The defense, claiming
Rajaratnam’s actions made him only $7.4 million, argued for a
guideline calculation that would call for a sentence of 6 1/2 to
8 years, according to a person familiar with the defense case
who spoke on condition of anonymity. Defense lawyer John Dowd
declined to comment on the range.  There is no parole under the federal prison system.  Prosecutors claim Rajaratnam was at the center of a seven-
year conspiracy to trade on inside information from corporate
executives, bankers, consultants, traders and directors of
public companies. He used the information to trade ahead of
public announcements about earnings, forecasts, mergers and
spinoffs involving more than a dozen companies, according to the
evidence presented at his trial.  Those companies included  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies Inc. and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   U.S. Guidelines  In sentencing Rajaratnam, Holwell must consult the U.S.
Sentencing Commission’s Guidelines Manual, more than 500 pages
of tables and instructions for calculating advisory guideline
sentences. Fraud sentences are largely determined by the amount
lost in the fraud, lawyers said, and people convicted of
multimillion-dollar frauds may face the kind of guideline
sentences more typically given to murderers or kidnappers.  Bernard Madoff , convicted in the largest-ever U.S. Ponzi
scheme, is serving a 150-year term in a federal prison in
Butner,  North Carolina . Madoff’s fraud had cost his investors at
least $13.3 billion, prosecutors said at the time of his
sentencing. That amount has grown since then.  Former WorldCom Inc. Chief Executive Officer Bernard Ebbers
was sentenced to 25 years after he was convicted of an $11
billion fraud. Samuel  Israel , co-founder of hedge fund Bayou
Group LLC, was sentenced to 20 years for a $400 million fraud.
Former Enron Corp. CEO  Jeffrey Skilling  was given a 24-year
sentence for charges that included fraud and  insider trading .  Loss Calculation  “In financial crime cases, the loss calculation has become
the driving factor in sentencing calculations,” said Jeff Ifrah, a Washington lawyer and co-author of “Federal Sentencing
for Business Crimes.”  Rajaratnam is trying to avoid sentencing enhancements that
may apply if the judge finds he obstructed an investigation by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and that he was a
leader or organizer of a scheme involving five or more people.  “Rajaratnam is a uniquely situated individual compared
with all the others,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky said
at an Oct. 4 hearing. “He is an individual at the top of a
pyramid, the head of a hedge fund who’s orchestrating and
controlling interlocking insider-trading schemes.”  Terence Lynam, one of Rajaratnam’s lawyers, told Holwell
during that hearing, “A lot of people just wanted to ingratiate
themselves to Mr. Rajaratnam.”  Rajaratnam has argued that the government’s calculation is
wrong and that the resulting guideline sentence is “grotesquely
severe.” He asked Holwell for a sentence “substantially
below” the range suggested by prosecutors. Today, defense
lawyers said there is “no evidence” the hedge  fund manager  led
others in crimes, according to a court filing.  Health Grounds  Rajaratnam has also appealed to Holwell for leniency on
health grounds, with his lawyers urging the judge not to let him
die in prison.  “Mr. Rajaratnam is not a healthy man,” they wrote in a
court filing, citing “significant and challenging medical
issues.”  Rajaratnam’s lawyers, who haven’t made public the nature of
his health problems, said “His death will be hastened by a term
of imprisonment.” Prosecutors asked Holwell last week to unseal
some of the medical information Rajaratnam has submitted to the
court.  Federal sentencing guidelines aren’t binding and are often
set aside. U.S. judges in Manhattan imposed sentences below the
guideline range in almost half of the cases in the year ended
June 30, 2010, according to Sentencing Commission statistics.  Avoided Jail  As of February, almost half of the 43 defendants sentenced
for insider trading in the  New York  court from 2003 to 2010
avoided jail altogether, according to a Bloomberg analysis of
court records. Many of those defendants cooperated with the
government or pleaded guilty, which often results in a lesser
sentence. Since then, judges have sentenced those convicted in
the Galleon case to prison terms that average three years.  The longest insider-trading sentence before Galleon was 10
years, given to former Credit Suisse Group AG banker Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem, who was convicted in 2008 of leading a
$7.8 million scheme. Since then, former Galleon trader Zvi Goffer was also sentenced to a 10-year term.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  sentenced Goffer last
month for leading a ring that bribed lawyers for inside tips
about transactions involving their law firm’s clients. Craig Drimal, another ex-Galleon trader, was sentenced to 5 1/2 years
in prison. Danielle Chiesi, a former analyst at New Castle Funds
LLC, got 2 1/2 years for passing tips to Rajaratnam and others.
Drimal and Chiesi both pleaded guilty.  Holwell will likely consider the sentences given to other
participants in Rajaratnam’s scheme, though Boss of Cozen
O’Connor said the lesser terms given underlings may not help.  “I would be very surprised if Rajaratnam doesn’t get more
than the individuals who are less culpable,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net  and;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  