-- 
Medical Marijuana, Sabre, Insider Trading in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-10-10T12:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/medical-marijuana-insider-trading-immigration-citigroup-in-court-news.html
The four top federal prosecutors in
California said they are cracking down on the state’s medical-
marijuana industry, which officials say generates annual sales
of more than $1 billion.  Landlords for several clinics are being sent letters saying
they face jail time if they don’t evict the pot shops, the U.S.
Attorneys from Sacramento, San Diego,  Los Angeles  and  San
Francisco  said Oct. 7 at a press conference in Sacramento. The
prosecutors are also targeting large-scale growers and
distributors.  In California, the first state to permit marijuana for
medical use, about 400,000 people use pot on a daily basis,
according to the  Board of Equalization , the state’s tax
administrator. The clinics have annual revenue of as much as
$1.3 billion and produce sales taxes of as much as $105 million,
said Anita Gore, a spokeswoman.  “While California law permits collective cultivation of
marijuana in limited circumstances, it does not allow commercial
distribution through the store-front model we see across
California,” said Andre Birotte, the U.S. Attorney in Los
Angeles.  Prosecutors said the crackdown involves civil forfeiture
lawsuits against properties allegedly used in drug trafficking,
letters of warning to clinic operators and landlords, and
criminal indictments that charge six people with marijuana
trafficking in Southern California.  “Large, commercial operations cloak their money-making
activities in the guise of helping sick people when in fact they
are helping themselves,” said Benjamin Wagner, the U.S.
attorney in Sacramento. “Our interest is in enforcing federal
criminal law, not prosecuting seriously sick people and those
who are caring for them.”  Laura Duffy, the U.S. Attorney in San Diego, said
California is “the number-one marijuana-producing state in the
country.”  Lawsuit News  Sabre Loses Bid to Consolidate American, US Airways Suits  Sabre Holdings Corp., the largest U.S. provider of flight
data to travel agents, lost a bid to consolidate antitrust
lawsuits brought by  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)   Centralizing the complaints in federal court in Fort Worth,
Texas, “would not serve the convenience of the parties and
witnesses,” the U.S. Judicial Panel on Multi-District
Litigation ruled Oct. 6. Under an MDL program, cases with common
factual issues can be consolidated before one judge to
streamline document exchanges and avoid duplication in pretrial
proceedings.  “Sabre is represented in both actions by common counsel,”
the MDL panel said in its ruling. “In these circumstances, we
believe an informal cooperation among the involved attorneys is
both practicable and preferable.”  US Airways, based in Tempe, Arizona, sued Sabre in federal
court in  New York . Fort Worth-based American sued Southlake,
Texas-based Sabre and rival Travelport LLC in Texas. Both
carriers opposed centralization, according to court documents.  The lawsuits are at the heart of a dispute between U.S.
carriers and so-called global-distribution systems, such as
Sabre, that collect flight and fare data from carriers and
distribute it to travel agents. The airlines want greater
control over how the data is distributed.  Todd Lehmacher, a US Airways spokesman, declined to comment
on the ruling. Nancy St. Pierre, a Sabre spokeswoman, also
declined to comment.  “We believe the panel made the right decision, as our case
is distinct from the case US Air has brought against Sabre,”
Ryan Mikolasik, a spokesman for American with consulting firm
Weber Shandwick, said in an e-mail. “We look forward to
continuing to pursue our claims against Sabre.”  Sabre and Travelport, the second-biggest U.S.-based global
distribution system, control more than 90 percent of the U.S.
data sent to travel agents.  The Fort Worth case is American Airlines Inc. v. Travelport
Ltd., 11-cv-00244, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Texas (Fort Worth). The Manhattan case is U.S. Airways Inc. v.
Sabre Holdings Corp., 11-cv-02725, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Whirlpool Wins Six-Month Halt in LG Refrigerator Patent Suit  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s largest appliance maker, said
it won a six-month stay of litigation in a refrigerator-
technology patent infringement lawsuit brought in Trenton, New
Jersey by Korean rival  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   The postponement was related “to progress in separate
proceedings challenging the validity of LG’s patents” in the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Whirlpool, based in Benton
Harbor, Michigan, said Oct. 7 in a statement.  “We expect LG’s patents to be found invalid under the re-
examination proceedings,” said Marc Bitzer, president of
Whirlpool’s North America Region.  In another case, Whirlpool and Seoul-based LG halted
proceedings in mid-trial last week in U.S. District Court in
Wilmington, Delaware.  “The court’s ruling will be entered and made public in the
near future, resolving the issues that were pending in this
retrial” over a patent for refrigerator icemakers, Kristine
Vernier, a Whirlpool spokesperson, said in an Oct. 3 e-mailed
statement. LG officials didn’t return messages seeking comment.  In the Delaware case, Whirlpool lawyers asked a jury to
award $16.2 million in patent damages.  The Delaware case is LG Electronics v. Whirlpool Corp.,
1:08-cv-00234, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To see the patent, click: 6,082,130.  Sprint, Cellular South Ask AT&T Judge Not to Dismiss Cases  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and Cellular South Inc. asked a federal
judge not to dismiss their lawsuits challenging AT&T Inc.’s
takeover of wireless carrier T-Mobile USA Inc., arguing the
companies have the right to challenge the merger under antitrust
law.  The companies filed their opposition to AT&T’s motion to
dismiss Oct. 7 in federal court in Washington. AT&T is seeking
to have the lawsuits thrown out on the grounds that the
companies don’t have the right to sue because they are
competitors, not consumers.  The merger could “injure competitors in ways that also
injure consumers through higher prices, diminished service and
reduced innovation,” Sprint and Cellular South said in a joint
filing. “Those injuries to competitors, which align with harm
to consumers, are ‘antitrust injuries,’ and create standing for
a competitor.”  Sprint brought its antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, less than
a week after the U.S. sued to block the deal, saying the
proposed merger would harm consumers and weaken Sprint’s ability
to compete with AT&T and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   Cellular South sued on Sept. 19 claiming the merger
“threatens to substantially lessen competition” and cause it
significant losses and damages. Cellular South, based in
Ridgeland, Mississippi, changed its name to C Spire Wireless on
Sept. 26, according to its website.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, arguing a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Seven states and Puerto Rico joined the
government’s case.  Sprint’s case is Sprint Nextel Corp. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-
01600, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).
Cellular South’s case is Cellular South Inc. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-
cv-01690, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington). The government’s case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-
01560, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Texas County’s Lawyers to Ask Permission to File MERS Suit  Attorneys for the Texas county that includes Houston will
seek permission Oct. 11 to hire outside lawyers to sue Mortgage
Electronic Registration Systems Inc. over $100 million or more
in unpaid mortgage-filing fees.  The proposal was posted Oct. 7 on the agenda for the Harris
County Commissioners Court, the governing body for the county.
County attorneys will hire the same law firm, Malouf & Nockels,
that handled a similar lawsuit filed by Dallas last month,
County Attorney Vince Ryan said in an interview Friday.  The Dallas County district attorney’s lawsuit claimed
 Merscorp Inc. ’s MERS, which runs an electronic registry of
mortgages, cheated the county out of tens of millions of dollars
in uncollected filing fees. MERS tracks servicing rights and
ownership interests in mortgage loans on its registry, allowing
banks to buy and sell loans without recording transfers with
counties.  “Our preliminary estimate, based on very superficial
knowledge, is we’re looking at a minimum of $11 million and it
could be much, much more depending on the number of times the
real estate was used as collateral and should’ve generated a
filing fee,” said Ryan, the Harris County attorney.  The county may be seeking more than $100 million in unpaid
fees, he said. Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Reston, Virginia-
based Merscorp, declined to comment on the county’s plan.  The cases against MERS include: Dallas County v. Merscorp
Inc., CC-11-06571-E, County Court at Law, Dallas County, Texas;
and Christian County Clerk v. Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc., 5:11-cv-00072, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Kentucky (Louisville).  For more, click here.  SEC Asks U.S. Judge to Order Deloitte Shanghai Unit to Court  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. should be ordered to
appear in a U.S. court for rejecting a Securities and Exchange
Commission demand for documents related to an investigation of
its former client Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd., an SEC
lawyer said.  In a hearing Oct. 7 in Washington, SEC lawyer Mark Lanpher
said the Shanghai-based unit of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.
has refused to respond to a court filing seeking documents that
the regulator claims are “critical” to its probe of possible
fraud at Longtop, a financial-software maker based in Hong Kong.  “We have an ongoing fraud. Time is of the essence,”
Lanpher said, asking U.S. Magistrate Judge Deborah Robinson to
approve a “show cause” order requiring D&T Shanghai to appear
in court to explain why it hasn’t complied with a subpoena
issued in May.  Robinson responded that she needed more information from
the SEC regarding her authority to require a foreign company to
appear in a U.S. court. She gave the SEC until Oct. 14 to make
that argument in a court filing.  Michael Warden, a lawyer for D&T Shanghai, was in the
courtroom. He didn’t address the judge and declined to comment
after the proceeding. In a July 8 letter to the SEC, Warden said
China law prevented his client from turning over documents.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd., 11-mc-00512, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials and Appeals  U.S. Asks for Bar to Alabama Immigration Law During Appeal  The U.S. government asked a federal appellate court to
block enforcement of parts of Alabama’s new immigration law
while it seeks review of sections of the ruling in the state’s
favor.  U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in
Birmingham, Alabama on Sept. 28 rejected parts of a federal
challenge to legislation signed by Governor Robert Bentley in
June. The state created new police powers, including the
authority to examine the immigration status of people stopped if
there is “reasonable suspicion” they are unlawfully in the
country.  Blackburn on Oct. 5 denied the federal government’s request
for a stay of enforcement while the decision is appealed.  “The state regime contravenes the federal government’s
exclusive authority over immigration,” lawyers for the U.S.
government said in papers filed with the Court of Appeals in
Atlanta on Oct. 7.  The Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen Protection
Act includes provisions requiring public schools to collect data
on the enrollment of children of unlawful residents and
criminalizing the failure of illegal immigrants to complete or
carry alien registration documents.  Blackburn’s Sept. 28 ruling allowed enforcement of those
provisions as well as one making it a felony for illegal aliens
to do business with the state or its political subdivisions.  The judge, who was nominated for the bench by President
George H.W. Bush in 1991, blocked parts of the measure that
criminalized the transportation and harboring of those illegally
in the U.S. and their applying for jobs or being hired.  The American Civil Liberties Union, Southern Poverty Law
Center and other civil rights groups have filed a separate
lawsuit challenging the legislation.  The case is U.S. v. State of Alabama, 11-14532, U.S. 11th
Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts, Settlements and Sentences  Credit Lyonnais Agrees to Settle AIG Suit for $150 Million  Credit Lyonnais SA agreed to settle a suit filed by
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s SunAmerica unit over its
1993 investment in a California insurance company that the
French bank had acquired.  AIG Retirement Services, formerly SunAmerica, and Credit
Lyonnais, filed a settlement agreement on Oct. 6 in federal
court in Los Angeles. The settling parties also include
Consortium de Realisation SA, a French state-owned company that
took on Credit Lyonnais’s unprofitable assets and liabilities
related to Executive Life Insurance Co., the California insurer.  The AIG unit sued a group of French companies including
Credit Lyonnais in 2005, alleging that it was defrauded when it
bought a 33 percent stake in New California Holdings Inc.
because it didn’t know that the French owners, a group led by
MAAF Assurances SA, were a front for Credit Lyonnais. At the
time, the French bank couldn’t own an insurer under U.S. law.  “We’re pleased to have resolved our dispute with this
group of settling defendants,” Mark Herr, a spokesman for New
York-based AIG said in an e-mailed statement.  New California is the restructured successor of Executive
Life, which was taken over by the state of California after it
had become insolvent and was later sold to the MAAF group.
France, on behalf of Credit Lyonnais, paid $600 million to
settle claims the bank misled regulators by not disclosing it
was the true owner of Executive Life.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  bought Credit Lyonnais in 2003.  MAAF in August agreed to pay $24 million to settle AIG’s
claims. Artemis SA, the holding company of French billionaire
 Francois Pinault , is still a defendant in the case. The trial is
scheduled to start Oct. 18.  The potential claims in the lawsuit were as much as $1
billion, George Terwilliger, a lawyer for Consortium de
Realisation, said in a telephone interview. The case was the
last one pending over Credit Lyonnais’s involvement in the
takeover of Executive Life in the early 1990s, Terwilliger said.  “We believe this was a fair and reasonable settlement,”
Terwilliger said.  Lawrence Friedman, a lawyer for Credit Lyonnais, declined
to comment.  The case is AIG Retirement Services v. Altus Finance, 05-
1035, U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles.)  Rajaratnam Fraud Had ‘Unknowing’ Participants, U.S. Says  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam deserves a
longer prison term because his insider-trading schemes involved
“five or more people,” including “knowing” and “unknowing”
participants, prosecutors said.  At the request of U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in
Manhattan, prosecutors on Oct. 7 named the people they said were
either complicit or unknowing participants in the schemes.
Holwell is to sentence Rajaratnam on Oct. 13.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of 14 counts of
securities fraud and conspiracy. Prosecutors, saying he made $72
million from his crimes, asked for a prison term of 19 years and
seven months to 24 1/2 years. The defense said Rajaratnam made
just $7 million and should get 6 1/2 to 8 years.  “This court should find that Rajaratnam’s conduct was
‘otherwise extensive’ given the number of knowing participants
and unknowing participants who took actions at Rajaratnam’s
direction that were peculiarly tailored and necessary for the
commission of the crimes,” according to the filing by assistant
U.S. attorneys Jonathan Streeter, Reed Brodsky and Andrew
Michaelson.  In their sentencing memorandum filed Oct. 7, prosecutors
cited federal sentences in which a longer prison term was
imposed because the criminal activity involved “five or more
knowing participants.” They said there were at least nine
knowing participants in Rajaratnam’s crimes, including the
defendant’s brother, Rengan Rajaratnam, who hasn’t been charged
with any wrongdoing.  Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, declined to comment
on the filing.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Emanuel Goffer Sentenced to Three Years for Insider Trading  Emanuel Goffer was sentenced to three years in prison for
his role in an insider-trading scheme carried out with his
brother, former Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi Goffer .  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  imposed the sentence
on Goffer, 32, in a hearing in Manhattan Oct. 7, two weeks after
he gave 10 years in prison to his 34-year-old brother. Both
brothers were caught in a U.S. crackdown on insider trading at
hedge funds. Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, the central
figure in the investigation, is to be sentenced Oct. 13.  “This was a deliberate scheme to procure inside
information, privileged information, from a law firm by bribing
lawyers to corrupt them,” Sullivan told Goffer before imposing
the sentence.  Sullivan said federal sentencing guidelines, which are
advisory, called for Emanuel Goffer to receive 41 to 51 months.
Sullivan also sentenced Goffer to three years of supervised
release after the prison term and ordered him to forfeit
$761,000 made from the scheme.  The two Goffers were convicted, along with former trader
Michael Kimelman, in June. Sullivan said Friday that Emanuel
Goffer deserved less prison time than his brother, who was
“clearly the most culpable person” in the ring.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Citigroup Sued by Cardholders Over May Security Breach  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank, was sued by
cardholders over a May computer security breach that affected
more than 360,000 accounts.  Kristina and Steven Orman of Northport, New York, sued
Citigroup in federal court in Manhattan Oct. 7, seeking to
represent victims of the hacking in a class-action, or group,
lawsuit. Money was stolen from their bank account and their
credit cards were illegally used by third parties following the
breach, they said.  “Defendants have taken no steps that adequately or
effectively protect cardholders against illegal use of the
cardholders’ sensitive and extensive financial records since the
breach,” the Ormans alleged in the complaint. They seek
unspecified damages.  Citigroup said in June that the breach, affecting 1.5
percent of its card customers in North America, was discovered
at Citi Account Online during routine monitoring. Customers’
names, account numbers and e-mail addresses were viewed,
Citigroup said.  Sean Kevelighan, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
said bank officials haven’t seen the lawsuit and couldn’t
comment on it.  The case is Orman v. Citigroup Inc., 11-cv-7086, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Court Filings  Dynegy Suit Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg Last Week  A new lawsuit against  Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , some of its subsidiaries
and its board of directors was the most-read litigation docket
on the Bloomberg Law system last week. The power producer was
sued by the  U.S. Bank National Association , the noteholders’
trustee, over claims that the Houston-based company moved assets
from the reach of creditors by restructuring the company. The
noteholders in this suit have claims of at least $500 million.  In September, Dynegy transferred $1.25 billion of assets,
mainly coal-fired power facilities, out of a unit that issued
bonds for the company, leaving fixed-income investors with fewer
claims in a bankruptcy. The company has posted five straight
quarterly losses driven by lower electricity prices and reduced
cash flow.  The suit, filed Sept. 27 in New York State Supreme Court,
seeks both damages and injunctive relief.  The case is The Successor Lease Indenture Trustee v. Dynegy
Inc., 652642/2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 