-- 
Egypt September Inflation Slows as Food-Price Rises Ease

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-10-10T12:53:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/egypt-september-inflation-slows-as-food-price-rises-ease-1-.html
Egypt ’s inflation rate declined in
September as food prices, one of the causes of the unrest that
toppled President  Hosni Mubarak , rose at a slower pace.  The annual inflation rate in urban parts of Egypt, the
gauge that the central bank monitors, fell to 8.2 percent from
8.5 percent in August, according to data posted on the website
of the official statistics agency today.  “This is a base effect. We had various shocks in food
prices that are fading away,” Mohamed Abu Basha, a Cairo-based
economist at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded investment bank, said in a telephone interview. The
central bank is likely to keep its  interest rates  unchanged as
inflation “is still relatively high,” he said.  Food and beverage costs, the biggest component in the
 consumer price index , increased an annual 9 percent, down from
12.2 percent a month earlier.  Core inflation  accelerated to 8
percent from 7 percent a month earlier, the central bank said on
its website today.  Eighteen days of protests, sparked by falling living
standards, high unemployment and a lack of democratic rights,
led to Mubarak’s ouster on Feb. 11. The unrest deterred tourists
and foreign investors, hurting economic output.  Gross domestic product grew 1.8 percent in the fiscal year
that ended June 30, its weakest performance in at least 10
years, the government said last month. The economy contracted
4.2 percent from January to March as revenue from industries
such as tourism plummeted.  The central bank on Aug. 25 left its overnight deposit rate
unchanged at 8.25 percent, the lowest level in almost five
years, to support economic growth. The rate hasn’t changed since
September 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  