-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as German, French Leaders Pledge Bank Plan

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-10T22:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/emerging-market-stocks-snap-three-day-advance-as-chinese-shares-decline.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the benchmark index posting the biggest four-day gain in 16
months, after German and French leaders pledged to shield
European banks.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 1.6 percent to
898.27 at the close of trading, taking its gains in the past
four days to 8.1 percent, the biggest four-day advance since May
31, 2010.  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index surged 4 percent as commodity
prices rose. Mexico’s benchmark rose 1.6 percent. Hungary’s BUX
Index jumped 3.2 percent to a one-month high, and the WIG20
Index climbed 3.4 percent after Prime Minister Donald Tusk won
Polish general election.  India ’s Sensex Index climbed 2 percent
and  South Africa ’s benchmark gauge rose 2.1 percent.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will deliver a plan to recapitalize European
banks and address the Greek debt crisis by Nov. 3.  Belgium  will
pay 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion) for the local unit of the
failing Dexia SA, Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said
today. U.S. employers added more workers than expected in
September, according to payrolls data on Oct. 7.  “Friday’s better-than-expected U.S. payroll report and the
Franco-German agreement to find a solution to the euro-zone debt
crisis economic data will add more confidence to markets as the
new weeks starts,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika
Dialog in Moscow, said in an e-mailed report today, “That
offers the prospect of a more favorable market backdrop through
October and may encourage those hoping for a year-end rally to
add market exposure earlier.”  ‘Everything Necessary’  Merkel said European leaders will do “everything
necessary” to ensure that banks have enough capital. The
Belgian government will also guarantee 60 percent of a so-called
bad bank to be set up for Dexia’s troubled assets, Reynders said
in Brussels at a press conference. U.S. payrolls rose by
103,000, the Labor Department said Oct. 7. That was more than
the 60,000 median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  The Polish zloty led gains among emerging-market currencies
against the dollar, rising 3.6 percent. The Hungarian forint
appreciated 3.4 percent and the ruble rose 2.5 percent.  Mexico ’s
peso advanced 1.7 percent. Brazil’s real strengthened 0.5
percent.  The yuan appreciated 0.6 percent to 6.3486 per dollar in
 Shanghai  on speculation policy makers will tolerate gains after
the U.S. said the Asian nation undervalues its currency. It was
the strongest closing level since the end of 1993, and the
biggest daily increase since  China  loosened the yuan’s peg to
the dollar on July 21, 2005, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System.  China’s financial markets were closed for National Day
holidays last week.  Bovespa  The Bovespa index rose the most in two months as prospects
for a solution to  Europe ’s debt crisis improved the outlook for
Brazil’s largest companies.  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, advanced
3.2 percent after metals reversed losses. Oil companies OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA jumped 4.7 percent and Petroleo
Brasileiro SA increased 3.3 percent, following crude higher.  Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, a Mexican lender, surged 5.1
percent, the most among stocks in the nation’s benchmark gauge.  The PX Index sank 1.8 percent in Prague.  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS) , Eastern Europe’s second-biggest lender, said in a statement
that it will post a full-year loss of as much as 800 million
euros after writedowns on its Hungarian and Romanian units. The
bank won’t pay a dividend this year and shelved a plan to repay
1.2 billion euros of aid from the Austria government early.  Egyptian Stocks  The EGX30 Index slid 2.3 percent in Egypt after Coptic
Christian protesters clashed with security forces in Cairo
yesterday, in a night that left at least 24 people dead and more
than 200 injured, according to news reports.  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.6 percent after a week
of holidays in which house sales slid and China cut fuel prices.
The Kospi Index gained 0.4 percent in  Seoul . Taiwan was closed
for a holiday.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 447, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  Emerging-market stocks are “cheap” and Pacific Investment
Management Co. is buying in China after the nation’s shares
tumbled this year, said Maria Gordon, an emerging-market equity-
 fund manager  at Pimco.  “We are definitely fishing in the more cyclically
distressed areas of the market where valuations are very, very
cheap,” London-based Gordon said in an interview with Sara
Eisen on Bloomberg Television today. “We’re selectively
accumulating positions” in China, Gordon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  