-- 
Cain’s Campaign Soars as Republicans Search for Someone to Love

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-10-11T16:20:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/herman-cain-s-campaign-soars-as-republican-voters-hunt-for-someone-to-love.html
(Corrects to remove reference to Selzer & Co. in sixth
paragraph in story originally published Oct. 11.)  Herman Cain , a one-time pizza
magnate and sunny-skies orator, is entering a new phase of
scrutiny after a wave of Republican Party dissatisfaction with
its presidential choices thrust him into second place in a
Bloomberg News- Washington  Post poll.  Cain, 65, whose come-from-way-behind campaign has been
conducted largely via television, presents himself as destined
for victory: His new memoir is called “This is Herman Cain! My
Journey to the White House.” Now, in the run-up to tomorrow’s
Republican debate in  New Hampshire , Cain is being pressed on his
so-called 9-9-9 tax plan -- a flat 9 percent rate on corporate
and personal income and a national  sales tax  -- his criticism of
the Occupy  Wall Street  protesters and his lack of experience in
public office.  “Get ready for an aberration of historic proportion,”
Cain said in an interview yesterday during “State of the
Union” on CNN. “People who are criticizing me because I have
not held public office, they are out of touch with the voters
out there.”  The rise of Cain, political analysts say, is a reflection
of prolonged hunger among a segment of Republican voters for
someone to inspire -- someone who isn’t former Massachusetts
Governor  Mitt Romney , who has been criticized for inconstancy.
In the past week, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and former
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin declined to enter the race. Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  has stumbled, creating an opportunity for
Cain.  Vigorous Capitalist  Cain is “not a career politician,” said Alison Howard,
22, who works for a nonprofit organization in Washington and
attended the Values Voter Summit in Washington last week, where
Cain appeared. “People relate to him because he’s a hard worker
who took advantage of capitalistic principles.”  Cain, who describes himself as an “American black
conservative,” finished second in the Bloomberg News and
Washington Post poll released today. Romney led with 24 percent
among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents, followed
by Cain at 16 percent. When asked which candidate would do the
most to improve the economy, 22 percent picked Romney and 20
percent picked Cain.  In the straw poll at the summit, Cain got 23 percent,
behind Texas congressman  Ron Paul , with 37 percent.  Cain’s Turn  Other candidates, such as Perry and Minnesota congresswoman
 Michele Bachmann , have risen, only to stumble. Still, Cain has
established himself as a candidate who may no longer be
overlooked by his opponents.  “He’s kind of an interesting guy in that deck of
Republicans,” said Bruce Gronbeck, a professor emeritus at the
University of Iowa who specializes in politics, rhetoric and
television.  “He’s enjoyable and they don’t pick on him,” Gronbeck
said.  Cain’s rhetoric is pungent. He drew headlines last week
after he told the Wall Street Journal that protesters who have
set up an encampment in  New York ’s financial center are
misguided.  “Don’t blame Wall Street,” Cain said. “Don’t blame the
big banks. If you don’t have a job and you’re not rich, blame
yourself.”  Automotive Jealousy  Yesterday on “Face the Nation” on CBS, he said
participants are “jealous” Americans who “play the victim
card” and want to “take somebody else’s Cadillac.”  The Memphis-born Cain, whose mother was a domestic and his
father a chauffeur, is the former chief executive of Omaha-based
Godfather’s Pizza, then a subsidiary of Pillsbury Co. Cain shut
franchises and changed the menu starting in 1986, and within 14
months, the pizza operator was profitable.  Publicly available figures show Godfather’s sales
fluctuated from about $225 million to about $275 million during
his time there, sometimes rising, sometimes falling, never
surging. Pillsbury sold Godfather’s to Cain and a group of
investors in 1988.  By the time Cain left the company in 1996 to head the
National Restaurant Association, the industry’s lobbying group,
the number of Godfather’s restaurants had dwindled to the low
500s from 640.  In 2000, he ran for the Republican presidential nomination,
and in  Georgia ’s 2004 U.S. Senate primary, he finished second
with 26 percent of the vote.  ‘Stupid People’  Cain is an advocate of smaller government and would “take
the hatchet to the spending” in federal agencies, he told the
Wall Street Journal last week. In his speech Oct. 7 to the
Values Voter Summit, he vowed that “If you mess with  Israel ,
you mess with the  United States of America .”  And he complained in his speech that, “We are up against a
lot of stupid people in America.”  Cain’s appeal reflects the mercurial nature of the
Republican race, said  David Redlawsk , director of the Eagleton
Center for Public Interest Polling at  Rutgers University .  “At the moment, it almost seems like anyone could make
headway,” Redlawsk said. “There’s a real malaise out there. If
you can get somebody, like a business person, to stand up there
and say, ‘I know where we’re going’ and can bring simple answers
and solutions, that’s attractive to some voters.”  “You had  Donald Trump , now you’ve got Herman Cain.  Chris
Christie  would have jumped to the front on attitude alone,”
Redlawsk said.  Real and Raw  Arthur Box, a 53-year-old oil-field worker from  Louisiana ,
said at the Values Voter Summit that Cain is a fresh
alternative.  “The other candidates are forced and too polished,” he
said.  Matt McLelland, 41, a logistics director from Chattanooga,
 Tennessee , said, “The economy needs to be run and treated more
like a business, and Herman Cain has done it.”  Like Cain,  Ross Perot  was a candid businessman who ran as
an independent in 1992, winning 19 percent of the vote. Gronbeck
said Cain has what most executives-turned-politicians lack: the
ability to inspire.  “Now it’s Cain’s turn,” Redlawsk said. “Even if he was a
businessman, he’s now a politician. And Americans have a love-
hate relationship with them. They want them to be better than
they are, but they also don’t want them to be politicians.”  For his part, Cain says politics won’t change him: He’ll
change politics.  “The political establishment doesn’t get it and I’m fine
with that,” Cain wrote in his memoir. “But you can be sure
they’ll get it in January 2013 when I’m taking the oath of
office as president!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  