-- 
Erste Is First Foreign Lender to ‘Ring-Fence’ Hungarian Unit

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-10-10T17:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/erste-becomes-first-foreign-bank-to-ring-fence-hungarian-unit.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern
 Europe ’s second-biggest lender, became the first foreign bank to
recapitalize its Hungarian unit that the government in Budapest
forced to swallow losses on Swiss-franc loans.  Erste will inject 600 million euros ($814 million) into the
subsidiary, the Vienna-based lender said in a statement today.
The bank, which expects a loss of about 500 million euros loss
this year in Hungary, is provisioning an additional 450 million
euros to cover credit losses caused by the mortgage plan and
worsening economic prospects. Raiffeisen International Bank AG
expects to provision 100 million euros for its Hungarian unit.  “Additional significant provisioning” is needed due to
the “difficult” market environment in the country, Raiffeisen
said today, adding that it will publish details on Nov. 24.  Hungarian lawmakers last month approved a law that allows
the early repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at more than
20 percent below market rates. The government last year levied
an extraordinary bank tax to raise 120 billion forint ($553
million) a year to plug budget holes. Erste’s local unit was
among seven banks placed on review for a downgrade by Moody’s
Investors Service on Oct. 5.  ‘Depth of Damage’  “It shows the depth of the damage from the government’s
policies,” Mark Macrae, a Prague-based analyst at Wood & Co.,
said in a phone interview today. “Erste is trying to ring-fence
its exposure to Hungary.”  Erste’s announcement led OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest
lender, to fall as much as 3.3 percent in Budapest trading. OTP
closed up 3.4 percent at 3,261 forint. Erste fell 11 percent,
the most since May 13, 2009, to close at 18.4 euros. Raiffeisen
dropped 5 percent to 21.15 euros in Vienna.  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks,
including Erste, Raiffeisen,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Bayerische
Landesbank, KBC Groep NV, and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   Erste signaled it may cut back on lending to reduce its
risk in the country, vowing to stand by its Hungarian unit. The
Austrian lender will focus on forint lending funded with locally
sourced liquidity, the bank said today.  “This could lead to market share losses in the short term,
but over time reduce the requirement for parent company funding
and thus minimize Erste Group’s exposure to political event
risk,” the lender said. Erste will also write down 312 million
euros this year in goodwill from a 2003 acquisition in Hungary.  ‘Aggressive Policy’  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s “quite aggressive policy”
on the banking industry may make it “less likely that parent
banks will put more capital and funding into the Hungarian
banking system,”  Fitch Ratings  said on Sept. 28.  Hungary, where two-thirds of  mortgage loans  are denominated
in Swiss francs, is struggling to help borrowers after the
Alpine confederation’s currency rose to a record, boosting
defaults and pushing up monthly payments.  The country’s lawmakers last month approved a law that
allows the early repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at 180
forint per Swiss franc and 250 forint per euro. The forint
traded at 237.3 per Swiss franc and 293.75 per euro today.  Erste said that 200 million euros of its additional
provisions are earmarked to cover losses from this plan.  ‘Worrying Precedent’  The European Union has said the mortgage plan may violate
its rules, while  Hungary ’s central bank warned that local
lenders will suffer “significant” losses, causing damage to
lending and growth prospects. Local banks have vowed to take
their case to the  Constitutional Court .  The mortgage plan sets “a worrying precedent” and is
“credit negative” for Hungarian covered bonds, Moody’s said
on Sept. 27. A day later, Fitch said the plan is a “dangerous 
precedent” and may hurt lending.  The move may impact banks’ profitability and capital,
Moody’s said on Oct. 5. The rating company placed Erste’s
Hungarian unit of review for a downgrade along with OTP and its
mortgage arm, Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt. and the local
units of KBC, General Electric Co., and  Bayerische Landesbank .  Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s  will send teams to Hungary
this month to review the country’s credit grade, which is at the
lowest investment level with negative outlooks at both
companies, Debt Management Agency Chief Executive Officer Gyula Pleschinger said on Sept. 30.  Banks in Hungary are now “stretched to their limits,”
Orban said on Oct. 3, the day when he said he would start talks
with local lenders to restructure the 180 billion forint in
county debt, which the government assumed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  