-- 
Erste Slumps as Hungary, Romania Trigger $1.1 Billion Loss

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-10-10T17:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/erste-to-keep-state-capital-as-writedowns-cause-net-loss.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern
 Europe ’s second-biggest lender, plummeted in Vienna trading
after saying that it expects to post a full-year loss of as much
as 800 million euros ($1.1 billion).  Writedowns and provisions, including bad debt charges of
450 million euros in  Hungary , totaled 1.6 billion euros, the
Vienna-based bank said in a statement today. Erste won’t pay a
dividend for 2011 and shelved for at least a year a plan to
repay 1.2 billion euros of aid from the Austrian government.  Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said Erste doesn’t
need further state aid as European Union leaders devise a plan
to recapitalize the region’s banks amid growing concern Greece
is headed to a default. The writedowns mean  Austria ’s biggest
lender will post its first full-year loss since at least 1988
and compares with analysts’ expectation for net income of 980
million euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The set of measures seem to be a broad-based cleanup,
part of which should have been done much earlier,” Gabor Kemeny, an analyst at Concorde Securities, said in a note to
investors. “Erste would be a candidate for recapitalization, if
EU leaders decided to shore up banks’ capital.”  Erste fell 9.2 percent to 18.80 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in Vienna, making it the second worst performer
on the 46-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index, which rose 2.3 percent. Austrian rival  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  fell 4.7 percent.  Capital Position  Including state capital, Erste’s core tier 1 capital ratio,
a measure of financial strength, will be 9.2 percent at the end
of December, down from 9.5 percent at the end of June, the bank
said. The lender will be “able to” again report quarterly
earnings of 250 million euros from next year, Treichl said.  Erste, which relies on the former communist part of Europe
for more than half of its earnings, made the writedowns because
of “unprecedented government intervention” in Hungary and a
slower than expected recovery in Romania, the bank said.  “This isn’t a time for question marks, especially not for
question marks over banks’ balance sheets,” Treichl told
reporters in Vienna, adding that he hasn’t offered to resign.
“We’re investing a year’s worth of profit into extraordinary
measures.”  Hungary Writedowns  Erste, which trails only  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in eastern Europe,
last posted a quarterly loss in the three months following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Earnings came under
pressure as Hungary’s government forces lenders to take losses
on Swiss-franc denominated mortgages after imposing a tax on
banks last year.  Erste is writing off its remaining 312 million euros of
goodwill in Hungary and will also inject 600 million euros of
fresh capital into its business, the country’s fourth-biggest
bank.  “Continued and increasing government intervention in the
Hungarian banking market has led Erste Group’s management board
to reassess the medium-term prospects of Hungary,” it said in
the statement. The bank said it will “focus on lending in local
currency funded from locally sourced liquidity” in the future,
adding that it’s prepared to lose market share.  State Aid  Erste was the first bank in Austria to get the non-voting
participation capital from the state in 2009, along with 540
million euros from private investors. CEO Treichl said on July
29 he had achieved consensus with the  Finance Ministry  on
repaying the state’s portion and was waiting for approval from
the financial regulator and the central bank, which he expected
as soon as this quarter. Twelve out of 15 analysts polled by
Bloomberg News last week expected it to keep the aid this year.  Erste said today it will postpone repayment because of
“resurfacing uncertainties about the global economic outlook
and the lack of any resolution of global sovereign debt
issues.”  The lender, which paid shareholders 70 cents a share for
2010, won’t pay a dividend for 2011, it said. Treichl said this
wouldn’t be a problem for the private foundation that is Erste’s
biggest shareholder and relies on the dividends to service
debts.  Erste, which paid six times book value in 2006 to buy
 Romania ’s biggest lender, will write down goodwill related to
that deal by 627 million euros after tax this year. That leaves
1.1 billion euros of goodwill on its books, the bank said.  Romania Slowdown  The writedown is due to “a slower than expected economic
recovery and the corresponding weaker performance of the
Romanian banking market,” Erste said. It will also inject 100
million euros of capital into Banca Comerciala Romana SA.  The bank agreed last month with four Romanian investment
funds to buy their 24.1 percent stake in BCR for 435 million
euros in cash and shares. That plan remains intact, Erste said.  Erste is also reclassifying 5.2 billion euros of credit
default swaps it has written to guarantee government and bank
bonds. That means restating past results, with a cumulative loss
of 149 million euros until 2009, an after-tax loss of 132
million euros last year and a loss of 180 million euros in the
first nine months of 2011.  It plans to sell the CDS assets “in an accelerated
manner,” the bank said. Erste’s exposure to  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal  stood at about 600 million euros at the end of
September, mostly carried at market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  