-- 
Erste Chief Says Biggest Shareholder Doesn’t Need Dividend

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-10-10T11:42:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/erste-ceo-treichl-says-erste-foundation-doesn-t-need-dividend-.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  Chief Executive
Officer Andreas Treichl said foregoing a dividend payment this
year won’t put its biggest shareholder in jeopardy.  “From a liquidity standpoint we have planned ahead,”
Treichl, who also heads the Erste Stiftung foundation, told
reporters in Vienna today. “The foundation doesn’t need this
dividend.”  Erste Stiftung, which owns 25.3 percent of the Vienna-based
lender, was created in 1993. Its main revenue source is dividend
payments from Erste Bank, which today announced that it won’t
make a payout for 2011. The foundation had debts of about 1.39
billion euros ($1.9 billion) at the end of September 2010,
according to a bond  prospectus  published earlier this year.  Erste Stiftung can survive for two years without dividend
payments, Treichl said, adding that it would require a payout
again in 2014 for the 2013 business year.  Erste Stiftung has about 50 million euros in interest
payments every year, Erste Bank spokesman Michael Mauritz said
in February. The foundation took out a 700 million-euro loan in
2006 to participate in Erste Bank’s share sale at the time. The
organization didn’t participate in the lender’s November 2009
capital increase and sold its subscription rights to Criteria
CaixaCorp of  Spain , with which it entered an agreement on Erste
Bank in June 2009.  Among Erste Stiftung’s aims is “to secure Erste Group
Bank’s independent future as its principal shareholder,” it
said in the prospectus. The charitable foundation funds social
and art projects in  Austria  and eastern  Europe .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  