-- 
Leterme Urges EU Bank Plan Before Talks on Deeper Writedowns of Greek Debt

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-10-10T17:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/leterme-urges-eu-bank-plan-before-talks-on-deeper-writedowns-of-greek-debt.html
European leaders need a strategy for
shoring up banks before plunging into the “sensitive” question
of deeper-than-planned writedowns on Greek debt, Belgian Prime
Minister  Yves Leterme  said.  Leterme said an Oct. 23 crisis summit should focus on
boosting the 440 billion-euro ($602 billion) rescue fund instead
of reopening a July accord to cut Greek bond values by an
average of 21 percent.  “It is a very sensitive item,” Leterme said in a
Bloomberg Television interview at his Brussels residence today.
“You can’t at every European Council change the percentages and
bring supplementary problems to banks.”  Germany ,  Europe ’s dominant economy, is pushing for a bigger
reduction in  Greece ’s debt burden to forge a lasting solution to
the debt crisis that has roiled markets and shaken confidence in
the euro.  The search for a comprehensive fix led European leaders
today to push back the crisis summit by five days.  “It’s very essential that there is a strong signal in
terms of the volume of money in the stability fund and also the
monitoring of the economic performance of the member states of
the  euro zone ,” Leterme said.  A planned upgrade of the fund, known as the European
Financial Stability Facility, faces its sternest test tomorrow
with a vote in Slovakia’s parliament. One party in the governing
coalition is holding out against approval.  Euro Governments  Non-ratification in Slovakia should lead the remaining 16
euro governments “to take over the burden and we’ll have to
defend the euro,” Leterme said.  Leterme said Belgium isn’t heading for a credit downgrade
in the wake of today’s decision to buy the domestic consumer-
lending unit of  Dexia SA (DEXB)  for 4 billion euros and guarantee 60
percent of a “bad bank” to be set up for Dexia’s troubled
assets.  “I personally think the risk is not so high,” Leterme
said. He said the operation will add only about 1 percentage
point of gross domestic product to  Belgium ’s debt ratio.  The nation’s Aa1 local- and foreign-currency ratings were
placed under review for a downgrade on Oct. 7 by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited rising funding risks for euro-
area nations with high levels of debt and additional bank
support measures that are likely to be needed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  