-- 
Asmussen Gets EU Parliament Committee Approval for ECB Job

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-10-10T16:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/eu-parliament-committee-recommends-asmussen-appointment-to-ecb.html
German Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen  won the support of the European Parliament’s Economic
and Monetary Affairs Committee to succeed Juergen Stark at the
 European Central Bank .  The committee recommended Asmussen’s nomination to the
Executive Board of the Frankfurt-based central bank, Chair
 Sharon Bowles  told reporters after a meeting in Brussels today.  Stark resigned last month after signaling his opposition to
the ECB’s ramped-up program of buying sovereign bonds in a bid
to tame the debt crisis. Asmussen, a trained economist, has been
a key negotiator at the heart of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s economic policy since she came to power in 2006.  “I think I’m well equipped to deal with the challenges”
the ECB faces, Asmussen told lawmakers. “Some of you might say
I’m not a central banker. This is obviously correct, but
throughout my whole career I’ve been in touch with the central
bank world. I think a divergent background can be value added.”  The change of personnel on the  Executive Board  comes as
 Germany ,  France  and the ECB wrestle with  Greece ’s debt crisis
and euro countries work on measures to recapitalize European
banks and a ramp-up of their crisis-fighting fund. Merkel and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  vowed yesterday to produce a
plan by the end of October.  ‘One Element’  Bank recapitalization should be “one element of a
comprehensive package” to overcome the region’s crisis,
Asmussen said. “This should be done in an EU 27 context to
avoid a stigma effect” and should be done for all
“systemically important” banks at the same time.  A crisis response should include bond purchases by the
European Financial Stability Facility on the primary and
secondary markets, Asmussen said. While “the enhanced EFSF
should make the most efficient use of its funds,” it should do
so “without access to central bank liquidity,” he said.  Asmussen also said the ECB has been the only actor in the
euro area to respond “quickly and decisively” to the crisis.
Sovereign-bond purchases “have not affected the independence of
the ECB,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  