-- 
Euro Declines From Three-Week High Versus Dollar Before Slovakia EFSF Vote

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-11T21:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/euro-trades-near-three-week-high-on-chinese-bank-buying-european-pledge.html
The euro remained stronger against
the majority of its most-traded counterparts as lawmakers in
 Slovakia , the only member of the euro area that hasn’t ratified
a retooled bailout fund, may pass it this week.  The 17-nation currency pared gains against the dollar as
Slovakia’s largest opposition party rejected the measure in a
first vote that toppled the government. Finance Minister Ivan Miklos said the revamped fund will likely be passed in a
separate vote later this week. The pound weakened as U.K.
manufacturing production contracted for a third month. New
Zealand’s dollar fell as the nation’s  budget deficit  was wider
than forecast.  “The foreign-exchange market is really just waiting on
Slovakia to decide one way or the other,” said  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst in  Washington  at Travelex Global Business
Payments, a currency-exchange network. “The euro’s downside is
being protected by the expectations that the leaders of  France 
and  Germany  have some sort of grand plan to bring the bloc’s
debt crisis closer to a solution, so that’s helping.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3640 at 5 p.m. in New
York after sliding 0.6 percent earlier today and climbing 2
percent yesterday in the biggest gain since July 2010. The
shared currency reached $1.3699 yesterday, the highest level
since Sept. 21. The euro unchanged at 104.58 yen. The dollar was
unchanged at 76.65 yen.  Smer, the largest opposition party, which didn’t back the
legislation today, will support the changes in a second vote,
ensuring it will pass, party leader  Robert Fico  told reporters
in the capital Bratislava. No date has been set for a new vote.  Kenyan Inflation  Kenya ’s shilling led declines against the dollar among all
of the currencies tracked by Bloomberg, falling 2.5 percent to
106.15 and extending its drop this year to 24 percent. It slid
earlier today to 106.75, the weakest on record.  Inflation in the African nation accelerated to 17.3 percent
last month, more than triple the government’s 5 percent target.
Kenya’s government announced plans today to help stabilize the
shilling by boosting domestic  food production  to curb imports.  Sterling fell for the first time in three days versus the
dollar, dropping 0.6 percent to $1.5577 after a report showed
Britain’s manufacturing dropped in August more than forecast.  Factory output decreased 0.3 percent from July, when it
slid a revised 0.2 percent, the  Office for National Statistics 
said. The median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a drop of 0.2 percent. Overall industrial output,
which includes mining and oil and gas, rose 0.2 percent.  Developing Market Currencies  The  New Zealand  dollar slid 0.5 percent to 77.98 U.S. cents
after government financial statements showed the budget deficit
widened to a record NZ$18.4 billion ($14 billion) in the year
through June, from a NZ$16.7 billion estimate in the May budget.  South Korea ’s won was the second-best performer against the
dollar among the most-traded currencies, after Norway’s krone,
rising as much as 0.9 percent to a two-week high of 1,160.80.  More than $300 billion of foreign-exchange reserves will
help the nation weather market volatility, the Dong-A Ilbo
newspaper reported, citing Benjamin Hung, chief executive
officer of Standard Chartered Plc’s Hong Kong unit.  The Norwegian krone strengthened 0.3 percent to 5.6942 to
the greenback.  The Dollar Index was little changed at 77.656 after
yesterday’s 1.4 percent decline, the biggest loss on a closing
basis since July 13. IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s gauge, used
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, is weighted 57.6 percent to the euro.  ‘Waiting Game’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed after
dropping 0.6 percent earlier today and rallying 3.4 percent
yesterday. The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities
advanced for a fifth day, rising 0.9 percent.  “The euro is in a waiting game for Slovakia,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in  New York . “Stocks are holding on to
their gains from yesterday after the German-French promise to
deliver this comprehensive plan gave the market the impression
that European policy makers are finally getting it.”  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
indicated today that  Greece  will get an 8 billion-euro ($11
billion) loan next month under a 110 billion-euro bailout.  Two days ago, Germany’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and
France’s President Nicolas Sarkozy set the Nov. 3 meeting of the
Group of 20 as a deadline for a breakthrough in handling
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  “The agreement between Merkel and Sarkozy over the weekend
caused a short-term relief rally in the euro, and we’re treading
water now,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist
in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s
largest custodial bank, with more than $26 trillion in assets
under administration. “It’s still doubtful that the euro can
maintain its recent gains.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  