-- 
Global Stocks, Euro Strengthen on Bank Debt Pledge; Commodities Post Gains

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-10T20:08:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/euro-strengthens-u-s-index-futures-climb-as-european-leaders-pledge-plan.html
Stocks rose, giving the Standard &
Poor’s Index its biggest gain since Aug. 23, and the euro surged
the most since July 2010 versus the dollar after the leaders of
France and  Germany  pledged to deliver a plan to stem the debt
crisis. Commodities advanced for a fourth day.  The S&P 500 jumped 3.4 percent and the Dow Jones Industrial
Average added 330.06 points to 11,433.18 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1.7 percent to cap a
four-day rally of 8.5 percent, its largest over that stretch of
time since November 2008. The 17-nation euro currency
appreciated 2 percent versus the dollar as it strengthened
against 10 of 16 major peers. The S&P GSCI gauge of raw
materials increased 2.1 percent. Costs to protect against a
European sovereign default decreased.  The S&P 500 has rebounded 8.7 percent since Oct. 3, the
most over the same amount of time since March 2009, on optimism
European leaders will succeed in taming the debt crisis and as
U.S. economic data beat estimates. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said yesterday they
will deliver a plan to recapitalize European banks and address
the Greek debt crisis by Nov. 3. Reports this week may show U.S.
retail sales increased in September at the fastest pace in six
months, adding to evidence that growth is rebounding.  “It’s a risk-on day,”  Stephen Wood , who helps oversee
about $163 billion as the New York-based chief market strategist
for Russell Investments, said in a telephone interview. “Is it
a relief rally? Yes, in some ways,” he said. “While a Greece
default is not something that can really be addressed or
avoided, the consequences on the banking system can be
avoided.”  Financials, Energy  The  S&P 500  added to last week’s 2.1 percent advance and
climbed above its highest closing level since Sept. 20. Gauges
of financial, commodity and energy companies rose more than 4
percent for the biggest gains among 10 industries.  Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. rallied more than
6 percent to lead gains in all 24 stocks in the KBW Bank Index.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. and ConocoPhillips climbed
more than 4 percent as commodities rallied.  The  Federal Reserve  will release the minutes of its latest
interest-rate setting meeting tomorrow. Data this week may show
U.S. retail sales increased in September at the fastest pace in
six months, helping to ease concern the recovery is faltering.
The 0.7 percent rise in September retail sales anticipated by
economists in a Bloomberg survey follows better-than-expected
jobs figures reported last week, a rebound in construction
spending in August and an acceleration in manufacturing in
September.  Earnings Season  Earnings per share for the S&P 500, excluding financial
companies, are forecast to have increased 14 percent in the
third quarter, the smallest gain since the end of 2009,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Alcoa Inc., the
biggest U.S. aluminum producer, will report earnings tomorrow
after U.S. markets close, the first member of the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to release third-quarter results.  It’s time to “extend risk,”  Jonathan Golub , chief U.S.
market strategist at UBS AG, wrote in a note to clients today.
“As macro concerns subside, we believe that the stocks which
have experienced the greatest price declines are likely to snap
back the quickest.”  Golub said industrial, raw material and energy shares are
the most attractively valued. As the S&P 500 retreated from a
three-year high at the end of April, those industries slid more
than 21 percent through Oct. 7. The benchmark gauge slumped 15
percent during the same period.  ‘Everything Necessary’  The euro traded at $1.3649 after Merkel said European
leaders will do “everything necessary” to ensure that banks
have enough capital. The shared currency weakened on Oct. 7
after  Fitch Ratings  lowered  Spain ’s foreign and local debt to
AA- from AA+ and cut Italy’s to A+ from AA-, citing an
“intensification” of the region’s crisis.  Automobile and chemical companies led gains in the Stoxx
600. Energy producers rose after HSBC Holdings Plc upgraded
Premier Oil Plc, with BP Plc climbing 2.9 percent to contribute
the most to the gauge’s advance. Erste Group Bank AG tumbled 9.2
percent after saying it will post a full-year loss of as much as
800 million euros because of writedowns at its Hungarian and
Romanian units. Ferrovial SA jumped 6.5 percent after agreeing
to reduce its indirect holding in BAA Ltd., which owns  London ’s
Heathrow airport.  Dexia Breakup  Belgium  said today it will buy part of Dexia SA and provide
security for depositors as part of a plan to rescue the lender.
Dexia lost 4.7 percent after sliding as much as 36 percent.  Belgium’s purchase of the local consumer-lending unit of
Dexia will end a 15-year cross-border experiment with  France 
after the European debt crisis deepened. The Belgian federal
government will pay 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion) for the
division and guarantee 60 percent of a so-called bad bank to be
set up for Dexia’s troubled assets, Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said at a press conference today.  Credit-default swaps on Belgium rose four basis points to
287, while the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps
linked to 15 governments was 8.2 basis points lower at 323.
Contracts on France were down five points at 172 and Germany’s
decreased three points to 95, according to CMA. Decreases signal
improving perceptions of  credit quality .  Greek, Belgian Bonds  The yield on the Greek 10-year bond advanced 38 basis
points, driving the premium investors demand to hold the
securities instead of benchmark German bunds 30 basis points
higher to 21.83 percentage points. Belgian 10-year bond yields
rose nine basis points, with similar-maturity French yields 11
points higher. Portuguese and Italian 10-year debt also
declined. U.S. Treasuries aren’t trading today because of the
Columbus Day holiday.  The Swiss franc gained against all 16 of its most-traded
peers, rising 2.6 percent versus the dollar. The dollar weakened
against all 16 major counterparts and the Dollar Index, which
tracks the currency against six major peers, fell 1.5 percent to
77.55 for its biggest drop since July 1, 2010.  Australia ’s
dollar climbed 2.2 percent against its U.S. peer, rising for the
fifth straight day.  Oil advanced for a fourth day, gaining 2.9 percent to
$85.41 a barrel in  New York . Silver jumped 3.2 percent to $31.98
an ounce. Gold for December delivery added 2.1 percent to
$1,670.80 an ounce.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.6 percent for a
fourth consecutive advance, its longest winning streak since
Sept. 1. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
jumped 2 percent. The WIG20 Index gained 3.4 percent after Prime
Minister Donald Tusk won yesterday’s Polish general election.
The EGX30 Index slid 2.3 percent in  Egypt  after Coptic Christian
protesters clashed with security forces in Cairo yesterday.  China ’s yuan advanced 0.6 percent to 6.3486 per dollar in
 Shanghai , the most since the currency’s July 2005 revaluation,
on speculation policy makers will tolerate gains after the U.S.
said the Asian nation undervalues its currency. It was the
strongest closing level since the country unified the official
and market exchange rates at the end of 1993, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  