-- 
Euro Rises Most Versus Dollar in Year as Merkel, Sarkozy Plan Bank Support

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-10-10T21:06:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/euro-advances-as-merkel-sarkozy-set-deadline-for-bank-capital-measures.html
The euro rose the most in more than
a year against the dollar after French and German leaders
pledged to deliver a plan to support banks and repeated a
commitment to keep  Greece  in the single-currency bloc.  The dollar dropped against all of its major counterparts as
global stocks advanced, sapping demand for the greenback as a
haven. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said in Berlin yesterday they have given
themselves three weeks to devise a plan to recapitalize banks
and find a “durable” solution for Greece’s debt load.
Currencies of commodity-exporting countries rallied as raw
materials gained.  “There’s a sense now that we’re marching toward some
attempt at a broader plan to support the euro area,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York. “We’re drawing to a point where
they will come up with a plan and the market is willing to give
them the benefit of the doubt until we see the plan.”  The euro advanced 2 percent at $1.3642 as of 5 p.m. in  New
York , and gained as much as 2.4 percent, the most since July
2010. It traded as high as $1.3699, the strongest level since
Sept. 21. The 17-nation currency rose 1.9 percent to 104.59 yen,
with the Japanese  currency trading  little changed at 76.68 per
dollar.  Futures Positions  The 17-nation euro remained higher as the  European Central
Bank  is opposed  Germany ’s push to rewrite the euro area’s 12
week-old-rescue plan as leaders prepare the ground for a
potential Greek default, a central bank official said.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased their net
short euro positions to 82,697 contracts in the week ended Oct.
4, the most since June 2010. A short is a bet the price of an
asset will fall.  A Labor Department report showed Oct. 7 that employment in
the U.S. rose more than forecast last month. U.S. payrolls
climbed by 103,000 workers, after a revised 57,000 increase the
prior month that was more than originally estimated, data
showed.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners including the euro and the yen, declined 1.5
percent to 77.557.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  index of equities rallied 2.7 percent and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 3.4 percent.  European leaders will deliver a plan by the Group of 20
summit meeting on Nov. 3, Sarkozy said. They will do
“everything necessary” to ensure banks have enough capital,
Merkel said.  Euro Plan  “The markets are reacting to the pledge for further
action,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “Market positioning with regard
to the euro is so short. When you take the market positioning,
the payrolls on Friday, plus this pledge, that’s helping to see
some buying back up of euro.”  The shared currency also advanced as  Belgium  agreed to buy
the local consumer-lending unit of Dexia SA, ending a 15-year
cross-border experiment with France after the European debt
crisis deepened. Belgium will pay 4 billion euros ($5.5 billion)
for the division and guarantee 60 percent of a so-called bad
bank to be set up for Dexia’s troubled assets, Finance Minister
Didier Reynders said at a press conference today in Brussels.  The euro stayed higher even as a report showed European
investor confidence fell to the lowest in more than two years.
An index measuring sentiment in the euro region declined to
minus 18.5 in October from minus 15.4 in September, the Limburg,
Germany-based Sentix research institute said in an e-mailed
statement today. That’s the lowest since July 2009.  Pound Falls  Sterling weakened 1.3 percent to 87.07 pence per euro and
was 0.7 percent stronger at $1.5668. An index of consumer
sentiment about hiring prospects in the U.K. fell 1 point to
minus 67 from August, taking its decline over the third quarter
to 17 points, a unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in an e-
mailed statement in  London  today. A measure of  job security  was
unchanged at minus 21.  The Swiss franc strengthened against the euro by the most
since Sept. 5, the day before the  Swiss National Bank  imposed a
ceiling of 1.20 versus the common currency and resumed purchases
of foreign currencies to curb the franc’s advance. The franc
rose 0.6 percent to 1.2329 per euro and was the best performer
among the major currencies.  The SNB may raise its ceiling for the franc to 1.30 per
euro from 1.20 per euro, according to the private-banking unit
of JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Setting Ceiling  “We remain of the view that a further upward adjustment in
the ceiling is both justified and likely,” Audrey Childe- Freeman, global head of currency strategy at JPMorgan Private
Bank in London, said in an e-mailed research note today.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
advanced 1.7 percent, boosting support for currencies of
countries that export commodities.  Australia ’s dollar advanced beyond parity with the
greenback to the highest level since Sept. 22, rising to as much
as $1.0015. Canada’s dollar strengthened 1.3 percent to C$1.0258
per  U.S. dollar .  The Polish zloty strengthened 3.5 percent to 3.1574 per
dollar after Prime Minister Donald Tusk won yesterday’s general
election. Russia’s ruble climbed for a fourth day, adding 2.4
percent to 31.5611 per dollar.  The Chinese currency climbed against the dollar amid
speculation policy makers will tolerate gains after the U.S.
said the Asian nation undervalues its currency.  The yuan appreciated 0.6 percent to 6.3486 per dollar in
 Shanghai , the strongest closing level since the country unified
the official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. That was
the biggest daily increase since China loosened the yuan’s peg
to the dollar on July 21, 2005. China’s financial markets were
closed for National Day holidays last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  