-- 
Euro Chiefs Push Back Debt Crisis Summit Amid Tension Over Greek Writedown

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-10-10T14:21:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/euro-chiefs-put-back-crisis-summit-amid-greek-writedown-tension.html
European leaders pushed back a debt-
crisis summit amid tensions between  Germany , France and the
 European Central Bank  over possible deeper-than-planned
writedowns of Greek bonds.  The planned Oct. 18 meeting was postponed to Oct. 23 as
Europe gropes toward dealing with Greece’s oversized debt,
insulating the Spanish and Italian markets, and shielding banks
from the fallout.  “Further elements are needed to address the situation in
Greece, the bank recapitalization and the enhanced efficiency of
stabilization tools,” European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in an e-mailed statement in Brussels today. “This
timing will allow to finalize our comprehensive strategy.”  Germany and France yesterday set an end-of-month deadline
for a breakthrough in handling the crisis, which has pushed
Greece to the brink of default, roiled global markets and
spurred speculation that the 17-nation euro region might not
survive in its current form.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  put recapitalization of Europe’s banks at the
top of the priority list in a joint declaration in Berlin
yesterday. Sarkozy said they would deliver a plan by the Nov. 3
Group of 20 meeting.  Crisis Management  Finance ministers will hold an unscheduled meeting in the
run-up to the euro summit, slated for a Sunday when the U.S. and
European markets are closed. Europe has traditionally chosen
weekends for market-sensitive crisis management, as when the
euro area created the 440 billion-euro ($600 billion) rescue
fund in May 2010.  Merkel and Sarkozy each called for a “lasting” solution
to the 19-month crisis, echoing language the EU used in March
when it unwrapped what it called a “comprehensive” package to
restore economic order.  The new approach may scuttle a July 21 deal -- termed the
“final package” by Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  at the time -- that foresees a 21 percent “voluntary”
write-off of Greek bond values.  “It is looking as if the July 21 agreement just isn’t
sufficient and that’s been increasingly recognized in Greece and
the rest of Europe,” Julian Callow, chief European economist at
Barclays Capital in  London , said today on Bloomberg Television’s
On the Move with Francine Lacqua.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  