-- 
Teva, Baxter, McKesson to Pay $162 Million Punitive Damages Over Propofol

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L i z   B e n s t o n
-- 
2011-10-11T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/teva-baxter-ordered-to-pay-14-million-over-anesthetic-drug-1-.html
A jury said  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  unit and two other drugmakers must pay
$162.5 million in punitive damages for selling the anesthetic
Propofol in a way that led three colonoscopy patients to develop
Hepatitis C.  Jurors in state court Las Vegas ordered Teva Parenteral
Medicines Inc., Baxter Healthcare Corp. and McKesson Corp. to
pay so-called punishment damages over sales of the anesthetic in
vials large enough to be reused by doctors. Anne Arnold, Richard
Sacks and Anthony Devito contend they contracted Hepatitis C
from reused vials during colonoscopy procedures. They had sought
more than $700 million in damages.  It’s the second punitive award against Baxter and the unit
of Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva over a 2008 hepatitis
outbreak in  Nevada  tied to Propofol. The first case resulted in
a punitive  verdict  of more than $500 million against the
drugmakers. Teva has agreed to cover all damage awards arising
from the Nevada cases on behalf of Baxter and McKesson.  “It only took two atomic bombs to force the Japanese to
surrender,” Will Kemp, one of the lawyers for the colonoscopy
patients, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We’re
hoping Teva will start thinking about settling these cases after
being hit with two punitive-damage verdicts of this size.”  Denise Bradley, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Teva, said
they plan to appeal the punitive award to the colonoscopy
patients and the jury’s earlier award of $20.1 million in
compensatory damages. The combined verdicts make the case the
10th largest jury award in the U.S. this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Full Defense’  “We believe that if we had been able to present our full
defense, this verdict and the following decision would have had
a different outcome,” Bradley said in an e-mailed statement.
“We believe that the allegations against Teva are without
merit.”  Deborah Spak , a Baxter spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return calls and e-mails seeking comment on the award.  “McKesson believes that the claims against it lack merit
and that the verdicts against it will be reversed,” Megan
Hawkins, a McKesson spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  A separate jury in the same courthouse yesterday also held
Teva and Baxter liable for another colonoscopy patient’s
hepatitis diagnosis and awarded he and his wife $14 million in
compensatory damages. Jurors in that case will decide later this
week how much the companies should pay in punitive damages.  Jurors in Arnold’s, Sacks’s and Devito’s case deliberated
more than six hours over two days before ruling yesterday that
Teva should pay $89.4 million in punitive damages and Baxter
should pay $55.2 million. The panel found McKesson’s share
should be $17.9 million.  Indemnity Agreement  Teva makes Propofol and San Francisco-based  McKesson Corp. (MCK) 
serves as its current U.S. distributor. Baxter, based in
Deerfield,  Illinois , sold the drug for Teva until 2009,
according to court filings.  Teva signed an indemnity agreement accepting financial
responsibility for all the Nevada Propofol cases. A judge in
Delaware ruled last month that the agreement was “valid and
enforceable.”  The drug is an intravenous agent used for sedation or
anesthesia, according to Teva’s  website . The patients’ lawyers
allege Teva intentionally sold Propofol in jumbo-sized vials to
encourage doctors to reuse them, even with the risk of spreading
blood-borne diseases such as hepatitis, an incurable liver
disease.  Jackson Case Drug  Propofol is the same medication at issue in the involuntary
manslaughter  trial  in  Los Angeles  of  Conrad Murray , who was pop
star  Michael Jackson ’s doctor. The physician is accused of
giving the singer injections of Propofol and other sedatives
that led to his 2009 death.  After awarding Arnold, Sacks and Devito compensatory
damages last week, jurors were asked to consider whether Teva,
Baxter and McKesson should be punished over their sales of
Propofol in reusable-sized vials.  Lawyers for the colonoscopy patients told jurors at a
hearing last week that Teva had total net sales of $9.7 billion
last year while Baxter had $6.1 billion in net sales and
McKesson had $1.9 billion.  Robert Eglet, one of the lawyers for the colonoscopy
patients, urged jurors not to let the companies off with a
“bargain-basement fine” and to “send a message” to
drugmakers that they shouldn’t put profit over  patient safety .  ‘Hear This Verdict’  “They’ve got to be able to hear this verdict in  Israel  or
this will never stop,” Eglet said referring to Teva’s
headquarters.  Eglet and Will Kemp, another of the colonoscopy patients’
lawyers, asked jurors to award more than $735 million in
punitive damages over the Propofol sales to Nevada endoscopy
clinics.  Mark Tully, one of Teva’s lawyers, told jurors the
drugmakers already understand that the panel was unhappy with
sales of Propofol vials that can be reused for multiple patients
because of the compensatory damages they awarded earlier.  That verdict “sent a message,” Tully said. “It’s a big
verdict already.”  In the first Propofol case to go to trial in  Las Vegas ,
jurors awarded  Henry Chanin , a private-school principal, and his
wife $5.1 million in compensatory damages and $500 million in
punitive damages against Teva and Baxter. Chanin argued he
developed Hepatitis C after getting tainted Propofol during a
colonoscopy.  300 Lawsuits  Jurors ordered Teva to pay $356 million of the punitive
damages award while assessing $144 million of the award to
Baxter. Teva officials have asked the  Nevada Supreme Court  to
throw out Chanin’s verdict.  Teva faces almost 300 lawsuits stemming from a hepatitis C
 outbreak  three years ago in southern Nevada, the company said in
a regulatory filing last month. Probes by Nevada health
officials and regulators from the federal  Centers for Disease
Control  and Prevention blamed the reuse of Propofol vials for
infecting patients with hepatitis.  Last year, a state grand jury indicted  Dr. Dipak Desai , who
ran the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada at the time of the
outbreak, on criminal charges. Many of the hepatitis-related
cases were linked to that colonoscopy clinic. Desai also faces
federal charges over the outbreak.  Shoddy Practices  Lawyers for Arnold, Sacks and Devito argued that Teva
stopped making smaller Propofol vials because the larger
containers were more profitable. The drugmaker marketed the 50-
milliliter vials knowing doctors and staff would reuse them to
save money, the attorneys added.  Attorneys for Teva and the Propofol distributors countered
that improperly sanitized medical equipment, not reused Propofol
containers, caused some Nevada colonoscopy patients to develop
hepatitis and that the drugmakers shouldn’t be held responsible
for colonoscopy clinics’ shoddy medical practices.  “Teva should not be held liable for the blatant disregard
for patient safety by the medical professionals at their
facility,” Bradley said in yesterday’s statement. “While the
mistreatment of patients is unacceptable, it was not Teva’s
fault.”  The case is Sacks v. Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada
LLC, 08A572315, District Court for  Clark County , Nevada (Las
Vegas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Benston in Las Vegas at  lbenston@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  