-- Teva Is Said to Pay $250 Million to End Nevada Colonoscopy Hepatitis Cases
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-02-21T18:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/teva-baxter-mckesson-to-pay-punitive-damages-over-propofol.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
will pay more than $250 million to settle more than 80 lawsuits
alleging the drugmaker sold the anesthetic Propofol in a way
that led colonoscopy patients to develop hepatitis C, people
familiar with the accords said.  Teva, the world’s biggest maker of generic medicines,
confirmed the settlement today without specifying how much it
will pay. The company agreed last week to resolve claims by Las
Vegas residents that it intentionally sold Propofol in vials
large enough to be reused by doctors, the people said. They
spoke on the condition they not be named because they aren’t
authorized to speak publicly about the agreements.  The deal also resolves a May 2010 case over Teva’s sales of
the anesthetic that spawned a  jury award  of more than $500
million against the Israeli drugmaker, according to the people
familiar with the settlements and a filing with the Nevada
Supreme Court. Henry Chanin, a private-school principal from  Las
Vegas , alleged he developed hepatitis C after getting tainted
Propofol during a colonoscopy.  “The parties notify the court that they have agreed to a
settlement in this matter,” Chanin’s lawyers told the Nevada
Supreme Court in a Feb. 17 filing. Teva had asked the state’s
highest court to overturn Chanin’s verdict.  Denise Bradley, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Petach Tikva,
Israel-based Teva, confirmed that the company had settled the
Nevada Propofol cases.  “Teva is pleased to have put the vast majority of these
matters behind us,” Bradley said in an e-mail. Fifteen Propofol
cases remain active on court dockets in Las Vegas, she said.  $285 Million Reserved  Teva has settled about 120 Propofol lawsuits and reserved
$270 million for the litigation, the drugmaker told the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in a Feb. 17  filing . Teva
will set aside an additional $15 million in the first quarter
for the cases, Bradley said in an interview.  Teva’s American depositary receipts, each representing one
ordinary share, rose 77 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $45.42 at 1:11
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. They earlier
climbed as much as 1.8 percent.  Teva said last week that fourth-quarter  profit  rose 23
percent as last year’s acquisition of  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  shifted the
company further away from its original identity as a generic-
drug maker.  Profits Rise  Earnings rose to $1.4 billion, or $1.59 a share, from $1.1
billion, or $1.25, a year earlier, the company said Feb. 15.
Teva bought Cephalon, based in the Philadelphia suburb of
Frazer,  Pennsylvania , for $6.5 billion last year in a bid to
broaden its portfolio of brand-name drugs.  Teva, which no longer makes Propofol, had San Francisco-
based  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  and  Baxter Healthcare Corp. (BAX) , based in
Deerfield,  Illinois , as U.S. distributors, according to court
filings. Teva signed an indemnity agreement accepting financial
responsibility for all the Nevada Propofol cases.  The drug is an intravenous agent used for sedation or
anesthesia, according to Teva’s  website . The patients’ lawyers
allege Teva intentionally sold Propofol in jumbo-sized vials to
encourage doctors to reuse them, even with the risk of spreading
blood-borne illnesses such as hepatitis, an incurable liver
disease.  Jackson Death  Propofol is the medication that was at issue in the
involuntary manslaughter  trial  in  Los Angeles  of  Conrad Murray ,
who was pop star  Michael Jackson ’s doctor. Murray was convicted
in November and sentenced to four years in jail for giving the
singer injections of Propofol and other sedatives that led to
his 2009 death.  Lawyers for Las Vegas colonoscopy patients argued during a
series of trials that Teva officials stopped selling Propofol in
single-use-sized vials because it was more profitable to sell it
in larger containers that encouraged reuse.  Probes by  Nevada  health officials and regulators from the
federal  Centers for Disease Control  and Prevention blamed the
2008 hepatitis C outbreak on the reuse of Propofol vials.  In 2010, a state grand jury indicted  Dr. Dipak Desai , who
ran the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada at the time of the
outbreak. Many of the hepatitis-related cases were linked to
that colonoscopy clinic. Desai also faces federal charges over
the outbreak.  Trial Ended  Teva faced a series of multimillion-dollar verdicts over
its Propofol sales in Nevada, including the award to Chanin and
more than $162 million awarded to fellow colonoscopy patients
Anne Arnold,  Richard Sacks  and Anthony Devito in October.  The settlement resolves all those verdicts and a Propofol
trial that was under way before Judge  Jerry Wiese  in Las Vegas,
the people familiar with the agreements said.  The case involved four colonoscopy patients who blamed
their hepatitis C on tainted Propofol from Teva vials. Wiese
dismissed the jury last week after learning about the
settlement, the people said. Teva officials said in the Feb. 17
SEC filing the drugmaker still faces about 50 claims in state
court in Nevada.  Teva officials noted in the filing that the company also
faces claims from 4,000 colonoscopy patients, whose cases have
been consolidated in federal court in Las Vegas. Those patients
haven’t been diagnosed with hepatitis C and are suing over fears
that they may contract the disease, the drugmaker’s executives
said.  The company also may face claims from an additional 1,700
colonoscopy patients whose claims have been stayed, Teva
officials added in the filing.  The Nevada  Supreme Court  case is Teva Parenteral Medicines
Inc. v. Chanin, 07085, Supreme Court of Nevada (Carson City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  