-- 
Former Cantor Executives Join China-Backed Investment Bank

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-10-10T08:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/ex-cantor-managing-directors-join-china-backed-investment-bank-reorient.html
Four former  Cantor Fitzgerald  LP
managing directors left the New York-based brokerage to become
senior managers at a boutique investment bank owned by a China-
backed, Hong Kong-listed venture.  Jason Boyer, Brett McGonegal, Bradford Ainslie and Uwe Parpart resigned in May and joined Reorient Financial Markets
Ltd., which is backed by  China Chengtong Holdings Group , one of
three asset managers under  China ’s State-owned Assets
Supervision and Administration Commission.  “It’s the marriage of a Chinese state-owned enterprise
with a government mandate combined with a Western distribution
platform,” McGonegal said in a telephone interview on Oct. 7,
adding that the company aims to become a global investment bank.  Reorient Financial is owned by a venture between China
Chengtong and  Asia TeleMedia Ltd. (376)  It will be offered priority in
advising on restructuring more than one hundred businesses
managed by China Chengtong, Asia TeleMedia said in a statement
to the Hong Kong stock exchange in May.  SASAC in August  said  the venture will “help advance the
reform of state-owned companies.” About 20 to 40 such companies
need to be restructured through mergers and acquisitions or
initial share sale, Boyer said.  Johnson Ko  Executive directors of the Hong Kong-listed company that
owns Reorient Financial include Johnson Ko, chairman of
Varitronix International Ltd. and Angelina Kwan, formerly Asia
Pacific chief operating officer for Cantor and a director at
Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission.  Zhang Binghua, general manager of CCT Asset Management and
Communist Party Committee Deputy Secretary, and Ko’s daughter
Samantha are also executive directors, according to an Aug. 9
Asia TeleMedia filing.  Boyer, McGonegal and Ainslie - formerly of Cantor’s Asian
cash equities desk - and Parpart, Cantor’s former Asia chief
economist and strategist, face legal action from the New York-
based firm’s Europe and  Hong Kong  units.  Cantor alleges the four breached their employment agreement
and fiduciary duty, according to a July 11 complaint filed in
Hong Kong.  The four defendants also “solicited” and “induced”
other Cantor employees to resign in order to start their
competing business, Cantor said in a court document filed
against Ainslie in a U.S. District Court in  Colorado .  Hong Kong Judge A.T. Reyes on Oct. 6 issued an order
halting the U.S. proceedings against Ainslie and McGonegal,
saying Cantor is “not entitled to litigate in two places.”  A trial date has been set for Jan. 18 in Hong Kong.  “We acted in a professional manner and we leave it to the
court to decide the outcome of the case,” Ainslie said in a
telephone interview.  Cantor spokesman Robert Hubbell declined to comment on the
legal proceedings and didn’t respond to an after-hours request
for comment on the new venture.  The case is Cantor Fitzgerald  Europe , Cantor Fitzgerald
(Hong Kong) Capital Markets Ltd. and Jason Boyer, Bradford
Ainslie, Brett McGonegal, Uwe Henke von Parpart, HCA1160/2011 in
Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  