-- 
Facebook Introduces Application for Apple IPad After Year-and-a-Half Wait

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-10-10T21:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/facebook-introduces-application-for-ipad-after-19-month-wait.html
Facebook Inc. unveiled a long-
awaited application for the iPad, offering a tailored version of
the world’s most popular social-networking service for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s best-selling tablet computer.  The iPad app will let users chat with friends and play
games on Facebook in full-screen mode, the company said today.
Users have been clamoring for an iPad-friendly version of
Facebook since the device went on sale in April 2010.  “Many of you have been asking about Facebook for iPad,”
Leon Dubinsky, a mobile engineer at  Palo Alto ,  California-based
Facebook , said in a blog posting. “Today, it’s finally here.
With the iPad app, you get the full Facebook experience, right
at your fingertips. It’s a fun, colorful way to keep up with
friends, share photos, chat and more.”  Facebook, which has more than 800 million users, is
stepping up efforts in mobile technology, aiming to take
advantage of the shift to smartphones and apps. The company is
introducing the iPad app as part of a push to encourage software
developers to work with its platform on a range of devices.  New tools that help users find Facebook-connected
applications will work with Apple’s iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch
-- both inside apps and Web browsers. With the features, users
can more easily switch to a mobile app, such as a game or
shopping service, while using a portable device. They simply
click on a link, which might be in the News Feed, to find the
software in the  App Store  or a mobile version that runs in the
browser.  Reaching Out  “We are extending Facebook Platform on mobile, bringing
all the social channels that have helped apps and games reach
hundreds of millions of users on the Web to mobile apps and
websites,” Luke Shepard, a Facebook software development
engineer, said in a separate blog posting. “You can now easily
reach the 350 million people who use Facebook every month on a
mobile device.”  The company is encouraging developers to create both iOS
and Web versions of their applications. Another new feature,
called authenticated referrals, ensures that all referral
traffic is coming from users connected to Facebook.  The company will add more mobile platforms in the future,
including one for  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android. Also, Facebook Credits,
the social network’s payment service, will be used for mobile
Web applications.  The iPad has maintained its dominance in the tablet market
even amid mounting competition from Android devices and other
products. Apple sold 28.7 million iPads as of the end of June,
generating $18.4 billion in sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 