-- 
Ferrovial Sells Stake in BAA Parent to Alinda, Cutting Balance-Sheet Debt

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-10T16:53:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/ferrovial-to-sell-baa-stake-to-alinda-cutting-holding-to-49-99-.html
Spanish construction group  Ferrovial
SA (FER) ’s sale of a 5.9 percent stake in BAA Ltd. will almost double
the valuation of the  London  Heathrow airport owner to $8 billion
and slash the builder’s own balance-sheet debt by $20 billion.  Ferrovial agreed to sell the stake in BAA’s FGP Topco Ltd.
holding company to two funds run by U.S. infrastructure operator
 Alinda Capital Partners  for 280 million pounds ($439 million),
the Madrid-based company said in a  statement  today.  While the deal values BAA at 4.76 billion pounds, less than
half the 10 billion-pound purchase price in 2006, that’s better
than the 2.5 billion-pound to 3 billion-pound consensus, Kepler
Capital Markets analyst Emilio Rotondo said. Ferrovial’s stake
also drops to a minority 49.99 percent, removing BAA from the
group’s balance sheet, which will now show debt of 5.19 billion
euros ($7 billion) compared with 19.75 billion euros previously.  “Considering the total amount to be received by Ferrovial
and that the implied valuation is well above expectations, we
believe this is good news,” Rotondo said in a note to clients.  Ferrovial was trading 6.5 percent higher at 9.08 euros as
of the close in  Madrid  today for the biggest jump since July 15,
2010. The shares have added 22 percent this year, and the
builder is the only gainer on the 30-company Bloomberg Europe
Construction and Engineering Index over the past three months,
with a market value of 6.66 billion euros.  Credit-default swaps on BAA’s debt fell 21 basis points to
227 points, according date from CMA. CDS prices fall as the
perceived risk of default declines.  Heathrow Blocked  “The sale is in line with our strategy of establishing a
market valuation of our assets,” Ferrovial Chief Executive
Officer Inigo Meiras said. “We would like to underline that our
commitment as a long-term investor in BAA remains in place.”  The valuation of BAA was in doubt after Britain’s coalition
government blocked plans for a third runway at Heathrow,
 Europe ’s busiest airport, and regulators pressed for a breakup
of its assets to create greater competition in the U.K. market.  BAA sold London’s Gatwick airport to Global Infrastructure
Partners for 1.51 billion pounds in 2009 and said last week it
had agreed to dispose of a terminal in either Glasgow or
Edinburgh,  Scotland . The unit may also have to sell London
Stansted, pending the outcome of an antitrust appeal.  Ferrovial said it’s disposing of the BAA stake to raise
cash for other projects. The builder is shortlisted to run
Madrid Barajas and Barcelona El Prat airports, which  Spain  is
selling to cut debt, with Oct. 31 set as the deadline for bids.  Alinda, based in  New York , owns and operates U.S. toll
roads including the Detroit-Windsor Tunnel and  Alabama ’s
Tucaloosa Bypass Bridge. Its managing partner, Chris Beale, will
join the boards of both FGP Topco and BAA, with the sale likely
to be completed by the end of this month, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Todd White in Madrid at   twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  