-- 
Food Prices to Remain High, Price Swings to Continue, FAO Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-10T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/food-prices-to-remain-high-price-swings-to-continue-fao-says.html
Food prices will likely remain high
and fluctuating as demand rises because of economic growth, a
growing population and greater use of fuel made from crops, the
 United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization  said.  Food supply faces a challenge of increasingly scarce
resources as well as falling rates of yield growth, particularly
for rice and wheat, the Rome-based FAO said in a report on
global hunger published today.  Higher food prices helped drive 44 million more people into
poverty since June 2010, the  World Bank  has said. The FAO’s
world food-price index was at 225 points in September, down from
a record 237.7 points in February and remaining 16 percent above
its year-earlier level of 194 points.  “Demand from consumers in rapidly growing economies will
increase, population continues to grow, and any further growth
in biofuels will place additional demands on the food system,”
the FAO said. “Food price volatility may increase because of
stronger linkages between agricultural and energy markets, as
well as an increased frequency of weather shocks.”  The FAO said it’s revising its methodology for estimating
undernourishment, and didn’t provide the number of hungry people
in the world in 2011 or an updated figure for the past two
years. The number of people facing hunger declined to 925
million in 2010 from more than 1 billion in 2009, the UN agency
has said previously.  Short-term price changes can have long-term impacts on
development, the FAO said. Food-price swings may lead to
decreased nutrient intake for young children that can cause a
permanent reduction in cognitive capacities and therefore
earnings potential, according to the report.  Child malnutrition means “an increased likelihood of
future poverty, with negative impacts on entire economies,” the
FAO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 