-- 
Galleon Insider Sentencing Scorecard: Average Prison Term Tops 3 Years

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/galleon-group-insider-scandal-yields-an-average-3-year-term-for-defendants.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam was sentenced yesterday to 11 years in prison for
 insider trading  after being convicted by a jury in Manhattan
federal court for directing the biggest insider-trading scheme
in a generation.  Prosecutors said Rajaratnam, who was convicted in May,
should serve as long as 24 1/2 years in prison, calling him the
“modern face of insider trading.”  Since Rajaratnam’s arrest in October 2009, judges in
 Manhattan federal court  have sentenced 15 defendants in cases
linked to Galleon. All but five pleaded guilty. The average
prison term has been 41.8 months, or almost 3 1/2 years, behind
bars. Before Rajaratnam’s sentence, the average was 35.4 months.  The cases are as follows:  Raj Rajaratnam, the co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, was
sentenced to 11 years in prison after a jury in May found him
guilty of 14 counts of  securities fraud  and conspiracy. It’s the
longest sentence ever in an insider-trading case. He must report
to prison by Nov. 28, a judge said.  Zvi Goffer, a former Galleon Group trader, was sentenced to
10 years in prison, after jurors in June convicted him of
leading an insider-trading ring involving his brother, Emanuel
Goffer, and Michael Kimelman. He hasn’t reported to prison.  Emanuel Goffer was sentenced to three years in prison after
being convicted at a trial of one count of conspiracy and two
counts of securities fraud. He was given 60 days to report to
prison at his Oct. 7 sentencing.  Michael Kimelman was given a 30-month prison term after
being convicted at a trial of one count of conspiracy and two
counts of securities fraud.  Winifred Jiau, who worked as a consultant at Primary Global
Research LLC, was convicted at a trial in June of passing along
earnings and other information about companies including Nvidia
Corp. She was sentenced to four years and is jailed at the
Metropolitan Correctional Center in  New York .  Danielle Chiesi, who was an analyst at New Castle Funds
LLC, pleaded guilty to passing inside stock tips to Rajaratnam
and others and trading on them. She was sentenced to 2 1/2 years
and begins her sentence on Oct. 18.  Ali Hariri, a former Atheros Communications Inc. vice
president, was sentenced to 18 months for leaking information on
the company’s forecast cut for the fourth quarter of 2008. He is
serving his time in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in  San
Diego .  Robert Moffat , a former executive with International
Business Machines Corp., leaked inside information about IBM and
Lenovo Group Ltd. to Chiesi. He was sentenced to six months in
prison and has been released from the Metropolitan Detention
Center in Brooklyn.  Mark Kurland , the co-founder of New Castle Funds and
Chiesi’s boss, was sentenced to two years and three months after
admitting that he used inside information to trade in  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , Akamai Technologies Inc. and other
companies. Kurland is in a prison in Otisville, New York.  Craig Drimal, a trader who worked at Galleon’s offices, was
sentenced to 5 1/2 years after admitting that he traded on
inside tips obtained from lawyers working on the transactions.
Drimal hasn’t yet surrendered to prison.  Arthur Cutillo, a former Ropes & Gray LLP lawyer, admitted
to disclosing information on transactions the firm was working
on to co-defendant Jason Goldfarb, in exchange for kickbacks. He
was sentenced to 2 1/2 years and is now in a prison in
Lewisburg,  Pennsylvania .  Jason Goldfarb, a lawyer in  Brooklyn , New York, was
sentenced to three years in prison for passing inside tips he
got from Cutillo and another lawyer at Ropes & Gray. Goldfarb
hasn’t yet surrendered.  Donald Longueuil, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager, received a sentence of 2 1/2 years for
trading and trafficking with colleagues on inside information.
Longueuil is also in Otisville.  Don Ching Trang Chu, a former consultant at Primary Global
Research LLC, an expert-networking firm, was sentenced to
probation for passing confidential tips to the firm’s hedge fund
clients. The judge said jail wasn’t warranted because of his
minimal role in the scheme.  Manosha Karunatilaka, a former Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. manager, was sentenced to 18 months in prison
for accepting about $35,000 to pass inside tips about the
company’s orders while also working as a consultant for Primary
Global Research LLC. Karunatilaka hasn’t yet surrendered.  * *  Typically, those convicted at a trial get longer prison
terms than those pleading guilty. In addition to the five
Galleon defendants who took their cases to a jury,  Manhattan 
judges since 2003 have imposed sentences in three other cases
where the main charge was insider trading and a jury returned a
guilty verdict.  The average sentence for the eight insiders who went to
trial is 71.3 months, or almost six years.  In non-Galleon cases, former Credit Suisse Group banker
Hafiz Muhammad Zubair Naseem got 10 years, ex-Jefferies Paragon
Fund money manager Joseph Contorinis was sentenced to six years,
and former Ernst & Young partner James Gansman was sentenced to
one year.  About two dozen others are waiting to be sentenced in the
Galleon cases. They include  Anil Kumar , a former McKinsey & Co.
executive who pleaded guilty and testified against Rajaratnam in
a bid for leniency.  The Rajaratnam case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 