-- 
Gasoline Advances as Dollar Weakens After Merkel-Sarkozy Plan

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-10-10T19:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/gasoline-advances-as-dollar-weakens-after-merkel-sarkozy-plan.html
Gasoline gained after the leaders of
France and Germany pledged a plan to end the debt crisis,
strengthening the euro against the dollar and raising the appeal
of commodities as an investment.  Futures rose as the U.S. currency fell as much as 2.4
percent. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said yesterday they will deliver a plan by the
Nov. 3 Group of 20 summit to recapitalize European banks and
address the Greek debt crisis.  Oil and products rose on “the dollar and the hopes that
Sarkozy and Merkel are going to come up with an agreement,”
said Gene McGillian, an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in Stamford, Connecticut. “The plan seems to be the primary
cause,” he said.  Gasoline for November delivery gained 4.77 cents, or 1.8
percent, to settle at $2.6953 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  The dollar weakened 2 percent versus the European currency
at 2:41 p.m. in New York  Heating oil for November delivery rose 4.51 cents, or 1.6
percent, to $2.9039 a gallon on the exchange.  “Heating oil seems to be higher because of ongoing worries
with the shut refineries,” McGillian said. “Otherwise demand
could be tepid.”  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’s Trainer, Pennsylvania, refinery stopped
processing crude oil Sept. 30.  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  may shut the main
process units in July at its Philadelphia and Marcus Hook
refineries if it doesn’t find a buyer for the two plants, the
company said Sept. 6.  Declines Forecast  U.S. inventories of gasoline are expected to hold at
previous levels, acccording to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gasoline inventories probably fell 500,000 barrels to 213.2
million, according to a median estimate of 9 analysts.
Distillate stocks for the same period slipped 1 million barrels
barrels to 155.9 million, the analysts said.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.1
cent to $3.395 yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 