-- 
German Bonds Fall on Merkel, Sarkozy Bank Plans; Italy, Spain Debt Drops

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-10-10T15:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/german-bonds-rise-after-fitch-cuts-spain-italy-credit-ratings.html
German 10-year bunds fell, pushing
yields to the highest in more than five weeks, after  Germany  and
France’s leaders said they will draw up a plan to recapitalize
banks and stop Greece’s debt crisis spreading.  Belgian and French bonds slid as the nations pushed ahead
with plans to support beleaguered lender Dexia SA. Greek and
Portuguese securities also tumbled amid speculation bondholders
may need to take greater losses on Greece’s debt as part of the
rescue plan. Belgium’s debt rating was put on review for
downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 7, and Fitch
Ratings lowered Italy and Spain’s credit rankings the same day.  “Bunds are vulnerable to any kind of resolution to the
debt crisis,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market
debt strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. Support for Dexia
“will put Belgian debt under pressure” and isn’t “a positive
story for  France ,” he wrote in an e-mailed note today.  The 10-year bund yield rose eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 2.09 percent at 4:42 p.m. London time, the
highest since Sept. 2. The 2.25 percent security maturing
September 2021 slipped 0.770, or 7.70 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,365) face amount, to 101.435. Two-year note yields climbed
five basis points to 0.65 percent.  Bund futures fell 0.9 percent to 134.61, dropping to less
than the 55-day moving average for the first time since May 5.
The euro rose 2.2 percent to $1.3667 and the Stoxx Europe 600
Index of shares jumped 1.6 percent.  ‘Less Gung-Ho’  German 10-year bonds declined last week, the first time
they’ve dropped for two consecutive weeks since the period
ending April 8, as optimism policy makers are working on a
comprehensive plan to deal with sovereign-debt woes reduced
demand for the safest assets. The  European Central Bank  also
adopted measures, including one-year loans for banks, to stem
the spread of the financial crisis.  “We will recapitalize the banks,” French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said in Berlin yesterday at a joint briefing
with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . “By the end of the month,
we will have responded to the crisis issue.”  The potential recapitalization of the region’s banks may
prevent the safest  government bonds  from extending this year’s
advance, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “We are all being a bit more circumspect and less gung-ho
about our bond-bull stance,”  Andrew Roberts , head of European
rates strategy in London, wrote in an investor report on Oct. 7.
Such a plan for the region’s lenders “risks a bund shake-out,”
Roberts said.  Dexia Deal  Belgian 10-year bonds dropped after the federal government
said it agreed to pay 4 billion euros for the local consumer-
lending unit of  Dexia SA (DEXB)  and guarantee some of the lender’s
troubled assets. Dexia’s board also instructed Chief Executive
Officer Pierre Mariani to enter into exclusive talks with
France’s Caisse des Depots et Consignations and La Banque
Postale for an agreement on the financing of French local
authorities, the bank said in a statement.  The yield on 10-year Belgian debt increased eight basis
points to 4.07 percent. The rate on French securities climbed 10
basis points to 2.86 percent.  Greek 10-year bond yields jumped 38 basis points to 23.91
percent after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung that euro governments may
have come up short on the scale of Greek debt writedowns when
they reached an agreement on private-sector involvement.  Greek Debt  Two-year note yields rose the most since Sept. 14, gaining
as much as 629 basis points, or 6.29 percentage points, to 73.51
percent.  Euro-area finance ministers are discussing scenarios for a
so-called Greek haircut of as much as 60 percent,  Deutsche
Presse-Agentur  reported, citing people in the finance industry
and people familiar with the negotiations. Such a debt
restructuring would affect both banks and taxpayers, DPA said.  A team of inspectors from the  International Monetary Fund ,
the European Union and the European Central Bank will probably
conclude a review of  Greece ’s economy by tomorrow, the  Finance
Ministry  in Athens said in an e-mailed statement. European
leaders pushed back a debt-crisis summit to Oct. 23 from Oct.
18.  The yield on Portuguese bonds due in 10 years rose 16 basis
points to 11.41 percent as Moody’s said a disorderly default by
the Greek government would pose the biggest near-term disruption
risk to Portugal’s reform.  Spain, Italy Cut  Europe’s officials haven’t done enough on fiscal turmoil to
persuade investors to buy the region’s sovereign debt, Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s head of European portfolio
management, Andrew Balls, said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Betty Liu on the “In the Loop” program.  The rate on 10-year Italian debt increased six basis points
to 5.58 percent, while the yield on similar-maturity Spanish
bonds was little changed at 4.98 percent.  Spain  was cut to AA- from AA+, while Italy was lowered to
A+ from AA-, Fitch said in statements after the market closed on
Oct. 7. The outlook for both countries is negative.  Russia’s government, holder of the world’s third-largest
reserves, discussed buying Spanish sovereign debt at a meeting
with Finance Minister  Elena Salgado ,  Arkady Dvorkovich , the
Kremlin’s top economic adviser, said today in Moscow.  Bunds have handed investors a profit of 7 percent this
year, while Treasuries have returned 8.3 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have made 5.8
percent for investors while Italian securities lost 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  