-- 
German Exports Rose in August for First Time in Three Months

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-10T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/german-exports-rose-in-august-for-first-time-in-three-months.html
Exports from Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy, rose for the first time in three months in
August, defying a slowdown of global trade.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes,
surged 3.5 percent from July, when they dropped 1.2 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. That’s the
steepest increase since March. Economists forecast a 1.1 percent
gain, according to the median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Imports were unchanged from the previous month,
when they rose 0.5 percent.  The Bundesbank last month predicted “robust” growth in
the third quarter, even as a slowing global economy and the euro
area’s debt crisis damp demand for goods made in  Germany .
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last
week that growth in the 17-nation currency bloc, Germany’s
largest export market, would be “very moderate” in the second
half of the year.  “If the debt crisis doesn’t escalate, Germany may
outperform the rest of the euro area,” said  Aline Schuiling , an
economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “At the same time, most
European countries are tightening fiscal policy, and that will
weigh on demand.”  The  trade balance  widened to 11.8 billion euros ($15.9
billion) from 10.5 billion euros in July. The surplus in the
current account, a measure of all trade including services, was
7 billion euros, down from 7.8 billion euros.  Weaker Growth  German economic growth weakened to 0.1 percent in the
second quarter from 1.3 percent in the previous three months as
imports exceeded exports and consumers cut spending. In the euro
region, expansion slowed to 0.2 percent. German industrial
production and factory orders both fell in August.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said on Oct. 3 that it expects its
cargo business to be weaker in coming months amid weaker global
trade. Still,  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s largest maker of heavy-
duty vehicles, said demand for Mercedes-Benz trucks hasn’t shown
signs of being damped by slowing economic growth.  “In spite of the debt crisis, we have good reason to be
optimistic,” Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said in a
speech on Sept. 30. Mercedes-Benz truck plants will be working
at full capacity through the end of this year and have “a good
level” of orders for the first quarter, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  