-- 
Goldman Sachs Earnings Collapse Seen as Wells Fargo Heads for Record Year

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-11T12:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/goldman-sachs-earnings-collapse-seen-as-wells-fargo-heads-for-record-year.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , whose
shares have fallen 43 percent this year, may report its lowest
quarterly profit since the 2008 financial crisis. Far from Wall
Street,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is headed for record earnings.  Third-quarter U.S. bank earnings, which kick off with
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  on Oct. 13, will show that investment-
banking businesses such as bond trading and merger advice
declined, while retail operations like mortgage lending
prospered, according to analysts including Richard Staite at
 Atlantic Equities LLP  in London.  It’s a reversal from 2009 and early 2010, when rising
markets and a perfect trading record propelled New York-based
Goldman Sachs to its highest profits ever, as commercial lenders
including  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  in Atlanta charged off billions of
dollars of delinquent mortgages.  “You’re going to see a big divergence between very poor
earnings from pure capital-markets businesses and quite solid
performance from the pure retail banks, particularly those that
have a mortgage-origination business,” said Staite.  Slowing economic growth and heightened worries about
European sovereign debt have weighed on bank stocks all year.
None of the 24 members of the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  has posted a gain
in 2011, and the worst performer,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , is down
53 percent. A jump in borrowing costs at some banks, including
New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , began to subside last week as
investors became more optimistic that European policy makers
would solve the region’s sovereign debt and banking crisis.  Job Cuts  “I hope European governments manage to come to a solution
that causes an end to the kind of fear that the markets have
lived through for the last 90 days,” said  David Hilder , a New
York-based analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group LLP. “And if
that happens, then I think you’ll see activity levels pick up,
possibly in the fourth quarter and certainly in 2012.”  A decline in trading revenue over the past two quarters has
led large investment banks to focus on cost reductions,
including job cuts. Goldman Sachs, led by Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, said in July that it will cut
about 1,000 jobs after its second-quarter drop in trading
revenue was bigger than analysts estimated.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender by assets,
announced plans last month to eliminate 30,000 jobs in the next
few years.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, said in August it
will cut about 3,500 positions, or 5.3 percent of its workforce,
to reduce expenses. Morgan Stanley said it wants to bring down
annual costs by $1 billion over the next three years.  Reduced Bonuses  The focus on expenses is likely to lead to lower
compensation. Year-end bonuses for fixed-income traders and
salespeople across Wall Street may fall 20 percent to 30 percent
from last year, Johnson Associates Inc., a New York-based
compensation-consulting firm, estimated on Aug. 12. Johnson said
bonuses for equity traders will be flat to down 15 percent.  Executives at some Wall Street firms are planning more cuts
to jobs and compensation after third-quarter results are
released because they don’t expect the industry to recover soon
from a slowdown that’s partly driven by regulatory changes,
 Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities in Lutz,
Florida, wrote in a note to investors on Oct. 6.  “The only action that they can take to deal with the
expected environment is to cut costs,” Bove wrote.
“Translated, this will mean lower bonuses and fewer jobs.”  New York Jobs  One out of every eight jobs in  New York City  and about 14
percent of New York State’s tax revenue come from the securities
industry and related activities, according to a report today
from New York State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli. He said the
industry will probably lose almost 10,000 jobs by the end of
2012, bringing total losses to 32,000 since January 2008.  “It now seems likely that profits will fall sharply, job
losses will continue, and bonuses will be smaller than last
year,” DiNapoli said in the report. “When Wall Street slows,
New York City and New York State’s budgets feel the impact and
that is a concern.”  Stock- and bond-market investors were spooked during the
quarter by Standard & Poor’s decision to downgrade the U.S.
government’s debt rating, a protracted Congressional debate over
raising the government’s borrowing limit, and by the Federal
Reserve’s decision to leave rates near zero until 2013 to combat
stalling economic growth. Debate among European policy makers
about how to solve deteriorating government finances and whether
to add capital to banks also sparked fears that a misstep could
lead to a new financial crisis.  Stock Drop  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 14 percent during the quarter,
the worst decline since the fourth quarter of 2008, and the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, which
measures the cost of buying insurance against drops in the S&P
500 Index, surged 160 percent to its highest quarterly reading
since the first three months of 2009.  Credit markets and commodities were also shaken during the
quarter. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which measures the price of buying derivatives to protect
against a default on the corporate debt of 125 borrowers,
climbed the most in the quarter since 2008. The average yields
demanded on U.S. commercial-mortgage bonds in excess of
Treasuries soared 108 basis points, the most since the last
quarter of 2008, to 3.51 percent, according to Barclays Capital
Index data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Oil Prices  Brent crude oil futures lost 8.6 percent in the third
quarter, extending a 4.2 percent drop in the second, in its
longest slump since the 2008 financial crisis.  “What I think was surprising when you got into September
from August was how across-the-board the weakness was,” said
Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in New
York. “Very often you get weakness in fixed income, but
equities do well. This was literally every product. Every
capital markets event was negative.”  Goldman Sachs, which made more than 70 percent of its
revenue in the first six months from investing its own money and
trading, will likely be most affected by the market declines.
The company’s earnings will collapse to breakeven in the third
quarter from $2.98 per share a year earlier, according to the
average of 24 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That
would be the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2008, when the
firm posted its only quarterly loss since going public in 1999.  Analysts’ Estimates  Twelve of the analysts expect Goldman Sachs to report a
loss for the three months on Oct. 18, driven by declines in its
investments in companies such as  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (1398)  Ltd., which fell 35 percent in the quarter in Hong Kong
trading, and other assets such as real estate.  Analysts including Edward Najarian at International
Strategy & Investments in New York also expect Morgan Stanley
and Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America to report
quarterly losses once non-recurring items and debt-valuation
adjustments are excluded. The adjustments are accounting gains
taken when the price of a company’s bonds declines.  Five of the largest U.S. banks -- Bank of America, JPMorgan
Chase,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley -- will
recognize $4.3 billion in such gains, according to estimates by
Matthew Burnell, an analyst at Wells Fargo, the fourth-largest
lender, which wasn’t included. Analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg do not strip out debt-valuation adjustments.  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , and U.S. Bancorp in
Minneapolis, which make most of their money from lending instead
of investment banking, will probably report record earnings in
the third quarter, according to an estimate by  Richard Ramsden ,
a Goldman Sachs analyst in New York.  Doing Fine  In an Oct. 9 report titled “Traditional Banking Is Doing
Just Fine,” ISI’s Najarian noted that Fed data for the 25
largest banks showed total loans grew 1.2 percent in the third
quarter from the prior three months and that core deposits
surged 6.8 percent, helping to replace more expensive forms of
funding such as bond issues.  Average loans by banks will climb by a median 2 percent in
the third quarter from the previous three months, the first
increase after 10 consecutive quarterly declines, analysts at
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  said in an Oct. 3 note to investors. The
boost is being driven by more loans to businesses as well as by
a “notable pick-up” in mortgage and consumer lending, the
analysts wrote.  The Fed’s efforts to stimulate economic growth, most
recently with the so-called Operation Twist plan to buy long-
term Treasuries while selling shorter-term U.S. government debt,
reduced the average rate on 30-year mortgages below 4 percent
for the first time on record this month.  Refinancing Boost  Banks including Wells Fargo and JPMorgan will benefit from
a third-quarter increase in fees from homeowners refinancing
their mortgages and from higher profits selling those mortgages
to government-sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, according to Ramsden’s Sept. 28 note. The Goldman Sachs
analyst wrote that he expects mortgage-banking revenue to rise
more than 40 percent from the prior quarter.  Wells Fargo, led by CEO John G. Stumpf, 58, will make 72
cents a share in the quarter, up 9 percent from a year earlier,
according to the average estimate of 29 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The lender will earn a record $15.2 billion, or $2.82
per share, for the full year, according to the same analysts.  U.S. Bancorp, the largest bank in Minnesota, will earn 61
cents a share, up 36 percent from a year earlier, according to
the average estimate of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mary Eshet , a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, declined to comment,
as did Stephen Cohen, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, and JPMorgan’s
 Jennifer Zuccarelli .  JPMorgan’s Profit  The split between Wall Street businesses and other types of
banking will be demonstrated by JPMorgan, the second-biggest
U.S. bank by assets. The New York-based company will report 95
cents of earnings per share for the quarter, just 6 percent
lower than a year earlier, according to the average estimate of
30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Those earnings, the lowest in six quarters, may reflect
gains in consumer lending and credit-card revenue as well as
declines at the investment bank. James Staley, 54, who runs the
investment bank, said at an investor presentation on Sept. 13
that “markets revenue” will decline about 30 percent from the
second quarter and that fees from investment banking will be
about $1 billion.  Lower Valuations  The last time fees at JPMorgan’s investment bank were below
$1.2 billion was in the first quarter of 2006, company
statements show. Revenue from fixed-income and equity trading
totaled $5.5 billion in the second quarter and hasn’t been 30
percent lower than that since the fourth quarter of 2009, the
statements show.  Staley said that the company’s revenue from asset
management is “definitely correlated with the equity markets”
and will probably decline as a result of the drop in stocks. He
also said that the company’s private-equity business will
probably report a loss of roughly $100 million.  Analysts are split on the outlook for bank stocks, even
though all of them agree that their valuations are much lower
than they’ve been historically compared with their book values.  Peabody, at Portales Partners, is advising investors to
stay out of banks until key decisions are made in November by a
U.S. deficit-cutting committee and by the Group of 20 countries,
which are meeting to discuss capital requirements for the
world’s biggest banks.  Value Investors  Investors who typically seek to buy undervalued stocks,
known as “value” investors, have only about 4 percent of their
funds in bank stocks, less than the industry’s weighting in the
 iShares S&P 500 Value Index Fund (IVE) , according to a Sept. 29
analysis by ISI’s Najarian. That means there’s “considerable
buying power” that could rush into large bank stocks whenever
the outlook improves, he concluded.  “Everybody who’s been negative on the banks has been
right, and if you’re positive on the banks you’re taking a
risk,” said Roy Smith, a finance professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business and a former Goldman Sachs
partner. “The consensus is so negative at the moment that it’s
probably wrong.”  Goldman Sachs shares fell to $94.70 in German trading today
from their $96.14 close in New York yesterday. Wells Fargo stock
was trading at $25.98 in Frankfurt trading today from its $26.13
close in New York yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  