-- 
Goldman Sachs Chief Lloyd Blankfein Cancels Barnard College ‘Power Talk’

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-10-10T23:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/goldman-sachs-ceo-lloyd-blankfein-cancels-barnard-college-talk.html
Lloyd C. Blankfein,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s chairman and chief executive officer, canceled a
planned appearance tomorrow at Barnard College, whose president
joined the company’s board four months ago.  “Mr. Blankfein’s office informed us that he would be
unable to deliver his lecture as planned, due to an unavoidable
scheduling conflict,” Kathryn Kolbert, director of Barnard’s
 Athena Center  for Leadership Studies, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We expect that his talk will be rescheduled for a
future date.”  The “Power Talk” with Blankfein was cancelled because he
“must be in Washington D.C. that evening,” the Athena Center
said on its  website .  Debora L. Spar, president of the women-only liberal-arts
school, joined Goldman Sachs’s board at a meeting in  London  on
June 16, her 48th birthday. Blankfein, 57, and his wife Laura, a
Barnard College alumna and former trustee, donated $50,000 to
the New York-based college in the fiscal year ended Jan. 31,
2010, their nonprofit foundation’s federal tax filings show.  Students at  Columbia University , across the street from
Barnard, had organized a week-long protest against Blankfein
called “School the Squid,” which included discussions about
corporate greed and power abuse, the student-run Columbia Daily
Spectator  reported  on its website today.  Goldman Sachs, which was the most profitable securities
firm in Wall Street history before it converted to a bank in
2008 after the collapse of smaller rival Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., set a pay record in 2007 when it awarded
Blankfein a $67.9 million bonus.  A 2009 article by Matt Taibbi in Rolling Stone magazine
labeled the company “a great vampire squid wrapped around the
face of humanity.”  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in  New York ,
confirmed that Blankfein cancelled his talk due to a scheduling
conflict. He declined further comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 