-- 
Greece Activates Bank Rescue Fund to Create New Proton Bank

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-10-10T12:22:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/greece-activates-bank-rescue-fund-to-create-new-proton-bank.html
Greece’s central bank activated a
rescue fund set up under an EU-led bailout in May 2010 to
restructure  Proton Bank SA (PRO) , with the Hellenic Financial
Stability Fund becoming its sole shareholder.  Athens-based Proton will reorganize into a new lender
called New Proton Bank which will have a 10.6 percent capital
adequacy ratio, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Greek Finance Ministry today. A separate  Bank of Greece (TELL) 
statement said the capital adequacy was well above regulatory
thresholds.  “The Financial Stability Fund provided the necessary
capital for the ‘good bank’ and became its sole shareholder,”
the central bank said. “The deposits of all customers are
secured and the smooth continuation of business is guaranteed
through the new bank.”  It was the first rescue under the Greek fund, which
received 10 billion euros ($13.5 billion) as part of the 110
billion-euro EU-led bailout, designed to provide capital and
ensure the stability of the banking system. Proton Bank, with
assets of 3.5 billion euros, has been buffeted by the debt
crisis, combined with an investigation into possible  money
laundering .  Shares in Proton Bank were suspended from trading from
today on the Athens bourse, after a request from the securities
regulator. The stock has fallen 74 percent so far this year for
a market value of 11.3 million euros.  Shares in  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) , the nation’s fourth-biggest,
fell as much as 28 percent in early trading on the Athens
exchange and traded 20 percent lower at 2:50 p.m. in Athens at
30 cents.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the largest, lost 13
percent to 1.89 euros. Alpha Bank SA fell 13 percent to 1.02
euros, while EFG Eurobank Ergasias, the number two, lost 14
percent to 70 cents.  The declines are “a result of speculation that exists and
existed of a 50 percent haircut,” said Dimitris Giannoulis, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Athens. Comments by French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  of
a “durable” fix for Europe’s banking crisis that may require
banks to accept larger-than-expected writedowns on Greek
 government bonds  has sparked more speculation, he said.  “The haircut may not happen, but there is more speculation
as a result of the fact they said they are waiting for the
troika review to see the debt sustainability,” he said. “The
market considers this signals a haircut of around 50 percent.”  The old Proton bank, which had its license revoked, has
been placed into liquidation with the proceeds to be used to
cover the claims of third parties, according to the central
bank. The shareholders will rank last as claimants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  