-- 
Groupon Under-Reports Deal Tallies to Make Revenue Estimates ‘Impossible’

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-10-10T19:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/groupon-changes-deal-tally-to-make-sales-estimates-impossible-.html
Groupon Inc., saying it wants to be
“transparent” about a “lack of transparency,” will change
how it reports the number of daily deals sold, an effort to make
it harder for researchers to predict its growth.  Groupon, which makes money from selling online coupons,
will under-report the number of coupons purchased by 0.5 percent
to 19.5 percent, it said in a blog posting. It also will be
capping and rounding the counter from time to time.  “This change is meant to continue to reflect deal
popularity while making it clearly impossible to predict our
sales,” Chicago-based Groupon said in a blog posting yesterday.
“We’re blogging about it to be transparent about our lack of
transparency.”   Groupon, which this year filed to raise $750 million in an
initial public offering, makes most of its revenue selling daily
deals for local restaurants, hotels and other merchants. Some
researchers are using the counter to make “consistently
incorrect” estimates of the company’s total revenue, Groupon
said, without identifying which ones.  Revenue for the daily-deal industry increased 12 percent to
$266.6 million in September from August, according to data
released last week by researcher  Yipit.com . That followed a 9
percent gain in August, Yipit said.  LivingSocial and other daily-deal website rivals will
generate $4.17 billion in U.S. sales in 2015, more than double
the amount this year, research firm BIA/Kelsey estimates.  Groupon began testing the new counter toward the end of
last month and expects it to be enabled for all deals within a
few weeks.  Groupon has drawn criticism for unusual accounting
practices, rising marketing costs and the loss of two chief
operating officers in six months. The startup postponed its IPO
and pushed back meetings with investors due to stock-market
swings, people familiar with the matter said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  