-- 
Gulfstream, Cessna Add Models as Business-Jet Sales Rebound

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-10-10T20:46:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/gulfstream-cessna-add-new-models-as-business-jet-sales-rebound.html
General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream
unit,  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Cessna Aircraft and other business-jet
builders are adding new models as the industry recovers from an
order slump that forced output cuts of more than 40 percent.  Gulfstream expects to boost deliveries about 10 percent in
2011 and more than 15 percent next year as the long-range G650
enters service, President Larry Flynn said in an interview.
Cessna announced the $4.2 million Citation M2 on Sept. 26 and
the $14.9 million Citation Latitude today at the National
Business Aviation Association conference in Las Vegas.  “Barring any major shifts in the world activities, we’ll
see a slight uptick in our deliveries” this year, Cessna’s new
president, Scott Ernest, said in an interview yesterday. He
declined to give a more specific forecast.  Worldwide business-jet sales may rise next year because of
emerging-market demand and introduction of longer-range models,
components-maker Honeywell Inc. said in its annual corporate-jet
forecast before the convention. Deliveries will probably fall
this year, weighed down by the  U.S. economy , it said.  The slump in business-jet orders had forced planemakers to
curtail new models and cut staff. Cessna canceled development of
the Columbus jet in 2009 amid the recession and fired more than
half its staff.  Citation M2  The planemaker is now pushing ahead with the Citation M2,
which will seat six, fly faster than competitors and have a
range of 1,300 nautical miles. The  Citation Ten  will also have
its first flight this year, said Brad Thress, Cessna’s head of
 business jets .  The Latitude, which has space for a two-person crew and
eight passengers, offers a range of 2,000 nautical miles. The
aircraft is scheduled to enter service in 2015,  Cessna  said at
the  show .  “The investments in new products will position us for
strength, regardless of what the economy does,” Thress said in
an interview yesterday. “It’s our intent to have new products
every year into the foreseeable future.”  Thress was named to his post by Ernest, who took over as
head of Cessna about four months ago. Jodi Noah was put in
charge of single-engine models. Ernest also simplified a sales-
force model that had been in place for 40 years, removing layers
while adding more regional directors and giving them power to
make decisions and do deals faster.  Bell, Cessna  Textron Chief Executive Officer Scott Donnelly is molding
units together, including Cessna and Bell Helicopters, to
“harness the energy across all the businesses,” Ernest said.
Cessna has started joint service centers with Bell in Prague and
 Singapore  and will continue to leverage the companywide
resources for sales offices globally, he said.  Gulfstream’s new eight-seat  G650 , which has a top speed of
Mach 0.995, is set to complete testing and certification this
year, Flynn said. It will reach the first customer in the second
quarter of 2012, he said.  The planemaker has added 1,300 jobs this year at its plant
in Savannah,  Georgia , as it boosts production. The company is
selling more large-cabin jets, with deliveries up 20 percent
this year, Flynn. Sales of midsize aircraft, which dropped by
about 20 percent, now are starting to pick up, he said.  “The buyers of larger planes can weather this market,”
said Greg Irmen, head of business and regional systems for parts
maker  Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL)  “Owner-operators are a bit more
affected by downturns. Whatever the stock market is doing is
going to happen to the light jets.”  Stock Market Effect  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has tumbled 5 percent in
2011, as five straight monthly declines starting in May erased a
gain built this year through April. Textron rose 1.5 percent to
$18.62 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York , while General Dynamics climbed
3.6 percent, the most since Aug. 11, to $61.68.  Honeywell expects global business-jet deliveries to fall to
fewer than 650 this year from 732 in 2010. Shipments may climb
next year without surpassing 700, it said. Replacing older
planes was the top purchase reason, while increased range ranked
second for the first time, the company said.  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  is developing the eight- to ten-seat Global
7000 and 8000 jets, with a maximum cruise speed of Mach 0.90,
that will enter service in 2016 and 2017.  “Through the ups and downs we just have to keep focused on
making sure we have the right product regardless of market
conditions,” said Bassam Sabbagh, head of Bombardier’s Global
jet lineup.  Embraer Legacy  Embraer SA (ERJ) , the Brazilian planemaker that entered the
business-jet market in 2002, is developing the Legacy 450 and
500 jets, which will start ground testing in December. The
company has delayed the maiden flights beyond year-end, said
Ernie Edwards, who has been president of Embraer Executive Jets
since May. He didn’t elaborate on the reason for the
postponements.  Edwards is moving the unit’s headquarters to  Melbourne ,
 Florida , from  Brazil . An assembly line for the Phenom 100 is
already operating in the southeastern U.S. state, and Embraer is
adding a customer design center for all its models, Edwards
said. The company has 80 employees there, a quarter of which had
worked for  NASA , and plans to hire 140 more, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Las Vegas  via 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  