-- 
Libyan Forces From Misrata Seize Key Sites in Qaddafi’s Hometown of Sirte

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-10T06:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/libyan-forces-seize-key-locations-in-sirte.html
Libyan forces are combing homes in
Sirte for Muammar Qaddafi supporters, after seizing key
buildings in the former leader’s hometown in clashes that left
scores dead and wounded.  Anti-Qaddafi fighters from the western city of Misrata
gained control of Ouagadougou Hall, a walled complex used by
Qaddafi loyalists as a base, and the city’s main Ibn Sina
hospital, the Misrata Military Council said in statements late
yesterday. The Ibn Sina morgue was found full of bodies, some
bearing name tags, others not, the council said, describing the
humanitarian situation in the hospital as dire.  The fighters from Misrata are collaborating with the armed
forces loyal to  Libya ’s new National Transitional Council,
though their command structures haven’t been integrated. The
NTC’s forces advanced from the east to the center of Sirte,
ending fighting that began when negotiations on the port city’s
peaceful surrender broke down early last month.  Sirte, about 300 miles (483 kilometers) east of the
capital, Tripoli, linking the east and western part of the
country, is one of the last major strongholds of Qaddafi
loyalists. Its fall is a key step in Libya’s transition to
democracy as a new government to see the country through to
elections won’t be announced until a month after it is fully
under NTC control.  Retaliation Fears  Senior officials on the NTC, which seized Tripoli at the
end of August, attribute the tenacity of the Qaddafi loyalists
in Sirte to the possibility that one of the former leader’s son,
Mutassim, is there. They say the loyalists fear retaliation, and
that they have given assurances this won’t happen, and halted
the offensive several times to allow civilians to leave.  Mutassim may have been hiding in the Ibn Sina Hospital,
preventing foreign medical workers from leaving, according to
the Misrata council. There was no indication of where he is now.  The United Nations special representative in Libya,  Ian
Martin , appealed on Oct. 7 to all Libyans to respect calls made
by the NTC “that there should be no revenge even against those
responsible for  war crimes  and other grave violations.”  Qaddafi supporters also hold Bani Walid, a landlocked town
where NTC forces say more senior loyalists are hiding, including
Saif al-Islam, another of Qaddafi’s sons and his presumed heir.
The NTC says it will declare “liberation” only after Sirte’s
capture because then it will hold all of the country’s ports and
harbors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 