-- 
Microsoft Phones to Get More Marketing, Sales Incentives

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-10-10T20:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/microsoft-windows-phones-will-get-more-marketing-dollars-sales-incentives.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , trying to reverse
disappointing sales for its Windows Phone, is counting on
Samsung Electronics Co. and other manufacturing partners to step
up retailer incentives and boost in-store promotions.  Both Samsung and HTC Corp. have committed to increasing
marketing budgets for the phones, said  Andy Lees , president of
Microsoft’s mobile unit, in an interview. While manufacturers
will determine how the money is spent, some of it will probably
go toward spurring retail staff to tout Windows Phone models, he
said. New handsets with the new Windows Phone 7.5 will go on
sale in the coming weeks, Lees said.  Since the release of the previous version last October, the
Windows Phone has missed the company’s sales expectations, and
Microsoft has continued to lose ground to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
and devices based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android. Microsoft needs to
do a better job of marketing the new software, which is much
improved, said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Gartner Inc.  “From a technical perspective, it really does put them on
par with the other competitors, but a lot of times Microsoft
gets it right with the technology and then fumbles the marketing
message,” he said. Mobile-phone retailers haven’t cooperated in
the past, Gartenberg said. “If you went to a store they showed
you anything other than a Windows Phone. If you asked for a
Windows Phone, they tried to talk you out of it.”  Retail Rules  Microsoft is especially reliant on the carriers’ retail
salespeople in the U.S., where more than 80 percent of phones
are sold by stores owned by mobile operators, Lees said. In
other countries, a larger percentage of handsets are sold by the
phone makers themselves. He didn’t specify what form the
incentives might take.  Windows Phone 7.5, also known as Mango, was released last
month to existing Windows handset customers. In addition to more
aggressive marketing, Microsoft’s partnership with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
will help sales, Lees said. Nokia announced earlier this year
that it would base its handsets on Windows Phone software, a bid
to reinvigorate its smartphone strategy. Nokia directly or
indirectly controls more than 6,000 stores, Lees said.  Gartner forecasts that Microsoft will become the No. 2
smartphone operating system in 2015, with market share of 20
percent. That would vault it past Apple’s iOS, with Android
remaining in the top spot. Achim Berg, head of Windows Phone
marketing, said at a September conference in Berlin that the 20
percent share may be a conservative estimate.  First Quarter  Next year, Microsoft will account for 11 percent of the
market, up from 5.6 percent this year, Gartner said in an April
report. Lees declined to forecast numbers himself, except to say
he expects market share to rise starting in the first quarter of
2012.  Manufacturers plan to produce a Windows phone that uses the
high-speed wireless technology known as long-term evolution, or
LTE, in the “not-too-distant future,” Lees said. That will
make mobile carriers more eager to promote the Windows Phone.  Cheaper models also will be produced, giving a boost to the
operating system, Lees said. While handset makers and the
carriers determine prices and subsidies, consumers should see
Windows Phone devices for less than $100 in the U.S., he said.  “The stars are really starting to align for us,” Lees
said.  The new software, which better integrates apps, search and
phone features, received positive reviews from AllThingsD,
Gizmodo and Bloomberg’s  Rich Jaroslovsky .  Movies, Maps  Search for a movie, and the phone brings up a synopsis,
running time, showings nearby, and lets you buy tickets. It also
lists apps related to movies. It has indoor maps so you can find
the parking lot at the mall where the theater is located. A
local app gives you nearby restaurants and if you’ve downloaded
OpenTable, there’s a reserve button right there.  The search key brings up the option to scan book or album
covers for product matches. It will also scan foreign language
text to translate a French restaurant menu. The software can
listen to a piece of music and identify it.  Microsoft rose 2.6 percent to $26.94 at close in  New York .
The stock has dropped 3.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  