-- 
Tiger Woods Is 30th as Bryce Molder Wins PGA Tour Frys.com Open in Playoff

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-10-10T04:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/tiger-woods-is-30th-as-bryce-molder-wins-frys-com-open-in-playoff.html
Tiger Woods  tied for 30th place at
golf’s Frys.com Open, where  Bryce Molder  beat Briny Baird on the
sixth hole of a playoff for his breakthrough victory on the U.S.
PGA Tour.  Woods, playing in his first tournament since missing the
cut at the  PGA Championship  in August, finished with three
straight rounds of 3-under-par 68 after an opening-round 73 at
CordeValle Golf Club in San Martin,  California . He finished at
7-under par, 10 shots behind Molder and Baird.  “I got better every day and I hit a lot of good putts the
last three days, which is good,” Woods, 35, told reporters. “I
felt very comfortable and I just need to keep staying the course.
The game’s coming.”  Molder, 32, and Baird played six extra holes before Molder
won with a birdie putt on the par-4 18th hole to claim the
$900,000 first prize. It was the 132rd career start for Molder,
who shot a 7-under 64 during the final round and becomes the
14th first-time winner on tour this season.  “My biggest hurdle for the last few years is I’ve gotten
myself into contention and, to be brutally honest, I didn’t want
to be there,” Molder said. “I wasn’t ready for dealing with
the nerves yet and the shots, and really the failure yet.
Once you’re ready to deal with the failure, all of a sudden you
can free things up and play.”  Baird remains winless in 248 starts and his $12.5 million
in lifetime  PGA Tour  winnings is more than any other player
without a title. It was his fifth runner-up finish.  Woods, 35, opted to play the Frys.com Open as preparation
for next month’s Presidents Cup, which pits a team of 12 U.S.
golfers against a squad from countries outside  Europe .  Woods dropped to No. 51 in the  Official World Golf Ranking 
last week after failing to win in 23 months. He didn’t qualify
for the PGA Tour playoffs this year.  As Woods prepared to putt on the seventh green yesterday, a
spectator threw a hot dog toward the green.  “I was kind of focusing on my putt when he started
yelling,” Woods said. “Next thing I know he laid on the ground
and looked like he wanted to be arrested, really, because he
laid on the ground, put his hands behind his back and turned his
head.”  The fan was arrested for disturbing the peace, the
 Associated Press  reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  