-- 
High-Frequency Trades Said to Be Topic at Regulator Meeting

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-10-10T17:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/high-frequency-trades-said-to-be-subject-at-regulators-meeting.html
Mary Schapiro , the chairwoman of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and regulators from the
U.S.,  Europe  and Asia will meet in London to discuss high-
frequency trading, said two people with knowledge of the
discussions.  The summit at the U.K.  Financial Services Authority  on Oct.
14 will also include  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodities
and Futures Trading Commission, and Steven Maijoor, chairman of
the European Securities and Markets Authority, according to the
people, who declined to comment because the meetings are
private. Officials from  Japan , Brazil, Italy, Spain and Canada
will also attend the meetings, which will look at regulatory
issues other than high-frequency trading.  “High-frequency trading lends itself to potential abuse,”
Sony Kapoor, managing director of policy advisory firm Re-
Define, said in an interview. The practice could “cajole
investors into a false sense of security by providing the
illusion of liquidity which disappears exactly when it’s
needed.”  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May of last
year, during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points.  EU Regulation  The European Union is planning to impose limits on high-
frequency trading firms to prevent a glut of trades from
“overloading the systems of trading venues,” generating
“erroneous orders” or “otherwise malfunctioning” in a way
that may create a disorderly market, according to draft version
of the measures scheduled to be formally proposed later this
month.  SEC spokesman John Nestor didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment.  Steven Adamske , a spokesman for Gensler, didn’t return a
message seeking comment. The CFTC said in a separate statement
that Gensler would attend meetings at the FSA on Oct. 14.  High-frequency traders also face a proposed tax on
financial transactions that could cut the trading practice by as
much as 90 percent “in some market segments,” Manfred
Bergmann, a European Commission official, said in a speech in
Oxford, England, last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  