-- 
IMF Says Lithuania Needs Measures to Meet 2012 Budget Target

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-10-10T14:20:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/imf-says-lithuania-needs-measures-to-meet-2012-budget-target.html
Lithuania  needs to implement
spending and revenue measures equal to 1.25 percent of economic
output to meet its 2012 budget-deficit target, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  Gross domestic product is slowing because of weaker export
demand in the euro region, and “given the upside risks to the
fiscal deficit, a contingency plan consisting of further
measures should be prepared,” James Morsink, the IMF’s mission
chief, told reporters in Vilnius today. The Washington-based
lender expects Lithuania’s economy to expand 3.5 percent next
year.  The Baltic nation’s government is drafting a budget to move
Lithuania closer to euro adoption, planned for 2014, reducing
the shortfall next year to 2.8 percent of GDP from an estimated
5.3 percent this year. The government may have to contend with
slower growth curbing revenue as  Europe ’s debt crisis roiling
financial markets and damps demand across the continent.  Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius said today the government
needs to save 1.1 billion litai ($430 million) in budget
spending and revenue to narrow the  budget deficit  to 2.8 percent
economic output, less than the European Union’s 3 percent limit.
The Cabinet aims to cut spending for ministries by 300 million
litai next year, he said.  ‘Close’  Higher income from state-owned enterprises and sales of
property will boost budget revenue to help achieve the budget
goal, Finance Minister  Ingrida Simonyte  said.  The proposed measures by the government in the next year’s
budget draft are “close” to the amount suggested by the IMF,
Morsink said.  The government may lower its 2012 economic-growth forecast
from 4.7 percent after the European Commission releases its
updated outlook in November, Simonyte said.  Lithuania will also restore pensions as planned to levels
last reached before the global financial crisis in 2008. The
increase will cost an additional 758 million litai in budget
spending, the government said today.  The Cabinet must submit its 2012 budget plan to the
parliament by Oct. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  