-- 
India May Allow Airwave Sharing, Aid Mergers in Wireless Market

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-10-10T14:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/india-policy-plans-to-raise-spectrum-availibility-to-operators.html
India  plans to make more spectrum
available to mobile-phone operators, permit sharing and trading
of airwaves and aid mergers as it aims to provide handsets to
every villager in the world’s second-largest wireless market.  Airwaves held by some government departments, companies and
telecommunication services providers may be freed up,  Kapil Sibal , India’s telecommunications minister, said at a news
conference in  New Delhi  today. India will “facilitate
consolidation” in the industry while ensuring competition,
create a single nationwide permit, separate the sale of spectrum
and licenses and audit use of airwaves, he said.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the nation’s largest mobile-phone
carrier, said last year its plans to offer nationwide high-speed
services were thwarted after a “severe spectrum shortage”
contributed to driving up prices at an auction for third-
generation airwaves. Nine of India’s 15 mobile phone service
providers have 3G spectrum, with Bharti owning permits for 13 of
the nation’s 22 telecommunications zones and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
holding nine.  “Spectrum sharing is a very critical aspect because none
of the operators have third-generation spectrum on a pan-India
basis,” said Naveen Kulkarni, an analyst at MF Global Sify
Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. Companies such as  Telenor ASA (TEL) ’s local
unit that don’t have 3G permits “can actually frame a long-term
strategy if there is a proper framework for sharing.”  Shares of Bharti Airtel, India’s largest wireless operator,
rose 2.5 percent to 363.55 rupees at the close of trading in
Mumbai.  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  gained 1.7 percent to 74.05
rupees and  Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA)  advanced 2 percent to 92.1 rupees.  Web Economy  India aims to provide phones to every villager by 2020 from
about 35 per 100 now, Sibal said. The government targets to
provide broadband on demand by 2015 and achieve 600 million
broadband connections by 2020, he said.  “We want all citizens of India, all businesses in India,
both rural and urban to participate in the Internet and web
economy to ensure equitable and inclusive development,” said
Sibal. “The objective is to enhance affordability, increase
access, delivery of multiple services and reduce costs.”  The government will make unlicensed spectrum available and
prepare a “roadmap” for additional airwaves every five years,
Sibal said. India will also formulate an “appropriate exit
policy for the licensees,” he said, without elaborating.  A company with a license to provide phone services can’t
sell a stake for three years, according to existing rules. Each
of India’s telecommunications zones needs to have a minimum of
three carriers.  December Deadline  India will promote production of telecommunications
equipment with 65 percent value addition locally to meet 80
percent of the industry’s demand by 2020, Sibal said. The
government proposes to set up Telecom Finance Corp. to fund
projects, he said.  The government will seek feedback and formulate the new
rules by Dec. 31, Sibal said.  The wireless market in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy is
forecast by research firm Gartner Inc. to exceed 872 million
active users by the end of 2014, compared with  601.7 million  at
the end of July. The country had 858 million mobile phone
accounts at the end of July, according to the phone regulator.  Competition among the 15 mobile phone service providers
pushed call charges to less than one U.S. cent a minute, eroding
profitability at the carriers.  The proposal to change rules for the first time in more
than a decade comes amid an investigation into the grant of
wireless permits in 2008.  Corruption Charges  Analysts such as Kunal Bajaj, director of New Delhi-based
consulting company Analysys Mason India Pvt., said the
government needed to provide more details of how its proposals
will be implemented.  “A lot of people in the industry, a lot of investors, are
actually expecting answers to come out of this policy and they
are going to be a little bit disappointed,” Bajaj said by phone
from Hanoi. “If we get a real spectrum roadmap for the release
of spectrum in a reasonable period of time that could be the
most positive thing.”  The government is cracking down on corruption after Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  vowed to punish anyone found guilty of
violating rules in the sale of phone licenses. The auditor last
year said the spectrum sale was “arbitrary, unfair and
inequitable.”  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , who is
now on trial on charges he conspired to sell the permits at
below-market rates, Kanimozhi, a lawmaker, former bureaucrats
and company officials are in jail awaiting trial in the case.
Both Raja and Kanimozhi have denied wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  