-- 
Internet Gold Soars Following Jump in TA-25: Israel Overnight

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-10-11T15:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/internet-gold-soars-following-jump-in-ta-25-israel-overnight.html
Israeli companies listed in the U.S.
rose the most in two months as waning concern the global economy
is falling into recession attracted investors to the cheapest
valuations on record.  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest Israeli
companies traded in the U.S. climbed 3.3 percent to 83.02 in  New
York  yesterday, the steepest gain since Aug. 11, led by  Internet
Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD)  and Partner Communications Co. Gains were
bolstered as  Barclays Capital  raised its recommendation on
Israeli technology companies to “positive.”  Israel ’s TA-25
Index benchmark rose 0.6 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel
Aviv after surging the most since 2009 yesterday.  Global stocks rallied yesterday, with the  S&P 500  having
the biggest gain since August, as the leaders of Germany and
 France  gave themselves three weeks to create a plan to
recapitalize banks. The average multiple on Israeli stocks
traded in the U.S. had fallen to 7.98 times expected earnings,
the lowest since at least 2006, as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government sought to boost local competition while
 Europe ’s crisis eroded global growth.  “This was just bottom picking,” Saar Golan, a trader at
Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said by telephone. Some
of the biggest gainers today “are among the worst performers
this year.”  Internet Gold  Internet Gold shares fell 0.9 percent to 41.74 shekels in
Tel Aviv, or the equivalent of $11.33, after surging 9.7 percent
yesterday. They jumped 10 percent to $11.47 in the U.S.
yesterday. The Israeli Internet provider has posted the biggest
decline this year on the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index, losing 66
percent.  Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said Oct. 9 that Israel is
seeking a company to partner with Israel Electric Corp. to build
a fiber-optic network that can provide fast Internet and
television service and compete with existing fixed-line
companies.  Partner, Israel’s second-largest mobile-phone operator,
rose 1.5 percent to 40.55 shekels, or the equivalent of $11, in
Tel Aviv. The shares gained 7.4 percent to $10.90 in New York
yesterday, paring its decline to 46 percent this year.  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , the country’s largest mobile phone
company, decreased 0.6 percent to 76.37 shekels, or $20.75. The
U.S. stock advanced 5.1 percent to $20.65 yesterday. The shares
have lost 37 percent in New York this year.  Telecommunication Reform  Israeli telecommunication companies must lease their
networks to newcomers, who will compete with them in the local
market, according to recommendations by a committee submitted to
the Minister of Communications on Oct. 4.  “There was a lot of negative news flow on the cellular
companies because of all the reforms they’ve been doing,” said
Terence Klingman, the head of research at Meitav Brokerage in
Tel Aviv.  “Now, they’re having a bounce back.”  Ceva Inc. (CEVA) ,  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  and  Mellanox
Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  are Barclays’s favorite semiconductor
companies among Israeli technology companies, which were raised
from “neutral,”  Joseph Wolf , a Tel Aviv-based analyst, wrote
in an e-mailed report yesterday.  Less Exposure  “The stocks we are recommending play into the fastest-
growing long-term stories in tech, such as cloud computing,
storage and mobile data and handsets,” he wrote. “On an Israel
specific level we see technology stocks as much less exposed to
geopolitical risk and to potential policy shifts.”  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq stock
market, the most of any country outside  North America  after
 China . It is also home to the largest number of startup
companies per capita in the world.  Israeli technology companies raised $569 million in capital
during the second quarter of 2011, the most in two years and up
from $343 million in the same period last year, according to the
Israel Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released July 13.  Ceva, the developer of chips available in most iPhones and
iPads, climbed 5.4 percent to $26.60.  Mellanox, the adapter maker that’s part owned by Oracle
Corp., gained 1.2 percent to 130 shekels, or $35.31 in Tel Aviv
today. The shares increased 3.3 percent to $34.75 in New York
yesterday.  EZchip, the network processors maker that counts Cisco
Systems Inc. as a customer, rose 1 percent to 125.2 shekels, or
$34.01. It climbed to $33.84 in the U.S. yesterday.  Check Point  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) , the world’s second-
largest network-security company, rose 3.2 percent to $57.81,
the highest level in 10 weeks.  “We remain positive on Check Point’s growth
opportunities,” Shaul Eyal, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in
New York, wrote in an e-mailed report dated Oct. 9, ahead of the
company’s third-quarter earnings announcement on Oct. 18.
“Demand for Check Point’s products/solutions remains unchanged
despite the broader macro-economic headwinds.”  The shekel gained 0.3 percent to 3.6816 per dollar at 5:23
p.m. in Tel Aviv. The currency is headed for a 4.2 percent drop
this year, the worst performance since 2005 when the shekel fell
6.1 percent.  Central Bank Dissent  Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer’s decision to cut
the benchmark  interest rate  to 3 percent wasn’t backed
unanimously by central bank officials who gave their
recommendations at the rate-setting meeting, according to
minutes released by e-mail yesterday. Two officials supported
the decision, while three favored leaving the rate unchanged.  The Cabinet named on Oct. 9 a six-member committee that
will make future monetary policy decisions. The central bank
governor has had the sole authority to make such decisions.  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT) , Israel’s largest non-government defense
contractor, lost 1.6 percent to 158 shekels, or the equivalent
of $42.91. The U.S. shares gained 6 percent to $43.75 in New
York. Elbit’s unit received a $23 million, five-year maintenance
contract from the U.S. Army.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  