-- 
Iraq Delays Auction of Oil, Gas Fields by Two Months to March

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-10-10T12:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/iraq-delays-auction-of-oil-gas-fields-by-two-months-to-march.html
Iraq  delayed a bidding round for oil
and natural-gas fields to March from January in order to give
companies more time to prepare their bids, said Sabah al-Saadi,
an oil ministry official.  The auction will be held in the first week of March, al-
Saadi, deputy director general of the Baghdad-based Oil Ministry
Petroleum Contracts and Licensing Directorate, said today in a
telephone interview. A planned promotional event for the auction
was pushed to early December from mid-November, he said.  Iraq has qualified 46 companies to bid for 12 exploration
areas to be sold in next year’s bidding round. The seven
concessions for oil and five for gas cover 80,700 square
kilometers (31,158 square miles), according to an Oil Ministry
statement in April. The blocks contain 10 billion barrels of
crude and 29 billion cubic meters of gas, Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said March 22.  Iraq, which holds the fifth-largest  oil deposits  and the
fifth-biggest gas reserves in the  Middle East , relies on crude
sales for most of its revenue. Oil, gas and electricity output
have suffered from decades of war and sanctions. Iraq seeks to
boost oil output to 3 million barrels a day by the end of this
year from 2.4 million barrels in 2010, Luaibi said on Sept. 11.
Exports will reach more than 2.5 million barrels a day this year
from 1.89 million barrels a year earlier, he said.  The country has signed contracts in previous bidding rounds
with international companies including Exxon Mobil Corp. and
Total SA that should quadruple output to 12 million barrels a
day by 2017, Hussain al-Shahristani, deputy prime minister for
energy affairs, said in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  