-- 
Republicans Investigating $4.75 Billion in Loan Guarantees Beyond Solyndra

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-10T17:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/issa-seeks-documents-on-4-75-billion-in-guarantees-correct-.html
Republicans are expanding their
investigation into a U.S. loan guarantee program beyond Solyndra
LLC to four awards issued on the effort’s final day.  Representative Darrell Issa, a  California  Republican and
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
wrote Energy Secretary Steven Chu on Oct. 7 requesting documents
relating to $4.75 billion in awards on Sept. 30, when funding
for the program ran out.  Issa is requesting communications between Energy Department
officials and employees at  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ,  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) ,
 General Electric Co. (GE) , and NRG Energy Inc., which purchased
projects from two solar companies, among other documents.  Republicans have said Solyndra’s $535 million loan
guarantee was rushed for political considerations, leading
federal reviewers of the loan to overlook evidence the Fremont,
California, solar panel maker was a risky bet. Solyndra filed
for bankruptcy protection on Sept. 6.  The guarantees “given on the last day of the program raise
similar concerns,” Issa wrote.  The awards Issa is examining were developed by Tempe,
Arizona-based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) ,  SunPower Corp. (SPWRA)  of San Jose,
California, and  ProLogis (PLD)  Inc. of San Francisco.  ‘Did Not Rush’  “Every application in our portfolio underwent many months
of due diligence from career professionals in the loan program
and outside experts, and many of those projects received
bipartisan support,”  Damien LaVera , a spokesman for the
department, said in an e-mail. “We did not rush to close any
deals before the September 30 deadline.”  Issa wrote Chu to support an Energy Department loan for
Aptera Motors Inc., a Carlsbad, California-based electric-car
maker, according to a letter received by the department Jan. 14,
2010.  “Awarding this opportunity to Aptera Motors will greatly
assist a leading developer of electric vehicles in my
district,” Issa wrote at the time.  Issa said on Fox News Sunday that while it’s common for
lawmakers to push projects in their districts, they don’t have
the power to “actually pick winners and losers.”  First Solar received guarantees of $646 million for its
230-megawatt Antelope Valley Solar Ranch 1 project in Los
Angeles County, and $1.46 billion for its 550-megawatt Desert
Sunlight plant in Riverside County, California.  The solar company sold the Antelope project to Exelon,
while NextEra and GE purchased Desert Sunlight.  SunPower received a $1.24 billion guarantee for a 250-
megawatt solar project in California and sold it to NRG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  