-- 
Italian Industrial Output Increased Most in More Than Decade in August

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-10T09:50:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/italian-industrial-output-increased-most-in-more-than-decade-in-august.html
Italian industrial output rose the
most in more than a decade in August, suggesting the economy
avoided a contraction in the third quarter even as it grappled
with contagion from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Output advanced 4.3 percent from July, when it dropped a
revised 0.3 percent, Rome-based  statistics office Istat  said
today. Economists had expected an increase of 0.2 percent,
according to the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Output climbed 4.7 percent from a year earlier on a
workday-adjusted basis.  “The upswing is at odds with the clear downward trend in
industrial activity in Italy and it has to be seen more as a
technical correction rather than as the harbinger of a solid
rebound,” Annalisa Piazza, an economist at Newedge Strategy in
 London , said in a note to investors. “That said, it will help
GDP growth” and allow the economy to avoid shrinking in the
third quarter, she added.  Gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent in the second
quarter from the three months through March, when it increased
0.1 percent. Italy’s credit rating has been lowered by the three
main rating companies, starting with  Standard & Poor’s  on Sept.
19. Rising borrowing costs and Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s “fragile” government mean that Italy may struggle
to cut Europe’s second-biggest debt burden, at about 120 percent
of GDP, S&P said.  ‘Seasonal Effects’  “The strong increase in August” production “was, most
probably, due to seasonal effects,”  Chiara Corsa  and Loredana Federico, Milan-based economists at UniCredit SpA, wrote in a
note to investors. “Today’s outcome mitigates potential
downside risks to our forecasts for a flat GDP growth.”  The government gave final approval last month to 54 billion
euros ($73 billion) in deficit-cutting measures that convinced
the  European Central Bank  to buy the nation’s bonds after
borrowing costs surged to euro-era records amid concern that
 Greece  may default. The austerity plan, coupled with a previous
package of almost the same size, may weigh on growth.  On Sept. 20, the  International Monetary Fund  cut its growth
forecast for Italy and said the nation will miss its goal of
erasing the budget gap in 2013. The government lowered its
forecast two days later, predicting GDP will rise 0.7 percent
this year and 0.6 percent in 2012 rather than increasing 1.1
percent and 1.3 percent as forecast in April, respectively. The
 Finance Ministry  kept its balanced-budget pledge.  This year “will be a year of sacrifice and transition”
for Benetton Group SpA, Italy’s largest clothing company, Vice
Chairman Alessandro Benetton said on Sept. 20. That trend “will
change” in 2012, he added.  Istat originally reported that production decreased 0.7
percent in July. Third-quarter GDP data are due to be published
on Dec. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at  cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 