-- 
Steve Jobs Died at Home of Respiratory Arrest Related to Pancreatic Cancer

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-10-11T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/jobs-died-at-home-of-respiratory-arrest-tied-to-cancer-1-.html
Steve Jobs ’s death certificate shows
he died at home in  Palo Alto , California, of respiratory arrest
caused by a pancreatic tumor at about 3 p.m. on Oct. 5. His
occupation was listed as “entrepreneur” in the “high tech”
business.  The Santa Clara County Public Health Department in  San
Jose , California, issued the document yesterday, listing
respiratory arrest as the immediate cause of death, with
“metastatic pancreas neuroendocrine tumor” as the underlying
cause. There was no autopsy performed.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  announced Oct. 5 that Jobs, 56, died without
providing any details about the time and place. The iconic chief
executive officer of the iPhone maker resigned his position Aug.
24. He had been diagnosed in 2003 with a neuroendocrine tumor, a
rare form of pancreatic cancer, and underwent a liver transplant
in 2009.  Jobs was buried at a non-denominational cemetery in Santa
Clara County on Oct. 7. The name of the person who filled out
the certificate was blacked out.  Apple unveiled the latest version of its iPhone, the
product that accounts for almost half of the company’s sales, on
Oct. 4, the day before his death.  The company had notified the Palo Alto,  California , police
department a few days before his death that Jobs was expected to
die. The police department sought to be made aware so it could
have patrols ready in case large numbers of mourners gathered at
Jobs’s home, Sandra Brown, a spokeswoman for the department,
said last week.  Apple declined to comment on the death certificate,
spokesman Steve Dowling said yesterday.  The company is planning an event on Oct. 19 to honor Jobs
for employees, Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook said yesterday
in an e-mail to employees.  “I have experienced the saddest days of my lifetime and
shed many tears during the past week,” Cook said in the note,
which was posted on the website 9to5Mac.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 