-- 
KBC Agrees to Sell Europe Private Bank Unit to Precision for $1.4 Billion

-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-10-10T14:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/kbc-agrees-to-sell-europe-private-bank-unit-to-precision-for-1-4-billion.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) , Belgium’s biggest bank
and insurer by market value, agreed to sell its private-banking
unit to a Qatari investor for 1.05 billion euros ($1.41 billion)
as it seeks to repay Belgian government rescue funds.  The sale of Luxembourg-based KBL European Private Bankers
SA will boost KBC’s capital by about 700 million euros and
result in a 0.6 percent increase in its Tier 1 ratio, KBC said
today in an e-mailed statement. The transaction will reduce
third-quarter earnings by about 400 million euros, it said.  KBC, the recipient of 7 billion euros of government funds
during the financial crisis, had to delay the sale earlier this
year after failing to get regulatory approval to sell the unit
to  India ’s Hinduja Group for 1.35 billion euros. KBL had assets
under management of 47 billion euros on June 30.  “The capital release is at the low end of the range KBC
indicated when they announced the plan to sell KBL,” said Jan Willem Weidema, an Amsterdam-based analyst at ABN Amro Bank NV.
“Still, the main thing is that it is reassuring that they
managed to do this under the current market circumstances.”
Weidema recommends clients to buy the stock.  Including 115 million euros in capital KBC said it released
from the unit in the last 1 1/2 years, the capital contribution
totals 815 million euros. That compared with a range of 800
million euros to 1.5 billion euros targeted by KBC in 2009.  KBC Shares  KBC shares dropped 1.4 percent to 18.70 euros as of 2:20
p.m. in Brussels, while the 46-company Bloomberg  Europe  Banks
and Financial Services Index slipped 0.1 percent. KBC has
declined 27 percent since the start of this year.  The buyer, Precision Capital, is a company representing the
business interest of an unspecified Qatari investor, KBC said in
the statement. KBC will continue to offer private-banking
services in Belgium and central and eastern Europe through its
KBC-branded private-banking businesses.  The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and KBC
expects to complete the sale in the first quarter.  “The agreement will allow KBC to release a significant
amount of capital, to reduce our risk profile and to further
strengthen our focus on the core bancassurance expertise and
markets of Belgium and central and eastern Europe,” Chief
Executive Officer Jan Vanhevel said in the statement.  KBC is also in the process of selling its Polish bank and
insurance subsidiaries as it seeks to raise funds to repay the
Belgian state.  Banking Units  The firm originally agreed to sell as much as 40 percent of
both its Czech and Hungarian banking units in initial public
offerings to gain the EU’s approval for the taxpayer-financed
rescue and raise funds to repay state aid. The Belgian bank and
insurer renegotiated the agreement after Basel III capital rules
and a banking-industry levy in  Hungary  made the IPOs less
attractive options to raise capital.  “KBC shares have been under pressure lately on concerns on
the execution of their asset disposal plans,” Weidema said,
“So this is a good step. Now they can move on with  Poland .”  Belgium’s Aa1 local- and foreign-currency ratings were
placed under review for a downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service
on Oct. 7 because of rising funding risks for euro-area nations
with high levels of debt and additional bank support measures
that are likely to be needed.  The review will focus on the vulnerabilities of Belgian
public debt in the current euro-area sovereign crisis and
potential costs and contingent liabilities that the government
may incur in supporting Dexia SA, Moody’s said.  Consumer-Lending Unit  The Belgian federal government agreed to buy Dexia’s local
consumer-lending unit for 4 billion euros after concern over its
European sovereign-debt holdings caused its short-term funding
to evaporate.  Belgium  also agreed to guarantee 60 percent of a
so-called bad bank to be set up for Dexia’s troubled assets.
Dexia will sell assets, including its Luxembourg unit and its
French municipal lending arm, to give the bad bank capital to
absorb future losses.  The bank is in talks to sell Dexia Banque Internationale a
Luxembourg to a group backed by the Qatari family behind
Precision Capital, Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden
told reporters today.  “The fact that the family group from Qatar” bought KBL
and agreed to buy Dexia BIL “is good for the Luxembourg
financial sector because the two groups are complementary and
can develop independently from one another,” Frieden said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 