-- 
Keynes and Hayek, the Great Debate (Part 3): Nicholas Wapshott

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   W a p s h o t t
-- 
2011-10-10T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/keynes-and-hayek-s-great-debate-part-3-commentary-by-nicholas-wapshott.html
By the early 1940s, the Keynesian
Revolution in America was in full swing. Fast-moving events in
Germany obliged  Franklin D. Roosevelt  to spend on the vast scale
that John  Maynard Keynes  prescribed. Despite the president’s
assurances during the 1940 presidential campaign -- “I have said
this before, but I shall say it again and again and again: Your
boys are not going to be sent into foreign wars” -- he ordered a
gargantuan rearmament program. In 1940, the annual defense
expenditure was $2.2 billion; the following year it reached a
sizzling $13.7 billion.  “If expenditure on armaments really does cure unemployment,
a grand experiment has begun,” Keynes declared in 1939. “We may
learn a trick or two which will come in useful when the day of
peace comes.”  The multiplier effect of so much public money being pumped
into the American economy caused gross domestic product to jump
by about $25 billion, with arms and other defense spending
accounting for 46 percent of the increase. Even so, employment
wasn’t restored to the pre-Roosevelt recession level until 1941,
the year America was attacked by the Japanese at  Pearl Harbor .
“We saw the war as a justification of the Keynesian theory, the
Keynesian doctrine, and the Keynesian recommendation,” John Kenneth Galbraith recalled.  Pessimistic Masterwork  Friedrich Hayek, meanwhile, set out on his pessimistic
masterwork, “The Road to Serfdom.” As his biographer Alan
Ebenstein observed, the book revolutionized Hayek’s life. Before
its publication, he was an unknown professor of economics. A
year after it was published, he was famous around the world. Not
bad for a book that Hayek, with rare modesty, believed only a
few hundred would read.  The principal targets of “The Road to Serfdom” are what
Hayek deemed the twin evils of socialism and fascism, though he
felt obliged to soften his criticisms of communism and allude
more to the dangers of Nazism because at the time of writing
 Josef Stalin ’s  Soviet Union  was allied to Britain and America.
He said the common perception that the extremes of Left and
Right were polar opposites was a misapprehension because both --
by replacing market forces with state planning -- assaulted
individual liberties. He reiterated his belief that as economic
planners can’t know the will of others, they end up acting like
despots.  Preconditions for Totalitarianism  Hayek feared that when World War II was won, the Allied
victors might conclude that wartime economic management would
speed a more prosperous, more just postwar society. Such
policies, he warned, invited the preconditions for
totalitarianism and might cause history to repeat itself.  “We have progressively abandoned that freedom in economic
affairs without which personal and political freedom has never
existed in the past,” he wrote. “It is  Germany  whose fate we are
in some danger of repeating.”  Classical economists and conservatives don’t fare much
better than socialists and communists in Hayek’s stark analysis.
He condemns the “wooden” advocates of free-market solutions,
while rejecting conservatism, a devotion to existing
institutions. “Though a necessary element in any stable society,
[conservatism] is not a social program,” he wrote. “In its
paternalistic, nationalistic and power-adoring tendencies, it is
often closer to socialism than true liberalism; and with its
traditionalistic, anti-intellectual, and often mystical
propensities it will never . . . appeal to the young and all
those others who believe that some changes are desirable if this
world is to become a better place.”  Coincidence  By coincidence, Keynes read “The Road to Serfdom” in June
1944, while he was sailing across the Atlantic en route to
 Bretton Woods  in  New Hampshire  to preside over the negotiations
for the international currency mechanism that took the hotel’s
name. Plainly relaxed after his sea crossing, Keynes dropped a
line to his old rival from the Claridge Hotel in  Atlantic City ,
 New Jersey .  “The voyage has given me the chance to read your book
properly,” he wrote. “In my opinion it is a grand book. We all
have the greatest reason to be grateful to you for saying so
well what needs so much to be said. You will not expect me to
accept quite all the economic dicta in it. But morally and
philosophically I find myself in agreement with virtually the
whole of it; and not only in agreement with it, but in a deeply
moved agreement.”  Role for Planning  Hayek conceded in “The Road to Serfdom” that in the case of
tackling chronic unemployment, planning might play its part and
that the right form of planning might not lead to oppression. As
he later expressed it, “So far as government plans for
competition or steps in where competition cannot possibly do the
job, there is no objection.” He also believed that the state may
have a moral duty to step in and that was admissible so long as
the spirit of free enterprise was not compromised.  “There can be no doubt that some minimum of food, shelter,
and clothing, sufficient to preserve health and the capacity to
work, can be assured to everybody,” he wrote. “Where, as in the
case of sickness and accident, neither the desire to avoid such
calamities nor the efforts to overcome their consequences are as
a rule weakened by the provision of assistance -- where, in
short, we deal with genuinely insurable risks -- the case for
the state’s helping to organize a comprehensive system of social
insurance is very strong.”  (Nicholas Wapshott, a former senior editor at the Times of
 London  and the New York Sun, is the author of “ Ronald Reagan  and
 Margaret Thatcher : A Political Marriage.” This is the third in a
four-part series excerpted from his new  book , “Keynes Hayek:
The Clash that Defined Modern Economics,” to be published Oct.
11 by W.W. Norton. See  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nicholas Wapshott at  wapshott@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 