-- 
Kinetic Cuts Bond Sale to $1.65 Billion as Spreads Widen

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   G o w r i   G u r u m u r t h y
-- 
2011-10-10T19:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/kinetic-cuts-bond-sale-to-1-65-billion-removes-unsecured-notes.html
     Oct. 10 (Bloomberg) --  Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , the wound
care company that’s being bought by Apax Partners Inc., is
cutting the size of a speculative-grade bond offering to $1.65
billion from $2.55 billion, according to a person with knowledge
of the transaction.  The company delayed marketing of $900 million of senior
unsecured notes, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. Kinetic still plans to sell $1.65
billion of senior secured second-lien debt due 2019 in euros and
dollars, the person said.  The firm agreed in July, before credit markets weakened, to
be taken private in the largest leveraged buyout since Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. failed in 2008.  Junk bonds  have lost 8.2
percent since July while debt graded CCC and lower has plummeted
15 percent amid investor concern that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis is
intensifying and the economic recovery is faltering.  The San Antonio-based company is also planning a $2.2
billion  term loan  that may be sold for as little as 95.5 cents
on the dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The second-lien notes were graded B3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and B from  Standard & Poor’s  while the unsecured debt
was assigned a Caa1 from Moody’s and CCC+ from S&P.  Kinetic’s offering was poised to be the biggest since HCA
Inc. issued $5 billion of debt on July 26, and the fifth-largest
this year. The debt will be marketed in Europe this week and
then in the U.S., the person said. Morgan Stanley,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Canada
are managing the sale, the person said.  Bond Spreads  Relative yields on speculative-grade debt, rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P, have expanded 2.97
percentage points since the end of July to 8.55 percentage
points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
Spreads on bonds rated CCC and lower widened to 1,560 basis
points on Oct. 4 from 915 basis points on July 31.  Kinetic said today that third-quarter profit rose 17 to 23
percent as revenue from its LifeCell unit increased. The
preliminary results were released to help potential investors
evaluate the company’s performance while it plans the bond
offering the company said in a statement.  Third-quarter earnings were $89 million to $93 million as
worldwide revenue rose 4 to 5 percent, Kinetic said in the
statement. The company plans to release full results on Oct. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Gowri Gurumurthy in New York at 
 gurug@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  