-- 
Kingfisher CEO Sees U.K. Retail Market Little Changed, France More Robust

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-10-10T23:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/kingfisher-ceo-sees-u-k-retail-market-little-changed-france-more-robust.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  Chief Executive
Officer Ian Cheshire said he sees a “broadly flat” U.K. retail
market in the coming year, while  France  looks “more robust.”  “It’s more uncertain than it’s ever been,” Cheshire said
of the U.K., where Kingfisher’s B&Q is the largest home-
improvement chain. France, the retailer’s largest market by
profit and sales, “is structurally a bit better” as consumers
are less indebted, the CEO said yesterday in the northern French
city of Lille.  Boosting U.K. growth will depend on political decisions,
Cheshire said, adding that Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  should invest in  job creation . London-based Kingfisher
has said it plans to invest 130 million pounds ($204 million)
and create 1,200 jobs in the U.K., where shrinking household
incomes and  consumer confidence  have caused sales to decline.  Cheshire advised against cutting the value-added  tax rate ,
saying the government should commit to reducing the deficit.
Britain’s VAT rate was raised to 20 percent this year from 17.5
percent in 2010.  “It’s a tricky act because he has to say he’s committed to
lowering the deficit, because if you lose track of that you
could end up blowing the economy out,” Cheshire said.  “The danger is you have potentially people sitting on cash
on balance sheets and not feeling confident enough to invest and
create jobs. Employment is the key issue.”  The U.K. ILO unemployment rate probably rose to 8 percent
in September, according to the average estimate of 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the announcement tomorrow.  The CEO said the overall home-improvement market in the
U.K. has shrunk about 15 percent since 2005.  “I’ve been in recession for six years,” Cheshire said of
the British market. “There are opportunities in a flat market
with common ranges and innovation.”  The retailer, which owns French chains Castorama and Brico
Depot, has compensated for a weak U.K. market with initiatives
to cut the cost of buying merchandise, and has also benefited
from expansion in countries such as Poland and  Russia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  