-- 
NBA, Union to Meet on Deadline Day for Cancellation of Regular-Season Game

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-10T05:55:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/nba-players-union-meet-for-five-hours-schedule-another-meeting.html
The  National Basketball Association 
will hold a last-ditch bargaining session with its players on
the day the league said it would cancel regular-season games if
no agreement was reached on a new labor contract.  The two sides will meet this afternoon in New York after
talking for almost 5 1/2 hours last night at a Manhattan hotel.  The NBA on Oct. 4 canceled the entire preseason schedule
and said it would wipe out the first two weeks of the regular
season if an agreement in principle wasn’t reached by today.  “There’s not anything new to report,”  National Basketball
Players Association  President  Derek Fisher  told reporters when
the meeting ended shortly before midnight. “We’re not
necessarily any closer than we were going into tonight but we’ll
be back at it tomorrow and we’ll keep putting time in.”  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  declined to comment other than
to say that the two sides were breaking for the night and would
reconvene this afternoon.  Play is scheduled to begin Nov. 1. The league’s preseason
originally was slated to begin yesterday.  Stern disclosed on Oct. 4 that the league suggested a 50/50
split of basketball-related income between the players and the
owners. Players had received 57 percent under the previous six-
year labor accord. The Oct. 4 talks ended when the union --
whose previous best offer was to take 53 percent -- refused the
owners’ proposal.  It appeared until yesterday that the two sides might not
negotiate again before the deadline. Initially the NBA didn’t
want to meet again unless the union agreed to the proposed 50/50
split, a precondition that was unacceptable to the union. It was
unclear whether the precondition was lifted or the players
acquiesced before yesterday’s meeting.  Union Executive Director  Billy Hunter  and Fisher planned to
fly to  Los Angeles  for regional player meetings today before the
two sides finally agreed to meet last night.  “We feel like our guys would want our time to be used in
meeting and trying to get closer to getting a deal done,”
Fisher said. “So instead of going forward with that (LA)
meeting we’re going to put it off and then we’ll reschedule it
accordingly depending on what happens tomorrow and into the week
if we continue to meet.”  Following two years of discussions and several months of
formal negotiations, the NBA locked its players out on July 1
after the two sides were unable to agree on how to split money
from a league that made about $4.3 billion in revenue last
season. Stern has said the league’s 30 teams collectively lost
about $300 million during that period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  