-- 
Netflix Retreats From 3-Week-Old Plan to Separate DVD, Streaming Services

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-10-10T20:12:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/netflix-retreats-from-plan-to-split-dvds-from-streaming-business.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , reacting to customer
anger, retreated from a three-week-old decision to split its
mail-order DVD and Internet-streaming services.  Customers will be able to access the two services from
Netflix.com, with one account and password, the  Los Gatos ,
California-based company said in a statement, scrapping a plan
to create a separate DVD offering called Qwikster.  The reversal is an acknowledgment of users’ rejection of
Netflix’s plans to raise prices and the subsequent Sept. 18
announcement detailing the separation of the services. It may
also be a sign that an increasing number of customers dropped
the service in the past weeks, as measured by the churn rate.  “Netflix wouldn’t have reversed course and suffered the
stigma of walking away from Qwikster if they weren’t seeing a
substantial uptick in their churn rate,” said Mike Olson, an
analyst at Piper Jaffray in  Minneapolis  who rates the shares
“overweight.”  Netflix declined $5.59, or 4.8 percent, to $111.62 at the
close in  New York . The shares have slumped 28 percent since
Sept. 18.  “The real cause of the strategy shift could be higher-
than-expected customer churn rates in late September and early
October,”  George Askew , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus in
 Washington , wrote in a note today to investors. He recommends
holding the shares.  ‘Moving Too Fast’  “Consumers value the simplicity Netflix has always offered
and we respect that,” co-founder and Chief Executive Officer
Reed Hastings said today in an e-mailed statement. “There is a
difference between moving quickly -- which Netflix has done very
well for years -- and moving too fast, which is what we did in
this case.”  On July 12, Netflix said people who want streaming and DVDs
would have to pay $7.99 a month for each service, a 60 percent
increase for people who previously got both. Today’s statement
didn’t mention that price change.  “We’ve ruffled a lot of feathers,” Chief Financial
Officer  David Wells  said on Sept. 21 at a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. conference. The company saw “a spike and then a steady
response” of customer cancellations through the quarter and
fewer than expected new subscribers, he said.  Subscriber Forecast  Netflix on Sept. 15 cut its projected subscriber numbers
for the third quarter by 1 million, a reflection of customer
reaction to the price increase. Of those, the company said 9.8
million streamed movies, 12 million received both services and
2.2 million ordered DVDs by mail only.  John Malone ’s Starz LLC on Sept. 1 said it was ending talks
to renew a streaming accord with Netflix. Starz supplies recent
Walt Disney Co. and  Sony Corp. (6758)  movies to Netflix for online
viewing under a contract that expires in February.  Netflix on Sept. 18 said people who wanted DVDs would have
to sign up for Qwikster, requiring a separate account and
billing. On that day, Hastings also apologized in a blog post
for the company’s handling of of the July price change.  “I slid into arrogance based on past success,” Hastings
wrote at the time.  Explaining the split, he said the DVD and streaming
operations “are becoming two quite different businesses, with
very different cost structures, different benefits that need to
be marketed differently, and we need to let each grow and
operate independently.”  Netflix posted the announcement of today’s change in its
plans on the corporate blog and also sent e-mails to its
subscribers, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  