-- 
New Hampshire’s Unease Even With Low Jobless Rate Fuels Debate

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-10-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/new-hampshire-s-anxiety-even-with-low-jobless-rate-fuels-debate-on-economy.html
Most states would look enviously at
a 5.3 percent unemployment rate. By  New Hampshire ’s standards,
times are still tough.  “Everybody is nervous,” said Charlie Arlinghaus,
president of the Josiah Bartlett Center for Public Policy, a
free-market research group based in Concord. “Everybody is not
sure if things are getting better or getting worse, and they
feel like we need to do better than we are doing now.”  That such anxiety permeates even a state where the jobless
rate is less than half that of other battlegrounds like  Nevada ,
South Carolina and  Florida  underscores how thoroughly the
economy is eclipsing other issues in the presidential campaign.  So far, that’s helped former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who has made New Hampshire the cornerstone of his bid
for the Republican nomination and dominates polls in the state,
the site of the party’s first primary.  Concern about the economy will be raised at a  debate 
tomorrow sponsored by Bloomberg News and the Washington Post at
 Dartmouth College  in Hanover, New Hampshire. The debate,
featuring Romney and seven other Republican presidential
candidates, will be the first of the 2012 campaign to focus
solely on the economy. The session will be broadcast on
Bloomberg Television, Bloomberg Radio, WBIN-TV in New Hampshire
and on Bloomberg.com and WashingtonPost.com.  Fourth Lowest  New Hampshire’s August unemployment rate of 5.3 percent was
almost 4 points below the national average of 9.1 percent. Only
 North Dakota ,  Nebraska  and  South Dakota  had lower rates.  Among the five states now scheduled to start the Republican
nominating season, New Hampshire has the lowest jobless  rate .
 Iowa , where the caucuses will begin the process in December or
early January, had the eighth-lowest rate in the nation for
August, at 6.1 percent.  Republicans are more likely to confront greater economic
anxiety in  South Carolina , Nevada and Florida, where the August
rates were 11.1 percent, 13.4 percent and 10.7 percent.  “We have done fairly well weathering the recession,” said
Adrienne Rupp, vice president of the  Business and Industry
Association of New Hampshire . “We are hearing from businesses
that they are seeing more activity and thinking about starting
to hire employees.”  Still, New Hampshire’s unemployment rate has ticked up in
recent months, from 4.8 percent in May. Before mid-2008, the
state’s rate was typically around 3.5 percent.  And it lost about 16,000 jobs to  China  from 2001 through
2008, proportionally more than any other state, according to a
 study  by the Washington-based  Economic Policy Institute .  ‘Pinching Pennies’  “We didn’t get hit as hard,” said Dennis Delay, an
economist at the  New Hampshire Center for Public Policy Studies ,
a nonpartisan research group based in Concord. “But relative to
New Hampshire’s historical rate of unemployment, it’s still
higher than we are used to seeing.”  It’s too high for Steve Millett’s liking.  “It’s not looking very good right now,” said Millett, 41,
a telephone company lineman from the town of Jefferson who was
shopping over the weekend at the Mall of New Hampshire. “People
are pinching pennies and business is slower.”  Arlinghaus of the Bartlett Center said New Hampshire voters
may be less volatile than those in more economically troubled
states.  ‘Less Anger’  “There is possibly less anger here than there is in some
places, but I think some of that has to do with the Tea Party
movement not being a new thing here,” he said. “The notion of
government reform and economic issues has always been strong
here, so it doesn’t seem as different from previous years. These
issues have been at the forefront in New Hampshire for
decades.”  Monique Lindquist, 39, a hospital human resources worker
who lives in Goffstown, said she frequently sees the damage
unemployment has done to job applicants.  “I see other people who have been looking for work a long
time,” she said.  New Hampshire’s population, now 1.3 million, grew 6.5
percent between 2000 and 2010, according to  census data . That
was less than the national gain of 9.7 percent. Yet Delay, the
economist, said the state benefits from tens of thousands of
commuters who live in New Hampshire and travel to jobs in the
Boston area.  Low-Tax State  There are only about 30 publicly traded companies domiciled
in the state, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They had
a combined market value of $7.3 billion at the end of trading
Oct. 7, less than that of  Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL)  of  Minnesota .  Delay said smaller companies are attracted to the state’s
educated workers and relatively low costs, which he said
includes one of the lowest tax burdens in the nation. New
Hampshire’s state and local tax burden is about 8 percent of
income, ranking it 44th in the U.S.,  according to  the
Washington-based  Tax Foundation , a nonpartisan research group.  “The manufacturers that we still have here have adapted,”
he said. “We don’t have large physical plants and large
companies that are located here.”  The state’s companies, such as Lisbon-based  New England
Wire Technologies , tend to make components that go into things,
rather than final products, Delay said.  “It makes you a little lighter on your feet,” he said of
the state’s diversified economy, which also includes business
services, education and tourism.  Liking Romney  Many of those who work in that low-tax, diversified economy
have shown an affinity for Romney, from neighboring
 Massachusetts . His backers say Romney’s business experience,
which includes working as the head of the private-equity firm
Bain Capital LLC, gives him a boost.  “They know Romney,” said Tom Rath, a former New Hampshire
attorney general and a supporter. “They like his background and
feel he is credible.”  A  Granite State Poll , sponsored by WMUR-TV and conducted by
the University of New Hampshire Survey Center, that was released
Oct. 7 showed Romney leading among the state’s Republicans, with
support from 37 percent; businessman  Herman Cain  came in second
with 12 percent. The poll, conducted Sept. 26 through Oct. 6,
had a margin of error of plus or minus 5.3 percentage points.  Rath said New Hampshire’s unemployment rate “looks better
than it feels,” adding that there are many “underemployed”
workers in the state.  “What you have here is a high degree of angst,” he said.
“There is a great concern here that this president, for
whatever reason, has not been able to direct this economy in a
positive direction.”  ‘Kind of Stalled’  President  Barack Obama  won New Hampshire and its four
electoral votes in 2008, although his popularity has fallen
since then.  Two-thirds of New Hampshire adults disapprove of Obama’s
job performance on the economy, according to a Sept. 25-29  poll 
by American Research Group Inc., of Manchester. The survey had a
margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  David Fink, 47, a welder who lives in Manchester, said the
depressed housing market has kept him from refinancing his home
because he doesn’t have enough equity and it isn’t worth as much
as it used to be.  “It seems kind of stalled,” he said of the housing
market. “It keeps me from doing the things I would like to
do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Manchester, New Hampshire, at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 