-- 
News Corp. Shareholders Should Vote Out Murdochs, 10 Directors, ISS Says

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 
2011-10-10T20:41:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/news-corp-holders-should-reject-murdoch-sons-glass-lewis-says.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  investors should vote
against the re-election of 13 out of 15 board members to
establish more independent oversight of management, said the
proxy advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services.  News Corp. has suffered financial consequences from a
phone-hacking scandal at one of its newspapers that reflect a
lack of oversight, said ISS, which advises more than 1,700
investors on corporate governance issues. It recommended
investors vote against Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch ,
his sons James and Lachlan, and 10 other directors.  “The company’s phone hacking scandal, which began its
public denouement in July 2011, has laid bare a striking lack of
stewardship and failure of independence by a board whose
inability to set a strong tone-at-the-top about unethical
business practices has now resulted in enormous costs,” ISS
said in its report.  ISS has recommended against 3.6 percent of the directors at
companies in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 this year, according to
ISS spokesman  Ted Allen . Shareholders will vote on board members
and other issues at News Corp.’s annual meeting Oct. 21.  Glass Lewis & Co., another proxy advisory firm, also said
the company needs a more independent board. The firm, which
advises institutions with over $15 trillion in assets, said
shareholders should vote against James and  Lachlan Murdoch  and
four other directors.  Strong Disagreement  Phone-hacking at the company’s News of the World tabloid in
 London  is part of a “mosaic of failures” in the board’s
independence, oversight and responsiveness, ISS said. Executive
pay is another area of concern, according to the firm, citing
the elder Murdoch’s cash bonus of $12.5 million in fiscal 2011,
compared with $4.4 million the year before.  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for New York-based News Corp.,
said the company strongly disagrees with ISS’s voting
recommendations and that the proxy advisory firm failed to
consider the company’s financial performance. The company
reported $4.85 billion in operating profit for the year ending
in June, a 23 percent increase from the year before.  “News Corp. believes the recommendations put forth in the
ISS analysis are not in the best interest of the company’s
stockholders,” Everett said in an e-mail statement. “The
company takes the issues surrounding News of the World seriously
and is working hard to resolve them.”  Business Lost  The hacking scandal has led to the loss of revenue and
business deals, according to ISS. Closing the News of the World
will hurt profit at the company’s newspaper unit, the firm said.
Dropping its bid for the remaining shares of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  caused News Corp. to pay a $63 million
breakup fee and to lose out on potentially significant future
earnings, it said. In addition, News Corp. in August lost a $27
million no-bid contract to build an education data-system
tracking student performance for  New York  due to the scandal,
the advisory company said.  “Despite the protestations of the Chairman/CEO in his
Parliamentary testimony, ultimate accountability for the
performance -- and particularly the self-inflicted wounds -- of
the company must rest with the senior management and the board
of directors,” ISS said.  Rupert’s Control  Murdoch’s 40 percent stake in the company’s Class B voting
shares would make it difficult to enact board changes that
differ from his wishes. Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, a friend of
the Murdoch family, owns 7 percent of voting shares.  “I can see a substantial minority voting against some of
the management’s proposal, but seeing a majority voting against
management seems unlikely,”  Paul Hodgson , senior research
associate at Governance Metrics International, said.  James, 38, who appeared in July before a U.K. Parliamentary
committee to explain how much he knew about phone hacking at
News of the World, was recalled to answer further questions
later this year. He said repeatedly that he didn’t know of
widespread hacking, testimony that has been challenged by former
executives at the U.K. newspaper unit.  The only two directors that ISS recommended investors elect
are  Joel Klein , the former chancellor for New York City schools,
and James W. Breyer, a partner at venture capital firm  Accel
Partners .  Votes for the two “are warranted in light of their short
tenure on the board,” the firm wrote.  Klein, 64, is now head of News Corp.’s education division.
Breyer, 50, is a partner at Accel in  Palo Alto ,  California , and
sits on the board of  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  In 2005,
he led Accel’s investment in Facebook Inc. at a $100 million
valuation. The social-networking website is currently worth more
than $65 billion on private exchanges.  News Corp. rose 4.2 percent to $16.93 at the close in New
York. The Class A shares had gained 16 percent this year.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  