-- 
Nigeria Raises Benchmark Rate to 12% to Help Boost Naira

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-10-10T17:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/nigeria-raises-benchmark-rate-to-12-to-help-boost-naira-1-.html
Nigeria ’s central bank increased its
key lending rate by 275 basis points to bolster the naira and
curb price pressures in  Africa ’s biggest oil producer.  Governor Lamido Sanusi raised the policy rate to 12
percent, the highest since it was introduced in 2007, after a
special Monetary Policy Committee meeting in the capital, Abuja,
today. The increase was larger than all 11 forecasts from
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank also lifted the cash-
reserve ratio to 8 percent from 4 percent.  The naira slumped 7.8 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of August, adding to pressure on inflation as the
government prepares to end fuel subsidies and raise spending
next year. That threatens to push inflation, which eased to 9.3
percent in August, above the central bank’s target of 10
percent.  “This certainly isn’t a central bank that does things in
half measures,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in an e-mail. “The
changes announced this afternoon are huge, leaving little room
for doubt in anyone’s mind about the resolve to maintain  price
stability  in Nigeria.”  The naira was at 164.15 to the dollar as of 5:40 p.m. in
the commercial capital, Lagos, down from 162 before the rate
decision was announced.  Tighten Liquidity  The end of the banking crisis in Nigeria paved the way for
the central bank to tighten liquidity conditions, Sanusi said.
The country established the Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria
last year as part of measures to buy bad debts and prevent a
collapse of the banking industry after a crisis in 2008 and 2009
took some lenders to the verge of failure.  “The risks to the banking system of tighter liquidity
conditions have been significantly reduced,” Sanusi said. This
allowed the central bank to “address monetary and liquidity
conditions more aggressively by tightening liquidity and raising
domestic  interest rates .”  Sanusi recommitted the central bank to maintaining exchange
rate stability even after foreign-currency reserves declined,
making it more difficult to maintain the naira peg.  “Maintaining exchange-rate stability, especially in times
of global uncertainty, is crucial to the mandate of price
stability,” Sanusi said.  Foreign-Currency Reserves  The central bank has been drawing down foreign-currency
reserves to keep the naira within a 3 percentage-point band
above or below 150 per dollar at its twice-weekly auctions. The
naira broke through that level for a third time on Oct. 5, after
the bank failed to meet mounting dollar demand for the 24th
straight auction. Reserves have dropped 5 percent to $31.3
billion between Sept. 26 and Oct. 5.  Before today, the MPC had increased its benchmark interest
rate at six of the past seven meetings by a total of 3.25
percentage points.  Inflation may accelerate next year as the government
prepares to remove a subsidy on fuel, saving it 1.2 trillion
naira ($7.3 billion). Nigeria earns 80 percent of government
revenue from oil, the price of which has slumped 16 percent in
 New York  since June 1, reaching $75.67 a barrel on Oct. 4.  “In the face of the specter of declining oil prices,
declining foreign reserves, increased demand for foreign
exchange, fiscal dominance and capital flow reversals, monetary
policy must bear a larger burden of economic adjustment,”
Sanusi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  