-- 
Nigeria Boosts Key Interest Rate to Record

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-10-11T10:02:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/nigeria-boosts-key-interest-rate-to-record-to-protect-naira.html
Nigeria ’s central bank increased its
key lending rate by 2.75 percentage points to help bolster the
naira and curb inflation in  Africa ’s biggest oil producer.  Governor Lamido Sanusi raised the policy rate to 12
percent, the highest since it was introduced in 2007, and
doubled the cash reserves ratio to 8 percent yesterday. The
naira surged 4.6 percent to 156.55 per dollar today, the biggest
gain of more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Nigeria’s banking industry, which was threatened with
collapse after a debt crisis in 2008, has stabilized with the
government’s purchase of bad debts of lenders, paving the way
for the central bank to tighten liquidity conditions, Sanusi
said. Keeping the naira steady, even as lower  oil prices  make it
more difficult to maintain the currency peg, is an important
part of the bank’s strategy to control inflation, he said.  “The central bank chose a very clear intent to maintain
currency stability,”  Leon Myburgh , an economist at Citigroup
Inc. in Johannesburg, said in a telephone interview. “It
certainly was a surprisingly strong move, well beyond what the
market had expected.”  The median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for the rate to increase to 10.25 percent, with 200 basis
points being the highest forecast.  Declining Reserves  Nigeria’s central bank has been drawing down foreign-
currency reserves to keep the naira within a 3 percentage-point
band above or below 150 per dollar at its twice-weekly auctions.
The naira broke through that level for a third time on Oct. 5,
after the bank failed to meet mounting dollar demand for the
24th straight auction. Reserves have dropped 5 percent to $31.3
billion between Sept. 26 and Oct. 5.  “Maintaining exchange rate stability, especially in times
of global uncertainty, is crucial to the mandate of  price
stability ,” Sanusi said.  Inflation, which eased to 9.3 percent in August, may
accelerate next year as the government prepares to remove a
subsidy on fuel, saving it 1.2 trillion naira ($7.5 billion).
Nigeria earns 80 percent of government revenue from oil, the
price of which has slumped 16 percent in  New York  since June 1,
reaching as low as $75.67 a barrel on Oct. 4.  Kenya, Uganda  “In the face of the specter of declining oil prices,
declining foreign reserves, increased demand for foreign
exchange, fiscal dominance and capital flow reversals, monetary
policy must bear a larger burden of economic adjustment,”
Sanusi said.  Nigeria joins policy makers in Kenya and  Uganda  in ramping
up interest rates to protect their currencies. The central banks
of the two East African nations boosted their key rates by 4
percentage points each last week after their currencies dropped
by a fifth against the dollar this year, the biggest declines of
more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Before today, Nigeria’s MPC had increased its benchmark
 interest rate  at six of the past seven meetings by a total of
3.25 percentage points.  “This certainly isn’t a central bank that does things in
half measures,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in an e-mail. The rate
increase leaves “little room for doubt in anyone’s mind about
the resolve to maintain price stability in Nigeria.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  