-- 
Nobel Winners Saved Macroeconomics After Keynes

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-10-10T18:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/nobel-winners-saved-macroeconomics-after-keynes-edward-glaeser.html
In the midst of great macroeconomic
uncertainty, the  Nobel Prize  in Economics has been awarded to
Thomas Sargent, of  New York University , and Christopher Sims, of
 Princeton University , for work on “empirical macroeconomics.”
Sargent and Sims are both superb scholars whose work has molded
macroeconomics. They helped destroy the false certainty of an
older Keynesian orthodoxy, and did their best to build more
robust tools that shed light on public policy over the business
cycle.  Sargent and Sims are part of a small cadre of intellectual
rebels who have pointed out the logical inconsistencies buried
within seemingly impressive Keynesian models of macroeconomics.
In the early 1960s, Keynesian insights had been used somewhat
successfully to iron out the business cycle. President  John F.
Kennedy  supported a Keynesian plan to lower taxes to stave off a
recession, and the economic slump duly diminished.  But economists were seeing flaws in such strategies.  Milton
Friedman  (the 1975 winner of what’s officially known as the Bank
of Sweden Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of  Alfred Nobel )
was perhaps the most visible early critic, but  Edmund Phelps 
(the 2006 laureate) was also particularly prescient in pointing
out that the Phillips curve, an empirical relationship found
between unemployment and inflation, was unlikely to be stable
over the long term.  Yet while Friedman and Phelps grasped the failings of
Keynesianism, they didn’t provide an alternative set of tools.
And who could blame them? With macroeconomics, there are
barriers to insight. Micro-economists have vast numbers of
essentially independent observations. But macroeconomists must
observe only a limited number of generally idiosyncratic
economic declines, such as the one we face today.  Sargent and Sims tried to build something new from the
wreckage of Keynesianism, and are being honored for their
contributions to empirical work. Sargent was an early leader of
a movement often labeled as “rational expectations”
macroeconomics, whose great contribution was to build
macroeconomics from the ground up, starting with assumptions
about individuals and firms and then examining the implications
for the larger economy. That movement has become mainstream,
partly due to the work of Sargent, who showed how to bring
theory to data.  Sargent’s Contributions  For instance, the prize committee  cited  Sargent’s 1971
“ note ” showing that reasonable assumptions about consumer
rationality mean that typical tests of the connection between
wage growth and inflationary expectations made little sense.  The committee particularly singled out Sargent’s 1973
 paper , which “carried out the first successful economic
estimation under rational expectations.” This paper responded to
criticisms from Robert Lucas Jr., another Nobel-winning
economist, about existing empirical work on the natural rate of
unemployment, and it delivered tools for estimating a
macroeconomic system. The paper elegantly illustrated the
profound differences that result from assuming rational, as
opposed to adaptive, expectations, and it found little support
for a long-run Phillips curve. This work continued with
Sargent’s “A Classical Macroeconometric Model for the  United
States ” in 1976.  Although this year’s prize is focused on “empirical
macroeconomics,” the committee also discussed Sargent’s major
theoretical contributions to economic policy making, which is
cited even more often than his empirical work. Together with the
economist Neil Wallace at  Pennsylvania State University , another
pioneer, Sargent explored the implications of expectations for
monetary policy, finding the surprising result, in a 1975  paper ,
that “in the rational expectations version of the model, one
deterministic money supply rule is as good as any other, insofar
as concerns the probability distribution of real output.”  In other words, as long as monetary supply growth is
extremely predictable, the real economy will muddle along, no
matter how quickly or slowly the monetary supply grows. Sargent
and Wallace’s later “ unpleasant monetarist arithmetic ” argued
that monetary policy, especially open-market operations, may not
even be able to control inflation.  Sargent’s work has wonderfully balanced serious
mathematical theory, strong econometrics and a clear passion for
history. In 1982, he looked at the end of hyperinflation in
 Germany ,  Austria , Hungary and  Poland  before World War II, and
 demonstrated  that these episodes of inflation stopped abruptly,
rather than gradually. A sharp end to hyperinflation suggests
that inflationary expectations aren’t controlled by some fixed
formula based on past inflation.  Sargent has written an insightful  essay  on “Macroeconomic
Features of the French Revolution.” He used his presidential
address to the American Economic Association, provocatively
titled “Evolution and Intelligent Design,” to explore the
intellectual influences on the legendary economist David Ricardo
two centuries ago.  Sargent has also been a great teacher and mentor to
generations of young macroeconomists. Two of his lucid
monographs, “Macroeconomic Theory” and “Dynamic Economic
Theory,” have long been mainstays of macroeconomic education.
They may be the most dog-eared textbooks I own. I had the
fortune to be a colleague of Sargent’s at the Hoover Institution
in 1994-1995, and was profoundly influenced by his gentle spirit
of scholarship.  Theory and Data  He and Sims did their most important work simultaneously,
and they even cooperated on one well-known paper, but Sims’s
contributions are quite different in character. Sargent always
begins with theory. Sims begins with data. Sims taught us how
empirical work can and should inform theory.  Sims -- like Sargent, Lucas and Edward Prescott (another
great theorist of the post-Keynesian world) -- saw that the
Keynesian macroeconometric models were a thing of the past, but
he understood the ongoing need for economic prediction. Perhaps
one day, economic theory will make complete sense of the
business cycle, but until that time, policy makers and ordinary
investors will still want to have some idea of what lies ahead.
Sims’s work addressed that need, free from the confining
assumptions of Keynesianism.  His most-often cited  work  is aptly titled “Macroeconomics
and Reality.” The paper catalogs the criticisms of macroeconomic
models, and then provides an alternative approach -- Vector
Autoregressions. VARs make no pretense of uncovering deep
parameters of an economic model, but rather provide a
statistical tool for integrating various macroeconomic series,
and rely on assumptions, not about the whole economy, but about
the independent nature of some shocks. If some series of shocks
to the economy cause, but are not caused by, other series, then
econometricians can create powerful predictive models. Sims’s
approach is now accepted around the world.  The prize committee also referred to Sims’s earlier and
often-cited  work  that focused on applying U.K. economist Clive
Granger’s definition of causality to macroeconomics. Granger
defined causality not with philosophy but with timing. If
variable X helps predict the future of variable Y, usually
controlling for the past of variable Y, then variable X can be
said to “Granger cause” variable Y. Sims found that  money supply 
appears to “Granger cause” changes in income, but there is no
comparable causal link between income and money supply.  Sims’s contributions to time-series econometrics are
enormous, and he has also inspired scores of students. His work
is distinctly pragmatic and the prize committee did well by
balancing him with Sargent.  The world faces big macroeconomic challenges, and
macroeconomists lack a clear consensus of what should be done.
But their debates are guaranteed to persist because the
conditions are always changing, and natural experiments are
scarce. Still, we know much more than we did 40 years ago about
how the macroeconomy operates, and Thomas Sargent and
Christopher Sims deserve plenty of credit for moving the field
forward. Their prizes are extremely well-deserved.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  