-- 
NYSE Website Runs Without Interruption on Day of Hacker Threat

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-10-10T22:57:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/nyse-website-runs-without-interruption-on-day-of-hacker-threat.html
A hacker group’s threat to erase the
New York Stock Exchange from the Internet proved empty today as
the biggest U.S. stock trading venue said its website functioned
without interruption.  Users saw occasional delays logging on to  NYSE.com  in the
afternoon, around the time the Anonymous collective said its
attack was to begin. The exchange operator said there were no
outages and declined to comment on the company’s security
measures,  Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for New York-based  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , said. Anonymous posted a message on YouTube earlier
this month declaring war on the exchange to protest the arrests
of Wall Street protesters.  Over the last year, Anonymous and a splinter group known as
LulzSec have been involved in a string of high-profile cyber
attacks whose targets include the U.S. Central Intelligence
Agency, the television network PBS, Sony Corp.,  MasterCard Inc. (MA) 
and the websites of governments in Egypt and  Tunisia . More than
20 members have been arrested in the U.S. and  Europe .  “Is it too early for me to say ‘I told you so?’” someone
called AnonNep posted on Twitter at 4:30 p.m. “I just hope to
high heaven none of you bloody fools get arrested for this.”  The NYSE.com website, where NYSE publishes corporate
information, press releases and trading notices, was running
“without interruption” at 4:30 p.m. New York time, Adamonis
said in an e-mail. An attack on the NYSE website would have had
no effect on trading.  Failed Attack  The failed attack could be the result of the time the NYSE
security team had to prepare, the weaknesses in the group from
the arrests, or both, said E.J. Hilbert, president of Online
Intelligence and a former FBI cyber-crime specialist.  “It’s like four 9-pound weaklings running into a Sumo
wrestler,” Hilbert said. “If you don’t have enough people
behind an event like this, it’s just a spike in traffic as far
as NYSE is concerned.”  Earlier this year, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and federal
authorities began an investigation into possible computer
hacking after “suspicious files” were discovered on its
website, which helps board members at corporations it lists
communicate. The exchange operator said the issue with its web-
based Directors Desk application didn’t impair the trading
systems of Nasdaq Stock Market or its other exchanges. The
trading platforms operate independently from the company’s
“web-facing” services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  