-- 
NYU’s Sargent Shares Nobel With Princeton’s Sims for Economic Policy Work

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 
2011-10-10T20:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/nyu-s-sargent-shares-nobel-with-princeton-s-sims-for-economic-policy-work.html
New York University ’s Thomas J. Sargent and Princeton University’s Christopher A. Sims shared
the 2011 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for their work in
sorting out cause from effect in the economy and policy.  The two, both 68, will share the 10 million-krona
($1.48 million) prize that comes with the award, the Royal
Swedish Academy of Sciences, which selects the winner, said
today in  Stockholm .  “Although Sargent and Sims carried out their research
independently, their contributions are complementary in several
ways,” the academy said. “The laureates’ seminal work during
the 1970s and 1980s has been adopted by both researchers and
policy makers throughout the world. Today, the methods developed
by Sargent and Sims are essential tools in macroeconomic
analysis.”  Sargent’s research has centered around the rational
expectations hypothesis, which assumes people base their
expectations on constantly updated and reinterpreted
information. Sims is known for his application of multiple-
equation, econometric models -- known as vector auto-regression
-- in predicting economic outcomes.  “Within the economics profession, they are absolutely at
the top,”  Robert Solow , winner of the Nobel economics prize in
1987 and professor emeritus at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , said in a telephone interview. “They are very, very
sophisticated designers of ways to get information out of the
time series of economic data.”  Central Bankers  Central bankers and government officials use the work the
two men have done to help determine how changes in policy affect
the economy and vice versa, Solow added.  “There’s no simple way to apply it,” Sims said by phone
during a press conference after the prize was announced, in
response to a question on how his research could be used to
analyze the current economic situation. “It requires a lot of
slow work looking at data -- the methods I use and that Tom have
developed are central to finding our way out of this mess.”  The two economists voiced pessimism about the outlook for
the 17-member euro zone at a joint press conference at  Princeton
University  in New Jersey.  Sims called the foundation of the monetary regime
“precarious” because of the lack of a unified fiscal authority
that can issue bonds and raise taxes. The departure of one or
more nations from the union would not resolve that, he added.  Euro Prospects ‘Dim’  “The prospects for the euro are dim” if the region can’t
find a way to share its fiscal burden, Sims said.  Sargent likened the situation facing the euro zone to that
which the U.S. confronted early in its history, when the 13
states were each running their own economic policies and issuing
their own debt. “The difficult thing is the politics,” he
said.  Politics are also the trouble now in the U.S. as well, Sims
suggested. There’s broad agreement among economists on what
strategy the U.S. should follow, he said: adopt a plan to deal
with the  budget deficit  while avoiding fiscal stringency in the
short-run and maintaining an accommodative monetary policy.  “The problem is figuring out how in the real world to get
these things done,” he said.  Sargent called U.S. budget policy “very uncertain”
because the government can’t keep all the pledges it’s made on
future benefits while keeping taxes down.  “It’s not clear which of the incredible promises are going
to be broken first,” he said.  Stimulus Limited  Sargent’s work suggests that government stimulus programs
such as those advocated by John Maynard Keynes have a limited
effect on the economy because consumers and companies realize
the measures will be temporary. That’s an argument that
Republican lawmakers have used in opposing President  Barack Obama ’s proposals for spurring growth.  The award to Sargent “is very much a ‘non-Keynesian’
prize,” Tyler Cowen, professor of economics at George Mason
University in Fairfax,  Virginia , wrote on his blog.  “Temporary stimulus, sort of sugar-high economics are not
what businesses are telling us they need to create jobs,” House
Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin  said on NBC
television’s Meet the Press program yesterday.  In an interview last year, Sargent defended his rational
expectations hypothesis against charges that it failed to
explain the behavior of borrowers and lenders in the run-up and
subsequent crash of U.S. housing prices in the last decade.  ‘Rational Expectations’  “Macroeconomists have done creative work that modifies and
extends rational expectations in ways that allow us to
understand bubbles and crashes in terms of optimism and
pessimism,” he said in an interview published by the Federal
Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis  in September 2010.  Sargent received his bachelor’s degree from the  University
of California  at Berkeley in 1964, winning the medal as the
university’s most distinguished scholar the same year. He
obtained his Ph.D. at  Harvard University  in March 1968 and is
the William R. Berkley Professor of Business and Economics at
New York University. He spent much of his career teaching at the
University of  Minnesota .  “Sargent has shown how structural macroeconomics can be
used to analyze permanent changes in economic policy,” the
academy said. “This method can be applied to study
macroeconomic relationships when households and firms adjust
their expectations concurrently with economic developments.”  Part of Sargent’s work was based on a study of government
policies in the post-World War II era, when many countries
initially tended to implement a high-inflation strategies, the
academy said.  Focus on the Data  Sims’s vector auto-regression analysis attempts to focus on
the data and strip out assumptions about how the economy should
work based purely on economic theory.  “One of Sims’s insights was, if you’re just trying to
forecast the economy, economics is less important than sort of
intelligent statistical application,” 1995 Nobel winner Robert Lucas, an economics professor at the  University of Chicago , said
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “In some ways the
economics was just getting in your way from doing that. Chris
developed this vector auto regression technique, which is pretty
much economic forecasting without much economics.”  Sims said that the “most extensive applications” of his
research have been by central banks trying to work out the
effects of monetary policy.  ‘Untangle the Relationship’  “The main contribution of this work is to provide a way to
untangle the relationship between  interest rates  and inflation,
so we can see what the effect of interest-rate policy changes
are on the price level and inflation, and separate that from the
reverse causality that makes central banks react to inflation by
changing interest rates,” he said in a press release issued by
Princeton University in  New Jersey .  Sims has been a professor at Princeton since 1999. He
graduated with a bachelor’s in mathematics from Harvard in 1963
and earned his doctorate in economics there in 1968. He has held
positions at  Yale University , the University of Minnesota and
Harvard and has been a member of the National Academy of
Sciences since 1989.  “It may sound slightly trivial to award the prize for
someone who has studied cause and effect, but it’s not that easy
to study this in the macro economy because the connection is
typically two-way,” Peter Englund, a professor of finance at
the Stockholm School of Economics and permanent secretary of the
academy, told Swedish television station SVT. “One changes
economic policy because inflation looks like it is rising, but
it could also be that inflation is reacting to the changed
economic policy.”  Pleased to Share  Sims said he was surprised by the award and pleased to be
sharing it with Sargent. He told reporters the academy had to
call him twice because “my wife couldn’t find the talk button
on the phone so we went back to sleep.”  He said he would keep the prize money in cash “for a
while” and think about what he would do with it.  The 2010 economics prize was awarded to Peter Diamond,  Dale Mortensen  and  Christopher Pissarides  for their work on the
efficiency of recruitment and wage formation as well as labor-
market regulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janina Pfalzer at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net ;
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  