-- 
Occupy Wall Street Needs Goals, Or Funnel Cake: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-10-10T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/occupy-wall-street-needs-goals-funnel-cake-commentary-by-william-cohan.html
Late last week, I went to the
southern tip of  Manhattan  to see what all the fuss is about, but
discovered that the only people occupying Wall Street these days
are a bunch of tourists and the few remaining bankers who
actually work there.  There wasn’t a protester in sight, in large part because
three weeks into the  Occupy Wall Street  movement, the New York
City police no longer allow anyone remotely interested in
complaining about banker greed,  income inequality  or other
perceived systemic injustices anywhere near the symbolic center
of capitalism. The police have connected the steel barricades
that line much of Wall and Broad streets near the New York Stock
Exchange, and strategically placed late-model SUVs at
intimidating angles in the roadways. Since the Sept. 11 attacks,
cars have been banned from most of Wall and Broad. Now
dissenters have been, too.  If you want to take the pulse of Occupy  Wall Street , you
have to head a couple of blocks north to Zuccotti Park, a
33,000-square-foot, rather unlovely, pink-granite-covered zone
named for John Zuccotti, a former chairman of the city’s
planning commission and the co-chairman of Brookfield Office
Properties Inc., one of nation’s largest real-estate developers.
Brookfield owns the World Financial Center complex across from
 ground zero  and was runner-up to  Larry Silverstein  for the right
to own the 99-year lease on the World Trade Center.  Strange Neighbors  It’s probably lost on the Occupy Wall Street crowd that its
home is across the street from Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.,
one of the oldest private Wall Street firms around, and is named
after Zuccotti, a wealthy developer who received, according to
the latest Brookfield proxy statement, $1.3 million in
compensation in 2010, has $1.5 million more in unexercised
options and is also a senior counsel for the Wall Street law
firm Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP.  Nicholas Kristof, the New York Times columnist, made the
unlikely  comparison  of Zuccotti Park to  Egypt ’s Tahrir Square,
thereby bestowing upon Occupy Wall Street a degree of gravitas
and importance it doesn’t yet have. Kristof was in Tahrir Square
during the Arab Spring protests and is a first-rate reporter,
but it’s difficult to believe the laconic, idiosyncratic scene
on display in downtown Manhattan last week bears the slightest
resemblance to what occurred in Cairo earlier this year. There,
people were fighting for their freedom. Zuccotti Park, truth be
told, seemed more like a low-energy Manhattan street fair in
desperate need of funnel cake and grilled sausages than the
world-changing movement Kristof imagines it to be.  At a corner of the park were some large artworks from the
Beehive Design Collective, a rural Maine artist colony. Just
inside the park, one could catch the dulcet tones of  Harry
Braun , the white-haired chairman and senior scientist for the
Phoenix Project Foundation, which is dedicated to making sure
people understand the consequences of unchecked growth. Braun is
running for president of the  United States . His principal beef
seems to be that the U.S. is not a democracy but rather a
republic ruled “by the tiny few in secret with lobbyists.” (He
may be on to something.)  In a real democracy, Braun said, “instead of raising the
national debt limit, the  U.S. Congress  would be instructed by
the majority of citizens to cancel the tax cuts for the
wealthiest Americans and any further secret banker bailouts”
and return tax rates on the wealthiest Americans to 91 percent,
as they were during the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations.
Good luck with the campaign, Harry!  Sleeping Bag Economics  Near Braun, a young bearded fellow was getting an afternoon
shave. Another young guy was massaging his bare foot where an
ugly looking sore had opened up. A woman was playing with her
pet squirrel, much to the delight of a group of kids. Other
protesters were sacked out -- obviously exhausted from their
ongoing vigil -- for the first time in sleeping bags, thanks to
the collective decision at the previous night’s loosely
organized general assembly to spend $2,000 of its $25,000 in
cash on those luxury items.  Nearby, another young man, probably in college, was doing
his economics homework by writing out mathematical formulas on a
small whiteboard. At the far end of the park, there was bit of
performance art -- people lying on the ground for 30 minutes,
staying still and silent, while looking up at the sky.  Just to the side of the silent sky watchers, I met Michael
Badger, a youthful 38-year-old  New Yorker , and one of the
leaders of the protest’s “coaching” effort. He and a few other
“coaches” were attempting to help the protesters achieve their
loosely defined goals -- not that any have been officially
sanctioned, of course. He said he helped one woman who thought
it would be a good idea if Occupy Wall Street arranged to have
 office space , “where we could all move into,” to help it get
things done. He said he had no idea what became of the woman or
her idea.  Badger, an energetic straight-talker who was one of the 700
protesters arrested Oct. 1 when they tried to cross the Brooklyn
Bridge, said he had no understanding of what Wall Street does or
how it greases the wheels of commerce. He felt a little
uncomfortable admitting that fact, then confided that he did not
know what issues the group wants addressed, nor did he seem to
care that much.  “Asking people here where this is going or what our
demands are is like asking a patient to tell a doctor what his
treatment should be,” Badger said. “We’re just here pointing
out the symptoms of the problem.” It is hard to imagine that
statement being made in  Tahrir Square .  Last week an unnamed Wall Street CEO called  Andrew Ross Sorkin  at the New York Times, and  asked him  if there was
anything to fear from this protest. The obvious answer -- no --
doesn’t provide the full picture. This group is much too
amorphous, uninformed and disparate -- like a tropical storm
sitting in the Caribbean unable to organize itself into a
hurricane -- to pose any near-term existential threat to “the
system.”  Frustration Builds  But in the longer term, peoples’ increasing frustration --
with the fact that trillions of dollars have gone to the rich
while close to nothing has gone to the poor and middle class;
with the fact that the so-called “job creators” are not
creating any jobs; and with the fact that Wall Street still
seems oblivious to the role it played in bringing all this
about, while not much has changed there -- is starting to get
some serious traction.  As I was leaving the park, I ran into David Carr, the
Times’ eagle-eyed media columnist. We fell into step together.
He said he was sensing a Tea Party-like movement in its early
stages. He said he was a romantic about these kinds of
historical moments and was especially impressed by the four-page
 broadsheet  -- “The Occupied Wall Street Journal” -- that the
protesters had somehow put together and were handing out in the
park (donations encouraged, of course). He seemed inspired by
what he saw. I told him I wasn’t all that impressed.  “All nascent political movements start out aimless and
amorphous,” he said convincingly, before breaking away and
heading into the McDonald’s, one block north of Zuccotti Park.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Stacey Shick at 
 sshick@bloomberg.net . 