-- 
Offbeat Economy Thrives at Nigerian Fish Stand: Robert Neuwirth

-- B y   R o b e r t   N e u w i r t h
-- 
2011-10-10T00:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/offbeat-economy-thrives-at-nigerian-fish-stand-robert-neuwirth.html
Ogun Dairo put a match to the pile
of wood chips she had carried from a nearby sawmill. The chips
were soggy and didn’t burn. Instead, they smoldered, and the
smoky fire fueled an unlikely global exchange that has supported
her family of five for three decades.  Here, in the squatter community of Makoko, one of the
waterside shantytowns of Lagos, Nigeria, Ogun Dairo smokes fish.
Without a license, on land that she doesn’t own, she has created
her economic future. The fish is imported from afar, caught in
the  North Sea , frozen and shipped to the cacophonous port city
on the Nigerian coast.  After several hours in the concentrated smoke of her
scorched sawdust --- the strong fumes have stained her wax-print
dress, dulling the extravagant colors -- she packs the fish in
boxes, readying them to be retailed for a tiny profit on the
roadsides of this West African megacity.  Economic development in  Africa  can be found all over,
hidden in plain sight. It evades our gaze because our notions of
growth and development are conditioned by Western rules. We
expect development to be highly organized and regulated, to
involve government, and to be anchored by big corporations. In
Makoko, as in most of the developing world, the great engine of
 economic progress  is different. It is unstructured, unofficial
and, to most people, unfathomable.  Academics call this sub-rosa sphere the informal economy,
an attempt at objectivity that unfortunately links unlicensed
markets with drug dealers and gun runners. But Ogun Dairo and
the billions of other unlicensed businesspeople around the world
are not criminals. So I propose a new name.  Sculpted From French  In French, people who are particularly effective and self-
motivated are known as “ debrouillards .” Former French colonies
have sculpted this word to their economic reality. People doing
business on their own, without registering or paying taxes, are
part of “l’economie de la debrouillardise” -- or, sweetened for
street use, System D.  This translates as the ingenuity economy, or the economy of
improvisation and self-reliance. In much of the developing
world, System D is growing faster than any other part of the
economy. It has become a global powerhouse: In 2009, the
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  concluded
that more than half the workers of the world --  1.8 billion 
people --- made their living in this parallel economic universe.
Friedrich Schneider, chair of the economics department at
Johannes Kepler University in Linz,  Austria , has spent decades
calculating the dollar value of this shadow arena. Using his
percentages, a back-of the-envelope calculation shows that the
tiny transactions made by Ogun Dairo and all other unlicensed
merchants around the world combine to generate almost $10
trillion of economic output a year.  If System D were an independent nation united in a single
political structure -- call it the United Street Sellers
Republic, or perhaps, Bazaaristan -- it would be the second-
largest economy in the world. If the U.S. doesn’t snap out of
its current funk, the USSR/Bazaaristan could overtake it
sometime this century.  Rebranding the informal economy as System D may be cosmetic
surgery, but it offers the opportunity to strip away layers of
preconceptions and consider this massive economic arena anew.
System D turns out to be entrenched in the West, too. Ancient
Rome was a System D city; so was  London  from the  1300s  to the
1800s.  Unlicensed Peddlers  Even in the U.S., System D has a notable history. Sears
Roebuck, Stanley Tools and Van Heusen Shirts all started as
unlicensed peddling operations. Until the spread of credit cards
put most transactions on the books, it was common for mom-and-
pop businesses to hide cash from  Uncle Sam . “We shouldn’t feel
that much moral superiority to Nigeria,” the Nobel Prize-winning
economist  Joseph Stiglitz  told me. “Our small businesses did it,
too.”  Lagos is a striking example of System D in action. It is
one of the world’s fastest-growing cities, home to between 9
million and 17 million people, depending on where you draw the
lines and who does the counting. Now the city has outstripped
its ancient infrastructure and most governmental attempts at
control. There’s no water system, and often no electricity.
Urban ills here seem supersized -- traffic jams are worse than
anywhere else, pollution thicker, poverty more glaring.  When you have stayed put long enough, you gain a new
perspective. A woman retails French lace from a table in a local
restaurant. A man on a rush-hour bus peddles copies of “Think
and Grow Rich” and “Rich Dad, Poor Dad,” pocketing $180 in a
single journey.  In a traffic jam near the Sheraton Hotel, vendors hawk
steering wheels, cookbooks, candy and toilet seats. Lagos is the
world’s largest street market, a self-made place where barefoot
guys working out of mud-and-brick kiosks may be leaders of
networks that have already found the next big thing.  Motorcycle Taxis  Yusef Musa, for instance, has found the future in
motorcycle taxis. An immigrant from Bauchi, in  Nigeria ’s north,
he now owns four bikes: “okada” in local parlance. Yusef and the
drivers who lease from him have no licenses, no registrations
and no insurance. Their motorcycles --- estimates show there may
be a million of them in the city --- clog the roads and are big
contributors to pollution.  Even so, the “okada” are immensely popular. Riders use them
for all sorts of practical purposes: toting 10-foot strands of
rebar, carrying massive sacks of cassava, dashing to a business
meeting, roaring off to church in their Sunday finery. “If you
stop okada in Nigeria today, people will suffer,” Yusef said.
“With this business, we are helping people.”  Despite its lack of reliable electricity, Lagos isn’t a
low-tech city. Even in the most disreputable neighborhoods,
Internet cafes are flourishing, powered by lawnmower-sized
diesel generators. With innards assembled from various sources,
USB ports that may not work, monitors that may flicker or fade,
the computers look unreliable. But you can browse, chat, update
your Facebook page or check on your favorite star’s latest
tweet.  In one Internet center I frequented, many of my fellow
browsers were carefully copying and pasting the same letter into
hundreds of e-mails. They were foot soldiers of Nigeria’s famous
e-mail scams, firing off missives that promised a huge payout
from a frozen bank account if you forwarded your financial
information to a complete stranger.  If I didn’t dump the cache and reset the memory protocols
of the machine after each browsing session, these savvy Nigerian
netizens could ensure that I would receive new spam messages
almost immediately after leaving the cafe.  Andrew’s Ascent  The garbage dump may seem the least likely place for
economic growth. But, for some, the trucks that carry loads of
trash are the  Pied Piper  of economic empowerment. Andrew Saboru
started as a scavenger at age 16. Now in his mid-30s, he has
moved up the ladder and become a dealer at Lagos’s biggest dump,
Olusosun.  He resells plastic to the Chinese, rubber to the Muslims
and scrap iron to whoever will give him the best price. Andrew
earns a 20 percent profit. In a month, he brings in almost three
times the government-mandated minimum wage. Though some waste
pickers live inside the dump, Andrew has vaulted into the middle
class. In his tidy one-room apartment, a 10-minute walk from
Olusosun, his comforts include a ceiling fan, a stereo, a
compact-disc player and a flat-screen television.  Andrew has an account at the local branch of
Intercontinental Bank, and he would like to get a loan to expand
his business. But he knows that no matter how much he saves, the
bank will never lend him any money. His firm isn’t big enough
and isn’t registered. Even if he could jump those hurdles, the
likely interest rate of more than 20 percent would make the cash
infusion far too expensive. Micro-credit, meanwhile, wouldn’t
provide enough money to impact the bottom line.  Despite the impediments, Andrew refused to be despondent.
He fished in his pocket and handed me his card. The name
emblazoned on it symbolizes his hopes and dreams. His firm is
called Right Time Investments.  “Lagos is a city for hustling,” he said before he headed
back to the dump. “If you have an idea and are serious and are
ready to work, you can make money here. I believe the future is
bright.”  (Robert Neuwirth is the author of “Shadow Cities.” This is
an excerpt of his new book, “Stealth of Nations: The Global Rise
of the Informal Economy,” to be published by Pantheon Books on
Oct. 18.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Neuwirth at  squattercity@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
George Anders at   ganders1@bloomberg.net . 