-- 
Crude Oil Climbs to Two-Week High on European Pledge to Stem Debt Crisis

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-10-10T19:38:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/oil-rises-to-two-week-high-on-european-pledge-to-contain-debt.html
Crude oil climbed to the highest
level in two weeks as the leaders of Germany and  France  pledged
to stem the European sovereign-debt crisis.  Futures gained 2.9 percent after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicholas Sarkozy said yesterday they
will deliver a plan to recapitalize the region’s banks and
address the Greek crisis by Nov. 3. The euro surged against the
dollar after the announcement. U.S. employers added more workers
in September than forecast, a report showed Oct. 7.  “Optimism is coming back into the market,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in New
York. “As concerns about the European debt crisis and the  U.S.
economy  heading into recession ease,  oil prices  are going to
climb. These headlines are a sign that demand will increase.”  Crude oil for November delivery rose $2.43 to $85.41 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Sept. 21. Futures, which have gained 13 percent
in four days, are down 6.5 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement increased $3.07, or 2.9
percent, to $108.95 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The euro advanced the most in more than a year against the
dollar after Merkel said yesterday in Berlin that European
leaders will do “everything necessary” to ensure that banks
have adequate capital.  Euro Advances  The euro gained 2 percent to $1.3644 at 3:06 p.m. in New
York. Earlier, it touched $1.3699. A stronger European currency
increases the appeal of raw materials as an alternative
investment. The shared currency weakened on Oct. 7 after  Fitch
Ratings  lowered  Spain ’s foreign and local debt to AA- from AA+
and cut Italy’s to A+ from AA-, citing an “intensification” of
the region’s crisis.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities gained 2
percent to 618.68, the highest level since Sept. 21. Twenty-two
of the commodities advanced, led by sugar, lead, silver and oil.  Crude is rising on “high hopes for an imminent euro-zone
bailout,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a London-based analyst at VTB
Capital, said in an e-mail. “Policy makers in the EU have few
options and no one wants 2008 all over again.”  Oil capped the biggest weekly gain in seven months last
week as larger-than-forecast U.S. jobs growth eased concern that
the economy is slowing.  “Eighty-five dollars is probably fair value for crude,
with a $5 to $10 range around it,” said  Kyle Cooper , director
of research for IAF Advisors in Houston.  Stocks Rise  U.S. stocks surged, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
poised for its biggest rally in a month. The index rose 2.6
percent to 1,185.60 at 3:07 p.m. in New York, and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  increased 253.54 points, or 2.3 percent, to
11,356.66.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index posted its biggest four-day gain
since 2008. It advanced 1.7 percent to 235.94 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London , extending the gauge’s rally over the past four
days to 8.5 percent.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is likely
to keep oil output targets unchanged when it meets in December,
Mohammad Ali Khatibi, an Iranian representative to the group,
said yesterday. Producers and consumers are satisfied with the
current price level for crude, Ali Khatibi said, according to
Shana, the Iranian Oil Ministry’s news website.  There’s no excess supply in world oil markets and  Saudi
Arabia  has been adjusting output to match fluctuating demand
over recent months, Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi said Oct. 8. The
kingdom is OPEC’s biggest producer.  “Demand is always fluctuating, but our position is we
would supply whatever our customers are asking for,” he told
reporters Oct. 8 in Dhahran.  Funds Cut Bets  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil for a third week
through Oct. 4 as concern that slowing economic growth will
reduce fuel demand sent crude to a one-year low just before it
rallied for four straight days.  The funds and other large speculators reduced wagers on
rising U.S. prices by 5.5 percent in the week ended Oct. 4 to
the lowest level since Aug. 23, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on
Oct. 7. Oil fell 10 percent during the period covered by the
report before all but erasing the decline through the rest of
the week. Bullish bets on Brent crude futures also declined.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 469,803
contracts as of 3:08 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 747,117
contracts Oct. 7, 11 percent above the average of the past three
months. Open interest was 1.43 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  