-- 
Crude Oil Drops From Two-Week High in New York Before Vote on Europe Debt

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-10-11T12:10:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/oil-trades-near-two-week-high-on-european-debt-pledge-u-s-growth-outlook.html
Oil fell from its highest in more
than two weeks in  New York  before a government vote in Slovakia
on the euro area’s bailout fund that may endanger a recovery in
the region’s economy.  Futures slipped as much as 1.3 percent and European
equities fell after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the region’s debt crisis has “reached a systemic
dimension.” Crude climbed 2.9 percent yesterday after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicholas Sarkozy
said they will deliver a plan to recapitalize the region’s banks
by Nov. 3. An Energy Department report Oct. 13 may show U.S.
crude supplies rose last week.  “Oil is on the weaker side on somewhat weaker equities,”
said  Eugen Weinberg , the Frankfurt-based head of commodities
research at Commerzbank AG. “There is probably also some
profit-taking after strong gains yesterday, when comments from
Sarkozy and Merkel showed light at the end of the tunnel for the
 euro zone .”  Crude for November delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell as much as $1.14 to $84.27 a barrel and was at
$84.66 at 1:06 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday gained
2.9 percent to $85.41, the highest close since Sept. 21. Prices
are down 5.4 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement declined 0.5 percent to
$108.42 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $23.46 to New
York crude, compared with a record of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Debt Crisis  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.6 percent to
234.47 as of 1:08 p.m. in London. Slovak Prime Minister  Iveta
Radicova  is seeking to pressure rebel lawmakers by tying the
European Financial Stability Facility ratification to a no-
confidence motion, after coalition partners failed to come up
with a last-minute resolution to a Cabinet dispute. Parliament
was due to begin debate at 1 p.m. local time, with a vote
scheduled for sometime later.  ECB President Trichet, also head of the European Systemic
Risk Board, said today that the debt crisis now threatens the
region’s financial system.  “Sovereign stress has moved from smaller economies to some
of the larger countries,” he told lawmakers in Brussels. “The
crisis is systemic and must be tackled decisively.”  U.S. crude oil stockpiles probably rose by 1 million
barrels last week, according to the median of nine analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before a weekly Energy
Department report on Oct. 13. The department is releasing the
data a day later than usual because of yesterday’s Columbus Day
holiday.  London-traded Brent may fall toward $90 a barrel as  Libya 
resumes oil production amid lower demand, according to a report
by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Oil stocks will rise and the need
for crude from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
will fall, driving Brent lower as spare capacity increases and
demand moderates, London-based oil analyst  Oswald Clint  said in
a report.  Brent’s rise toward $110 a barrel is temporary, supported
by higher equity markets and “significant weakening” of the
dollar, according to a report by Commerzbank AG. It has risen
8.5 percent since Oct. 4.  “This market optimism could already be put to the test
today when the Slovakian parliament votes on the planned
extension of the euro-zone bailout package,” said  Carsten Fritsch , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank. “Agreement
is far from certain.”  Arab OPEC members that boosted crude exports to make up for
reduced supply from Libya need to cut production as the North
African nation increases output, Iran OPEC governor Mohammad Ali
Khatibi said, according to the state-run Mehr news agency. The
oil market is in a “very comfortable” situation and it is
“too early” to talk about the next OPEC meeting, its Secretary
General Abdalla El-Badri said in  London  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  