-- 
London Financial Job Vacancies Fell 19 Percent in September, Survey Shows

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-10-10T08:21:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/london-financial-job-vacancies-decline-19-to-reach-lowest-level-this-year.html
The number of job vacancies at
 London ’s financial-services companies fell in September to the
lowest this year as banks battle the U.K.’s faltering economy
and a weakening global outlook for the industry, according to a
recruitment consulting firm.  Job openings  in the City, London’s main financial district,
declined 19 percent to 3,843 in September from 4,725 in the same
period in 2010, Morgan McKinley said in a statement today.  “The drop in the number of professionals entering the
hiring market underlines that the sentiment across London’s
financial-services sector remains extremely cautious,” said
 Andrew Evans , chief operations officer at Morgan McKinley’s
financial-services unit. “Our colleagues across  Europe , the
 Middle East  and Asia Pacific have also identified similar
challenges which are affecting financial-services hiring.”  European leaders are under pressure from their global
counterparts to find a solution to the debt crisis as it
threatens to tip the world economy back into a recession.
Britain has also struggled to recover, with the economy barely
growing over the past year. The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its 2011 and 2012 U.K. growth forecasts last month to 1.1
percent and 1.6 percent from 1.5 percent and 2.3 percent.  The number of professionals seeking new jobs fell 21
percent in September from a year earlier, Morgan McKinley said.
Average City salaries for new positions rose 6 percent to 55,607
pounds ($86,274) from a month ago, the survey said.  In a separate survey, recruitment consultant Astbury
Marsden said today there is still demand for individuals working
in regulation and compliance after last month’s $2.3 billion
loss from unauthorized trading at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and increasing pressure
on banks in relation to U.S. tax compliance checks.  “With so much political focus on banks, they know that
any slip-ups in this kind of area are going to attract dramatic
sanctions,” said  Mark Cameron , chief operating officer at
Astbury Marsden, referring to U.S. tax compliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  