-- 
Most Hong Kong Stocks Fall as China Developers, Sinopec Decline

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-10-10T08:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/hong-kong-stocks-fall-as-chinese-developers-sinopec-decline.html
Most Hong Kong stocks fell as
Chinese developers dropped on concern tight monetary policy and
increased supply will lead to lower property prices and oil
producers slid after  China  cut fuel prices.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) , which develops land in the
southern province of Guangdong, tumbled 8.8 percent.  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , a refiner known as Sinopec, fell 4.4
percent after China cut fuel prices for the first time this year
and its parent agreed to buy a Canadian oil explorer. Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest producer of the metal
by market value, dropped 3.5 percent after UBS AG resumed its
rating on the stock at “sell” from its previous “buy”
rating.  Almost twice as many stocks dropped as gained in the Hang
Seng Composite Index. The Hang Seng Index was little changed at
17,711.06, erasing losses of as much as 1.5 percent in late
trading as European stocks rose. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong  retreated 0.2
percent to 8,869.55 after China’s markets resumed trading from a
week-long holiday.  “Property prices in the short term are less likely to go
up, and buyers are less keen on purchases right now,” said
 Castor Pang , head of research at Core-Pacific Yamaichi
International Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The government is still
trying to keep the property price in the correction phase, and
won’t let it hike. Hong Kong’s market may face some correction
after rebounding last week.”  Developers Slump  The Hang Seng Index rose 0.7 percent last week, its first
weekly gain in five, as Europe-related shares advanced amid
optimism officials will protect banks from the region’s debt
crisis, and as luxury retailers soared on speculation sales will
increase from mainland visitors. Companies on the index traded
at 9.5 times forecast earnings at the last close, compared with
11.6 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Agile Property tumbled 8.8 percent to HK$5.47.  China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , a developer controlled by the
nation’s construction ministry, sank 3.5 percent to HK$12.24.
 China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , another state-controlled developer,
retreated 3.4 percent to HK$8.58.  Chinese  home prices  will gradually ease due to rising
inventories and a slump in property market transactions, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported. The market declined during
the week-long National Day holiday, typically a strong period
for housing sales, it said.  China’s home transactions fell during the holiday week
after residential prices posted their first monthly decline in a
year, according to Soufun Holdings Ltd, the country’s biggest
real estate website owner.  Fuel Prices Cut  Transactions in 20 major cities slipped by an average 32
percent last week from a year earlier, Soufun said in a report
on Oct. 8.  PetroChina Co., the country’s biggest oil producer and
 Asia ’s largest company by market value, declined 1.4 percent to
HK$9.18. Ex-factory gasoline and diesel prices were both reduced
by 300 yuan a metric ton, effective yesterday, the National
Development and Reform Commission, the nation’s top economic
planner, said. That represents a 3.5 percent drop for gasoline
and 3.9 percent for diesel, according to prices provided in an
Oct. 8 statement by the NDRC.  Sinopec declined 4.4 percent to HK$7.16. Its parent China
Petrochemical Corp. agreed to buy Daylight Energy Ltd. for about
C$2.2 billion ($2.11 billion) in cash to add oil and gas assets
in  Canada , the Calgary, Alberta-based company said yesterday in
a statement.  Aluminum Corp., known as Chalco, had the third-steepest
decline in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  after Sinopec, sinking 3.5
percent to HK$3.56. UBS said the largest risk to the company is
the “aluminum price, which we expect to remain under pressure
from weaker demand in the short term and oversupply in the
medium term.”  Airlines Slip  Airlines declined after China’s Ministry of Transport said
the number of passengers using the nation’s airlines grew at a
slower pace than capacity in the National Day holiday week.  China Southern Airlines Co., Asia’s largest carrier by
passenger numbers, retreated 1.3 percent to HK$3.95 while China
Eastern Airlines Corp., the No. 2, sank 1.2 percent to HK$2.40.  Air-traffic capacity rose 8.2 percent to 42,263 flights
during the holiday period from Oct. 1-7, the Ministry of
Transport said in a  statement  on its website on Oct. 8.
Passenger traffic increased 5.2 percent to 5.98 million during
the week, it said.  Among stocks that rose,  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of
clothes and toys to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., gained 1.5 percent to
HK$13.20. Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Rockowitz  bought 1
million company shares at an average of HK$11.637 on Oct. 4,
according to a Hong Kong stock exchange disclosure.  Hong Kong Developers  While Chinese developers declined, Hong Kong peers gained
after real-estate broker Centaline Property Agency Ltd. said the
city’s home prices rose. New World Development Co., which makes
more than half its revenue in the city, increased 3 percent to
HK$7.98, the biggest increase in the Hang Seng Index.  Sun Hung
Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s biggest developer by market
value, advanced 1.7 percent to HK$95.55.  Hong Kong home prices rose 0.59 percent in the seven days
ended Oct. 2 from a week earlier, according to Centaline
Property Agency. The Centa-City Leading Index, an indicator of
housing prices in the city, climbed to 99.8, it said.  Chow Sang Sang Holdings International Ltd. (116) , a gold and
jewelry retailer, gained 2.1 percent to HK$18.82. National Day
holiday sales surged more than 50 percent from last year due to
a drop in gold prices, according to Dennis Lau, director of
sales operations.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index gained 0.5 percent to
17,734. The HSI Volatility Index slid 4.2 percent to 36.48,
indicating options traders expect a swing of 10 percent in the
Hang Seng Index in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  