-- 
Too Big to Fail Not Fixed, Despite Dodd-Frank: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-10-10T00:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/too-big-to-fail-not-fixed-despite-dodd-frank-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
Here we go again. Major shocks
potentially threaten the solvency of some of the world’s largest
financial institutions. Concerns grow over the ability of
European leaders to shore up their banks, which are reeling from
a sovereign-debt crisis. In the U.S., the shares of some large
banks are trading at less than book value, while creditor
confidence crumbles.  Private conversations among economists, regulators and fund
managers turn naturally to so-called resolution powers -- the
expanded ability to take over and wind down private financial
companies granted to federal regulators by the Dodd-Frank
financial reform law. The proponents of these powers, including
 Tim Geithner  and  Henry Paulson , the current and former U.S.
Treasury secretaries, argue that the absence of such authority
in the fall of 2008 contributed to the financial panic.
According to this line of thought, if only the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. had the power to manage the orderly liquidation
of big banks and nonbank financial companies, the government
could have decided which creditors to protect and on what basis.
This would have helped restore confidence, it is argued.  Instead, the government was forced to rely on the
bankruptcy process, as in the case of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., or complete bailouts for all creditors, as in the case of
American International Group. The FDIC already has limited
resolution authority, which functioned well over many years for
small and medium-sized banks.  Imposing Losses  If it determines that a bank has failed, the FDIC is able
to protect retail depositors fully, while wiping out
shareholders and imposing losses as appropriate on creditors.
But can such powers really be extended to cover the largest
banks? And how would this affect today’s unstable situation? The
answers are no, and not very well, for three big reasons.  First, the resolution authority under Dodd-Frank is purely
domestic -- there is no cross-border dimension. This presents a
major problem if large financial institutions, which typically
have extensive international operations, need to be shut down in
an orderly way. U.S. legislation can’t specify how assets and
liabilities in other countries will be treated; this requires an
intergovernmental agreement of some kind.  But no international body -- not the Group of -20, the
Group of Eight or anyone else -- shows any indication of taking
this on, mostly because governments don’t wish to tie their own
hands. In a severe crisis, the interests of the state are
usually paramount. No meaningful cross-border resolution
framework is even in the cards. (Disclosure: I’m on the FDIC’s
Systemic Resolution Advisory Committee; I’m telling you what I
tell them at every opportunity.)  Preemptive Use  Second, it has never been clear that any government agency
would be willing to use such resolution powers preemptively --
before losses grow so large that they threaten to rock the
macroeconomy.  The FDIC issued a fascinating paper early this year on how
it would have handled Lehman differently if today’s resolution
powers had existed in early 2008. If you’d like to think about
how resolution works in practice, I highly recommend the paper
(see my summary  here ). But a crucial assumption in it is that
the Treasury Department under Paulson would have cooperated with
the FDIC, or at least not stood in its way, as it sought to
liquidate a troubled, though not yet collapsed, megabank.  I dealt with the Treasury in early 2008 while I was chief
economist at the  International Monetary Fund . Based on what I
saw and heard then, it is hard to believe that Paulson’s team
would have supported an early intervention in Lehman.  No Early Action  And given everything we have seen over the past three
years, it is similarly difficult to believe that Geithner, who
was New York Fed president in 2008, would now support early
action in the case of any major U.S. bank holding company.  Third, who would lose money in any potential liquidation?
The fundamental premise of the resolution authority is that some
creditors could face losses, but they would be imposed in an
orderly and predictable manner to avoid undermining confidence
and destabilizing the financial system. Any such thinking today
seems far-fetched.  To impose losses on creditors who have lent to big U.S.
banks would be to create fears similar to those post-Lehman. The
presumption in financial markets is that the largest financial
institutions are too big to fail. Events and policy actions
since the fall of 2008 have reinforced this notion, with
Treasury siding with the big banks over how to interpret the
Volcker Rule, how much to increase capital levels, and how to
proceed at almost every stage of the reform process. Politicians
and officials offer plenty of rhetoric to the contrary, but it’s
just rhetoric.  Break Up Banks  To make the FDIC resolution powers credible, large banks
should have been made small enough and simple enough to fail.  Of course, if we had really done that, we wouldn’t need a
resolution authority. When CIT Group failed in the fall of 2009,
it had a balance sheet of about $80 billion. There was no
bailout, the firm’s debts were restructured, and today it is
back in business -- with an appropriately slimmer $48 billion in
total  assets  at the end of the 2011 second quarter.  There were no adverse systemic consequences for the
financial system. I’ve talked to many analysts and people active
in financial markets, and cannot find any measurable
consequences from the CIT failure on the real economy, including
on access to credit for their customers, which were small and
medium-sized businesses.  Cross-Border Banks  This was a success for the market system: Financial
failure led to creditor losses and restructuring, rather than
systemic panic. Unfortunately, the resolution powers won’t work
for the largest cross-border banks. And bankruptcy for financial
institutions would seriously undermine confidence, as happened
with Lehman.  The financial system hasn’t become safer since September
2008. We are not in a strong position to weather the financial
storms that now appear on the horizon.  ( Simon Johnson , who served as chief economist at the
International Monetary Fund in 2007 and 2008, and is now a
professor at the  MIT Sloan School of Management  and a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 