-- 
Opacity May Stymie CMBS Derivatives Index, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-10-10T15:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/opacity-may-stymie-cmbs-derivatives-index-credit-suisse-says.html
A proposal requiring dealers to
provide individual marks on bonds underlying commercial-mortgage
derivative contracts was voted down, potentially creating a drag
on liquidity, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Markit Group Ltd. started the index last week to mimic the
performance of debt backed by property loans sold after 2009, in
part to provide lenders with a way to offset the risk of
warehousing mortgages earmarked for sale as securities.  One impediment for the new index gaining traction is
concern that marks provided by dealers anonymously aren’t
reliable, Credit Suisse Group analysts said in an Oct. 7 report.
Greater transparency would have raised the level of confidence
and increased the odds of the index being a success, said the
New York-based analysts.  “This change would have forced accountability and
encouraged all of the index market makers to provide thoughtful
and accurate marks on these bonds on a nightly basis,” said the
analysts led by Roger Lehman.  Wall Street  banks have ratcheted back new lending as the
$600 billion market for bonds linked to everything from
skyscrapers to strip malls has been whipsawed amid concern that
the global economic recovery is stumbling. Volatile spreads and
the lack of an effective tool for lenders to guard against
losses while mortgages are being pooled for sale are the biggest
impediments to new issuance, Bank of America Merrill Lynch New
York-based analysts led by  Alan Todd  wrote in an Oct. 3 report.  Drop in Values  It takes several months to accumulate debt to package for
sale as bonds, and a drop in values means that lenders may be
stuck with unprofitable loans.  The extra yield investors demand to hold top ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds instead of Treasuries jumped to 323
basis points on Oct. 4, the most since February 2010, before
narrowing to 321 basis points on Oct. 7, according to Barclays
Capital index data. Spreads on the Barclays Capital CMBS AAA
Super Duper Index were as low as 178 basis points, or 1.78
percentage point, on April 26, the index data show.  Wall Street has arranged about $25.6 billion in commercial-
mortgage backed securities this year, compared with about $11.5
billion in all of 2010, Bloomberg data show. Sales plummeted to
$3.4 billion in 2009 compared with a record $234 billion in
2007, choking off funding to borrowers with debt coming due.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  