-- 
Orco Expects to Sell Sky Office Building This Year, Chief Executive Says

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-10-10T15:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/orco-expects-to-sell-sky-office-building-this-year-chief-executive-says.html
  Orco Property Group (ORC)  SA, a developer
with most of its assets in central and eastern  Europe , expects
to sell its  Sky Office  tower in Dusseldorf before the end of the
year, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Francois Ott said.  “There has been a lot of interest from investors and I’m
confident the transaction will take place before the end of the
year,” Ott said in a phone interview from Paris. The company
expects to receive a net 40 million euros ($54.3 million) to 50
million euros from the sale, Ott said.  Orco is disposing assets in an effort to find cash to
refinance its 300 million-euro loan for Berlin’s  GSG housing
portfolio  and another 100 million euros of bonds at its German
unit before the mid-2012. The company already agreed to sell
Russian assets worth 53 million euros to a local investor in
September and will receive parts before the bonds’ maturity.  Orco added as much as 7.1 koruna, or 8 percent, to 95
koruna and closed at 94.5 koruna in Prague trading. That’s the
biggest gain since August 15.  Safeguard Plan  Ott reiterated Orco’s full-year revenue forecast of 340
million euros to 370 million euros, including asset sales,
rental and development income.  Orco operates under a so-called  safeguard  plan approved by
a Paris Court in May 2010. The program, according to French law,
temporarily protects companies from creditors and allows
management to renegotiate debt. Orco pledged to overhaul the
company and use some of cash from disposals on existing projects
to revive the business.  Orco is in talks with a number of German banks to refinance
the loan for GSG, Ott said. A group of as many as six lenders
has a “reasonable appetite” to take part in the transaction,
Ott said. Still, the total amount the company may raise is less
than the 300 million euros needed to refinance the loan.  “We’re at a level of 225 million euros to 250 million
euros, so I’m aware that there might be a gap,” Ott said. The
executive expects to reach an agreement with lenders in January.  Orco isn’t considering selling GSG or a part of the asset,
Ott said, adding that the company doesn’t “intend to break up
the essential part of our portfolio.”  Morgan Stanley Joint Venture  Orco acquired Berlin-Based Gewerbesiedlungs-Gesellschaft
mbH, or GSG, a portfolio of commercial and housing buildings in
2007 for 400 million euros together in a joint-venture with
Morgan Stanley Real Estate fund to expand in the German capital.  The developer’s other flagship projects include Zlota 44, a
tower in Warsaw designed by Daniel Libeskind and the Bubny
estate in Prague. Sky Tower in Dusseldorf is the city’s seventh-
tallest building and was completed in 2009.  Some bondholders of Orco’s German unit would agree to
Orco’s proposal to swap bonds for  Orco Property Group (ORCO)  shares,
Ott said. The company, which is holding “polite and
constructive” talks with bondholders, expects to reach an
agreement with the creditors before the end of the year, Ott
said.  Ott reiterated Orco’s full-year revenue forecast of 340
million euros to 370 million euros, including asset sales,
rental and development income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  