-- 
Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Lead Financial Stocks Higher on Europe Debt Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-10T21:04:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/morgan-stanley-citigroup-lead-financial-stocks-higher-on-europe-debt-plan.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
led U.S. banks higher in  New York  trading after European leaders
pledged to deliver a plan to stem the debt crisis that has led
to concerns about global lenders’ balance sheets.  Morgan Stanley climbed $1.05, or 7.4 percent, to $15.29 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, bringing
its increase during the last week to 23 percent. Citigroup
jumped 7.6 percent and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  rose 6.4 percent,
helping to lead the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials
Index to a 5.1 percent gain.  The S&P 500 has rebounded about 9 percent from a 13-month
low on Oct. 3 amid optimism that European leaders will succeed
in taming the debt crisis. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy said yesterday they will
deliver a plan to recapitalize European banks and address the
Greek debt crisis by the Nov. 3 Group of 20 summit.  Every company in the S&P Financials Index climbed today.
The index has declined 22 percent this year. Morgan Stanley,
based in New York, is down 44 percent this year. Bank of
America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, has dropped 53
percent, while New York-based Citigroup lost 44 percent.  Merkel said European leaders will do “everything
necessary” to ensure that banks have enough capital. Belgium
also said today it will buy part of Dexia SA and provide
security for depositors as part of a plan to rescue the lender.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said last week
that U.S. financial firms have strengthened and there is
“absolutely” no chance of another collapse like Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  