-- 
Los Angeles Gasoline Premium Surges After Conoco Shuts Unit

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-10-10T20:51:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/los-angeles-gasoline-premium-surges-after-conoco-shuts-unit.html
California-blend gasoline jumped to
its highest premium to futures in  Los Angeles  since Aug. 26
after  ConocoPhillips (COP)  was said to shut a hydrotreater at the
147,000-barrel-a-day Wilmington refinery following a fire.  The premium for California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in
Los Angeles advanced 9.5 cents to 42.5 cents a gallon above
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:17 p.m.
East Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  San Francisco Carbob rose 9.5 cents to a premium of 41.5
cents above gasoline futures.  “It’s anybody’s guess how far this will go,” Bob van der
Valk, an independent fuel pricing analyst in Terry,  Montana ,
said in a telephone interview. “It could go up another 10 to 15
cents tomorrow. We’ve got an up market.”  Houston-based Conoco closed the hydrotreater, used to
remove impurities from refined products such as gasoline, to
assess damage after a fire in the unit yesterday, a person with
direct knowledge of the incident said today.  The shutdown will affect the refinery’s ability to produce
gasoline, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is conducting maintenance at the Richmond
refinery that’s expected to last until mid-November.  California-blend diesel in Los Angeles strengthened 1.5
cents to a premium of 15.5 cents above heating oil futures
traded on the Nymex. The premium for  jet fuel  in Los Angeles
rose 0.75 cent to 10.5 cents.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
strengthened 2 cents to a premium of 49 cents over futures,
extending its highest level in at least four years.  BP Plc and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  are conducting planned
work at their oil refineries in Washington state.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  is still working on a residual oil unit at the
Anacortes refinery in  Washington  that was scheduled to be
completed last month, Mike Marcy, a company spokesman in
Martinez,  California , said in an e-mail today.  The premium for conventional gasoline to be blended with
ethanol, or CBOB, in the New York Harbor region fell 1.75 cents
to 9.38 cents a gallon at 4:11 p.m. East Coast time.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline on the  Gulf Coast 
strengthened by 0.75 cent to 4.75 cents above futures. The same
fuel in  Chicago  fell 3 cents to a discount of 2.5 cents.  The discount for regular gasoline in the Midwest, or Group
3, fell 0.25 cent to a premium of 5.75 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  