-- 
China Stocks Drop to Lowest Level in 2 Years as Developers Fall

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-10T07:34:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/most-chinese-stocks-rise-after-holiday-airlines-advance-on-fuel-price-cut.html
China ’s stocks fell, driving the
benchmark index to the lowest level since March 2009, as housing
sales slumped during a week-long holiday and energy producers
declined after the government cut fuel prices.  China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co., the
nation’s biggest developers, plunged more than 3 percent after
industry sales dropped last week and Shanghai Securities News
reported high inflation signals tight monetary policies will
remain in place. PetroChina Co., the country’s largest oil
producer, retreated the most in two weeks as the first reduction
in fuel prices this year spurred concerns about earnings.  “Tight liquidity has hurt some small companies with
anything related to monetary policy dragging banks and the
market lower,” said Tu Jun, a strategist at  Shanghai  Securities
Co. “Market sentiment is very weak at the moment and investors
are more sensitive to bad news than good.”  The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.6 percent to
2,344.79 at the close in Shanghai, the lowest since March 25, 
2009. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 0.9 percent to 2,557.08.  The Shanghai Composite sank 15 percent last quarter, the
biggest loss since the three months to June 2010. The index has
tumbled 17 percent this year as the government raised  interest
rates  and reserve-requirement ratios for banks to cool inflation
that’s at the highest level in almost three years. The stock
measure is valued at 10.8 times estimated profit, the lowest
level on record, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prudent Policy  China’s central bank has reiterated stabilizing overall
 price levels  remains a top priority of macro-economic policy,
Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing information from
a People’s Bank of China’s meeting of its monetary policy
committee.  Central bank adviser Zhou Qiren said the country should
keep a prudent monetary policy because small companies will have
a better development environment only if inflation is thoroughly
curbed, the Beijing Morning Post reported today.  China Vanke slid 3.3 percent to 7 yuan. Poly Real Estate
Group Co. fell 3.5 percent to 8.93 yuan.  China’s home transactions fell during the week-long public
holiday after residential prices posted their first monthly
decline in a year, according to Soufun Holdings Ltd.  Transactions in 20 major cities slipped by an average 32
percent last week from a year earlier, Soufun said in a report
on Oct. 8.  China’s home prices will gradually ease because of rising
inventories and a slump in  property market  transactions, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  Wenzhou Concern  The decline in sales volume last week, traditionally a peak
period for developers, may mark a turning point for a property
market that had defied the government’s efforts to contain
surging home values, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Developers may wrongly think Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s recent
trip to Wenzhou city is sign of loosening for sector, Credit
Suisse analysts led by Jinsong Du wrote in note, citing
discussions with government officials.  The closures of small- and medium-sized enterprises in
Wenzhou is a regional issue and will not threaten the stability
of China’s banking system, Sing Tao Daily reported Oct. 8,
citing He Guangbei, chief executive officer of BOC  Hong Kong 
(Holdings) Ltd. The liquidity problem facing smaller companies
in Wenzhou is not widespread in China, the paper said. Wenzhou
is in Zhejiang province near Shanghai.  Shenzhen Development Bank Co. (000001)  declined 3.4 percent to 15.50
yuan. China Minsheng Banking Corp. slipped 2.2 percent to 5.40
yuan.  Ex-factory gasoline and diesel prices were both reduced by
300 yuan ($47.20) a metric ton, effective yesterday, the
National Development and Reform Commission, the nation’s top
economic planner, said. That represents a 3.5 percent drop for
gasoline and 3.9 percent for diesel.  PetroChina slid 1.1 percent to 9.76 yuan.  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028)  retreated 0.4 percent to 6.90 yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  