-- 
Most Supertankers Idled Since ‘80s Still Won’t Buoy Charter Rates: Freight

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-10-11T16:10:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/most-oil-tankers-idled-since-80s-still-won-t-buoy-charter-rates-freight.html
Owners of supertankers, losing money
for a sixth consecutive quarter, will probably idle the most
ships in more than two decades as they contend with a glut that
drove charter rates to the lowest in at least 14 years.  The combination of too many ships and slowing demand growth
for oil means that about 6 percent of the fleet will be anchored
in a year from almost none now, according to the median in a
Bloomberg survey of eight brokers and analysts. That may not be
enough to end the slump. Forward freight agreements, traded by
brokers and used to bet on transport costs, anticipate rates no
higher than $13,819 a day through 2013.  Frontline Ltd., the biggest operator of the vessels, says
it needs $29,800 to break even. The Hamilton, Bermuda-based
company will report its biggest annual loss in 12 years in 2011,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. While owners can
cut operating costs to as little as $2,000 a day from $12,000 by
anchoring ships, it also means no income, said Andreas Sohmen- Pao, chief executive officer of the oil and gas shipping unit of
BW Group Ltd., which is idling three vessels.  “When it’s this bad, eventually it wears people down a bit
and some do get out of the market,” said Martin Stopford, the
London-based managing director of Clarkson Research Services
Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest shipbroker. “To lay the
ship up, you would eventually have to totally lose confidence in
the market improving for some time.”  Global Demand  The global fleet of very large crude carriers expanded
about 9 percent to 570 ships in the past two years, the most
since 1983, Clarkson data show. Owners ordered the greatest
number of new vessels since the 1970s between 2006 and 2008,
when charter rates surged to as much as $289,000. Those tankers
started joining the fleet just as global demand for oil fell by
the most in 27 years, data from London-based BP Plc show.  Demand for  oil tankers  will match fleet capacity by the
Northern Hemisphere’s next winter, lifting charter rates, Peter Evensen, the CEO of  Teekay Corp. (TK) , said in an interview in London
on Oct. 6. The Hamilton, Bermuda-based company is the largest
U.S.-listed owner of the ships.  Owners are also responding to the slump in rates by sailing
slower to reduce fuel costs. Speeds averaged about 10 knots in
the past three months, compared with almost 11 knots a year
earlier, vessel-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shipping may be “relatively close” to a bottom,  Wilbur Ross , the billionaire chairman of private-equity firm WL Ross &
Co., said in an interview in August. He was part of a group who
spent $900 million on oil-product tankers last month.  Cutting Costs  Rates on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route, the industry’s
benchmark, were at negative $5,041 a day today, according to the
 Baltic Exchange  in London, which publishes daily rates for more
than 50 maritime routes. Shipping companies are effectively
paying customers to charter vessels because clients pay for some
of the fuel, cutting costs for owners moving vessels into
regions with better returns.  Rates have averaged less than Frontline’s breakeven since
the third quarter of 2010, according to bourse data and an Aug.
26 statement from the company. Daily returns from the vessels in
the  spot market  averaged $11,372 in the third quarter, the
lowest since at least 1997, according to Clarkson.  Prospects for a surge in global oil demand that would erode
the glut in tankers are weakening as growth slows. The
 International Energy Agency , the Paris-based adviser to 28
nations, reduced its forecast for 2012 crude demand by 0.4
percent to 90.7 million barrels a day last month. It was the
biggest cut since April 2009.  Mercantile Exchange  Growth in oil demand will slow to 0.5 percent this quarter
and 0.1 percent in the following three months, compared with 2
percent in the third quarter, the IEA estimates. Crude fell 6.2
percent this year to $85.67 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , reaching a one-year low of $74.95 on Oct. 4.  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its global growth
forecasts to 4 percent for this year and next on Sept. 20, from
earlier estimates of 4.3 percent for 2011 and 4.5 percent in
2012. That compares with the 5.2 percent contraction the  World
Bank  estimates took place in 2009.  The IEA still anticipates record demand next year.  China’s
economy , the world’s largest energy user, will expand 8.7
percent in 2012, compared with 9.3 percent this year, according
to the median of 10 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Growth in the U.S., the biggest oil consumer, will accelerate to
2.2 percent from 1.6 percent, the estimates show.  Shipping Industry  Oil is the single biggest commodity transported by sea,
according to Clarkson. Trade will total about 1.9 billion metric
tons this year, compared with 1.1 billion tons of  iron ore  and
921 million tons of coal. The shipping industry handles about 90
percent of world trade, according to the Round Table of Shipping
Associations.  As many as 168 tankers of all sizes were removed from the
fleet in 2009 to store oil for companies seeking to profit from
longer-dated energy futures trading at a premium to contracts
for immediate delivery. Idling 6 percent of global supertankers
anticipated in the Bloomberg survey would be equal to about 34
vessels.  Owners can still make money by locking their ships into
longer-term charters. Rates for a three-year accord are at
$32,955 a day and those fixed for five years at $32,000, both
above Frontline’s break-even, according to London-based Clarkson
Plc. Tying ships up for that long would mean owners missing out
on any rally in the single-voyage market.  Morgan Stanley  The glut extends across most of the fleet. Capesize vessels
carrying iron ore are earning 88 percent less than they made in
2008, Baltic Exchange data show. Container ships delivering
goods to  Europe  from  Asia  made almost nothing in July and
August, according to Morgan Stanley.  Frontline will report a loss of $85.8 million this year,
compared with profit of $161.4 million in 2010, according to the
mean of 20 analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company
will also be unprofitable for the next two years, the estimates
show. Its shares fell 82 percent in Oslo trading this year, on
track for the biggest annual decline in 13 years.  Every company in the six-member  Bloomberg Tanker Index (TANKER)  will
lose money this year, analysts’ estimates show. The gauge
slumped 53 percent this year, compared with an 11 percent
decline by the MSCI All-Country World Index of global equities.  The shipping industry’s fragmentation means few owners have
big enough fleets to idle vessels. That decision can only be
taken by those in a “position of strength,” BW Group’s Sohmen-
Pao said in an interview on Oct. 3. His company has two
supertankers idling and a third mothballed for a longer period.  “The tanker industry is too fragmented to remove the
necessary capacity,” said Jonathan Chappell, an analyst at
Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York . “There needs to be more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  