-- 
Total CEO Says Refining Business Overhaul Won’t Lead to Sale

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-10-10T17:11:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/total-ceo-says-refining-business-overhaul-won-t-lead-to-sale-1-.html
Total SA (FP) ’s overhaul of its refining,
petrochemicals and marketing businesses isn’t in preparation for
a sale, Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said.  “No, there is no planned IPO or sale,” he said at a
briefing to discuss the merger of the refining and
petrochemicals divisions and creation of a separate fuel-
marketing operation. “One can never say never, but our biggest
preoccupation is to make this tool better performing.”  Total, Europe’s biggest refiner, said there won’t be job
cuts following the reorganization.  “There is urgency because the market is bad. The European
market is not growing,” Margerie said today, adding that
refining margins were negative in August and early September and
have now climbed to about $22 a ton.  De Margerie raised a profit target for the refining and
marketing business between 2010 and 2014.  The aim of the plan is to “unlock value” for the
activities, even in European and U.S. markets where demand for
fuel products is decreasing, he said. “I think we can make
refining and chemicals profitable in  Europe .”  Europe’s third-largest oil company has reduced refining
through the closure of its plant near Dunkirk in  France ,
capacity reduction at Normandy and the sale of its 49 percent
stake in  Spain ’s Cia. Espanola de Petroleos SA. Total is also
trying to sell its Lindsey plant in the U.K.  “Refining and petrochemicals are doing badly so we are
worried about future investment,"  Charles Foulard , a spokeman
for the CGT union, said by telephone. ‘‘This reorganization may
not be complete. There could be restructuring and
closures to come."  The union, the largest among French refinery workers, isn’t
planning any strikes in response to the announcement, he said.  Total will have the broad outline of the overhaul ready by
January and it may be complete a year after that, Margerie said.
The move could be accompanied by salary increases in the
petrochemicals division to bring them in line with refining,
although costs of the reorganization will be minimal, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  