-- 
OTP Bank Falls Second Day After Erste Takes Hungary Charge

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-10-10T10:26:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/otp-bank-falls-second-day-after-erste-takes-hungary-provisions.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. fell for a second day
after  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ’s writedown of the value of its
Hungarian business increased concern the government’s policies
are hitting the sector’s profitability.  The shares of OTP,  Hungary ’s largest lender fell as much as
3.3 percent and slumped 0.8 percent to 3,130 forint by 11:29
a.m. in Budapest, underperforming a 1.2 percent rally in the
benchmark BUX index.  Erste, eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender, is writing
down the value of its Hungarian and its Romanian businesses by a
combined 939 million euros ($1.3 billion) and increasing bad-
debt provisions, citing “increasing government intervention in
the market” in Hungary, according to a statement today.  The Erste move “shows the depth of the damage from
government policies,” Marc MacRae, an analyst at Wood & Co in
 Prague , said in a telephone interview, adding that Raiffeisen
Bank International AG will probably also follow Erste and
“ring-fence” its Hungarian liabilities.  OTP’s shares have slid 25 percent since Hungary’s governing
party proposed on Sept. 9 to allow the repayment of foreign-
currency mortgages at below market rates, forcing banks to
swallow the cost, which has now been enshrined in law.  Seven Hungarian banks including OTP were placed on review
for a downgrade at Moody’s Investors Service last week on
concern that exchange-rate losses from the government mortgage
plan may erode their profitability.  Erste, which like OTP is now liable for a banking tax in
Hungary, is writing off its remaining 312 million euros of
goodwill in its local business and made additional bad-debt
provisions of 450 million euros. The lender will also add 600
million euros of fresh capital into its Hungarian unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  