-- 
Palestinians Say Blair Unwelcome, Charging Envoy Shows Bias Toward Israel

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 
2011-10-10T13:07:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/palestinians-say-blair-unwelcome-charging-envoy-shows-bias-toward-israel.html
The  Palestine Liberation
Organization  accused international envoy Tony Blair of bias
toward Israel and said he should no longer represent the so-
called Quartet in trying to mediate the Middle East conflict.  The statement issued today by the PLO, the body responsible
for conducting peace negotiations on behalf of Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , stopped short of saying it
will no longer deal with the former U.K. prime minister. Blair
has denied previous accusations of favoring Israel over the
Palestinians.  “Blair is unwelcome because he violated his mission as an
envoy of a neutral international committee that aims at
achieving just peace in the region,” said the statement e-
mailed by the PLO Foreign Relations Department from the West
Bank city of  Ramallah .  The Quartet, which comprises the U.S., Russia, the  United
Nations  and the European Union, invited the Israelis and
Palestinians on Sept. 23 to resume direct peace negotiations.
Israel accepted the invitation while Abbas said Israel must stop
all settlement construction before he would agree to talks.  Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s foreign-policy
chief, said yesterday that the Quartet is making “good
progress” and its representatives would soon contact the
Israelis and Palestinians to renew peace negotiations that were
suspended more than a year ago.  Palestinians won’t boycott Blair even if they would prefer
a replacement, said Ghassan Shak’aa, a member of the PLO
Executive Committee. “We just want to say that he is not fair
or neutral and he has been always biased to Israel,” said
Shak’aa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  