-- 
Paraguay Vaccinates Cattle to Contain Foot-and-Mouth Outbreak

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-10T13:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/paraguay-vaccinates-cattle-to-contain-foot-and-mouth-outbreak.html
Paraguay  vaccinated 27,602 cattle
against foot-and-mouth to contain an outbreak of the livestock
disease in the central San Pedro department that has put a halt
to beef exports valued at $881 million last year.  Vaccinations also included 893 pigs and 626 sheep and
goats, and 25 teams are taking livestock blood samples in the
zone around the outbreak, according to a  notice  from Paraguay’s
National Service for Animal Quality and Health published today
by the World Organization for  Animal Health , or OIE.  Beef was Paraguay’s second-largest export after soybeans
last year, government  data  show. Brazil and  Argentina , both
transit points for Paraguayan exports, last month suspended beef
imports from the landlocked country after the outbreak of food-
and-mouth disease was reported on Sept. 18.  “Vaccination and sero-epidemiological surveillance are
ongoing,” the OIE said in the alert on its website today.
“There are no new outbreaks in this report.”  Paraguay notified the vaccination progress on Oct. 7, the
OIE said. The country completed the culling of 819 infected or
susceptible cattle on Sept. 25, and has applied quarantine
measures on farms as well as movement restrictions in the
region, it reported last month.  The outbreak of foot-and-mouth is the country’s first since
July 2003, the OIE said. Foot-and-mouth outbreaks typically
result in “heavy”  trade restrictions , including bans on
shipments of uncooked meat, according to the OIE.  Foot-and-mouth disease is one of the most contagious
livestock illnesses and can kill young animals, according to the
OIE. The virus affects cloven-hoofed animals including cattle,
pigs and sheep.  Paraguay’s shipments of fresh, chilled and frozen meat from
January to June were $445.5 million, 16 percent of the country’s
primary-industry exports, while soybean exports came to $1.24
billion, based on  data  from the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  