-- 
Pavilion Said to Plan to Raise $255 Million in Malaysian IPO

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-10-10T09:42:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/pavilion-said-to-plan-to-raise-255-million-in-malaysian-ipo.html
Pavilion REIT , part-owned by the
Qatar Investment Authority, plans to sell units on  Malaysia ’s
stock exchange as early as next month through a property trust,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The company, which owns the Pavilion shopping, residential
and office project in  Kuala Lumpur , aims to raise about 800
million ringgit ($255 million), said the people, who declined to
be identified as the information is private. The size of the
initial public offering may rise to as much as 1 billion ringgit
depending on demand, one of the people said.  At 800 million ringgit, the Pavilion IPO would be
Malaysia’s fourth-biggest share sale this year, after offerings
by Bumi Armada Bhd., UOA Development Bhd. and MSM Malaysia Bhd.
Companies canceled or postponed $8.9 billion of IPOs around the
world in the third quarter as stocks plunged, putting the market
on track to set a record for pulled deals.  Fitness First Ltd., which had sought to list in  Singapore 
by the end of this year, is among those delaying IPO plans,
people with knowledge of the matter said this month.  Pavilion is owned by  Malton Bhd. (MALT)  Chairman Desmond Lim Siew
Choon and his wife, together with Qatar Investment Authority.
Its flagship development comprises a 1.4 million square-foot
retail mall with 450 outlets, plus one office building and two
residential towers in Kuala Lumpur’s city center, according to
Malton’s  website .  This would be Malaysia’s third-largest listed property
trust at 800 million ringgit. Sunway Real Estate Investment
Trust raised about 1.5 billion ringgit last year in the
Southeast Asian’s biggest public offering by a trust.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) ,  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are managing the offering, the people said.
Desmond Lim and his wife were at meetings and couldn’t
immediately comment, according to their secretaries. A
spokeswoman for Pavilion, who asked not to be identified, had no
immediate comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at   jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  