-- 
Pentagon Cuts to Strengthen America’s Defense and Economy: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-10T00:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/pentagon-cuts-that-will-strengthen-america-s-defense-and-its-economy-view.html
A culture of shared sacrifice is one
of the greatest strengths of the U.S.’s volunteer military. It
is not, however, a good basis on which to decide budget cuts.  Facing at least $450 billion in reductions over the next
decade -- and as much as $1 trillion total if the congressional
deficit supercommittee fails to reach a consensus and the
automatic deficit trigger kicks in -- Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  may be tempted to follow precedent and ask for trims
across the services and their programs. But it would be far
better for U.S. security, and future  budgets , if Panetta focused
on eliminating clearly identified waste and redundancies.  Although some big-ticket items, like drawing down troop
levels in  Afghanistan , will have to play out politically, the
Pentagon could act quickly to halt production on a number of
unnecessary projects. The savings could be spent on programs
that will prepare us for our immediate and future challenges. We
have a few suggestions for where to cut:  -- The F-35 Lightning II.  Lockheed-Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s next-
generation fighter plane is a wonder of versatility, but the
current generation (the ubiquitous F-16, among others) is still
vastly superior to the competition -- only one American fighter
jet has been shot down by enemy fire in the past 40 years. The
Simpson-Bowles deficit-reduction commission advocated
eliminating the Marine Corps version of the F-35 and trimming by
half the number going to the Navy and  Air Force , for a savings
of $30 billion over the next four years. We find that too timid:
The entire $385 billion program should be on the chopping block.  -- The Ford-class supercarrier. At a time when the Navy is
questioning whether it needs (or can afford) all 11 carrier
groups it has, why would it want to spend $120 billion on 10 new
carriers that offer few significant improvements over the
current Nimitz class? (Especially given that the signal upgrade,
a new electromagnetic catapult system, is designed in part to
launch the equally unnecessary F-35.) Carriers are big, easy
targets in an era defined by asymmetric warfare, and are
vulnerable to vastly improved anti-ship weapons. When  China 
launched its first  aircraft carrier  in August, a State
Department spokesman said the U.S. “would welcome any kind of
explanation that China would like to give for needing this kind
of equipment.” We would welcome the same from the U.S. Navy.  --  The M1 Abrams tank.  The mainstay of combat operations
since 1980, the M1 is a fine vehicle, but we already have
plenty. Don’t take our word for it, but that of Lt. Gen. Robert
Lennox, the Army’s deputy chief of staff. “We’ve got a very fit
and complete fleet,” he told a Senate committee last spring.
“And that’s what has caused us to stop buying something that we
no longer need.”  The Army says it could save $1.3 billion a year if it
temporarily shut down the M1 manufacturing plant in  Ohio  for
three years. But, as so often happens when a weapons system is
under review, a group of congressmen has rallied around the
manufacturer -- in this case, a unit of  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  -
- to keep production going. In general, these scenarios in which
the military claims to not want a program that Congress is
intent on saving are Kabuki theater; the truth is that the
generals can kill anything they are intent on killing.  None of this is to say that we should halt or impair
military research and development. In fact, innovative programs
should get more money. The Predator and other drone programs are
excellent examples of relatively cheap technologies that have
paid huge dividends, and deserve expanded budgets. To free up
that money, however, Panetta has to find big savings, and
programs such those above -- as well as the health-care program
for service members and veterans, which will be the subject of a
future editorial -- are obvious targets for trims that will
actually make the U.S. more secure.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 