-- 
Peru Sol Climbs to One-Month High on Copper, Local Tax Payments

-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-10-10T18:58:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/peru-sol-climbs-to-one-month-high-on-copper-local-tax-payments.html
Peru ’s sol rose to a one-month high
as copper prices climbed and local businesses sold dollars to
pay taxes in the local currency.  The sol strengthened 0.6 percent to 2.7280 per  U.S. dollar ,
its strongest since Sept. 9, at 1:53 p.m. Lima time.  Higher prices for copper, of which Peru is the world’s
third-biggest producer, bolster the currency as investors seek
local securities, said Gonzalo Navarro, head foreign exchange
trader at  Banco Santander  in Lima.  “Peru is a major metals producer and rising commodities
prices helps the local stock exchange and brings in dollars,”
Navarro said. “There is also some dollar selling ahead as
companies seek soles to pay taxes.”  Trading was slower today due to the U.S. bank holiday, he
said.  Copper rose to the highest in almost two weeks after the
leaders of France and  Germany  pledged a plan to stem Europe’s
debt crisis in three weeks.  Peru, which trails Chile and China in copper production,
increased exports of the metal by 74 percent in August compared
with a year earlier. Mining exports, which make up two-thirds of
the country’s shipments overseas, climbed 62 percent to $2.75
billion, the government’s customs duty collection agency
reported on Oct. 6.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 5.76 percent, according to prices from
Citibank Peru.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian  government
bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to 259,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Peru’s central bank decided last week to keep its overnight
rate at 4.25 percent for a fifth month as the threat of
recession in  Europe  and the U.S. outweighs above-target
inflation. The decision matched the estimates of 17 of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  