-- 
Philippine President Aquino Approves Fiscal Stimulus Package

-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-10-10T10:52:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/philippine-president-aquino-approves-fiscal-stimulus-package-1-.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
approved a fiscal stimulus package today to spur economic
expansion, joining policy makers in emerging markets in taking
steps to protect growth as the global recovery weakens.  Aquino will formally announce the stimulus package on Oct.
12, his spokesman Ricky Carandang said in a telephone interview
in Manila today after the president met with his economic
managers. The government may lower its growth targets,
Philippine Budget Secretary Butch Abad said in a separate
telephone interview today, without elaborating.  Emerging-market nations are boosting measures to drive
growth as the U.S. recovery falters and a deepening European
crisis stifles liquidity, threatening to drive the global
economy into recession.  Brazil ,  Turkey , and  Pakistan  have cut
borrowing costs in 2011 while Asian central banks including the
 Philippines  have refrained from further interest-rate increases.  “With the stimulus in place, we’ll have a fighting chance
at meeting the growth targets,” Carandang said. The government
is maintaining its growth assumptions for this year and next, he
said, without giving the figures.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak announced in the
country’s annual budget last week that he will distribute cash
to low-income families, raise wages for civil servants and boost
spending on transportation as overseas demand wanes and
elections loom.  Philippine exports dropped for a fourth month in August,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before a report tomorrow.  Growth in the $200 billion economy slowed for a fourth
straight quarter to 3.4 percent in the three months through
June, compared with a 4.6 percent gain in the January-to-March
period. The government had a  budget surplus  in August, helping
narrow the eight-month shortfall to 34.5 billion pesos ($795.5
million) from 228.104 billion pesos in the same period in 2010.  Aquino plans to narrow the  budget deficit  to 2.6 percent of
gross domestic product, or about 286 billion pesos, in 2012,
from a target of 3 percent, or about 300 billion pesos, this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  