-- 
Pimco Sees ‘Cheap’ Emerging-Market Equities

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-10T19:11:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/pimco-buys-in-china-sees-cheap-emerging-market-equities-1-.html
Emerging-market stocks are “cheap”
and Pacific Investment Management Co. is buying in  China  after
the nation’s shares tumbled this year, said Maria Gordon, an
emerging-market equity-fund manager at Pimco.  “We are definitely fishing in the more cyclically
distressed areas of the market where valuations are very, very
cheap,” London-based Gordon said in an interview with Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television yesterday. “We’re selectively
accumulating positions” in China, Gordon said, adding that
shares of Hong Kong-based insurer  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  are poised for
“a lot of  capital appreciation .”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has tumbled as much as 31
percent from this year’s high, sending its price-to-earnings
ratio to 9.4 on Oct. 5, the lowest level since December 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index, a gage of Chinese companies listed in  Hong
Kong , has slid 38 percent from a 30-month peak in November as
tight monetary policy in the biggest emerging economy and
 Europe ’s debt crisis spurred investors to sell riskier
securities.  “Markets are cheap,” Gordon said. Still, “it’s very
difficult to call the bottom” given concerns that the global
economy is slowing, she said.  Emerging-market equity funds have posted 10 straight weeks
of outflows, with investors withdrawing $3.3 billion in the
seven days ended Oct. 5, according to data compiled by
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global. China
funds had $167 million of outflows during the week.  AIA, which reported a bigger-than-estimated 24 percent
increase in first-half profit in July, has “a story of
structural growth,” Gordon said. The stock slipped 1.3 percent
yesterday, paring this year’s gain to 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  