-- 
Pimco’s Balls Says Merkel-Sarkozy Plan Isn’t Signal to Buy European Debt

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-10-10T15:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/pimco-s-balls-says-merkel-sarkozy-plan-isn-t-signal-to-buy-european-debt.html
Europe ’s officials haven’t done
enough on fiscal turmoil to persuade investors to buy the
region’s sovereign debt, according to Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Andrew Balls .  “They need a medium-term plan for greater fiscal
integration and to promote growth,” said Balls, head of
European  portfolio management  at Pimco in London, in a Bloomberg
Television interview on “In the Loop” with Betty Liu.
“Everybody expects a default in Greece. You need to have a plan
to prevent contagion. You need to make it credible.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel  of Germany and France’s President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  promised after a meeting yesterday in Berlin a
bank recapitalization blueprint that will overtake a 12-week-old
rescue plan that has yet to be put into place.  Facing rising pressure to defuse turmoil that’s raged for
19 months and growing concern  Greece  is headed to a default,
Merkel said European leaders will do “everything necessary” to
ensure that banks have enough capital. Sarkozy said they would
deliver a plan by the Nov. 3 Group of 20 summit.  A plan to recapitalize banks without addressing Europe’s
structural problems would be “insufficient,” Balls said.
Pimco, based in  Newport Beach , California, manages the world’s
biggest bond fund.  Rising Euro  The euro rose today as much as 2.2 percent to $1.3674
before trading at $1.3668 in the biggest rally on an intraday
basis since July 2010. A drop in German bunds pushed 10-year
yields to 2.08 percent, the highest level since Sept. 2.  Merkel and Sarkozy urged a “durable” solution for
Greece’s debt load, indicating they may have moved beyond a July
21 plan that Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker called the “final
package, of course.”  Their approach may spike a debt swap now being negotiated
that would impose a 21 percent write-off for Greece’s debt and
have investors take a bigger share of the losses.  Greek 10-year bonds dropped today, pushing 10-year yields
up 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 23.81 percent.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung that euro governments may have come
up short on the scale of Greek debt writedowns when they reached
an agreement on private-sector involvement.  “After two years in which European policy makers have
tended to overpromise and underdeliver, it makes sense to wait
for evidence that they are actually going to be able to overcome
all their coordination problems,” Balls said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  