-- 
Poland’s New Parliamentary Party May Help Spur Tusk’s Economic Overhaul

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-10-11T11:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/poland-s-new-parliamentary-party-may-help-spur-tusk-s-overhaul.html
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk,
who won an unprecedented second consecutive election, may
receive a boost to plans for an economic overhaul from a new
parliamentary party.  The Palikot movement, founded by a vodka distiller who quit
Tusk’s Civic Platform party last year, received 10 percent of
the votes in the Oct. 9 election, beating opinion polls. The
group may provide Tusk a lever against complacency within his
own party and the reluctance of the Peasants Party, his ally in
the past four years, to support some policies.  Tusk has relied on uninterrupted economic growth in the
only European Union country to avoid a recession in 2009 to
consolidate the budget, shunning austerity measures employed by
governments across the region. Next year’s expansion may fall
short of the Cabinet’s estimates, forcing more decisive action.  “The election result gives Tusk some leeway,”  Lars Christensen , an economist at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said
by phone yesterday. “The Peasants Party will have less
possibility of threatening with leaving the coalition because
there is an alternative or actually numerous alternatives.
Palikot is a big chance for” Tusk “to press for more
reforms.”  Coalition May Continue  Tusk’s  Civic Platform  probably won 206 seats in the 460-
member parliament after getting 39.2 percent of the vote, based
on results from all precincts. The Peasants Party took 28 seats
with an 8.4 percent showing, giving the two groups a four-seat
majority.  The Platform is likely to continue governing in coalition
with the Peasants and their leader, Waldemar Pawlak, will
probably stay deputy prime minister, Grzegorz Schetyna,
parliamentary speaker and deputy chairman of the Platform, said
in an interview with radio broadcaster RMF FM today.  The biggest opposition party, former premier  Jaroslaw
Kaczynski ’s Law & Justice, is set for 157 seats after winning 30
percent of the vote. The Palikot Movement, founded by Janusz
Palikot, gained 40 seats, beating the Peasants and the
Democratic  Left Alliance , which received 8.3 percent, enough for
27 seats, according to preliminary results.  Zloty Slump  Tusk must focus on cutting the budget gap to reverse a
zloty plunge as investors shy away from the EU’s biggest eastern
country.  The currency has slumped 8.1 percent against the euro this
year, while Polish bonds tumbled 15.7 percent in dollar terms in
the third quarter, the third-worst performance in the world,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analyst Societies and Bloomberg. The zloty traded at
4.3296 per euro at 1:10 p.m. Warsaw time, compared with 4.3042
yesterday.  The government pledged to narrow the deficit to 2.9 percent
of gross domestic product next year, counting on 4 percent
economic growth to boost revenue. The expansion will fall short
of the target, according to the  International Monetary Fund ,
which forecasts it at 3 percent and Citigroup Inc., which
predicts 1.9 percent.  “The government has to start fiscal reforms, by which it
will stand or fall,” Marcin Mazurek, a senior analyst at BRE
Bank in Warsaw, said by phone. “Rarely has anyone had a
situation this comfortable, and the markets won’t stand for any
excuses. Palikot will be the antidote to the PSL’s populism, and
guarantees the support of a parliamentary majority for more
ambitious policies from the government.”  Palikot’s Clash  Palikot, who clashed with Tusk last year, urges a quicker
overhaul of public finances by cutting spending on bureaucracy,
the Catholic church and pensions. He also supports legalizing
marijuana, abortion and the separation of church and state.  “His focus is social liberalization and he has not clearly
laid out his economic policies,” Jeremy Carter, managing
director at  Fitch Ratings  said in an e-mail from  London 
yesterday. “However, one of the reasons he left the PO was
frustration over the slow pace of economic and labor market
reform so he is likely to favor speeding up reform.”  Poland has “no choice but to grow” and  Europe ’s debt
crisis may “end up being an opportunity,” Palikot said in an
e-mail to Bloomberg last week. The country must “eventually”
cut spending on the farmers’ pension system and make savings on
the state administration, he said.  Palikot Movement is ready to back incumbent Prime Minister
Donald Tusk’s government without joining the Cabinet, provided
Tusk appoints non-party experts to head some ministries in the
new government, Palikot told a press conference in Warsaw today.  “Tusk has lost arguments for fiddling around,” said
 Mateusz Szczurek , an economist for central and eastern Europe at
 ING Groep NV. (INGA)  “The position of the Peasants, which could
possibly have blocked the reform of farmers’ pensions or social
security, is weaker, and meanwhile a party has appeared whose
economic priorities fit with the government’s goals and
guarantee a stable majority in parliament for legislative
changes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  