-- 
Polish Peasants the ‘Most Credible’ Ally, Nowak Says

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-10-10T07:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/polish-peasants-party-is-most-credible-partner-tusk-ally-says.html
(Corrects percentage of precincts reporting in second
paragraph.)  The Polish Peasants Party, the
junior coalition partner in the Cabinet for the last four years,
is “the most proven and credible” ally for the next government,
Presidential Minister Slawomir Nowak said.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk, whose Civic Platform party won
yesterday’s general election, failed to gain a majority in the
460-seat Parliament, according to results from 93 percent of
precincts. An alliance with the Peasants Party would have a
majority.  Tusk needs to ensure passing legislation, including the
2012 state budget with a deficit within the European Union’s
requirement of 3 percent of gross domestic product. Failure to
rein in the shortfall may lead to cuts in EU funds that helped
the country to avoid recession two years ago.  “The new Parliament seems to be very interesting, giving
more coalition options,” Nowak, who is returning to parliament
as a Platform deputy, said in an interview with private station
Radio RMF. “Still, we expect that the coalition that passed the
exam in ruling for the past four years will also be able to lead
 Poland  further.”  Three other parties won enough support to exceed the 5
percent threshold to gain seats in parliament. The largest
opposition group, Law & Justice, received 30 percent, the
Palikot Movement, founded by former ruling-party politician
Janusz Palikot, got 9.9 percent of the vote, and the Democratic
 Left Alliance  won 8.2 percent.  Poland’s economy faces “worse external conditions” for the
next four to six quarters,  Jerzy Hausner , a member of the rate-
setting Monetary Policy Council, and Miroslaw Gronicki, an
adviser to Governor  Marek Belka , wrote in an article in the
Polish version of Newsweek today. The country needs to aim for
economic growth of between 3 percent and 4 percent and must hold
the zloty in a “reasonable range” of fluctuation to keep the
economy “in the safety zone,” they said.  EU aid has added an average of 1.5 percentage points to
economic growth each year, according to Poland’s Regional
Development Ministry, and remains essential for economic
expansion as budget cuts may limit consumer demand and public
investment. Poland’s government sees the economy growing 4
percent this year and in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  