-- 
Putin Says Russia Is Close to Agreement on Supplying Natural Gas to China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-11T20:58:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/putin-courts-china-as-russia-seeks-to-bridge-differences-on-gas.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said
Russia is nearing an agreement with China to supply natural gas
to the world’s biggest energy consumer.  “Those who sell always want to sell at a higher price,
while those who buy want to buy at a lower price,” Putin said
yesterday at the start of a meeting with Chinese Prime Minister
 Wen Jiabao  in Beijing. “We need to reach a compromise that will
satisfy both sides.”  The Russian premier, who is making his first foreign trip
since announcing plans to return to the presidency next year, is
seeking to overcome a stalemate in talks on natural gas
deliveries to China. Russia, the world’s largest energy
exporter, has delayed plans to build gas pipelines to the Asian
country for more than a decade because of wrangling over how
much  China  will pay for the fuel.  Russian gas export monopoly OAO Gazprom plans to ship
Siberian gas from as early as 2015, with total annual deliveries
to reach 68 billion cubic meters, more than 60 percent of
China’s 2010 consumption, according to BP Plc’s Statistical
Review of World Energy.  China bypassed Germany as Russia’s biggest trade partner
last year and annual turnover may exceed $70 billion in 2011 and
reach $200 billion in 2020, from $59 billion in 2010, Putin said
yesterday.  ‘Unprecedented Levels’  The Russian prime minister, who will also meet Chinese
President  Hu Jintao  during his two-day trip to Beijing, said the
nations have reached “unprecedented levels of cooperation” in
the political sphere.  Russia shares a determination with its neighbor to counter
U.S. global influence, signaled by them teaming up on Oct. 4 to
veto a Western-backed United Nations resolution targeted at the
crackdown on protests in  Syria , a Soviet-era ally of Russia.  Putin, who will take full control of foreign policy again
next May after four years marked by improving ties with the U.S.
under outgoing President  Dmitry Medvedev , may give  Asia  more
weight in Russian foreign policy when he returns to the
presidency.  “In the 1990s, Russia focused on the West while leaving
Asia behind, which was a mistake,” said Dmitry Mosyakov, head
of the  Southeast Asia ,  Australia  and Oceania Center of the
Moscow-based Institute of Far East Studies. “Now we see Russia
turning to the East for new markets, new partners and capital.”  Gas Deal  The gas deal has been held up because China has pushed for
lower rates similar to those charged on its domestic energy
market while  Russia  wants to get a price closer to that paid by
European customers.  The countries made “progress” in their talks on gas
shipments, Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  told reporters in
Beijing yesterday, declining to elaborate. China is a “very
important partner” and potentially “one of the biggest
consumers” of gas, he said.  China will approach negotiations with “utmost sincerity”
and cooperation in the gas industry is “one of the most
important aspects” of bilateral energy ties, the official
Xinhua News Agency cited Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan as
saying in Beijing yesterday.  Xinhua said Wang expressed “strong confidence” about the
success of the talks. Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Alexander Medvedev said last month that negotiations may be
concluded by year-end.  ‘Price Issue’  “It’s a price issue. It’s just negotiations, I believe in
the end we will see an agreement reached, since both parties are
interested in a deal,”  Alexander Morozov , chief economist for
Russia at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday.  Russia, which supplies 25 percent of the European Union’s
gas, is under pressure to cut its European pricing formulas.
Gazprom’s contracts are the focus of a European antitrust
investigator’s raids across central and eastern  Europe .  “If the China contract is soon agreed, then the Kremlin’s
negotiating position in Europe will be improved, that is if you
don’t want more of our gas, then we have a customer with a big
appetite in the east,” said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at
Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest investment bank.  Russia, which is also seeking to diversify trade with China
away from natural resources and weapons, reached an agreement
yesterday that the two countries will each invest $1 billion
into a Russian private equity fund.  ‘Investment Potential’  “Only four months after we were set up, we have shown that
investors want to put money in Russia, and believe in Russia’s
investment potential,” Kirill Dmitriev, head of the Russian
Direct Investment Fund, said by phone from Beijing.  Russia set up the fund in June to lure foreign capital by
co-financing international investment amid efforts to deepen
capital markets and wean the economy off its dependence on oil
and gas exports. Energy accounts for more than half of its
exports to China, Yury Ushakov, Putin’s deputy chief of staff,
told reporters in Moscow Oct. 10.  “China has become our first trade partner, bypassing
 Germany , and this is quite symbolic,” Ushakov said. “The task
for the visit is not only to expand trade and economic contacts
but also to diversify the structure of our relations as the
structure itself does not satisfy us.”  Agriculture, Communications  In China, Putin was joined by Agriculture Minister Elena Skrynnik and Communications Minister Igor Shchegolev. Also
attending are  Sergei Kiriyenko , head of Russia’s state-owned
nuclear energy holding company Rosatom Corp., and Vladimir Dmitriev, chairman of VEB, Russia’s state development bank.  A total of 17 agreements may be reached during Putin’s
visit including a cooperation accord between ZAO Sibur Holding,
eastern Europe’s biggest petrochemical producer, and China
Petrochemical Corp., the nation’s biggest refiner, according to
Ushakov.  Following the “reset” in relations with America
spearheaded by President  Barack Obama  and Medvedev, Putin is now
seeking to re-balance foreign policy, said  Alexander Rahr , a
Russia expert at the German Council on Foreign Relations.  “There is a huge neighbor and everyone is talking about
China’s might,” Rahr said. “For Russia it is more important
than for Europeans to understand where China is heading and how
you can build relations.”  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  