-- 
Qatari Royals to Buy Dexia BIL, Luxembourg’s Frieden Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-10T12:47:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/qatari-royals-to-take-over-dexia-bil-luxembourg-s-frieden-says.html
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said an investment group that includes members of
Qatar’s royal family will take over  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s unit in
Luxembourg.  A group comprised of “members of the royal family of
Qatar” is “willing to buy” Dexia Banque Internationale a
Luxembourg SA “at short notice,” Frieden told reporters in
Luxembourg today. The government intends to take a minority
stake that will cost no more than 150 million euros ($204
million), he said.  Frieden spoke hours after the Belgian federal government
agreed to buy Dexia’s local consumer-lending unit, ending a 15-
year cross-border experiment with  France . Belgium will pay 4
billion euros for the division and guarantee 60 percent of a so-
called bad bank to be set up for Dexia’s troubled assets,
Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said.  The governments will guarantee as much as 90 billion euros
of interbank and bond funding for 10 years for Dexia and its
Dexia Credit Local unit. Responsibility will be distributed as
it was in a 2008 Dexia rescue, meaning  Belgium  will provide 60.5
percent, France 36.5 percent and Luxembourg 3 percent. Frieden
said this amounted to a guarantee of 2.7 billion euros.  “That’s a lot less than the guarantee we gave in 2008,”
Frieden said. “At the time it was 4.5 billion” euros. “None
of the guarantees we gave in 2008 ever had to be paid.”  KBC Sale  The dismantling of Dexia, once the world’s leading lender
to municipalities, became inevitable after concern over European
sovereign debt holdings caused its short-term funding to
evaporate. Dexia’s bailout, three months after it passed
European Union regulators’ stress tests, brings the region’s
banking crisis from the continent’s periphery to its center.  Separately,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , Belgium’s biggest bank and
insurer by market value, agreed to sell its private banking unit
to Luxembourg-based Precision Capital for 1.05 billion euros to
bolster capital. The sale of KBL European Private Bankers SA,
also based in Luxembourg, will increase KBC’s capital by about
700 million euros, the bank said.  Precision Capital represents the business interests of an
unspecified Qatari investor, KBC said in a statement.  “That’s the reason I wasn’t able to divulge the name of
the investor last week,” Frieden said today. “The other
ministers yesterday were impressed and maybe even a bit jealous
that we’d found a solution that avoids a huge taxpayer
contribution and brings in a financially strong investor to
secure the future of the company.”  “The fact that the family group from Qatar, which isn’t
the Qatar Investment Authority as was erroneously reported last
week,” bought KBL and agreed to buy Dexia BIL “is good for the
Luxembourg financial sector because the two groups are
complementary and can develop independently from one another,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  