-- 
Remaking Japan Requires Breaking Rules With Plan for Ground Zero

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-10-11T09:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/remaking-japan-requires-breaking-rules-with-plan-for-ground-zero.html
Yoshihiro Murai, governor of Miyagi,
the prefecture that was the  ground zero  of the March 11
earthquake and tsunami, stands before a gathering in  Tokyo  of
300 representatives of  Japan ’s biggest companies and community
organizations.  It’s his last stop of the day and his third visit to the
capital in a month. He’s 190 miles from home.  Murai grips the microphone and apologizes in advance for
the rapidity with which he’s about to speak, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its November issue. He then races through
the high points of his 80-page plan to rebuild Miyagi, to raise
it up from its devastation with the help of economic
development.  Suddenly, Murai, nothing if not an optimist, pauses. His
face breaks into a grin.  “We’re coming up with a lot of benefits for businesses in
Miyagi,” he says. “So I hope you come before we run out of
land.”  Murai, 51, has traveled to Tokyo on this day in late July
to sell corporate Japan on his grand vision of remaking the
ruined region. The one-time Self-Defense Forces (SDF) helicopter
pilot says he’s not drinking a drop of alcohol until the last of
the 320,885 people who were evacuated from their coastal homes
are able to move out of the prefecture’s makeshift gymnasiums-
turned-shelters.  ‘Japan Will Sink’  Murai’s eye is already on something much larger and more
daunting, however: turning Miyagi’s 120 miles (200 kilometers)
of wrecked coastline into the country’s most attractive
investment spot. Murai says he wants to create a model economy
in Miyagi that could be replicated in Japan’s 46 other
prefectures.  Japan as a nation, like Miyagi and the region that
surrounds it, Tohoku, cannot afford to return to its pre-
disaster trail of deflation and debt, he says in an interview
during his Tokyo visit four months after the March 11 disaster.  “If things continue along the same path, Japan will
sink,” he says.  The Japanese economy has been underwater for some time. The
country’s strongest recorded earthquake slammed the world’s
third-largest economy after two decades of stagnation that saw
nominal gross domestic product repeatedly rise only to fall back
down from 1991 to 2011.  GDP, seasonally adjusted, stood at 462 trillion yen ($6
trillion) in the three months ended on June 30, down from 469
trillion yen exactly 20 years earlier.  Lost Hope  Against that backdrop, policy makers long ago lost hope
that domestic consumers and businesses would drive growth.
Instead, the country banked on exporters such as Toyota Motor
Corp. and Nintendo Co. to keep the economy ticking.  Yoshihiko Noda, whose selection as prime minister was
confirmed by Emperor Akihito on Sept. 2, has inherited those two
lost decades, a yen that’s surged about 50 percent against the
dollar in the past four years and a benchmark  interest rate  that
has long stood near zero percent.  Murai’s prescription for Japan’s malaise is in line with
what many critics of government policy have recommended. For
years, economists have urged the central government to transfer
power and grant more autonomy to local authorities, ease
regulations that stifle business, wrest control of the nation’s
farms and harbors from the powerful agriculture and fishery
cooperatives and cut one of the world’s highest corporate tax
rates.  Recipe for Rebirth  Tailored to Miyagi, Murai’s recipe for rebirth is built
around deregulation and tax incentives. He says he wants to
eliminate the barriers that have prevented bigger businesses
from investing in agriculture and fishing industries that
because of regulation and tradition have been dominated by big
cooperatives made up of independent fishers and farmers.  He wants to create manufacturing hubs for cars and high-
tech electronics and machinery by offering tax holidays and
government subsidies. And he wants to ease about a dozen urban
planning and environmental laws that he says currently stand in
the way of building in a timely fashion factories that would
create jobs.  Finance Minister Jun Azumi, who comes from Ishinomaki, a
coastal city in Miyagi where more than 3,000 people died in the
disaster, has sent out some encouraging signals to Murai and the
people of Miyagi.  Not Stingy  “When there’s a disaster, we must not be stingy,” Azumi
told reporters in Marseille,  France , in September after meeting
with his Group of Seven counterparts. “It’s imperative to
budget enough money so people become hopeful again. For Japan to
show the world that it’s bouncing back even after a disaster of
that scale, it’s important for the government itself to approach
the task with enthusiasm.”  And yet seven months after the disaster, the Japanese
parliament has not passed any legislation that would turn
Murai’s vision into reality.  “Miyagi’s plan is in essence the making of an open
economy,” says Masaaki Kanno, a former senior official at the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  and now chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Tokyo. “This isn’t just about Tohoku. These are reforms needed
everywhere in the country.”  This sort of structural change will not come easily for
Noda, says  Takuji Okubo , chief Japan economist at Societe
Generale SA in Tokyo.  “He cannot push reform policies,” he says. “I think he’s
more focused on fiscal policy, and I don’t think he would want
to make many enemies by pushing these reforms.”  Growth and Catastrophe  Motohiro Adachi, a professor at Wakayama University who
specializes in regional economies, agrees with Murai that Japan
can’t sustain itself without changing. Standing in the way of
Murai’s reforms, he says, is 940 trillion yen of government debt
combined with a gridlocked parliament that has forced two prime
ministers out of office since the ruling  Democratic Party  of
Japan (DPJ) came to power in August 2009.  This sort of dysfunctional performance is exactly why
reconstruction this time around could be more successful than in
the past, says Hideki Toya, whose research on the relationship
between growth and catastrophe shows that societies hit by
extreme adversity can often change in a way that boosts economic
growth.  “When you’re like Japan today, after 20 years of
stagnation, there’s a sense that something needs to be
changed,” says Toya, an economics professor at Nagoya City
University. “There’s a greater chance people will let go of the
things that were holding back the economy.”  Post-Bubble Nightmare  In March, the state of the Japanese economy was a textbook
example of a post-bubble nightmare. Hobbled by persistent
deflation and stop-and-go rebounds, the economy had grown at an
average annual pace of 1.2 percent since the peak of the
country’s asset bubble in 1989.  Share prices of once-global pioneers such as  Sony Corp. (6758)  had
shriveled to one-fifth of their height,  China  overtook Japan in
2010 as the world’s second-largest economy and government debt
was set to grow to more than twice the size of GDP.  In the meantime, the country was preparing to dump its
seventh prime minister in a decade, a pattern that had left few
leaders in office long enough to articulate, let alone
implement, a vision that would resuscitate the country. Miyagi,
one of six prefectures in Tohoku, was a microcosm of that
decline -- only magnified.  Tuna Palaces  The economy of Miyagi’s capital, Sendai, the commercial hub
of northeastern Japan, first developed in the early 1600s by
feudal lord Date Masamune, was deteriorating as large-scale
retailers such as Seven & I Holdings Co.’s Ito-Yokado
supermarket unit started closing stores to cut costs.  Formerly booming fishing towns such as Kesennuma, home of
Miyagi’s biggest harbor, were withering at an even faster pace
as international quotas cut catches, depressed income levels and
ended the glamor of an area once known for extravagant homes
dubbed maguro goten, or tuna palaces.  Miyagi’s future was looking bleak. A forecast by the
Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism said
that a rapidly aging population with a slumping birthrate meant
Tohoku would lose 40 percent of its population by 2050, with 19
percent of now-inhabited areas expected to be deserted by then.  “All my customers were passing away or entering nursing
homes,” says Sueko Saito, 63, who ran a barbershop in
Kesennuma. “Things were becoming quiet.”  Then, at 2:46 p.m. on March 11, an undersea earthquake
struck 80 miles off the shores of Miyagi. Minutes later, tsunami
sirens sounded throughout the harbors that line the  Pacific
Ocean .  ‘This Is It’  Especially given his military experience, it didn’t take
Murai long to sense the scale of the disaster; within 16
minutes, he had requested an emergency deployment of SDF
soldiers based in Sendai.  Murai was sitting in his official car, a black Toyota
Alphard, near the government’s Sendai headquarters when the
earthquake hit. “The ground rolled, and the traffic lights
swayed like tree branches,” he recalls. “I thought, this is
it.”  That was only the beginning. Within an hour, waves as high
as 130 feet (40 meters) slammed the coast. Flipping over ships,
uprooting trees, crushing homes and swallowing vehicles racing
to outpace the tide, the black, debris-filled waves looked more
like lava than water.  As of Oct. 7, 15,822 people had died, another 3,926 were
still missing, and in Miyagi, the hardest-hit area, the death
toll stood at 9,488.  Plutonium, Iodine  The tsunami flooded 217 square miles (561 square
kilometers) of land from as far north as Aomori to as far south
as Chiba, according to the Land Ministry. In the middle of the
affected coastline, 60 miles south of Sendai, stands Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic power plant,
where the waves knocked out the reactors’ cooling systems and
unleashed the world’s worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  Plutonium, iodine, cesium, cobalt and strontium that spewed
from the melted fuel rods in Fukushima deepened Miyagi’s crisis,
as consumers shunned vegetables, milk and meat from the entire
northeastern region that they feared had been contaminated. Even
though Miyagi is outside the 20-kilometer evacuation zone that
surrounds the nuclear plant, the government has continued
monitoring the level of radioactive material in the air,
drinking water, seawater and outdoor swimming pools.  Rock Bottom  “It’s been tough,” Murai says during an interview after
lunch with a trading company executive in Tokyo. His trademark
grin is gone.  “Instead of protecting the happiness of my constituents,
my job’s been more about pulling them out of rock bottom after
the disaster,” he says. “But there’s so much that needs to be
done.”  The task ahead is overwhelming. The ground sank as much as
4 feet because of the tectonic shifts caused by the earthquake,
creating swamps of trapped seawater and rotting fish next to the
expanding piles of wood, cement and wires that mechanical cranes
separated from the rubble.  If businesses in the flooded areas are knocked out of
commission for more than a year, the economy of Kesennuma, with
73,000 residents, will halve to 220 billion yen, according to
estimates from Sendai-based  77 Bank Ltd. (8341)   Fishing and farming provide an income for one in every six
households in coastal Tohoku cities such as Kesennuma. Noboru
Onodera, who runs a sushi bar atop a hill in Kesennuma, feels
the effects firsthand.  ‘Total Darkness’  “We reopened this place 43 days after the tsunami, but I
don’t know when we’ll have to close our business,” Onodera, 58,
says. The tsunami-driven water surged to within 130 feet of his
shop.  “Who’s going to eat sushi when all the jobs are gone?” he
says. “The future’s total darkness. You look left and you look
right, and all you see is debris.”  Japan’s previous major earthquake struck Kobe in 1995. The
reconstruction objective, local and national political leaders
said at the time, was to return Kobe to its pre-temblor state as
a port and manufacturing city of about 1.5 million people. Kobe
missed the chance to remake what in the 1970s had been the
world’s largest container port, says  Makoto Iokibe , a historian
and head of Hyogo Earthquake Memorial 21st Century Research
Institute.  ‘A Ridiculous Waste’  “Kobe remade the same port it had before, and it kept
losing competitiveness,” says Iokibe, who’s now head of the
government-appointed post-Tohoku quake reconstruction committee.
“This philosophy of back to before restoration was a ridiculous
waste. We can’t repeat that mistake.”  Kobe is typical of how most reconstruction drives end,
disaster economics specialist Toya says, with just enough
rebuilding to avert a dramatic loss of capacity while missing an
opportunity to jump-start growth. On average, catastrophes
around the world have left neither a positive nor a negative
long-term footprint on national economies, according to a 2010
Inter-American Development Bank study.  Murai wants to break that cycle. His goal is to attract
more companies to the region and therefore more jobs for the
survivors to return to and more private capital to help fund
rebuilding and reverse the economic slide in Miyagi and across
Japan that had begun before the earthquake.  Record Low Permits  In 2010, land acquisitions for new factories in Japan
slumped to 786 permits, a record low since the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry started tracking the data in 1967.  During the three months following the Tohoku earthquake,
more than a quarter of overseas businesses that were set to
invest in Japan delayed, scaled back or canceled their plans,
according to a Trade Ministry survey.  Murai is a relative newcomer to Miyagi. He was born in
 Osaka , 390 miles southwest of Sendai, in 1960 at a time when
Japan was in a radically different stage of its economic
history. That year, then-Prime Minister Hayato Ikeda unveiled a
plan to double Japan’s GDP in a decade, a goal that was
completed in eight years.  On the eve of Japan’s asset bubble that tripled the  Nikkei
225 (NKY)  Stock Average in a half-decade, Murai graduated from the
Yokosuka-based National Defense Academy, the training ground for
the military’s officers. After flying helicopters in the SDF,
Murai attended the prestigious  Matsushita Institute of
Government and Management , then a three-year adult boarding
school that has educated much of the nation’s political elite,
including Noda.  Tax Increases  After graduating, Murai ran as a  Liberal Democratic Party 
(LDP) candidate for a seat in the prefectural parliament in
Miyagi, where he had been based back in his military days. He
won.  Running as an independent, Murai became governor of Miyagi
in 2005. His first priority was to make manufacturing the new
growth engine of the prefecture. He raised levies on existing
businesses to fund tax breaks for new factories, a move that
drew a firestorm of criticism.  He pushed ahead anyway and persuaded global titans such as
Toyota affiliate Central Motor Co. and semiconductor equipment
maker  Tokyo Electron Ltd. (8035)  to build plants in Miyagi.  2,200 Jobs  Those two deals alone brought about 2,200 jobs to the
prefecture, according to government estimates. In 2009, Murai
won his second term as governor, with four times the votes of
the runner-up.  Before the earthquake, Murai, who is married and a father
of two daughters, was best known outside Miyagi for his proposal
that all sex offenders in the prefecture wear a GPS-trackable
device. The measure has yet to win approval in the prefectural
parliament.  At first, Murai’s attempts to break the grip of powerful
fishing cooperatives incurred the wrath of the federal Fisheries
Agency.  “But I told them that these fishers used to be my
supporters, that I’m risking losing their votes because I’m
doing this for the survival of Japanese fishing,” he says. The
agency came around to his way of thinking in the end.  “Even if I get criticized, I need to do what I need to
do,” Murai says.  After the quake, Murai took his case for change to Tokyo.
In May, he asked the DPJ-led central government to approve eight
prototypes of special economic zones designed to cater to
specific sectors, from manufacturing to health care, to clean
energy.  Failed Experiments  While special zones of one kind or another exist now as a
result of former Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi ’s 2003 push to
experiment with deregulation, Koizumi’s program failed to spark
similar changes nationwide, according to Hideo Fukui, a
professor of administrative law at the National Graduate
Institute for Policy Studies.  “The relevant ministries rejected any proposal that had
the hope of turning into a meaningful experiment for the
country,” Fukui says.  Under Murai’s plan, disaster-hit businesses and new
employers that agree to move into the special zones would be
exempt for 10 years from as-yet-unspecified levies on corporate
earnings. Japan’s effective corporate tax rate is the second-
highest in the world after the  United Arab Emirates , according
to a 2010 KPMG LLP survey of 114 nations.  Murai says he also wants to lower hurdles that
manufacturers have traditionally had to clear before they
construct new plants, simplifying the cumbersome process of
winning building-site approval. The logic behind his vision is
simple, he says.  ‘Strangling Ourselves’  “Labor’s expensive, land’s expensive, taxes are high,
regulations abound,” Murai says. ’’We’re strangling ourselves
with our own restrictions. Of course foreign companies don’t
want to come to Japan.’’  For example, says Masayoshi Honma, a professor of
agriculture policy at the  University of Tokyo , regulations have
barred companies from owning farmland even though they’re
permitted to rent it, depressing corporate investment. A half
century-old marine law gives established fishing cooperatives
first priority in obtaining fishing licenses.  Masayuki Komatsu, a former senior official at Japan’s
Fisheries Agency, says this denies  market access  to companies
that don’t want to pay a variety of fees to these cooperatives.  Lively Harbors  By eliminating barriers -- to foreign and Japanese
companies alike, “thoroughly, one by one” -- Murai says he
hopes to win back some of the businesses that have drifted to
neighbors such as  South Korea  in recent years.  “All it takes is one success model,” Murai says. “If we
can just get one test case where people say tag teaming with
companies went well, that young people are coming back, that the
harbors are lively again, all the other regions carry the same
problems. When they want to change, too, they can come check out
Miyagi. Those reforms can spread throughout the country bit by
bit.”  Murai’s vision won’t get far without a push from Tokyo. On
Oct. 7, Prime Minister Noda’s reconstruction headquarters
announced an outline for the incentives it wants to give
companies, local governments and residents within designated
disaster areas.  Tax Breaks  Under the plan, a variety of regulations including those
pertaining to fishing licenses would be eased, and local
authorities would gain access to grants that fund infrastructure
projects. Businesses would also be able to deduct from their
corporate taxes 10 percent of the salaries they pay to disaster-
affected employees and write off 100 percent of their machinery
expenses for a year.  The array of tax breaks will cost 100 billion yen,
according to estimates from the government’s tax panel chaired
by Finance Minister Azumi. Even so, Japan should expand those
incentives to include a five-year corporate  tax exemption  for
businesses that build facilities inside the special zones, the
same panel decided today.  “We’re hoping manufacturers and other job-creating
companies will take advantage of this program,” Vice Finance
Minister Fumihiko Igarashi told reporters in Tokyo. “We want
them to build new factories and increase employment.”  In that spirit, Noda’s government is now drafting the full
special reconstruction zone bill, which the prime minister is
expected to submit to the Diet for a vote in coming weeks. To
finance the measures, the prime minister must push an unpopular
proposal to raise taxes on the rest of the country through a
parliament over which his party lost full control.  Political Inaction  Tokyo’s track record of political inaction does not bode
well for Miyagi’s grand vision.  “Noda has indicated he wants to raise taxes, but he needs
to actually get that passed in parliament,” says Takayoshi Igarashi, a Tokyo-based professor of political science at  Hosei
University  who was an adviser to Kan.  There are politicians, however, who see cause for optimism.  “If someone in the disaster areas says, ‘This is what we
want to do to rebuild,’ my question is, are you really going to
stop them?” says Yuichi Goto, a DPJ lawmaker who’s been
involved in assembling the special zone legislation for Tohoku.
As a Trade Ministry official, Goto was involved in the creation
of Koizumi’s special zones.  “The argument carries more weight this time,” he says.
’’It will be easier to get the necessary approval.’’  For the time being, the new government has done what it can
to lift hopes among the people of Miyagi.  Biggest Break  “I’d like to listen to their requests and carry out those
requests through the budget as much as possible,” says Finance
Minister Azumi, a 49 year-old former broadcast journalist.  Murai’s biggest break so far has been Toyota’s decision to
build a 2 billion yen factory in Miyagi as part of a strategy to
create a small-car hub in the region. The new plant will employ
about 100 workers and assemble 100,000 engines a year.  “If Tohoku revives, that will be the shortest route toward
Japan’s revival,” Toyota Chief Executive Officer  Akio Toyoda 
said when he unveiled the plans on July 19.  Other influential business leaders say they’re waiting for
policy makers to take concrete steps in the reconstruction
process.  “It’s too early to commit to investments when the details
aren’t set,” Yoshimitsu Kobayashi, CEO of  Mitsubishi Chemical
Holdings Corp. (4188) , Japan’s biggest chemical maker, said in an
interview with Bloomberg News in July.  Verge of Growth  Murai landed in Miyagi by accident 27 years ago. As an SDF
pilot, he asked to be posted to Hokkaido. His instructor sent
him to Miyagi. When Murai decided to change careers and go into
politics after eight years of military service, it wasn’t his
birthplace or the nation’s capital, Tokyo, that he chose to
represent.  “I thought Tohoku was such a wonderful place from the
sky,” he says wistfully. “I got this sense that it was on the
verge of growth.”  Outside their sushi bar on a hill in Kesennuma, Noboru
Onodera’s wife, Mikie, 60, clings to the hope that Murai will
get his way.  “If companies really do come here, that will create more
work,” she says. “What we lost was so huge, but maybe our
gains will end up being greater. There was a time when this was
such a prosperous place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  