-- 
Richest Frenchman Loses Touch as Carrefour Is No Hermes: Retail

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-10-11T15:58:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/richest-frenchman-loses-touch-as-carrefour-is-no-hermes-retail.html
Supermarkets aren’t  Bernard Arnault ’s bag.  While France’s richest man and the chairman of  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  has seen  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA
surge in the year since he raided the Birkin bag maker’s stock,
his investment in  Carrefour SA (CA)  has flopped.  Carrefour, the world’s second-largest retailer, has tumbled
more than 60 percent since Arnault and Colony Capital LLC paid
about 4 billion euros ($5.5 billion) for a 9.8 percent stake in
2007. Now Arnault, who built LVMH into the world’s largest
luxury-goods maker via acquisitions, must wait to recoup his
grocery investment or swallow his losses and run after five
years over which the company’s sales stagnated in France.  Arnault and Colony “got the timing wrong” on Carrefour,
said Justin Scarborough, an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in  London . “The markets they’re in have come under
huge amounts of pressure since 2008 and lots of those pressures
aren’t going to go away.”  Hermes shares, meantime, have surged 31 percent since Oct.
22, the day before LVMH disclosed a stake bought with equity
swaps purchased in 2008. The gain has brought Hermes’s market
value to 24.7 billion euros and added about 1 billion euros to
LVMH’s 2010 profit as luxury demand surged among Asian consumers
and investors speculated about a takeover, which Hermes’s family
owners oppose.  Arnault, 62, has said both investments are strategic and
he’s not seeking control of the companies. He and Colony, which
together now hold 13.83 percent of Carrefour and 20.12 percent
of the  voting rights , announced their investment on March 7,
2007. LVMH now holds 21.4 percent of Hermes.  Herta Ham  While Hermes has a waiting list for some of its bags such
as the Birkin, which retails from 5,500 euros, Carrefour is
running “buy two, get one free” promotions on packets of Herta
Tendre Noix Superieur ham for 2.65 euros each.  Carrefour “really needs to sharpen” its pricing and
price perception to give consumers a good reason to make the
trip to its out-of-town superstores, or hypermarkets, said
Natalie Berg, an analyst at Planet Retail. “They have struggled
on both fronts, in terms of being perceived to offer good value
and offering the lowest prices.”  The retailer may report an 11 percent decline in third-
quarter sales to 22.7 billion euros on Oct. 13, according to the
average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Carrefour shares fell 0.3 percent to 17.48 euros at the
close in Paris, bringing the decline this year to 35 percent.
Hermes dropped 1.5 percent to 230.70 euros.  French Recession?  Carrefour gets 43 percent of revenue from  France , where it
controls 18 percent of the food retail market, and another 31
percent from the rest of Europe. France may enter a recession
next year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted Oct. 3, as growth
in the euro-area economy slows to 0.1 percent amid the sovereign
debt crisis.  Blue Capital, Arnault and Colony’s investment vehicle, has
three seats on Carrefour’s board, held by Arnault; Sebastien Bazin, director of Colony’s European operations who became the
board’s vice president in June; and Nicolas Bazire, head of
Arnault’s private investment company. All three declined to be
interviewed for this story.  Arnault also invests via L Capital, a private equity fund
sponsored by Groupe Arnault and LVMH. The fund bought stakes
in 23 companies between 2001 and 2011, including Princess
Yachts International, according to its website. Arnault also
sits on the board of Lagardere SCA, France’s biggest publisher.  ‘More Pain’  Getting Carrefour back on track in France will take three
to four years, said Chris Hogbin, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd. in London. The retailer has already replaced four
senior executives this year including the chief financial
officer. Jose Luis Duran was ousted as chief executive officer
18 months after Arnault and Colony joined the retailer’s board.
“There may be more pain before there’s gain,” Hogbin said.  Current CEO Lars Olofsson’s latest plan, which includes
remodeling Carrefour’s largest stores and adjusting prices, may
not be enough either,  Planet Retail ’s Berg said.  E-commerce and smaller stores in city centers are changing
the way Europeans shop, particularly for more profitable non-
food items, she said. Yet, Carrefour relies on hypermarkets for
about 60 percent of sales. “They’re stuck between a rock and a
hard place,” Berg said. “You could say that they’re
structurally flawed.”  Carrefour forecast in August that current operating income
may decline 15 percent in 2011 from a previous forecast of an
increase from restated 2010 figures. The grocer, which operated
15,937 stores in 33 countries as of Dec. 31, posted restated
earnings on that basis of 2.7 billion euros in 2010.  Ebit Decline  Earnings before interest and taxation for the full year may
fall 17 percent, more than the company’s forecast of a 15
percent decline, Scarborough wrote in an Oct. 7 note.  While Arnault has gained a reputation for hanging on to the
majority of the brands he’s acquired in the 24 years since he
took over LVMH, breaking up Carrefour may be the quickest way to
recoup his losses.  Carrefour could be worth 42 euros a share based on a sum of
the parts valuation, according to Jaime Vazquez, European food
retail analyst at Santander in  Madrid . That’s more than twice
the closing share price in Paris yesterday and 19 euros higher
than his target price of 23 euros.  Not all shareholders are in favor of such a solution.  Investor Opposition  While Carrefour spun off all of discounter Distribuidora
Internacional de Alimentacion SA on the Madrid stock exchange in
July, the plan to list 25 percent of property assets in  Europe 
was revived and shelved again in May following opposition from
other investors, unions and squabbling among management.  A proposal to merge Carrefour’s Brazilian unit with Cia.
Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar fell through in
July, leaving Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to explore a bid, people
familiar with the situation said. Carrefour last year pulled the
sale of units in Malaysia and  Singapore  after a strategic
review. Meanwhile, the company is years away from any listing of
its China operations, former CFO Pierre Bouchut said in July.  Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC, which owns 1.5 percent
of the grocer, has already said it opposes any efforts by the
retailer to sell assets outside of Europe one by one. After the
collapse of the Pao de Acucar merger, Olofsson said Carrefour’s
Brazil business, whose value was written down by 550 million
euros in 2010, isn’t for sale.  Carrefour would need to increase profit threefold for
shares to return to the price Arnault paid for them, Scarborough
estimates. “That’s a pipe dream,” he said. “They’ve got to be
pragmatic in terms of their prospects for the business.”
Scarborough doesn’t expect Arnault to cash out yet because of
the losses he would incur.  A patient Arnault could be good for Carrefour as a whole.
The retailer needs to restore confidence that it’s working for
all investors, Hogbin said.  “They’re at odds if one shareholder is trying to get cash
out of the business. That may not be consistent with a
fundamental turnaround of the business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 