-- 
Robert Schaeberle, Who Led Nabisco in Merger, Dies at 88

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-10-11T16:54:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/robert-schaeberle-who-led-nabisco-into-1981-merger-dies-at-88.html
Robert Schaeberle, who led Nabisco
Inc., one of America’s leading snack makers, into the 1981
merger with Standard Brands Inc. that set the stage for the
defining battle of the leveraged-buyout era, has died. He was
88.  He died on Sept. 29 at the Ridge at Riverwoods, a
continuing-care community in Exeter,  New Hampshire ,  according to 
Brewitt Funeral Home. The cause was complications from
 Alzheimer’s disease , the New York Times said, citing his son,
Robert.  On paper at least, Schaeberle and F. Ross Johnson, head of
Standard Brands, shared power atop the combined and renamed
Nabisco Brands Inc. starting in 1981. Schaeberle became chairman
and chief executive officer; Johnson was president and chief
operating officer.  In practice, Johnson led a “cultural revolution that would
transform Nabisco,”  Bryan Burrough  and John Helyar wrote in
“Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabisco.” The  book 
detailed the bidding war that led to what was, at the time, the
largest takeover in Wall Street history -- Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co.’s $30.1 billion purchase of  RJR Nabisco  in 1989.  Melding Styles  Johnson made sure his generous policies toward executive
pay and perks spread through Nabisco, and he “moved to mold
Nabisco’s business mix to his own tastes,” the authors wrote.
“On its face it was an impossible task -- Nabisco’s vast,
entrenched bureaucracy seemed impervious to change -- but with
his newfound sway over Schaeberle, Johnson made steady progress.
It was always Johnson initiating, Schaeberle assenting; Johnson
spinning out sweet reason, Schaeberle accepting it.”  After three years, Schaeberle retired and Johnson became
CEO. Johnson went on to lead Nabisco through its merger with
R.J. Reynolds in 1985. His attempt to take the company private
in a leveraged buyout opened the bidding war for the company in
1988.  Johnson, 79, who went on to run RJM Group, an investment
firm in Atlanta, said today in a statement that he and
Schaeberle “became very close friends” after the merger
creating Nabisco Brands, and that their work had long-term
positive results.  “The merger was highly successful and in 1985, Nabisco
Brands was sold to  R.J. Reynolds  forming RJR Nabisco, again,
creating a very successful new company,” Johnson said in the
statement e-mailed by his office. “In 1989, RJR Nabisco was
sold providing a significant return to its shareholders. The
merger was one of the largest and most successful of its kind.
Bob Schaeberle was a key executive in the success of the sale of
RJR Nabisco Inc.”  War Veteran  Robert M. Schaeberle was born on Jan. 2, 1923, in  Newark ,
 New Jersey . He graduated from  Dartmouth College  in the class of
1945 after serving three years in the U.S. Navy during World War
II, reaching the rank of lieutenant commander.  At Dartmouth, an economics professor assigned him to write
a paper on a company of his choice, he told Forbes magazine in
1980. Paging through a Moody’s publication, he chose National
Biscuit Co. -- what would become Nabisco.  He began working for the company in 1946 and became
chairman and CEO in 1973.  He was founding chairman of Morris Tomorrow, a nonprofit
group focused on improving the quality of life in Morris County,
New Jersey. Nabisco, now a unit of  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , is based in
 East Hanover , part of Morris County.  His first wife, the former Barbara Slockbower, died in
1981. His second wife, also named Barbara, died in 2003.
Survivors include his three sons and their families.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  