-- 
Romania Likely to Cut Rates After Budget Accord, Slow Inflation

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-10-10T12:41:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/romania-likely-to-cut-rates-after-budget-accord-slow-inflation.html
Romania probably will cut  interest
rates  after an accord is reached on the 2012 budget with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union and inflation
slows to within target, a central bank economist said.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  kept the EU’s main rate at
6.25 percent for an 11th meeting on Sept. 29, refraining from a
cut that would spur capital outflows and weaken the leu. The
next rate-setting meeting is scheduled for Nov. 2.  “This reduction couldn’t have been done in a rush,” said
central bank Chief Economist Valentin Lazea told Hotnews.ro. It
can’t “be done before the 2012 budget parameters are agreed
with the International Monetary Fund and the European Union in
early November.”  Central banks across the region are seeking to balance the
risks of slower growth in western  Europe , the main importer of
goods from their eastern neighbors, and weaker currencies as
investors cut their exposure to emerging-market assets.  The leu, the seventh-best performer among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg so far this
year, weakened 0.1 percent to 4.3126 per euro as of 2:47 p.m. in
Bucharest trading. It rebounded from its weakest in 15 months
against the euro reached last week.  Romanian policy makers are targeting an inflation rate of
between 2 percent and 4 percent for this year and next. They
have kept interest rates stable since June 2010 as they assess
the impact of the global slowdown and fading effect of a tax
increase on prices.  Rate Target  The inflation rate probably fell to between 3 percent and 4
percent in September, entering the central bank’s target, after
dropping to the lowest in 17 months in August, central bank
Governor Mugur Isarescu said on Oct. 5. The rate declined to
4.25 percent in August from 4.85 percent in July, the lowest
since March 2010.  An IMF-led mission will visit  Romania  between Oct. 25 and
Nov. 7 to conduct the third review under a 5 billion-euro ($6.8
billion) precautionary loan, the Washington-based lender said on
Oct. 7.  The IMF will probably lower Romania’s 2012 economic growth
forecast, a key parameter for next year’s budget, to as low as 2
percent from the current 3.5 percent, IMF Mission Chief Jeffrey
Franks said in an interview on Sept. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  