-- 
Romney’s Republican Challengers Sidestep Mormon Question

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-10-10T19:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/romney-s-republican-challengers-steer-clear-of-mormon-question-in-campaign.html
Republican presidential candidates
attempted to deflect questions about whether frontrunner  Mitt Romney , a Mormon, could be considered a Christian, an issue
raised by evangelical voters during Romney’s 2008 campaign and
spotlighted again by a backer of Texas Governor  Rick Perry .  “I’m not running for theologian in chief,” said  Herman Cain , a former chief executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza, in
an interview yesterday on  CNN ’s “State of the Union.” “He’s a
Mormon. That much I know.”  He also said, “I am not going to do an analysis of
Mormonism versus Christianity for the sake of answering that,”
adding the question is “not going to boost this economy.”  The question surfaced as eight of the Republican candidates
prepare for debate tomorrow with a focus on the economy
sponsored by Bloomberg News and the Washington Post at  Dartmouth
College  in Hanover, New Hampshire.  Michele Bachmann , a congresswoman from  Minnesota , called
the discussion about Romney’s religion inconsequential, though
she declined to comment on his background.  ‘Just Ridiculous’  “To make this a big issue is just ridiculous right now
because every day I’m on the street talking to people, this is
not what people are talking about,” she said on CNN’s program.  Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , who is running
on the strength of his social conservative credentials, took a
more direct approach, saying in an interview on “Fox News
Sunday” that he doesn’t believe Mormonism is a cult.  “I’m not an expert on Mormonism,” he said. “All I know
is that every Mormon I know is a good and decent person, has
great moral values.”  When asked if Romney could be considered a “true
Christian,” Santorum said, “He says he’s a Christian.”  Republican candidate Jon Huntsman Jr., also a Mormon,
brushed off questions raised about his faith as he campaigned in
 New London , New Hampshire, yesterday.  “Discussion of Mormonism doesn’t expand our economic base,
it doesn’t secure our position in the world,” he told
reporters. “I have no idea why people are wasting, spending so
much political capital and bandwidth on this issue. It’s
nonsensical.”  ‘Cult’ Comment  The Rev. Robert Jeffress, a Baptist minister from  Dallas 
who introduced Perry at the Values Voter Summit in  Washington  on
Oct. 7, had highlighted the question of whether evangelical
Christians -- a major bloc within the  Republican Party  -- should
support Romney. He said they shouldn’t, labeling Mormonism a
“cult” in comments made to reporters after his introduction of
Perry at the conference.  Jeffress described Romney as “a good moral person, but
someone who is part of a cult.”  Perry spokesman Mark Miner said the governor “does not
believe Mormonism is a cult.” And Perry, campaigning that day
in Iowa, said he disagreed with the characterization. At the
same time, he boasted of his “conservative record,” urging
Iowans to find an “authentic and conservative leader.”  Romney’s faith and changing positions on issues such as
abortion rights and gay marriage hurt him among evangelical
Christians in his failed 2008 bid for the Republican nomination.  Romney has sought to play down those matters this year, in
part by focusing on the economy and offering himself as the
candidate with the right credentials to deal with issues.  In a speech he gave Oct. 8 at the Values Voter Summit, he
said religious difference shouldn’t divide Republicans and that
“poisonous language does not advance our cause.”  Family’s Diversity  Huntsman, a former Utah governor and son of a prominent
Mormon leader, said the pastor’s comments had little impact on
him emotionally, noting the diversity of his family.  “I don’t tune into it,” Huntsman said. “My wife was
raised Episcopalian. My kids have gone to Catholic schools.”  Huntsman, speaking to more than 100 people at Colby-Sawyer
College in  New Hampshire  yesterday, predicted that he would win
the state’s primary election in December or January.  “This state demands authenticity,” Huntsman said.
“Having name recognition doesn’t necessarily guarantee victory
at the end of the day.”  The audience was roughly half students, including some who
had been assigned to attend for class credit.  Scaled-Back Role  Huntsman gave a foreign policy address today at Southern
New Hampshire University, in which he called for a scaled-back
U.S. role in international engagements.  “We must right-size our current foreign entanglements,”
Huntsman said. “Simply put, we are risking American blood and
treasure in parts of the world where our strategy needs to be
rethought.”  The former U.S. ambassador to  China  under President  Barack Obama  framed his foreign policy doctrine as one focused on
boosting the domestic economy. He called for expanding U.S.
economic relationships across the globe, in part through finding
areas of cooperation with China and congressional ratification
of new trade deals.  Some evangelical voters don’t believe that Mormons are
Christians because they use the Book of Mormon as a primary holy
text in addition to the King James Bible. Their opposition
helped end Romney’s candidacy for the Republican nomination in
2008.  Romney came under attack during that campaign for changing
his stances on the kinds of social issues often used as a litmus
test by evangelical voters. He had supported legal abortion and
advocated for gay rights when he won the Massachusetts
governorship in 2002. When he sought the 2008 presidential
nomination, he supported a constitutional amendment banning
same-sex marriage and opposed abortion rights.  Iowa  Caucuses  Romney lost the Iowa caucuses, the first round of voting in
the presidential primaries, to former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , a Southern Baptist preacher with strong ties to the
evangelical community. Sixty percent of Republicans who attended
the caucuses described themselves to pollsters as born-again or
evangelical Christians.  Like Huckabee, Perry has longstanding ties to the
evangelical community. More than 30,000 people attended a prayer
rally he hosted on Aug. 7, a week before he entered the
presidential race, which featured speeches and prayers by
evangelical Christian leaders including  James Dobson , founder of
the Focus on the Family ministry, and Tony Perkins, president of
the Family Research Council.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , another Republican
candidate from  Georgia , said yesterday that Romney’s religion
should be left out of the political debate.  “None of us should sit in judgment on somebody else’s
religion,” he said in an interview on CBS’s “Face The
Nation.” “I think he’s a Mormon, and Mormons define themselves
as a branch of Christianity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  