-- 
Rubiales Rises in Bogota After Government-Brokered Deal

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-10-10T20:22:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/rubiales-rises-in-bogota-after-government-brokered-labor-deal.html
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , the
Toronto-based oil producer that operates fields in Colombia,
rose to a two-week high after the government brokered a deal
between the company and workers following protests this year.  The shares rose 4.4 percent to 42,160 pesos at the close in
Bogota, the highest since Sept. 22.  The accord establishes a minimum monthly salary of 1.2
million pesos ($628) for workers and contractors provides
workers with at least nine days off each month and reimburses
them for transportation to the work site, according to an Oct. 8
statement by Colombia’s ministry of mines and energy.  The agreement was brokered with the support of Mauricio
Cardenas, who was named Sept. 20 as the country’s Minister of
Mines and Energy.  “It’s a good step forward toward improving relations with
workers” even as protests may continue as at least one union
did not recognize the accord, said Juan David Pineros, oil
sector analyst for Interbolsa SA,  Colombia ’s biggest brokerage.
The deal will help stabilize Rubiales’ operations though it may
increase operating costs, Pineros said.  The company’s workers union and Union de Trabajadores de la
Industria Energetica Nacional participated in the negotiations,
the statement said. Colombia’s Union Sindical Obrera, which was
involved in the protests, does not recognize the accord, the
union’s vice-president German Osma told RCN radio today.  The company said Sept. 21 it would resume output
“gradually” at Colombia’s largest oil field after an end of
protests that cut production. Rubiales holds a 40 percent stake
in the Rubiales field, which it operates. Bogota-based Ecopetrol
SA owns the remainder of the field.  Sabanero Extension  Etablissments Maurel & Prom, a French oil explorer, said it
found oil sandstones at a well at the Sabanero license in
Colombia and oil samples taken have confirmed the field
extension to the north-east, according to a statement on its
website. The company, whose Colombian subsidiary Maurel et Prom
Colombia BV is 49.99 percent owned by Pacific Rubiales, said
three more wells will be drilled in 2011 and 2012.  Crude oil climbed to the highest level in two weeks as the
leaders of Germany and  France  pledged to stem the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  