-- 
Russia in Talks to Buy Spanish State Debt, Medvedev Aide Dvorkovich Says

-- B y   A l e n a   C h e c h e l
-- 
2011-10-10T08:37:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/russia-in-talks-to-buy-spanish-state-debt-medvedev-aide-dvorkovich-says.html
Russia ’s government, holder of the
world’s third-largest reserves, discussed buying Spanish
sovereign debt at a meeting with Finance Minister  Elena Salgado ,
said  Arkady Dvorkovich , the Kremlin’s top economic adviser.  Salgado met Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Alexei Kudrin, a former finance minister, and their talks included the
question of possible purchases of bonds issued by the euro-
area’s fourth-biggest economy, Dvorkovich said today at a
conference in Moscow.  “We are waiting for a European declaration of a concrete,
clear strategy to exit the crisis,” Dvorkovich said. “If this
strategy will require help from Russia and other BRICS
countries, we are ready to extend support.”  Finance ministry and central bank officials from  Brazil ,
Russia, India,  China  and  South Africa  met last month before the
International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting to discuss
coordinating policy as Europe reels from a sovereign debt
crisis. French President Nicolas Sarkozy, speaking yesterday at
a joint briefing with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, said
European leaders will deliver a plan on recapitalizing banks by
the Nov. 3 Group of 20 summit.  Merkel said a report from a team of inspectors from the
IMF, the European Union and the European Central Bank later this
month will help determine the next step to keep Greece in the
17-nation euro zone.  Acting as a Bloc  The world’s largest emerging economies will not act as a
bloc to ease  Europe ’s crisis, Russian Deputy Finance Minister
Sergei Storchak said Sept. 22. Even so, Russia is
“theoretically” prepared to buy common euro-area bonds,
Storchak said in a Sept. 13 interview.  It would be “premature” to say that Russia is already
prepared to make European bond purchases, Dvorkovich said today.  Russia’s National Wellbeing Fund, one of two funds the
state uses to safeguard windfall oil revenue, was permitted to
buy Spanish government bonds with maturities of between three
months and one year starting March 21, according to the Finance
Ministry. Russia had removed Spain and Ireland sovereign debt
from its investment list on Nov. 3 as the two euro-member
countries struggled to contain record deficits.  The funds are managed by the central bank under guidelines
set down by the  Finance Ministry . They can also invest in state
debt of Austria, Belgium, Britain, Germany, Canada, Denmark,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, U.S., Finland, France and Sweden,
according to the ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  