-- 
Putin Seeks to Diversify China Trade as Gas Talks Continue

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-10-10T15:32:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/russia-seeks-to-diversify-trade-with-china-during-putin-s-trip.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  wants
to use his first foreign trip since announcing a plan to return
to the presidency next year to diversify trade with China as
Russia struggles to conclude talks on gas deliveries to the
world’s second-biggest economy.  The countries have no plan yet to sign a gas pricing deal
during the two-day trip that begins tomorrow, Yury Ushakov,
Putin’s deputy chief of staff, told reporters in Moscow today.
Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  “will discuss all issues of
energy cooperation in the gas and oil sphere,” Ushakov said.
“Many nuances will be clarified.”  Russia wants to conclude the drawn-out negotiations on a
gas accord with the world’s biggest energy consumer, which has
been held up by wrangling over how much  China  will pay for the
fuel. Sechin pledged to supply China, which wants to triple its
gas consumption by 2020, with natural gas during President
 Dmitry Medvedev ’s visit to Beijing a year ago.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s state-controlled monopoly exporter of
gas, is seeking to diversify away from Europe to supply fast-
growing Asian markets. Pricing disagreements have held up an
accord for several years and didn’t allow a contract  to be
signed in June during Chinese President Hu Jintao visit to
Moscow. Gazprom is ready to start building a  gas pipeline  to
China once a contract is signed.  ‘According to Schedule’  “Talks are proceeding according to schedule,”  Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman for Gazprom, said by phone from Moscow
today, declining to elaborate. Gazprom’s Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Alexander Medvedev said in an interview last month that
negotiations may be concluded by year-end.  The world’s largest gas producer has insisted on price
parity with  Europe  where customers on average paid $400 to $450
per thousand cubic meters in August. China offered to pay $235
per thousand cubic meters, Pang Changwei, a researcher at China
Petroleum University, said in June.  With energy accounting for more than half of its exports to
China, Russia wants to diversify economic ties trade with the
Asian nation as trade turnover may exceed $70 billion by year-
end from $59 billion in 2010, Ushakov said.  ‘Bypassing  Germany ’  “China has become our first trade partner, bypassing
Germany, and this is quite symbolic,” Ushakov said. “The task
for the visit is not only to expand trade and economic contacts
but also to diversify the structure of our relations as the
structure itself does not satisfy us.”  Equipment and machinery accounted for 8 percent of Russia’s
exports to China and 50 percent of China’s shipments to Russia
last year, according to the Economy Ministry in Moscow. Russia
and China will consider cooperation in the space industry,
telecommunications, aircraft manufacturing and agriculture, and
sign an agreement on modernizing the economy, Ushakov said today
without providing details.  In China, Sechin will be joined by Agriculture Minister
Elena Skrynnik and Communications Minister Igor Shchegolev. Also
attending are  Sergei Kiriyenko , head of Russia’s state-owned
nuclear energy holding company Rosatom Corp. and Vladimir Dmitriev, chairman of VEB, Russia’s state development bank.  17 Agreements  A total of 17 agreements may be reached during Putin’s
visit including deals between state development bank VEB and the
Russian Direct Investment Fund with China Investment Corp. to
create a joint investment fund. ZAO Sibur Holding, eastern
Europe’s biggest petrochemical producer, will sign a cooperation
accord with China Petrochemical Corp., the nation’s biggest
refiner, he said.  Russian Technologies Corp. will sign an accord with China
Poly Group Corp and China Electronics Technology Group Corp.
Billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s EN+ Group will agree to a deal with
China State Grid Corp., Ushakov said.  China State Grid and EN+ will seek to attract $10 billion
to boost generation capacity in  Russia ’s Siberia and  Far East ,
Interfax reported, citing an unidentified official in the
Russian delegation that will accompany Putin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 