-- 
Sanusi May Raise Nigeria Rate Amid Pressure to Devalue Naira

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-10-10T10:23:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/sanusi-may-raise-key-nigeria-rate-amid-pressure-to-devalue-peg.html
Nigerian policy makers, who will
probably raise the key lending rate today as inflation pressures
mount, may also consider devaluing the naira as lower  oil prices 
make it more difficult to maintain the currency peg, economists
said.  Governor Lamido Sanusi, who will chair the unscheduled
policy meeting, will raise the policy rate a percentage point to
10.25 percent, according to the median of 11 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. All the economists surveyed expect an increase
with the size of the move ranging from half a percentage point
to 2 percentage points.  Inflation, which eased to 9.3 percent in August, may
accelerate after the government last week said it plans to end
fuel subsidies and raise spending next year. At the same time,
the central bank has drawn down foreign currency reserves to
$31.3 billion from $33 billion on Sept. 26 to maintain the naira
peg  “This time they have to become aggressive,”  Samir Gadio ,
an economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s biggest
lender, said in a phone interview from  London . “Our expectation
is for the bank to raise the rate at least 200 basis points to
send a clear signal to the market that they won’t allow a
disorderly depreciation of the currency.”  The central bank has been using foreign-currency reserves
to keep the naira within a 3 percentage-point band above or
below 150 per dollar at its twice-weekly auctions. It broke that
band the third time on Oct. 5, after it failed to meet mounting
dollar demand for the 24th straight auction.  Naira Depreciation  Policy makers responded on Oct. 7 by stopping foreign-
currency purchases by oil-exporting companies at its twice-
weekly auctions. The naira gained the most in two years against
the dollar in interbank trading after the announcement.  Before the new rule was announced, the naira depreciated by
1.7 percent to 164.15 per dollar, the weakest since at least
1994, when Bloomberg started compiling the data. The currency
was down 1.7 percent today to 162.85 per dollar by 11:13 a.m. in
Lagos.  While a devaluation is a “possibility, I think they will
rather raise  interest rates ,”  Stuart Culverhouse , chief
economist of Exotix Ltd. in London, said in a phone interview.
“I don’t think a small increase would make a difference, nor do
I think they will want to do anything more dramatic. They will
try to find a balance.”  The Monetary Policy Committee has increased its benchmark
interest rate at six of the past seven meetings to 9.25 percent.
The bank aims to keep inflation below 10 percent. Sanusi will
announce the decision in the capital, Abuja, at 4:30 p.m. local
time.  Fuel Subsidy  Nigeria , Africa’s biggest oil producer, imports most of its
fuel products because of a lack of refining capacity. The Budget
Office said in its medium-term fiscal proposals to Parliament
last week that it will remove a subsidy on fuel from next year,
saving the government 1.2 trillion naira ($7.5 billion).  Rising demand for dollars, in part to purchase fuel, is
making it more difficult for the central bank to maintain its
peg. The central bank, which sells foreign currency at twice-
weekly auctions, sold $400 million at the Oct. 6 auction,
compared with $685.4 million demanded by lenders, at 155.40
naira.  “They do not have any particular control over the naira at
this particular time,” Ayodele Akinwunmi, head of research at
FSDH Securities Ltd., said in a phone interview from Lagos
today. “The only option they have at the moment is to devalue
the currency.”  Oil has slumped 17 percent in  New York  since June 1,
reaching as low as $81.36 a barrel on Oct. 7. Nigeria’s
government earns about 80 percent of its revenue from oil.  “We expect the monetary policy rate will be hiked by 50
basis points,” Gregory Kronsten, chief economist of FBN
Capital, the investment banking and asset management unit of
First Bank of Nigeria Plc, said in a phone interview from Lagos.
“The central bank has a process to manage the  exchange rate . It
will move the central rate to 161 to 162 naira.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  