-- 
NYU, Princeton Profs Share Nobel in Economics

-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r   a n d   T o b y   A l d e r
-- 
2011-10-10T13:57:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/sargent-sims-share-2011-nobel-in-economics.html
New York University ’s Thomas J. Sargent and Princeton University’s Christopher A. Sims shared
the 2011  Nobel Prize  in Economic Sciences for their work in
exploring cause and effect in economic policy.  The two, both aged 68, will share the 10 million-krona
($1.48 million) prize that comes with the award, the Royal
Swedish Academy of Sciences, which selects the winner,  said 
today in Stockholm.  Sargent’s research has centered around the rational
expectations hypothesis, which assumes people exploit available
information and base their expectations on constantly updated
and reinterpreted information. Sims is known for his application
of multiple-equation, econometric models -- known as vector
auto-regression -- in predicting economic outcomes.  “Within the economics profession, they are absolutely at
the top,”  Robert Solow , winner of the Nobel economics prize in
1987 and professor emeritus at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , said in a telephone interview. “They are very, very
sophisticated designers of ways to get information out of the
time series of economic data.”  Central bankers and government officials use the work the
two men have done to help determine how changes in policy affect
the economy, and vice versa, Solow added.  “The methods that I’ve used and Thomas developed are
central to finding our way out of this mess” that the global
economy is in, Sims said in an interview with Swedish
broadcaster SVT, after the award was announced. He said he
“couldn’t be happier” than to be able to share the prize with
Sargent.  Wins Medal  Sargent received his bachelor’s degree from the  University
of California  at Berkeley in 1964, winning the medal as the
university’s most distinguished scholar the same year. He
obtained his Ph.D. at  Harvard University  in March 1968 and is
the Berkley Professor of Business and Economics at New York
University.  “Sargent has shown how structural macroeconomics can be
used to analyze permanent changes in economic policy,” the
academy said. “This method can be applied to study
macroeconomic relationships when households and firms adjust
their expectations concurrently with economic developments.”  Part of Sargent’s work was based on a study of inflation
policies in the post-World War II era, when many countries
initially tended to implement a high-inflation policy, the
academy said.  Sims’s vector auto-regression analysis has been applied to
examine, amongst other things, how interest-rate setting by
central banks affects the economy.  Complementary Contributions  “Although Sargent and Sims carried out their research
independently, their contributions are complementary in several
ways,” the academy said. “The laureates’ seminal work during
the 1970s and 1980s has been adopted by both researchers and
policy makers throughout the world. Today, the methods developed
by Sargent and Sims are essential tools in macroeconomic
analysis.”  Sims has been a professor at  Princeton University  since
1999. He graduated with a bachelor’s of mathematics from Harvard
in 1963 and earned his doctorate in economics there in 1968. He
has held positions at  Yale University , the University of
 Minnesota  and Harvard and has been a member of the National
Academy of Sciences since 1989.  Two-Way Connection  “It may sound slightly trivial to award the prize for
someone who has studied cause and effect, but it’s not that easy
to study this in the macro economy because the connection is
typically two-way,” Peter Englund, a professor of finance at
the Stockholm School of Economics and permanent secretary of the
academy, told Swedish television station SVT. “One changes
economic policy because inflation looks like it is rising, but
it could also be that inflation is reacting to the changed
economic policy.”  The award’s official name is The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in
Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel. The money, a gold
medal and a diploma will be handed out to the laureates at a
ceremony in  Stockholm  on Dec. 10, the anniversary of Nobel’s
death.  The 2010 economics prize was awarded to  Peter Diamond ,  Dale Mortensen  and  Christopher Pissarides  for their work on the
efficiency of recruitment and wage formation as well as labor-
market regulation.  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
Alfred Nobel, the Swedish inventor of dynamite who died in 1896,
and the first prizes were handed out in 1901. The prize in
economics was set up by  Sweden ’s central bank in 1968. Past
winners since 1969 include Milton Friedman, Amartya Sen, James Tobin,  Paul Krugman , Robert Solow and Gunnar Myrdal.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Toby Alder at 
 talder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  