-- 
Savers Stick With Roth IRAs Instead of Do-Overs to Cut Tax Bill

-- B y   T a n i a   C h e n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-10-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/savers-stick-with-roth-iras-instead-of-do-overs-to-cut-tax-bill.html
Investors aren’t rushing to lower
their tax bills by reconverting their Roth IRA accounts to
traditional ones ahead of the Oct. 17 deadline.  U.S. savers who switch their traditional IRAs to  Roth IRAs 
must pay taxes up front to get tax-free withdrawals in the
future. Those who made the change last year, including wealthy
earners who were able to access Roth IRAs after income
restrictions were lifted, may have paid taxes on accounts whose
current values have decreased. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
has declined 8.3 percent since its December high.  That doesn’t mean they’re scrambling to go back to
traditional individual retirement accounts, said Christine Fahlund, a senior financial planner at Baltimore-based T. Rowe
Price Group Inc. Despite the potential tax savings, it doesn’t
make sense for all investors to automatically revert, or
recharacterize, Fahlund said.  “It’s just simply too complicated,” said Fahlund, whose
firm had $520.9 billion in assets under management as of June 30.
“Unless you have an accountant that you use regularly, there
are lots of details that could go wrong.”  At Boston-based  Fidelity Investments , the largest provider
of IRAs, the rate of converting back to traditional accounts was
about 8 percent this year through August compared with 15
percent a year earlier, according to Michael Shamrell, a
spokesman. The majority of recharacterizations took place in the
first four months of the year before the market decline, said
Ken Hevert, vice president of personal retirement products.  Balanced Portfolios  Vanguard Group Inc., based in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania ,
said recharacterizations were 3,905 this year through Sept. 21
compared with 4,989 in all of 2010, according to Linda Wolohan,
a spokeswoman. Vanguard is the sixth-largest provider of IRAs,
based on estimates from Cerulli Associates.  Investors who have balanced portfolios instead of all
equities may not have suffered losses and may not want to
recharacterize, said Maria Bruno, a senior investment analyst at
Vanguard, the largest U.S. mutual-fund manager. Long-term bond
funds have returned  7.42 percent  this year, data from
Morningstar Inc. show.  Only savers who have seen their Roth account values drop by
at least 15 percent should consider reverting to traditional
IRAs, according to  John Burns , a certified financial planner at
Burns Advisory Group in  Oklahoma City , which has about $600
million in assets under management.  That’s because only losses greater than that justify
sacrificing a potential market rise in the 30 days investors
must wait before converting to Roth IRAs again and they would
recapture those gains in a traditional IRA, Burns said. None of
his clients have recharacterized this year, he said.  2010 Changes  One of the reasons clients aren’t rushing to convert back
to traditional IRAs and recoup taxes paid is because of a one-
time option to report the taxable income from the conversion in
2010, or split it equally between 2011 and 2012, said Fidelity’s
Hevert. If they recharacterize their entire accounts now,
they’ll lose the ability to defer taxable income if they choose
to switch back to a Roth, Hevert said.  Another change in 2010 lifted income restrictions and
allowed taxpayers who made more than  $100,000  a year in adjusted
income to convert to Roth accounts from traditional IRAs, which
led to a rise in conversions. Ordinary income-tax rates apply
when switches to Roth IRAs are made. Contributions to
traditional IRAs generally are tax deferred and taxes are paid
when money is withdrawn.  Waiting Period  Unlike traditional IRAs, Roth IRAs don’t require
withdrawals once account holders reach 70 1/2. Roths must be
held for five years and account holders must be at least 59 1/2
before money can be withdrawn tax-free. Savers who already filed
their tax returns in April are still eligible to recharacterize
2010 conversions by Oct. 17. Taxpayers can generally choose to
convert or recharacterize a portion of their assets.  Roth IRAs accounted for an estimated $265 billion, or 6
percent, of total IRA assets in 2010, according to the
 Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group for
mutual funds.  Investors may not be rushing to go back to traditional IRAs
because of the market volatility and 30-day waiting period
before they can convert again to a Roth, said Bruno of Vanguard.
For savers who converted in 2010 and are recharacterizing this
year, they must wait at least 30 days before switching back to a
Roth.  If taxpayers are locked into traditional IRAs and the
market increases, they may face higher account balances and
higher taxes when they want to convert again than when they
originally converted, Bruno said. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  rose 5.1
percent last week.  Face Penalties  There’s also paperwork and calculations involved with
recharacterizing that may outweigh the tax savings, Fahlund said.
Taxpayers who have filed their April returns may have to file
amended returns if they want to recharacterize. If the
recharacterization amount isn’t included in the traditional IRA
when figuring out required minimum distributions for older
taxpayers the following year, they could face penalties if they
withdraw too little, Fahlund said.  $5 Million Roths  Recharacterization may be most appropriate for ultra-high-
net-worth investors with Roth IRAs of at least $5 million
because they stand to recoup more in taxes, said Robert Barbetti,
head of the executive compensation practice at the private bank
unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in New York. They also may have
more illiquid assets in their Roth IRAs that aren’t likely to
rebound during the 30-day holding period, Barbetti said.  A taxpayer in the top income bracket who converted $1
million to a Roth IRA last year would have owed 35 percent or
$350,000 in federal taxes, according to an example from J.P.
Morgan Private Bank’s Advice Lab. If the Roth IRA had declined
in value to $850,000 in September and were recharacterized, and
then converted back to a Roth after 30 days without changing in
value, taxes owed would be $297,500, or $52,500 less than before
recharacterizing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tania Chen in  New York    tchen154@bloomberg.net 
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 