-- 
Scania to Cut European Truck Production

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-10T12:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/scania-to-cut-european-truck-production.html
Scania AB (SCVB) , the Swedish truckmaker
controlled by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , plans to lower production at
European factories by as much as 15 percent beginning next month
as demand for commercial vehicles drops.  “Government financial problems in Europe and the U.S. have
now begun to affect economic activity and have led to hesitation
among customers,” the Soedertaelje, Sweden-based company said
in a statement today.  Scania will lower vehicle production rates in the region
starting in November by 10 percent to 15 percent compared with
the end of the third quarter, the truckmaker said. The
adjustment will be handled within the framework of existing
agreements between the company and unions.  Scania is the first of the European truckmakers to announce
production reductions over concerns the region’s economy is
cooling. European leaders are struggling to contain turmoil that
has raged in financial markets for 19 months over growing worry
that  Greece  is headed for a default. Commercial-vehicle makers
are often early indicators of changes in economic output as
transport companies adjust their fleets to meet demand.  “It’s unlikely that all the truckmakers in Europe will get
free of these effects that Scania are now seeing,” said Morten Imsgard, an Aabenraa, Denmark-based Sydbank A/S analyst with an
“underweight” rating on Scania. “It’s most likely that we
will see them in the coming months moderating their language in
terms of growth opportunities in Europe.”  Shares Drop  Scania fell as much as 5.15 kronor, or 5.1 percent, to
96.25 kronor and was down 2.7 percent as of 2:15 p.m. in
Stockholm trading. The shares have dropped 36 percent this year,
valuing the company at 78.3 billion kronor ($11.7 billion).
Swedish rival Volvo AB traded down 2.4 percent.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the
world’s largest truckmaker, was little changed in  Frankfurt ,
while  MAN SE (MAN)  was 3.3 percent lower.  Daimler’s truck factories have sufficient orders to operate
at full capacity until at least the first quarter of 2012, Heinz Gottwick, a spokesman Stuttgart, Germany-based company, said
today by phone. Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche
said on Sept. 30 the company was optimistic about its truck
operations, even with the debt crisis, because of demand for the
revamped Mercedes-Benz Actros long-haul model. Volvo spokeswoman
Jenny Bjoersne declined to comment.  “We are monitoring closely how the uncertainty from the
financial crisis affects us and are prepared to make cuts at
various levels should they be necessary,” Stefan Straub, an MAN
spokesman, said today by telephone. “We are not expecting a
major slump. It is all dependent on how the market develops, but
cuts are certainly a possibility.”  Europe  Dependence  Scania is dependent on Europe, with the region accounting
for 45 percent of first-half deliveries. Heavy truck sales in
Europe gained 30 percent in August, slowing eight-month growth
to 49 percent, as customers began delaying purchases, according
to the most recent data from the European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association.  “This has turned around sharply in a very short period of
time,” Imsgard said. “This is very concerning for Scania as I
see it, because they’re very, very exposed to the European
market.”  Scania has been operating with “short, stable” delivery
times of eight weeks to limit inventory build-up, the truckmaker
said today.  “It is a matter of deceleration in Europe, but also a
slower pace of order bookings from the  Middle East ,” Martin Lundstedt, Scania’s sales chief, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  