-- 
Schrager to Buy New York Site as ‘Public’ Boutique Hotel Opens in Chicago

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-10-10T14:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/schrager-to-buy-new-york-site-as-public-boutique-hotel-opens-in-chicago.html
Ian Schrager, the pioneer of the
boutique hotel concept, agreed to buy a development site in  New
York  City as he prepares to open his first property under the
 Public  brand tomorrow in Chicago.  His company, Ian Schrager Co., also is close to completing
a second Manhattan deal as part of a plan to develop trendy,
less-expensive properties in “gateway” cities, Schrager said
in an Oct. 7 interview. He declined to give details of the plots
or say how much he’s paying for them.  Ian Schrager Co. plans to build and revamp properties in
metropolitan areas including Los Angeles and Paris. Last week,
it won a 76 million-pound ($119 million) bid for a Crowne Plaza
hotel in  London  that likely will be the next Public location,
Schrager said. The company bought the property now known as
Public  Chicago  in the city’s  Gold Coast  section for about $25
million and spent about the same amount to renovate it, he said.  “We bought it at the bottom of the market when everything
was in the garbage bin,” Schrager said by telephone from New
York. “The building had great bones. It’s an iconic landmark.
It might be Chicago’s Plaza Hotel.”  Schrager’s company plans to spend $250 million to develop
10 to 15 locations in the next five years.  The hotelier’s expansion plans come as the lodging industry
improves. Occupancies in the top 25 U.S. markets climbed to 68
percent this year through August from 65 percent in the same
period last year, according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of
Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  Slowing Economic Growth  Slowing growth in the  U.S. economy  may begin to weigh on
hotel occupancies and room rates,  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets Corp., said last week before Marriott
International Inc., the largest publicly traded U.S. lodging
company, reported a third-quarter loss. The U.S. jobless rate
was 9.1 percent in September and has been stuck at 9 percent or
higher for all but two months in the last two years.  “Of course it’s easier to open a hotel when the economy is
strong, but we aren’t trying to time it,” Schrager said. “I
opened my first hotel in New York when  interest rates  were 22
percent. We’re not in the timing business. We buy fundamentally
sound investments.”  In New York, new supply may also put pressure on room
rates. Sixteen hotels are scheduled to open in  Manhattan  in
2012, and at least 18 are slated to come on line in the
following three years, according to a study by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. More than 65 hotels are in the
pipeline with unspecified opening dates, the firm said.  ‘Get Market Share’  “There’s already pricing pressure in New York,” Schrager
said. “But there’s always an opportunity to get market share.
It’s not unlike  Steve Jobs . When he came up with his hardware,
the market was already full of products, but he did something
special. There’s always business in New York. It’s just a
question of getting it to your hotel.”  Schrager and his business partner, the late Steve Rubell,
started the boutique-hotel trend in 1984 with the Morgans Hotel
in New York. Schrager also opened the Delano in Miami; the
Mondrian in  West Hollywood , California; and the Hudson in New
York, all now operated by New York-based  Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC) 
He left the company in 2005 to start Ian Schrager Co.  The Public Chicago is in a wealthy neighborhood near Oak
Street Beach on  Lake Michigan . The property, formerly the
Ambassador East Hotel, is in a mostly residential area where
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  once
had a mansion.  Down Comforters  At the hotel, a 275-square-foot (26-square-meter) room with
a king-sized bed, flat-screen television, down comforters and
marbled-floored bathroom starts at $195 a night for the week of
Oct. 17, according to the property’s website. The highest price
for that week is $495, for a one-bedroom suite.  Occupancy for all hotels in Chicago climbed to 64 percent
from January through August from 62 percent a year earlier, and
the average daily rate gained 5.3 percent to $114.20, according
to Smith Travel.  Schrager has said his company won’t compete with the
Edition boutique brand he’s creating for Bethesda, Maryland-
based Marriott, a partnership announced in 2009. Edition hotels
will be four-star properties, while Public locations will be
less expensive and an Ian Schrager Co. brand that hasn’t been
named yet will feature pricier rooms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  