-- 
Schumpeter Goes Bust, Mankind Booms in Story of Economic Genius

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-10-10T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/schumpeter-goes-bust-mankind-booms-in-story-of-economic-genius.html
Famous economists are often
remembered as adversarial eccentrics.  John  Maynard Keynes  is pictured as the government pump-
primer who phoned his broker from bed, married a Russian
ballerina and owned a Rolls-Royce.  Joseph Schumpeter  was the
Austrian upstart who celebrated “creative destruction,”
swanned around with prostitutes on his arm and lost millions in
a stock-market crash.  For all their differences, though, these economists --
along with Friedrich Hayek, Irving Fisher and others -- shared a
conviction that gained ground in Victorian Britain, as Sylvia
Nasar argues in her absorbing book, “Grand Pursuit: The Story
of Economic Genius.” They believed that mankind could improve
the circumstances that long condemned nine out of ten humans to
grinding poverty.  Nasar is the author of “A Beautiful Mind,” a life of
mathematician John Nash that became an Academy Award-winning
biopic. In “Grand Pursuit,” she chronicles the lives of
thinkers -- from Beatrice Webb to Amartya Sen -- who believed
that humanity could control its destiny. To anyone in a funk
over  Europe ’s sovereign-debt fiasco or America’s Misery Index,
she offers a bracing reminder: Economic progress has dragged
millions out of poverty and can continue to do so.  Like “Lords of Finance” by Liaquat Ahamed, “Grand
Pursuit” is narrative history at its finest. Told with
unpretentious verve and vivid detail, the story stretches from
the days of  Jane Austen , when farm laborers buckled under
chronic hunger if not outright starvation, through the collapse
of the  Soviet Union  and on to contemporary  India .  Malthusian Nightmare  In the beginning was Thomas Malthus, an Anglican clergyman
who deduced that human populations multiply faster than the  food
supply . Charity simply encouraged early marriage and larger
families, he concluded, inspiring an 1834 Poor Law that
effectively limited public relief to people toiling in
workhouses.  Charles Dickens , appalled, rebuffed Malthus with the
tale of a flinty miser who had a change of heart. “A Christmas
Carol” is still in print.  From there, the narrative winds through the proletarian
ruminations of bourgeois  Karl Marx  and the grounding-breaking
work of Alfred Marshall, a Cambridge mathematician of humble
origins. Unlike Marx, who never set foot in a factory until the
end of his life, Marshall tramped through copper mines, steel
works, textile factories and slate quarries, collecting data.  Less Is More  Marshall’s research revealed that competition boosted more
than profits; it also raised living standards among workers and
consumers, as Nasar deftly shows. Doing more with less,
manufacturers boosted productivity by increments, yielding
higher wages, better goods and cheaper prices. Economic ideas,
thinkers began to see, were more crucial to a nation’s success
than its landmass, population or natural resources. What
mattered most was not what you had, but what you did with it.  The narrative culminates with four economists whose ideas
were forged in the furnace of financial panics, world war and
depression -- Irving Fisher, Hayek, Schumpeter and above all
Keynes. Though we’re accustomed to thinking of these men as
ideological opponents, Nasar shows how each was coming to grips
with the same dynamic: violent swings of inflation, deflation
and unemployment that threatened the survival of capitalist
democracies.  Fisher, a Yale professor and health nut who invented the
Rolodex, put his finger on how money influenced the real economy
and how controlling its supply might moderate booms and busts.
Schumpeter, a parvenu with a taste for Savile Row suits and a
respect for Darwin’s theory of national selection, argued that
gales of innovation, entrepreneurial drive and credit drove
economies forward. Busts were the price of progress.  Keynes’s Shadow  Hayek, who survived the horrors of World War I only to
witness mass hunger in postwar  Austria , turns up to warn of the
drift toward collectivism and elucidate the power of market
prices to communicate vital information.  Keynes casts a long shadow across this stretch of the book.
Shuttling between posts at the U.K. Treasury and the University
of Cambridge, he pulled together the strands of academic theory
and government policy. Subtle and supple, he urged deficit
spending when the jobless rate reached 15 percent and
recommended restraint as it sank under 4 percent.  The quest to make humanity “the master of its
circumstances,” as Nasar calls it, has direct bearing on our
own turbulent times, of course.  “Economic calamities -- financial panics, hyperinflations,
depressions, social conflicts and wars -- have always triggered
crises of confidence,” she writes, “but they have not come
close to wiping out the cumulative gains in average  living
standards .”  It’s a reassuring thought, even if you wish Keynes and
Schumpeter were still around to advise  Barack Obama  and  Angela Merkel .  “Grand Pursuit” is from  Simon & Schuster  in the U.S. (555
pages, $35). It will be available from  Fourth Estate  in the U.K.
later this month. To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 