-- 
Self-Awareness Cells in Brain Linked to Alzheimer’s Symptoms

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-10-10T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/self-awareness-cells-in-brain-linked-to-alzheimer-s-symptoms.html
A cluster of brain cells that are
among the first to degenerate in Alzheimer’s disease were found
in a study to be impaired in a rare form of amnesia that blocks
autobiographical memories, and may be a future target to treat
the dementia.  Fourteen of 16 people with  acute transient global amnesia ,
a rare type of temporary  memory loss , had pronounced lesions on
the cells known as CA1 neurons, according to  a report  in the
 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . That suggests
the neurons must work properly to let memories be gathered and
catalogued for later use, said Gunther Deuschl, a neurologist at
University-Hospital Schleswig-Holstein in Kiel,  Germany .  Autobiographical memory allows people to recall events in
historical context, helping create self-identity and awareness,
the researchers wrote. The neurons studied are located in the
brain’s hippocampus, long known as one of the first regions to
suffer damage in Alzheimer’s.  “This is a key player in the deficits of Alzheimer’s
disease,” said Deuschl, who was a study author, in a telephone
interview. “This type of amnesia mimics the cognitive problems
Alzheimer’s patients have very early on in the disease, but on a
different time scale.”  The underlying cause of acute transient global amnesia is
unknown. Patients with the disorder display an inability to form
new memories or recall the recent past, though they are still
able to recognize and name familiar objects. The spells last no
more than 24 hours before memory gradually returns, according to
the Mayo Clinic Web site.  To gain the finding, the researchers scanned patients in an
MRI machine during a period of autobiographical memory loss,
using a questionnaire that asked them to recall events that
occurred during different times in their lives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 