-- 
Senate Report Says ‘Failed’ Tax Holiday Shouldn’t See Repeat

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-10-11T22:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/senate-report-calls-offshore-tax-repatriation-failed-policy.html
A report from U.S. Senator  Carl Levin  calls a tax holiday for repatriated offshore profits a
failed policy that shouldn’t be repeated.  The report, released late yesterday, is based on publicly
available data and surveys of 20 companies that show they
repurchased stock and raised executive compensation after a 2004
tax holiday rather than increasing research spending or adding
jobs.  “It has the opposite effect of what we really need in this
country, which is job creation,” Levin said this morning at a
press briefing. “It’s also unfair to the 96 or 97 percent of
the companies who keep their operations here.”  Levin said the push for repatriation is part of a pattern
of “preference for the few at the expense of the many” in the
tax code and public policy that is fueling public anger and
frustration reflected in the Wall Street demonstrations and
other protests.  Levin said the report found that after bringing back to the
U.S. more than $150 billion in 2004 at the lower  tax rate , the
top 15 repatriating corporations reduced their overall
workforces by more than 20,000 jobs.  Job Cuts  The reductions occurred from 2004 to 2007 and included cuts
at  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and DuPont
Co., according to the report.  “The  U.S. Treasury  lost out on billions of dollars in tax
revenues with no evidence of the benefits that it expected to
receive in exchange for the loss,” the report said.  The report recommended against another tax holiday on
offshore profits because of “the harms associated with a
substantial revenue loss, failed jobs stimulus and added
incentive for U.S. corporations to move jobs and investment
offshore.”  Levin, a Michigan Democrat, and Senator  Kent Conrad , a
North Dakota Democrat, cited the report in a  letter  dated today
urging the deficit-reduction supercommittee to refrain from
supporting a repatriation tax break.  The supercommittee is charged with identifying $1.5
trillion in budget cuts by Nov. 23.  Earlier this year, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations led by Levin sent letters to companies, including
Dupont and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , inquiring as to where and how
they have invested offshore cash and how they plan to spend it
if was repatriated.  The new report doesn’t address those issues.  Lobbying Efforts  Levin released the report as other lawmakers are trying to
build support for a repeat of the 2004 tax holiday. Last week,
Democratic Senator  Kay Hagan  of North Carolina and Republican
 John McCain  of Arizona proposed letting companies return
offshore profits at a top tax rate of 8.75 percent, compared
with the 35 percent statutory rate.  Companies such as Pfizer,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Cisco have been
lobbying Congress for a tax holiday, contending that could
unlock more than $1 trillion in profits that are held offshore.
They say bringing home the profits at a low rate would spur
hiring.  Under U.S. tax law, multinational companies owe federal
income taxes on their worldwide profits. They receive tax
credits for foreign taxes paid and can defer U.S. taxation until
they bring the profits home.  Levin’s report focuses on what happened after Congress
enacted a repatriation tax holiday in 2004 and offered companies
a 5.25 percent tax rate. According to the  Internal Revenue
Service , companies brought back $312 billion that qualified for
the preferential rate.  Job Growth  According to the report, only two companies --  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  -- said the money they repatriated to the
U.S. contributed to job growth.  Levin said Oracle used repatriated money to buy Peoplesoft
Inc. and reduce its workforce by thousands of employees, while
counting the remaining Peoplesoft workers as a net increase in
overall employment.  “That is an Orwellian way to show how repatriation
increases jobs,” Levin said.  In a statement, Oracle Senior Vice President Ken Glueck
didn’t directly address Levin’s comment. He said Oracle has more
than doubled its workforce since 2004 and is now “hiring
aggressively.”  “The only news in Senator Levin’s results-oriented ‘study’
is that he still opposes repatriation,” said Glueck, whose
company is part of the pro-repatriation coalition. “With
unemployment over 9 percent and more than $1 trillion waiting to
be put to work in the United States, one would have thought he
would revisit his long-standing opposition.”  ‘One-Sided’ Report  In a statement late yesterday, the  WIN America Coalition  of
multinational companies lobbying for the tax holiday criticized
the Levin report as “one-sided” and a recycled “mash-up of
old studies.”  The 2004 experience has prompted some lawmakers, including
Hagan, to attempt to tie lower rates for repatriated profits to
 job creation . Under her bill, companies that add jobs would be
able to get a tax rate as low as 5.25 percent.  Others, including Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New
York , have expressed openness to a repatriation holiday if any
proceeds were used to fund an infrastructure bank.  Senator  Orrin Hatch , the top Republican on the Finance
Committee, was cool to the idea.  “I’m not very enthused about an infrastructure bank,”
Hatch said. The Utah lawmaker said such a proposal would be
unlikely to gain much Republican support.  The Obama administration opposes a stand-alone repatriation
holiday. The top Republican tax writer in the House,
Representative  Dave Camp  of Michigan, wants to consider the
issue as part of a broader overhaul of the  tax code .  Stock Buybacks  Along with other studies of the 2004 tax holiday, Levin’s
report finds that companies that repatriated the most money
accelerated stock buybacks. According to the report, 12 of the
top 15 repatriating companies increased stock repurchases from
2004 through 2007.  The Levin study also echoes others that found companies
have added to their overseas stockpiles since 2004.  That phenomenon has helped turn a repatriation holiday from
a modest  tax cut  into a much larger one. In 2004, the
congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the
government would forgo $3.3 billion in revenue over 10 years.  This year, the nonpartisan committee projected that a
repeat of the 2004 tax holiday with a 5.25 percent rate would
cost the Treasury $78.7 billion, in part because companies would
shift more profits offshore after a holiday and hold them there
in anticipation of another round.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@blooomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  