-- 
Serbia May Start Work on South Stream Soon, Build Gas Plants

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-10-10T09:32:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/serbia-may-start-work-on-south-stream-soon-build-gas-plants.html
Construction of Serbia’s section of
the South Stream  gas pipeline  may begin by the end of the year,
said the head of  Srbijagas ,the Balkan country’s state-owned gas
company.  The 400-kilometer (250-mile) stretch, estimated to cost
1.38 billion euros ($1.86 billion) with transit capacity of 34
billion square meters of natural gas a year, may also enable
Serbia to build two to four gas-fired power plants. Srbijagas
will seek government approval and partners for developing the
plants, which would provide power and steam for communal heating
after the South Stream’s expected completion in 2015.  “I expect that, by the end of the year, since we are about
a year ahead of other partners, we’ll be in the position to
begin construction of the geostrategic energy project,”
Srbijagas General Director Dusan Bajatovic said at an Oct. 8
conference in the former Yugoslav republic.  Serbia  is seeking to diversify its gas imports that
currently come from  Hungary  through Ukraine to be less
vulnerable to delivery disruptions. Among the nations involved
in the OAO Gazprom-led project, it was the first to complete a
feasibility study for its part of the pipe.  Serbia joined the project as part of a broader agreement
when OAO GazpromNeft bought Naftna Industrija Srbije AD,
Serbia’s dominant oil producer and refiner, in 2009. An upgrade
of Serb natural gas reservoir Banatski Dvor is also included.  The first phase of upgrading the depot to a capacity of 300
million cubic meters has been completed, enabling a 60-day
backup for Srbijagas’s more-than 75,000 consumers in case of
disruption, Bajatovic said. Srbijagas now mulls work on another
reservoir, Srpski Itebej, where it could store up to 1 billion
cubic meters, he said.  Russia Deliveries  Russia wants to deliver as much as 63 billion cubic meters
of gas a year to the European Union under the  Black Sea  through
the South Stream. It will be the second link bypassing Ukraine
after the Nord Stream pipeline.  The pipeline will run 900 kilometers (560 miles) under the
Black Sea to the Balkans and may cost 15.5 billion euros ($21.8
billion), including the onshore sections.  Srbijagas and Gazprom have formed the South Stream Serbia
AG joint venture for developing the pipeline, 51 percent-owned
by Gazprom. This puts Serbia’s portion of the investment at
almost 700 million euros.  Bajatovic did not elaborate on financing for the Serbian
section, saying only the cost, as well as Srbijagas’s debts of
more than 600 million euros, ultimately need to be taken care by
the Serbian government as the owner.  Raising Gas Prices  Serbia will increase its regulated gas prices this month by
15 percent on average, which will help Srbijagas narrow its
losses, “but it won’t eliminate them” Bajatovic said.  He warned the government that “someone will eventually
have to foot the bill” for using the price caps on gas as a
“form of welfare” amid unemployment of almost 23 percent.  The state will soon give guarantees for another 190 million
euro in loans that Srbijagas needs, after it backed the
borrowing of 210 million euros from seven banks in July, the CEO
said.  Still, Srbijagas is sticking to its plan to venture into
insurance and possibly banking with Gazprom because OAO
Gazprombank is “our biggest creditor and we want to share
market risks with them,” Bajatovic said. A local license for
Sogaz OAO, a Russian insurer, is expected “within days” he
said.  Link to Company News: GAZP RU <EQUITY> CN  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  