-- 
China’s Stocks Decline After Holiday as Property Developers, Banks Slump

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-10T02:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/shanghai-composite-drops-as-developers-smaller-banks-slump.html
China ’s stocks fell after housing
sales slumped during a week-long holiday and on speculation the
goverment won’t ease monetary policies that have led to a curb
in lending to smaller companies.  The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.2 percent to
2,354.09 at 10 a.m. local time. The CSI 300 Index lost 0.3
percent to 2,572.89, led by financial companies. The market’s
losses were limited as airlines rose on speculation a cut in
fuel prices will cut costs and boost earnings.  “Tight liquidity has hurt some small companies with
anything related to monetary policy dragging banks and
the market lower,” said Tu Jun, a strategist at Shanghai
Securities Co. “Market sentiment is very weak at the
moment and investors are more sensitive to bad news than good.”  Chinese central bank adviser Zhou Qiren said the country
should keep a prudent monetary policy because small companies
will have a better development environment only if inflation is
thoroughly curbed, the Beijing Morning Post reported today.  China Vanke Co., the nation’s largest developer, slid 1.7
percent to 7.12 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second-
biggest, fell 0.7 percent to 9.19 yuan.  China’s home prices will gradually ease because of rising
inventories and a slump in property market transactions, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  The housing market slumped during the National Day holiday,
typically a strong period for housing sales, Xinhua reported.
Official statistics showed 1,039 housing units were sold in
Beijing during the holiday, 23 percent fewer than during the
same period last year, the report said.  Property developers may wrongly think Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s
recent trip to Wenzhou city is sign of loosening for sector,
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by Jinsong Du write in note,
citing discussion with government officials.  The closures of small and medium-sized enterprises in
Wenzhou is a regional issue and will not threaten the stability
of China’s banking system, Sing Tao Daily reported Oct. 8,
citing He Guangbei, chief executive officer of BOC  Hong Kong 
(Holdings) Ltd. The liquidity problem facing smaller companies
in Wenzhou is not widespread in China, the paper said.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the nation’s
biggest bank, lost 0.5 percent to 3.95 yuan. Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd. retreated 0.8 percent to 2.44 yuan.  Shenzhen
Development Bank Co. (000001)  declined 1.2 percent to 15.85 yuan.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  