-- 
Short Sales Rise the Most Since 2006

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-10-10T20:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/short-selling-rising-most-since-2006-as-11-trillion-is-erased-from-stocks.html
Investors are increasing bearish
trades around the world by the most in at least five years,
convinced the lowest valuations since 2009 will prove no barrier
to losses after $11 trillion was erased from equities.  Borrowed shares, an indication of short selling, climbed to
11.6 percent of stock last month from 9.5 percent in July, the
biggest increase since at least 2006, according to information
compiled for Bloomberg by Data Explorers, a London-based
research firm. Trades that profit when Chinese equities decline
have reached a four-year high and bearish bets in the U.S. are
the most since 2009, exchange data show.  Slowing economies are spurring short sellers after indexes
in 37 out of 45 major countries tumbled 20 percent, the common
definition of a bear market. Bulls say declines have gone too
far, with the MSCI All-Country World Index’s valuation at about
half the 16-year average, just above the level three years ago,
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Losses
since May exceed the combined gross domestic product of  Brazil ,
Russia, India and  China , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Lehman collapse is way too clear in people’s minds,”
said Henrik Drusebjerg, who helps oversee $230 billion as senior
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “They don’t want to
get burned as much again. They know either they get some
protection or get out altogether.”  Europe  Crisis  The MSCI All-Country World advanced 2.6 percent at 4:15
p.m. New York time. It has risen 7.7 percent during the past
four days, the biggest rally since April 2009. Stocks rose last
week after efforts by Europe’s policy makers to contain the
region’s debt crisis. The gauge of 45 emerging and developed
countries sank 18 percent in the third quarter, the biggest drop
since the bankruptcy of New York-based Lehman froze credit
markets and ultimately pushed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
a 12-year low.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last
week that the central bank can take steps to sustain a recovery
that’s “close to faltering.” Employers added 103,000 workers
to payrolls in September and the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1
percent, the Washington-based Labor Department said Oct. 7.  The bond market indicator that has predicted every U.S.
recession since 1970 now shows that the economy has a 60 percent
chance of contracting within 12 months. The so-called Treasury
yield curve, adjusted for distortions caused by the Fed’s record
low zero to 0.25 percent target interest rate for overnight
loans between banks, shows that two-year notes yield 20 basis
points, or 0.20 percentage point, less than five-year notes,
according to Bank of America Corp. research.  Biggest Increases  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, is the most
shorted stock in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  with bearish
bets making up 4.4 percent of the New York-based company’s
shares available for trading, according to Data Explorers.
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  had the biggest increases
in short interest last month among companies listed on the New
York Stock Exchange.  Short selling, where traders borrow shares and sell them,
hoping for a decline, is increasing even as equities approach
the cheapest valuations on record. The MSCI All-Country World
trades at 11.8 times reported profit, compared with 11.9 in the
five months after Lehman’s collapse. The measure’s average
price-earnings ratio since 1995 is 21, data tracked by Bloomberg
show.  European stocks fell the most last quarter among the
world’s biggest equity markets, with the DAX Index of German
shares and  France ’s CAC-40 Index each losing 25 percent. Finance
leaders have clashed over how to prevent  Greece  from defaulting
on its debt, spurring concern that losses may engulf banks in
France and  Italy .  ‘Everything Necessary’  Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy gave themselves three
weeks yesterday to devise a plan to recapitalize banks, get
Greece on the right track and fix Europe’s economic governance.
Merkel said European leaders will do “everything necessary” to
ensure that banks have enough capital. Sarkozy said they would
deliver a plan by the Nov. 3 Group of 20 summit.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  plunged 42 percent last week as the French and
Belgian governments organized plans to break up the lender after
its short-term funding evaporated. Plans to inject capital into
Europe’s banks are “well under way,” European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  said last week.  “The downside risk if the euro-zone cracks is so huge that
the market could go anywhere,” said Francis Eliot, a strategist
at Mansard Capital LLP, whose Mansard Macro Fund returned 3.9
percent last month as the MSCI All-Country World Index tumbled
9.7 percent. “The short trade is a bit crowded, but the risk is
downward.”  Stock Valuations  Equity valuations are already pricing in a recession and
stocks are unlikely to fall much below the lowest levels of last
week, according to Binky Chadha, the New York-based chief U.S.
equity strategist at Deutsche Bank AG.  “Valuations and short interest are approaching Lehman
levels,” Chadha said in a telephone interview on Oct. 6. “It’s
not very easy to continue to take larger and larger short
positions.”  Companies in the benchmark gauge for American equities
trade at 10.4 times 2012 forecast earnings, compared with the
average in economic contractions since 1957 of 13.7, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. At the same time, analysts have
cut projections for profits next year to $111.46 a share, the
data show.  Short sales in New York-based Pfizer, the world’s biggest
drugmaker, rose 22 percent to 111 million shares in the first
two weeks of September, exchange data show. That’s 2.51 times
the average trading volume from the past 30 days. The  S&P 500 ’s
short interest ratio is 3.19, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  GE, Strategists  Bets on losses in GE, which makes wind turbines and jet
engines, climbed 13 percent to 141 million shares between Aug.
31 and Sept. 15, the most since August 2009. Short interest on
the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company has more than doubled
in 2011 as the stock slumped 15 percent.  Wall Street strategists say the S&P 500, after falling
within 1 percent of a  bear market  last week, will post the
biggest fourth-quarter rally in 13 years. The measure will climb
13 percent to end 2011 at 1,300, according to the average
estimate of 12 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  About 4.1 percent of NYSE shares have been borrowed and
sold, up from 3.5 percent at the end of July, data from the
bourse shows. U.S. short sales are rising at the second-fastest
pace on record after the 2008 financial crisis, according to
exchange data dating back to 1995.  March 2009  Bearish bets last increased faster in March 2009, the same
month the S&P 500 began a bull market that doubled its value.
The surge in equity prices came seven months after NYSE short
interest climbed to an all-time high in July 2008. The U.S.
equity benchmark rose 2.1 percent to 1,155.46 last week.  “We have more shorts on today than we had six months
ago,” said Chris Baggini, a fund manager at Berwyn,
Pennsylvania-based Turner Investment Partners Inc., which
oversees about $18 billion. “We’re finding more short ideas in
the U.S. market that we think we can make money on in an
environment that’s slower than it was six months ago.”  Baggini, who spoke in an Oct. 6 telephone interview, helps
oversee the Turner Spectrum Fund that climbed 5.9 percent in the
12-months ended Oct. 6. The S&P 500 fell 0.2 percent in that
period.  Bets that  Hong Kong  stocks will fall have risen to the
highest level since January 2008 amid falling home sales in
China and concern that the world’s second-largest economy is
slowing. Wagers on declines reached HK$12.8 billion ($1.6
billion) on Sept. 30, Hong Kong exchange data show. That’s 14
percent of the total value traded on the city’s stock market,
the most since 1999.  Foreign Investors  The  MSCI China (MXCN)  Index of 148 stocks available to foreign
investors has fallen 26 percent since Aug. 1. China’s home
prices fell 0.03 percent from a month earlier in September, the
first decline in a year, said Soufun Holdings Ltd., the
country’s biggest real estate website owner. The central bank
has raised  interest rates  five times in the past 12 months.  Alex Au , who helps oversee $300 million as managing
director of Richland Capital Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, said
he’s “aggressively” shorting cement stocks on speculation
spending on roads and factories will weaken. Anhui-based Anhui
Conch Cement Co., China’s largest producer, has lost 47 percent
since its July 14 peak. The Richland Asia Absolute Return Fund
rose 3 percent this year through Sept. 30, versus the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index’s 18 percent drop.  ‘Yet to Come’  “The worst is yet to come,” Au said in an Oct. 4 phone
interview. “If you look at the fundamentals, you’ll see that a
lot of stocks are very cheap and you’ll be tempted to bottom
pick, but this is very dangerous.”  Average short interest in Europe as a percentage of shares
outstanding has climbed to 2.8 percent, the highest since June,
from 2.6 percent at the beginning of September, according to
 Data Explorers . Regulators in Italy, Spain, France and Belgium
banned new short sales on 66 financial firms on Aug. 11, when
the Euro Stoxx Banks Index had plunged 33 percent this year.  Filippo Garbarino, who oversees $50 million as manager at
Frontwave Capital Ltd. in Chiasso, Switzerland, said he has bet
against shares of financial and publishing companies.  “The market is so undervalued right now it’s kind of hard
to take a short position,” Garbarino said. “But at the same
time given the economy, it is hard to be long.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  