-- 
Sinopec Falls in Hong Kong Trading After Cuts in Fuel Price

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-10T03:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/sinopec-falls-in-hong-kong-trading-after-cuts-in-fuel-price-1-.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
the nation’s largest oil refiner, fell in  Hong Kong  after the
government cut fuel prices for the first time in 16 months.  Sinopec, as China Petroleum is known, fell as much as 5.2
percent, the most since Sept. 22, to HK$7.10, and traded at
HK$7.12 as of 10 a.m. PetroChina Co. dropped 2.8 percent to
HK$9.05. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  declined 1.1 percent.  “Obviously, it’s not positive” for Sinopec,  Neil Beveridge , Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said by telephone. “Some of the news has been factored in, with
speculation that the government may make changes after the
Golden Week,” which begins Oct. 1.  China, aiming to contain inflation after crude costs
dropped, cut gasoline and diesel prices by as much as 4 percent
starting yesterday.  The government may increase the frequency of fuel-price
adjustments and change the global crude-price benchmarks it
monitors, the National Development and Reform Commission, the
country’s top economic planner, said Oct. 8. China currently
adjusts gasoline, diesel and kerosene rates when the moving
average of the Brent, Dubai and Cinta benchmarks change more
than 4 percent over 22 working days.  “We need prices to become more predictable and more
transparent, and the NDRC looking at this sort of changes is
certainly in the right direction,” said Beveridge.  China Petrochemical Corp., parent of Sinopec, agreed to buy
Daylight Energy Ltd. for about C$2.2 billion ($2.1 billion) in
cash to add oil and gas assets in Canada, the Calgary, Alberta-
based company said yesterday in a statement.  --Winnie Zhu, with assistance from Baizhen Chua in Beijing.
Editors:  Mike Anderson , Ryan Woo.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  