-- 
Slovaks Likely to Fail in EFSF Vote as Party Pulls Out

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-10-13T17:42:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/slovak-ruling-party-said-to-tie-efsf-vote-to-confidence-motion.html
(Corrects spelling of Nicolas in 14th paragraph of story
published on Oct. 11.)  Slovak Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova 
pressured rebel lawmakers to approve the euro region’s retooled
bailout fund by tying a parliamentary vote today on the facility
with a no-confidence motion.  Radicova made the announcement in Bratislava after
coalition partners failed to come up with a last-minute
resolution to a Cabinet dispute. Parliament begins debate on the
European Financial Stability Facility at 1 p.m. with a vote
scheduled for sometime later.  The four-party coalition has struggled to agree on
conditions to support the euro-region measure, raising
speculation that it will be defeated. Slovakia is the only
country in the 17-nation euro area that hasn’t ratified the
measure, following approval in Malta yesterday. Radicova said
the vote would be repeated should lawmakers reject it today.  “Slovakia’s credibility is my priority,” she told
reporters today. “We can’t pretend that we alone are able to
deal with problems surrounding us. It’s unacceptable for me to
allow Slovakia to become isolated.”  Slovak approval of enhanced powers of the EFSF, the
temporary bailout fund, is crucial for adopting the key element
in the strategy to prevent contagion from the debt crisis that
has spread from  Greece  to other countries in the region.  ‘Serious Repercussions’  “It is, of course, possible that Slovakia would hold up or
even block the whole EFSF deal,” said  Beat Siegenthaler , a
currency strategist at UBS AG in Zurich before Radicova’s
announcement. “But the repercussions for the country would
likely be serious as the external pressure to find a solution
would quickly become massive.”  The euro was at 1.3638 per dollar at 10:07 a.m. in European
trading, down 0.04 percent.  With average salaries still below those in Greece, it’s
getting tougher to garner support among the poorest euro
citizens for further aid to their Mediterranean partners.  Freedom and Solidarity, a junior coalition member party,
has refused to back the EFSF legislation. Without votes from the
party, known as SaS, the EFSF package is destined for rejection
today as the two opposition parties have said they won’t support
it.  SaS Chairman Richard Sulik said yesterday that his party’s
lawmakers won’t change their position on the issue if their
conditions for accepting the plan aren’t met.  “Our position” on the bailout mechanism “is known, and
we won’t change it,” Sulik, who is also parliamentary speaker,
told reporters yesterday.  Opposition Demands  Smer, the largest opposition party led by Radicova’s
predecessor  Robert Fico , has said it would back the enhancement
of the EFSF if the government of the euro region’s second-
poorest member steps down. Radicova declined to say when a new
vote would be held.  “It’s my big wish that it is approved today,” she said.
“But, if our coalition partner doesn’t change its mind, then a
repeated vote will be necessary.”  As the crisis continues to engulf the euro region and
threatens its lenders, German and French leaders at a meeting on
Oct. 9 pledged to devise a plan to recapitalize banks, help
Greece and strengthen Europe’s economic governance. German
chancellor  Angela Merkel , after meeting French President  Nicolas
Sarkozy , said  Europe  will do “everything necessary” to ensure
that banks have enough capital.  SaS Conditions  SaS wants to create an inter-party committee in which each
member would have a right to demand the ability for the country
to veto individual EFSF disbursements. It is also demanding that
the country doesn’t participate in the European Stability
Mechanism, a permanent rescue vehicle set to come into force in
2013.  Sulik, whose party seeks lower taxes and less regulation
for business, has said repeatedly he thinks European leaders
must find a more sustainable way of saving the euro area than
continuing to inject money into budgets in the form of loans and
revenue enhancements.  The expanded powers of the 440 billion-euro ($589 billion)
EFSF would allow the fund to buy the debt of stressed euro-area
nations, aid troubled banks in the region and offer credit lines
to governments. The EFSF’s current role is to sell bonds to
finance rescue loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  