-- 
Serbia May Lower Main Rate as Inflation Slows, Soskic Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-10-10T14:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/soskic-won-t-rule-out-rate-movement-in-line-with-inflation.html
Serbia ’s central bank probably will
continue cutting borrowing costs as the inflation rate drops to
below 10 percent and economic growth falters, central bank
Governor Dejan Soskic said.  Lowering rates would be in line with an increasingly benign
inflation outlook, largely resulting from a favorable base
effect last year, when the price of goods grew at a stronger
pace. The Oct. 12 report on September inflation may show
consumer prices dropped for the fourth-straight month.  “We have been on a downward path for several months now”
and the central bank cannot rule out that the benchmark rate
will continue to move “in line with inflation,” Soskic told
reporters today in Belgrade.  The bank targets an inflation rate of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points, at the end of 2011 and 4 percent,
plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, at the end of 2012. The
National Bank of Serbia dropped its two-week repurchase rate to
10.75 percent on Oct. 6, the fourth reduction since June, as the
focus shifts to faltering growth and rising unemployment before
elections next year.  The economy “appears to have recovered” in the third
quarter, with seasonally adjusted growth at 0.5 percent from the
same period of the previous year, he said.  Seasonally adjusted figures showed growth of 1.6 percent in
the first three months of the year and a 0.1 percent contraction
in the second quarter of 2011.  Absence of Shock  “In the absence of excessive economic shocks in 2012,”
economic growth next year should return to levels seen in 2008,
before the global financial crisis sparked a recession, he said.
In four years through 2008, Serbia posted average annual growth
of 4.5 percent.  Growth should continue to be driven by investments rather
than consumption, he said. The  International Monetary Fund  has
revised its forecast for Serbia’s 2011 growth to 2 percent from
3 percent, picking up pace in 2012 to 3 percent, still down from
an originally forecast 4.5 percent.  In order to keep the cost of bank lending “moderate,”
Soskic urged banks to refrain from offering too-high deposit
rates during the traditional savings week in early November.  Banks in Serbia, most of them owned by foreign financial
institutions, paid 4 percent to 7 percent a year on euro-
denominated deposits in 2010 and Soskic said such deposit rates
are “excessive.”  ‘Gentlemen’s Agreement’  He said he would like to see a “gentlemen’s agreement”
with bankers rather than administrative caps on deposit rates
when they meet later this month. The nation of 7.5 million
people holds 7.5 billion euros ($10.2 billion) in savings with
banks.  Soskic said Serbia has no need any time soon to offer a
dinar-denominated Eurobond to finance its budget gap or
refinance public debt.  Its debut U.S. dollar-denominated Eurobond sold last month
with a 7.25 percent coupon, covered the government’s financing
needs well into the first half of 2012 and is expected to be
included in the JP Morgan Chase & Co’s EMBIG index as of end-
October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  