-- 
South Africa Nominates Dlamini-Zuma to Chair AU Commission

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-10-10T15:03:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/south-africa-nominates-dlamini-zuma-to-chair-au-commission.html
South Africa  nominated its home
affairs minister, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, to chair the African
Union Commission, signaling that it intends playing a more
assertive role within the group.  The commission runs the day-to-day affairs of the AU, while
a largely ceremonial presidency rotates between the leaders of
its 54 members on a six-monthly basis. A new commission is due
to be appointed when the group holds its next bi-annual summit
in  Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian capital, in January.  Nominations for the post of chairman closed last month. The
only other candidate is  Jean Ping , Gabon’s former foreign
minister, who has held the post since 2008, the Cape Town-based
Cape Times newspaper reported earlier today, without saying
where it got the information.  South  Africa  is “making a statement about the role it
seeks to play in the AU,” Tom Wheeler, a South African diplomat
between 1961 and 2003 who now works as an analyst at the
independent South African Institute for International Affairs,
said in a phone interview from Johannesburg. “Up to now South
Africa has been very careful not to do anything that could be
perceived as hegemonic. Dlamini-Zuma’s nomination could be seen
as doing the opposite.”  Since emerging from apartheid in 1994, South Africa’s
government has largely refrained from using its weight as
Africa’s biggest economy to drive the continent’s foreign
policy, frequently deferring to positions taken by the AU.  ‘Tricky to Predict’  A medical doctor, Dlamini-Zuma served as South Africa’s
foreign minister between 1999 and 2009, when she was appointed
to her current post. She is the ex-wife of President  Jacob Zuma .  “I can confirm we have nominated her,” Clayson Monyela,
spokesman for the Ministry of International Relations and
Cooperation, said by phone from  Pretoria  today.  Calls to the African Union’s offices in Addis Ababa went
unanswered today.  “I think Ping has been an efficient head of the AU,”
Wheeler said. “It’s tricky to try and predict who will win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 