-- 
Sportingbet Drops After Ladbrokes Talks Terminated

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-10-10T15:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/sportingbet-drops-after-ladbrokes-talks-terminated-1-.html
Sportingbet Plc (SBT)  fell the most in
five years in London trading after  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  said talks
about a possible offer for the online gambling company have been
“mutually terminated.”  Sportingbet shares fell 19 percent as the company said in
its own statement that it’s not talking with any other party
about a possible offer. The London-based company said it’s still
in talks with  GVC Holdings Plc (GVC)  about a potential sale of its
Turkish-language website.  Ladbrokes made a “highly preliminary” approach in June
after abandoning talks with 888 Holdings Plc earlier this year.
The Financial Times said today Ladbrokes might not proceed with
an offer even if Sportingbet sells its unit in Turkey, where
online gambling is unregulated, because of concerns about
potential liabilities.  “We are unable to deliver for our shareholders a structure
that delivers a decent and acceptable level of regulatory
exposure,” Ladbrokes Chief Executive Officer Richard Glynn said
in a conference call with reporters.  In  Turkey , issues “could not be resolved,” he said,
adding “the ability to mitigate regulatory risk in Europe is
exceedingly tough.”  Last week, Greg Johnson, an analyst with Shore Capital,
questioned the acquisition, saying Sportingbet gets a high
percentage of its revenue from non-regulated countries, with
more than 20 percent from Turkey. Also, a possible equity
funding to make the acquisition could dilute potential earnings
gains, he said.  Sportingbet dropped 8.75 pence to 37 pence in London, the
most since October 2006. Ladbrokes declined 0.9 pence, or 0.8
percent, to 119.7 pence, giving the Harrow, England-based
company a market value of 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in  London  at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Branton at 
 pbranton@bloomberg.net  