-- 
Sprint Falls as Analysts Reduce Ratings on Rising Spending

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-10T20:16:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/sprint-drops-as-analysts-reduce-ratings-after-last-week-s-investor-meeting.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  tumbled to its
lowest since February 2009 as at least seven analysts cut their
ratings on the stock after the carrier’s investor meeting,
citing concerns that rising spending will hurt liquidity.  Sprint, based in  Overland Park , Kansas, fell 7.9 percent to
$2.22 at the close in New York. The shares have declined
48 percent this year.  At its Oct. 7 meeting, the third-largest U.S. mobile
carrier said it plans to increase spending to pay for a new
wireless network and handsets, and also said it will need to
raise capital. “Liquidity concerns” will probably be an
“overhang” for the stock, said Michael Nelson, an analyst at
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York.  “Management must demonstrate an ability to execute against
its strategy before investors give the company the benefit of
the doubt,” Nelson, who reduced his rating to “neutral” from
“buy,” said in a note to clients today.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank AG, Collins Stewart,
 Kaufman Bros ., Atlantic Equities and Raymond James also cut
their recommendations.  Standard & Poor’s said it may reduce Sprint’s credit
rating, citing the combination of increased spending, weak
profitability, the need to take on debt and uncertainty around
its  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  partnership. Sprint is rated BB-, three
steps below investment grade, and has $19.8 billion in
outstanding debt, more than half of which is due in the next
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Questions Raised  Sprint didn’t give sales or earnings forecasts at the Oct.
7 meeting, and didn’t say whether a relationship with network
partner Clearwire will continue longer term. The projections
Sprint provided didn’t include the impact of the  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
iPhone, which Sprint added to its device lineup this month to
compete against larger rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless.  After the meeting Oct. 7, Sprint fell 20 percent, the most
in almost three years.  The meeting “raised more questions than answers,” Nelson
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  