-- 
Sri Lanka Leaves Interest Rates Unchanged to Support Economic Expansion

-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-10-10T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/sri-lanka-leaves-interest-rates-unchanged-to-support-growth-1-.html
Sri Lanka ’s central bank left
 interest rates  unchanged for a ninth straight month to support
growth as the global economy falters.  The  Central Bank of Sri Lanka  retained its reverse
repurchase rate at 8.5 percent and the repurchase rate at 7
percent, the Colombo-based bank said on its  website  yesterday.
Six of seven economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted the
decision. One expected a reduction of half a percentage point.  Asian nations from China to the  Philippines  have kept
borrowing costs on hold in recent weeks as  Europe ’s debt crisis
and a struggling U.S. recovery cloud the outlook for exports. An
easing in Sri Lanka’s inflation to a one-year low increased
scope for Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal to maintain rates at
current levels.  “Sri Lanka may cut rates going forward as inflation is
less of a worry in the country and the main objective is to
promote growth,” said Jay Shankar, Mumbai-based chief economist
at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. He didn’t say by when he
expects a reduction in borrowing costs.  The Sri Lankan rupee rose 0.1 percent to 110.15 per dollar
at the close in  Colombo  yesterday before the report was
released. The Colombo All-Share Index of stocks fell 0.4
percent.  Consumer prices in the capital, Colombo, increased 6.4
percent in September from a year earlier after gaining 7 percent
in August, according to the Department of Census and Statistics.  Slowing Inflation  Inflation may “moderate” further this year because of
“improvements in domestic supply conditions” and a possible
drop in international commodity prices, the central bank said in
yesterday’s statement.  Sri Lanka’s inflation rate will likely fall to less than 6
percent by December, central bank Deputy Governor Dharma Dheerasinghe said last week as he forecast the economy to expand
8.3 percent in 2011, less than an earlier estimate of 8.5
percent.  Sri Lanka’s macroeconomic conditions are “quite strong”
and the nation’s monetary policy stance is “appropriate” to
support growth, the  International Monetary Fund , which has
disbursed $1.75 billion to Sri Lanka under its $2.6 billion loan
program, said Sept. 6.  Pakistan ’s Move  In neighboring Pakistan, policy makers on Oct. 8 reduced
borrowing costs for a second straight meeting. They have lowered
the benchmark rate by 2 percentage points since the end of July.
 India  has boosted rates 12 times since mid-March 2010 to curb an
inflation rate that has stayed above 9 percent this year.  Sri Lanka’s Cabraal reduced the central bank’s reverse
repurchase rate to 8.5 percent in January from 9.75 percent at
the start of July 2010.  Foreign investment and tourism after the end of the
conflict against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam in May
2009 have aided Sri Lanka’s $50 billion economy.  Overseas visitor arrivals rose 35 percent to a record
537,787 in the first eight months of 2011 from a year earlier,
according to the Sri Lanka Tourist Board.  China  Merchants Holdings (International) Co. on Aug. 12
signed an agreement to build and operate a container terminal in
the capital, Colombo, that may cost more than $500 million, its
largest investment overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  