-- 
Standard Life May Buy High-Yield Bonds as Rates Stay Low

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-10-11T09:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/standard-life-may-buy-high-yield-bonds-as-rates-remain-on-hold.html
Standard Life Investments Ltd.,
Edinburgh’s largest money manager, may buy high-yield corporate
bonds after the biggest drop in three years.  Global high-yield debt, or  junk bonds , lost 7.06 percent in
the third quarter, the most since the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, based on indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The sovereign debt
crisis prompted investors to buy safer assets, fueling a 7.9
percent gain in German bunds over the same period.  “We are beginning to look at high yield again,” Andrew Sutherland, head of credit at Standard Life, said in an
interview at the company’s office in the Scottish capital. “If
markets turn around, that sector could snap in very quickly. We
wouldn’t want to miss it, but are pacing ourselves very
gradually. High yield still looks attractive.”  Policy makers are likely to keep interest rates low to help
safeguard any economic recovery, Sutherland, who is responsible
for 27 billion pounds ($42.2 billion), said on Oct. 4. Standard
Life overall manages 157 billion pounds.  The  Bank of England , which left its benchmark  interest rate 
at a record-low 0.5 percent on Oct. 6, raised the ceiling for
so-called quantitative easing to 275 billion pounds from 200
billion pounds. That’s the biggest increase since the first
round of stimulus in March 2009. Only 11 of 32 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predicted the increase.  Trichet’s Risks  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the same day that the euro area economy is facing “intensified
downside risks.” The ECB left its refinancing rate at 1.5
percent and said it will resume covered-bond purchases and
reintroduce yearlong loans for banks.  “We could see a rush to yield because whatever happens
interest rates are going to be kept low for a long, long time,”
said Sutherland. “The central banks are now moving from a focus
on inflation to a focus on growth. They know that the big
problem they have is debt and one of the best options is growth
to get rid of it. That basically means you are going to keep
getting demand for higher-yielding assets.”  Sutherland is adding to holdings of bank debt and favors
Lloyds Banking Group Plc in the U.K. as yields on government
debt remain relatively low.  The yield on the benchmark German 10-year bond reached a
record 1.636 percent on Sept. 23. The 2.25 percent security due
September 2021, a benchmark for European debt, yielded 2.06
percent at 10:44 a.m. London time. The Lloyds LBG Capital No. 2
Plc 16.125 percent security maturing in 2024 yielded 13.90
percent.  “At these spread levels banks are looking attractive and
we are maintaining an overweight position,” Sutherland said.
“In the U.K. we still like Lloyd’s. In  Europe , we tended to go
with Scandinavian banks. We’ve tended to go for American banks
as well, though that has not been overly helpful.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  