-- 
Superior Energy to Buy Complete Production for $2.6 Billion

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-10-10T09:08:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/superior-energy-to-buy-complete-production-for-stock-cash.html
Superior Energy Services Inc. (SPN) , a
U.S. oilfield-services provider, will buy  Complete Production
Services Inc. (CPX)  for about $2.6 billion in a cash and stock deal as
declining crude prices drive down the price of assets.  Investors in Complete, a Houston-based competitor, will get
0.945 common share of Superior for every share held and $7 for
each share of Complete, the companies said today in a statement.
New Orleans-based Superior will pay a 29 percent premium over
Complete’s two-month average stock price, they said.  Oil futures have fallen 8 percent this year in New York
trading as global economic growth slows, stoking concern that
demand for crude and fuels will drop. The decline in prices has
eroded the valuations of some energy companies, making them
attractive acquisition targets. Complete has tumbled 41 percent
in the past three months in  New York .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Sanford C. Bernstein Co. have
predicted a surge of oil and gas takeovers after the industry’s
worst slump in three years. China Petrochemical Corp. today
agreed to buy Calgary-based Daylight Energy Ltd. for C$2.2
billion ($2.1 billion) in its largest acquisition this year.
Korea National Oil Corp. said last week it plans to resume
acquisitions of overseas assets after a six-month hiatus.  Superior shares declined 3.1 percent to $27.41 on Oct. 7,
while Complete fell 0.7 percent to $20.38.  Deal Premium  Acquirers of oil-services companies have paid an average
premium of 28 percent in deals announced in the past 12 months,
according to global data compiled by Bloomberg. The Superior
Energy transaction is likely to be completed by the end of 2011,
with its shareholders owning about 52 percent of Complete and
Complete stockholders the rest, the statement shows.  Superior’s Chief Executive Officer David Dunlap will head
the combined company, which will have two independent directors
from Complete. Superior was advised by Greenhill & Co. and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which also provided bridge financing for
the cash portion of the deal, according to the statement.
Complete was advised by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  