-- 
Swiss Benchmark Stocks Snap Three Weeks of Gains as UBS Retreats

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-10-17T15:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/swiss-stocks-climb-for-fourth-day-swatch-syngenta-abb-advance.html
Swiss stocks declined, snapping
three weeks of gains, as  Germany  said European Union leaders
won’t find a swift solution to the euro-area debt crisis.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest lender, fell 1.8 percent.
Kuehne + Nagel International AG, the world’s largest sea-freight
forwarder, also slid 1.8 percent after reporting third-quarter
results that missed analysts’ estimates.  Barry Callebaut AG (BARN) , the
world’s largest maker of bulk chocolate, increased 2.3 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, fell 0.7 percent to 5,723.71 by the
close in Zurich after earlier climbing as much as 1 percent. The
gauge has tumbled 11 percent this year as disappointing European
and U.S. economic reports fueled concern that the global
recovery is faltering. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
declined 0.7 percent.  “Investors remain cautious and we don’t think the market
already managed to re-price to a more benign scenario,”  Mislav Matejka , chief European equity strategist at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , wrote in a report today.  Swiss stocks pared earlier gains after Steffen Seibert,
 Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman, said in Berlin today the German
chancellor has made it clear “dreams that are taking hold again
now that with this package everything will be solved and
everything will be over on Monday won’t be able to be
fulfilled.”  G-20 Paris Meeting  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of an emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They
set Oct. 23, when European leaders will meet in Brussels, as the
deadline for firming it up.  The plan, which has still to be made public, includes
writing down Greek bonds by as much as 50 percent, establishing
a backstop for banks and magnifying the strength of the 440
billion-euro ($611 billion) temporary rescue fund known as the
European Financial Stability Facility, people familiar with the
matter said last week.  In the U.S., a report showed that manufacturing in the  New
York  region contracted at a faster pace than forecast in
October. The Empire State Index covering New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern  Connecticut  gave a reading of minus 8.5, a
bigger drop than the average estimate of minus 4 in a Bloomberg
News survey of 53 economists.  UBS Slumps  UBS slumped 1.8 percent to 10.62 francs. The bank will need
about two to four years to make it back to the top, Interim
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  told SonntagsBlick.  Kuehne + Nagel sank 1.8 percent to 103 francs after it said
third-quarter net income fell 16 percent to 142 million francs.
That compared with a median estimate of 158.4 million francs
from 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Barry Callebaut  rose 2.3 percent to 822.50 francs, the
highest price since July 29, after Patrick Jnglin, an analyst at
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , raised the stock to “outperform” from
“neutral.”  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the biggest offshore drilling contractor,
gained 3.7 percent to 45.80 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  