-- 
Switzerland’s Franc Gains as Investors Take Advantage of Recent Declines

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-10-10T15:34:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/switzerland-s-franc-strengthens-against-all-major-peers-on-bank-optimism.html
The franc strengthened, appreciating
most against the dollar and the yen, as investors took advantage
of recent weakness in the Swiss currency.  The franc rose against all 16 of its major peers tracked by
Bloomberg, gaining the most in almost eight weeks versus the
dollar.  Switzerland ’s currency has weakened 0.4 percent in the
past month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track a basket of 10 developed-nation currencies. It fell
to the weakest since April against the dollar last week after
the  Swiss National Bank  decided on Sept. 6 to cap the franc’s
strength at 1.20 per euro and deter investors using it as a
shelter.  “There’s some buying of the franc to cover short
positions,” said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro
Financial Services Ltd. in London. “Currencies are being driven
by the reassurances given about  Europe ’s banks. If we continue
to see a rally in risk assets then the dollar will likely weaken
further.”  The franc appreciated 2.6 percent to 90.31 centimes per
dollar at 4:28 p.m.  London  time. That’s the biggest one-day gain
since Aug. 9. It strengthened 0.5 percent to 1.2344 per euro.  The Swiss Market Index, a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, advanced 1.2 percent. European stocks
rose and the yen fell against the dollar.  Bank Plan  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  pledged to deliver a plan to help banks and
repeated a commitment to keep  Greece  in the single-currency
area.  The franc’s relative strength index against the dollar fell
below 30 last week, the level that some traders say indicates
that it is oversold and is likely to rebound. It was 38.73 today
from 29.16 last week.  Gains in the franc will probably be limited because of the
central bank’s cap, Derks and  Beat Siegenthaler , a currency
strategist at UBS AG in Zurich said. SNB President Philipp Hildebrand has pledged to defend the franc ceiling with the
“utmost determination” by purchasing “unlimited quantities”
of currencies if needed.  “The perceptions of the Swiss franc as a haven have
clearly eased,” after the central bank’s intervention in the
 currency markets , said Siegenthaler. “It is clear that the 1.20
level will be defended.”  The central bank may raise its ceiling for the franc to
1.30 per euro, according to the private-banking unit of JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  “We remain of the view that a further upward adjustment in
the ceiling is both justified and likely,” Audrey Childe- Freeman, global head of currency strategy at JPMorgan Private
Bank in London, said in an e-mailed research note today. A
ceiling of “1.25 has recently been mentioned as a new possible
reference level, but that would still leave the Swiss franc
largely overvalued. Instead, the monetary authorities may set a
more ambitious target, at say 1.30.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  