-- 
Syrian Opposition Seeks International Support as Death Toll Reaches 4,000

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-10-10T15:29:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/syrian-opposition-seeks-international-support-as-deaths-toll-reaches-4-000.html
Syrian opposition leaders sought
international support for their new coalition as human-rights
activists said the death toll in the seven-month uprising
against President Bashar al-Assad rose to 4,000.  Members of the opposition Syrian National Council formed on
Oct. 2 traveled at the weekend to Egypt and  Sweden  to seek
recognition as the legitimate representatives of the Syrian
people, Faruk Tayfur, the body’s deputy chairman, told Turkey’s
state-run Anatolia news agency. The group, which includes the
Muslim Brotherhood, aims to coordinate the struggle to end
Assad’s 11-year rule.  Syria’s opposition is trying to follow the path taken by
Libya’s rebels who formed a transitional council that became the
main governing authority in the North African country in late
August after they seized Tripoli, the capital, and ended  Muammar Qaddafi ’s four-decade rule.  The Syrian council probably won’t succeed because its
members “don’t seem to be united, and the component of
Islamists in the group is too large,”  Ammar Qurabi  of the
National Organization for Human Rights in  Syria  said by phone
today.  Syrian security forces killed at least 20 anti-government
protesters yesterday in the suburbs of the capital, Damascus, as
well as the central governorates of Homs and Hama, the port city
of Latakia and the northern area of Qamishli, home to the
country’s Kurdish minority, Qurabi said. That brought the total
to 4,000, he said.  ‘Severe’ Measures  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem said yesterday his
government would retaliate with “severe” measures if any
country formally recognized the opposition umbrella group.  The European Union today welcomed the formation of the
Syrian National Council, calling it a “positive step forward,”
according to a  statement  by EU foreign ministers meeting in
Luxembourg.  Syria’s warning is “a preemptive move to try and keep the
Arab states away from recognizing the organization,” said  Chris Phillips , an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in
 London . European leaders “are wary of recognizing a political
organization that at the moment doesn’t have much chance of
replacing the regime.”  About 80 council members led by Burhan Ghalioun, a
political sociologist at the Sorbonne University in Paris, met
Oct. 8 in  Stockholm , Anatolia reported. Ghalioun said the
opposition wanted to use peaceful means to remove Assad from
power and urged the international community to help protect
Syrian civilians, Anatolia reported.  UN Veto  Ghalioun also criticized Russia, saying its “acceptance
of, and even support to, the Syrian regime’s administration of
violence to the Syrian people is a scandal,” according to
Anatolia.  Russia  and  China  vetoed a United Nations resolution backed
by the U.S. and European nations on Oct. 4 that threatened
sanctions against Syria.  Russia, which has multibillion-dollar arms contracts and a
naval base in Soviet-era ally Syria, has vowed to block any UN
resolution that could be used as a cover for seeking regime
change after the overthrow of Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi.  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has
repeatedly criticized Assad’s crackdown, said Oct. 5 that his
government will enact its own sanctions against Syria after the
failure of UN measures.  Conspiracy Charge  Al-Muallem told a press conference in Damascus yesterday
that Syria would retaliate against any Turkish moves.  Iran’s foreign ministry spokesman,  Ramin Mehmanparast ,
accused the U.S. of planning a military operation in Syria as
part of an effort to remove opponents of its policy in the
 Middle East .  “There is a conspiracy being plotted by the U.S and its
allies to crush resistance in this region,” Mehmanparast, told
reporters in Moscow today, without giving details. “They are
seeking to wage a military campaign in Syria.”  Assad, who faces U.S. and European pressure to step down,
is a key regional ally for Iran. The two countries support the
Palestinian Islamist group Hamas and the Hezbollah movement in
Lebanon, whose military arm fought a monthlong war against
Israel in 2006.  Syria’s top cleric, Ahmad Hassoun, said that supporters of
Syria and Lebanon would carry out suicide attacks in the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Israel  if Syria was attacked, according to footage
broadcast on Al Arabiya television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 