-- 
U.A.E. Bank Provisions Surge, May Hamper Earnings: Arab Credit

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-10-11T10:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/u-a-e-bank-provisions-surge-may-hamper-earnings-arab-credit.html
Provisions taken by banks in the
 United Arab Emirates  for non-performing loans increased to the
highest level in more than a year and may damp earnings for the
country’s lenders in the third quarter.  Provisions for non-performing loans rose 11 percent in the
first eight months of 2011 to 49.2 billion dirhams ($13.4
billion) in August, the highest since at least April 2010 when
Bloomberg began tracking U.A.E. banking data.  “Profits will be affected because specific provisions in
the third quarter of 2011 are likely to be higher than in the
same period last year,” Shabbir Malik, Dubai-based research
associate at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest publicly traded
Arab investment bank, said in an e-mailed answer to questions
yesterday. “Provisions are still high because businesses
continue to restructure their debt.”  U.A.E. bank lending remains “stagnant,” according to  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , after the global financial crisis brought Dubai,
the country’s business hub, to the brink of default on about $25
billion in 2009. State-controlled companies such as Dubai
Holding LLC and Drydocks World LLC are still in talks with
lenders to restructure debt. Dubai’s property market had one of
the world’s biggest reversals of fortune when markets turned,
with Deutsche Bank AG saying  home prices  slumped 64 percent
since their peak in mid-2008.  Provisions set aside by the country’s banks may rise
further, reflecting a central bank policy to shield them from
the fallout of Europe’s debt crisis, said  Jaap Meijer , head of
the bank team at AlembicHC Securities.  More Provisions  “Provisions will continue to go up even if NPL’s stabilize
by the end of this year or next,” he said in an interview.
“Regulators are pushing for higher and more forward looking
provisions” given the U.A.E.’s vulnerability to the “extremely
dangerous” economic decline in  Europe , he added. The “U.A.E.
is looking the most vulnerable” in the six-member Gulf
Cooperation Council, he said.  Non-performing loans in Dubai ranged from 8 percent to 10
percent at the end of 2010, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. Of that, distressed loans to Dubai’s government related
entities made up 3 percent or 4 percent. Banks set aside about
$500 million to cover losses from Dubai World’s restructured
loans, the  International Monetary Fund  said in May.  The yield on Dubai’s 5.591 percent dollar bond due June
2021 jumped 68 basis points, or 0.68 percentage point, since the
beginning of September to 6.35 percent yesterday, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The yield fell six basis points today after
Emirates NBD PJSC, the country’s biggest lender by assets,
announced it was taking over unprofitable Dubai Bank PJSC on
government orders. The average yield on GCC bonds for the period
rose 54 basis points to 5.16 percent yesterday, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Conventional US Dollar Bond Index.  Central Bank Guidelines  Under central bank guidelines that went into effect Sept.
1, banks must submit monthly liquidity reports and periodic
stress tests to reduce “the frequency and severity of banks’
liquidity problems,” according to the regulator.  “New requirements by the central bank on how to categorize
loans and on provisioning have affected how banks take
provisions since the beginning of the year,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief executive officer for CAPM Investment PJSC. The
government will continue to encourage greater provisioning for
bad loans so long as local companies continue to show signs of
weakness, he added.  While  Dubai World  reached an agreement to restructure about
$25 billion with creditors in March, its real-estate developer
Limitless LLC received a sixth extension on a $1.2 billion loan,
two bankers familiar with the plan said Oct 4.  Deposits, Loans  Bank deposits declined 3.2 percent in August, the most this
year, to 1,078 billion dirhams, according to central bank data.
Loans rose 0.5 percent in the month to 1,056.8 billion dirhams,
the data show.  “Liquidity is tightening and deposits are declining,”
said  Giyas Gokkent , senior economist at the National Bank of  Abu
Dhabi . “In cases where asset price decreases are as severe as
has been in U.A.E., NPL’s as a percentage of loans was higher.”  Credit to the private sector in the U.A.E., which jumped 42
percent in 2008, may increase 2 percent this year and according
to HSBC’s fourth-quarter report on the economies of the  Middle
East  and North Africa.  “This suggests that corporates are unlikely to be exposed
to the sudden credit squeeze that caused such difficulties
before,” HSBC economists  Simon Williams  and Liz Martins wrote
in the report. The country’s economic growth may accelerate to
3.3 percent in 2011 compared with 1.4 percent last year,
according to IMF forecasts.  Dubai Default Risk  The three-month Emirates interbank offered rate, the
measure at which banks in the U.A.E. lend to each other, tumbled
67 basis points since its peak this year to 1.49 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, the default risk of Dubai, which isn’t rated, soared
165 basis points since reaching a low for the year on June 7 to
481 today, according to data provider CMA. Credit default swaps
for Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E. capital that holds 7 percent of the
world’s proven oil reserves, were at 118 basis points today,
according to CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted in the privately negotiated market. Abu Dhabi,
which lent Dubai $20 billion to help the emirate recover from
its debt crisis, is rated AA at  Standard & Poor’s , the third-
highest investment grade.  “We’re still in the aftermath of the housing market
bubble, and there has been a debt restructuring taking place,”
said  Marios Maratheftis , chief economist for the Middle East and
North Africa at Standard Chartered Plc. The surge in credit
default swaps is driven “by mainly global events; the slowdown
in the U.S. and the unresolved debt issues in the euro zone. In
this global environment liquidity is at a premium,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  