-- 
U.K.’s CO2 Floor Uses ‘Trick’ to Circumvent EU Law, RWE Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-10-10T16:47:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/u-k-s-carbon-floor-uses-trick-to-circumvent-eu-law-rwe-says.html
The U.K. is using a regulatory
“trick” to introduce its carbon tax on fossil-fueled power
generation, which would not have been allowed under European
Union emissions trading law, said the U.K. unit of RWE AG.  Britain is using an exemption under the EU Energy Products
Directive to proceed with its tax, which it named a carbon
floor, John McElroy, director of policy at RWE Npower, said in
an interview at the Platts emissions conference in Brussels.  “That’s the trick that they have used,” he said Oct. 6.
“It’s not permitted under the EU emissions trading system.”  Chancellor  George Osborne  in March fixed a carbon tax of
4.94 pounds ($7.71) a metric ton from 2013 to raise revenue and
prompt investment into power generation such as wind farms and
nuclear. Wind turbines are subsidized and the coalition
government has said no subsidy will be given to new nuclear
power stations. The government indicated the tax, part of the
Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition agreement when they took
office in May 2010, may rise to 9.86 pounds in 2015.  No exemptions from EU law were necessary to introduce the
floor, a Treasury official, who asked not to be identified in
line with department policy, said by e-mail. EU laws allow the
nation to tax fossil fuels for environmental reasons and the
policy will provide more certainty on carbon prices than
previous rules, the official said.  Talks With EU  The U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change last month
declined to provide Bloomberg News with e-mails and letters
between Britain and the European Commission over its planned
changes to energy-market regulations and the carbon floor.  “Its disclosure would provoke a negative reaction by the
European Commission and could undermine the commission’s
willingness to enter into further discussions and negotiations
with the U.K.,” Tim Warham, an energy markets and networks
official in DECC in  London , said in a Sept. 23 letter to
Bloomberg News.  “The U.K.’s ability to protect and promote its interests
in the context of electricity market reform would be adversely
affected if the requested information was disclosed,” he said.  Britain will scrutinize Electricite de France SA’s profit
from its nuclear  power plants  under the  tax , according to  Tim
Yeo , chairman of parliament’s energy and climate change
committee. The nation should introduce a windfall tax on
existing atomic plants to claw back additional profit, the
Liberal Democrats, the junior partner in the coalition, agreed
at a party conference last month.  ‘Revenue Raising Exercise’  The floor will undermine the EU emissions market and
increase costs unnecessarily, McElroy said. “It’s a revenue
raising exercise by Treasury,” he said. RWE,  Europe ’s biggest
emitter, has coal and natural-gas power stations in the U.K.  Nuclear generation, which emits almost no carbon, may
benefit from higher electricity rates after the tax on fossil-
fueled power generation is introduced in 2013, Citigroup Inc.
said in March. EDF, owner of eight of the 10 atomic power
stations in Britain, may earn as much as 154 million pounds, the
bank said. Estimates of any profit EDF may earn as a result of
the tax is “speculation,” Kaa Holmes, a company spokesman in
London, said at the time.  The EU’s carbon cap-and-trade program already requires
Britain’s power stations to buy permits to cover a portion of
emissions and they’ll have to purchase all allowances from 2013.
EU permits for December rose 1.8 percent to 10.65 euros a metric
ton at 10:26 a.m. in London. They have fallen 25 percent this
year.  ‘Poor Example’  The U.K. carbon floor is cutting the need for emission
reductions in other EU nations because it encourages a faster
pace of abatement in Britain, said David Hone, climate adviser
at  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and chairman of the International
Emissions Trading Association.  The policy effectively subsidizes power generation in other
EU nations and increases the total cost of complying with
climate-protection measures, Hone said last week at the Platts
emissions conference in Brussels. “We are probably setting a
poor example for the rest of the world.”  EU lawmakers need to object more stridently when member
states propose energy policies and subsidies that work against
single power and natural gas markets in the bloc, Johannes Teyssen, chairman and chief executive officer of EON AG, said
Sept. 29.  In March, the EU commission said the U.K. tax will
“weaken” the bloc’s carbon price signal.  Future British governments may abandon the tax, McElroy
said. “The unilateral approach undermines the EU emissions
trading system as the principle instrument for delivering low-
carbon investment across Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  