-- 
U.K. Pound Depreciates Versus Euro as Britons’ Employment Confidence Wanes

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-10-10T15:51:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/u-k-pound-depreciates-versus-euro-as-britons-employment-confidence-wanes.html
The pound weakened against the euro
after a report showed Britons’ confidence in the employment
outlook fell for a third month in September to its lowest level
since February, underlining the fragility of the economy.  Sterling depreciated versus most of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg, losing most against  Switzerland ’s franc
and Norway’s krone. The  Bank of England  last week boosted its
asset-purchase program, known as quantitative easing, by 75
billion pounds ($117 billion) to 275 billion pounds in a bid to
revive U.K. growth. Central bank policy maker  David Miles  is to
give a speech to the Royal Economic Society in London today.  “There’s no massive reason to buy the pound,” said Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the corporate and institutional
treasury desk at Investec Bank Plc in London. “The data’s been
a bit mixed and has been getting worse. Quantitative easing only
gives investors another reason not to buy sterling.”  Britain’s currency depreciated 1.4 percent to 87.19 pence
per euro at 4:36 p.m.  London  time. That’s the biggest one-day
loss since Oct. 23, 2009. It strengthened 0.8 percent to $1.5684
and fell 1.8 percent to 1.4166 francs.  The FTSE 100 Index of stocks extended a worldwide advance
in equities, gaining 1.8 percent. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
added 1.7 percent.  An index of consumer sentiment toward hiring prospects fell
1 point to minus 67 from August, taking its decline over the
third quarter to 17 points, a unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc
said today.  Quantitative Easing  The euro rose against the dollar and the yen after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
pledged to deliver a plan to help banks and repeated a
commitment to keep  Greece  in the single-currency area.  “There’s a bit less nervousness about the euro zone and
the euro is strengthening,” Investec’s McDarby said.  The pound fell against most of its major counterparts last
week as the Bank of England’s reactivation of its quantitative-
easing program fueled concern that rising inflation will erode
the value of the currency. The central bank, which expects to
complete the new round of purchases in four months, said slowing
global growth and the turmoil in Europe threaten the U.K.
recovery.  Bank Governor Mervyn King said the move, the first
loosening of U.K. monetary policy since the depths of the
recession in 2009, was a response to what may be the worst
financial crisis ever.  Growth Slows  The U.K economy grew less than economists forecast in the
second quarter, expanding 0.1 percent from the previous three
months, the  Office for National Statistics  said last week. That
was lower than the 0.2 percent previously published and missed
the 0.2 percent expansion forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  “There is quite a lot of scope for further quantitative
easing,” policy maker  Martin Weale  said yesterday in an
interview with  Sky News  yesterday. Still, “the case for support
has grown in the autumn as the financial situation has appeared
to deteriorate,” he said.  The pound has declined 1.4 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which measure a basket of 10 developed-market currencies.  U.K. government bonds fell, pushing the 10-year yield up 11
basis points to 2.58 percent. Two-year note yields were three
basis points higher at 0.65 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 