-- 
U.K. Rower Redgrave Wins Five Golds, Is Given Four Tickets to London Games

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   S t e p h e n   J o h n s
-- 
2011-10-10T16:32:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/u-k-rower-redgrave-wins-five-golds-is-given-four-tickets-to-london-games.html
Steve Redgrave, who won rowing gold
medals in five straight  Olympic Games  for Britain, said he is
“disappointed” after getting just four tickets in the  London
2012  ballot.  “I put in for a fair amount of tickets and actually ended
up with four, so a little bit disappointed myself that I didn’t
get the tickets that I wanted,” Redgrave said in an interview
at a media briefing organized by Prestige Ticketing Ltd., which
sells London 2012’s hospitality packages.  Locog, the organizing committee for next year’s Games, has
been criticized by U.K. consumer groups including Which? for the
way it’s been selling the event’s 8.8 million tickets. Only
700,000 people were successful in a first-round public ballot,
with 1.2 million missing out. Another sale allowed some of those
to subsequently gain tickets.  Redgrave, 49, who first won gold at the 1984 Los Angeles
Games and ended his run at Sydney 2000, said he’s been allocated
two tickets for synchronized swimming and two for basketball.  “We’re just a little bit disappointed that we didn’t get
tickets to go and see things as a family,” said Redgrave, who
will be able to watch the Olympic rowing at Eton Dorney in west
 London  because of his media work. “But there are still some
tickets available in January which we’ll be trying for.”  The British crews for London 2012 are “very, very
strong,” said Redgrave, an honorary president of nation’s
rowing who will be advising the team next year. He said that
Britain can improve on its medal haul from the recent world
championships at the 2012 Games.  “There are 14 Olympic events and we medaled in 10 of
them,” he said. “Three gold, three silver, four bronze, and
actually came away a little disappointed that we didn’t do
better than that. So at home water next year, I think that we
possibly could get more than 10 medals, and hopefully high
percentages will be bright colors.”  Britain led the rowing medal table at the 2008 Beijing
Olympics, winning two gold, two silver and two bronze medals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Johns in London at 
 sjohns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Caronello in London at 
 scaronello@bloomberg.news  