-- 
U.K. House-Price Index Was Unchanged in September, RICS Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/u-k-house-price-index-was-unchanged-in-september-rics-says.html
A U.K. house-price index was
unchanged last month as weak consumer sentiment and uncertainty
about the economic outlook caused potential sellers to defer
putting their homes on the market, the  Royal Institution  of
Chartered Surveyors said.  The gauge by London-based RICS remained at minus 23 in
September, it said in a statement today. A separate report from
the  British Retail Consortium  showed that while U.K. retail
sales rose last month, demand for big-ticket items was hurt by
“the weak housing market.”  The  property market  is failing to gain momentum as first-
time buyers struggle to afford a mortgage and inflation outpaces
wage growth. Britons’ median income is expected to fall by about
7 percent in real terms in the three years through March 2013,
the  biggest three-year drop for 35 years , the  Institute for
Fiscal Studies  said today.  “Falling supply of fresh stock is indicative of general
fears overhanging the economy, with many potential sellers
preferring to stay put for now,” RICS spokesman Michael Newey
said in a statement. “As a result, the U.K. housing market
remains pretty flat.”  The weaker economic outlook prompted the  Bank of England  to
expand stimulus last week, raising its bond-purchase ceiling to
275 billion pounds ($431 billion) from 200 billion pounds.  “Although it is hard to see what will give the market a
lift in the near term, the announcement of a further raft of
quantitative easing from the Bank of England will help to at
least keep  mortgage rates  down,” Newey said. “This, if nothing
else, should ease the pressure on existing homeowners and limit
the risk of a material pick-up in repossessions.”  Price Outlook  RICS said its measure of new buyer enquiries, an indicator
of demand, rose 5 points to 3 last month from August, while an
index of new vendor instructions, a gauge of supply, fell to
minus 5 from minus 1. Price expectations were unchanged, with a
net 23 percent of respondents saying they expected  house prices 
to decline over the next three months, the report showed.  Of the 11 regions RICS tracks, London was the only area to
record an increase in prices over the past three months.  The BRC’s report showed sales at stores open at least 12
months, measured by value, increased 0.3 percent in September
from a year earlier. Sales of food gained 2.1 percent, spurred
by unusually hot weather, while demand for clothes and shoes
fell, it said.  “In these harsh times, we have to be thankful for this
minor improvement in growth,” BRC Director General Stephen Robertson said in the report. “But underlying conditions remain
weak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  