-- 
U.K. Atomic Review Sees No Reason to Cut Back Post-Fukushima

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-10-11T12:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/u-k-nuclear-inspector-to-release-final-post-fukushima-report.html
The U.K.’s nuclear inspector said
there’s no need to scale back operations at existing atomic
plants or change the licensing process for new reactors in the
aftermath of  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster.  “There is no reason to curtail the operation of U.K.
operating sites,” Mike Weightman, chief inspector of nuclear
installations, said today in a  report  on the implications for
Britain’s nuclear industry of the Fukushima accident. “There
are no fundamental weaknesses in the U.K. nuclear licensing
regime or the safety assessment principles that underpin it.”  Governments around the world called for inspections of
nuclear sites after a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami in
March led to Japan’s worst atomic accident and the most serious
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986. Following a request by
U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne , Weightman drafted an interim
assessment in May that proposed 25 areas for review, including
the layout of existing plants and emergency-response measures.  “The report makes clear that the U.K. has one of the best
nuclear safety regimes in the world, and that nuclear power can
go on powering homes and businesses across the U.K.,” Huhne
said in an e-mailed statement from the Department of Energy and
Climate Change. “We must however continue to improve where we
can.”  ‘Robust’ System  Weightman sees no need to change siting strategies for new
nuclear stations in the U.K., the DECC said in the statement,
citing the review. “The U.K. practice of periodic safety
reviews of licensed sites provides a robust means of ensuring
continuous improvement in line with advances in technology and
standards,” it said.  The companies affected by the report’s findings include
 Centrica Plc (CNA)  and Electricite de France SA. EDF owns 15 of
Britain’s 19 operating nuclear reactors, accounting for 18
percent of total power generation, and plans to build four more.
The Paris-based utility acquired all of the U.K.’s atomic plants
in 2008 before selling a 20 percent stake to Centrica, along
with the option to be a minority investor in new plants.  Other companies considering investing in new nuclear
facilities in the U.K. include EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , as well as  GDF
Suez (GSZ)  SA in partnership with  Iberdrola SA. (IBE)  EON and RWE are
spending almost 1 million pounds ($1.6 million) a week in order
to begin construction of a reactor by 2015, according to RWE
Npower Chief Executive Officer Volker Beckers.  ‘Massive Capital Expenditure’  “Projects such as these take up massive capital
expenditure and rarely stick to agreed timelines and budgets,”
Nick Campbell, an analyst at Inenco Group Ltd., said by e-mail.
“This is especially true at a time of lower risk appetite to
credit and unappealing economic landscape.”  The partial meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
sparked a public outcry in  Germany , driving  Angela Merkel ’s
government to rule that all the country’s nuclear plants will
shut by 2022. So-called stress tests ordered by the European
Union’s regulatory arm are “on track,” spokeswoman  Marlene Holzner  said last month.  “The nuclear industry has already taken a large hit, but
the full financial impact for operators is still unclear,”
Daniel Grosvenor, an analyst at Deloitte, said in a statement.  Before the Fukushima calamity, the U.K. government had
begun an assessment of the country’s energy regulation in an
effort to accelerate investment in nuclear projects. Utilities
may need to spend as much as 6 billion pounds per reactor,
according to U.K. Energy Minister  Charles Hendry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  