-- 
U.S. Voters Will Weigh Ballots Focused on Budgets, Higher Taxes

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-10-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/u-s-voters-to-weigh-ballots-focused-on-budgets-gambling.html
Increasing taxes in  Colorado ,
boosting rainy-day funds in  Washington  and reducing unfunded
pension liabilities in  Louisiana  top a list of ballot measures
in nine states this month and next.  Fiscal issues are the theme of the 34 proposals, said
Jennie Bowser, a senior fellow specializing in elections at the
Denver-based  National Conference of State Legislatures .  “The states continue to be concerned with, and to struggle
with, budgets and funding ongoing services,” Bowser said in a
telephone interview.  The worst recession since the Great Depression continues to
weigh on U.S. state budgets. Eleven states forecast deficits in
fiscal 2013 totaling $15.9 billion, according to a  report 
released by the NCSL last month.  “As usual for an odd-numbered year, the overall number of
propositions is well below the previous year,” according to a
 report  by the Los Angeles-based Initiative & Referendum
Institute at the University of  Southern California . Last year,
there were 159 propositions in 36 states, the institute said.  Voters will consider 27 measures in seven states on Nov. 8.
Louisiana voters will weigh six initiatives in an Oct. 22
primary and Nov. 19 general election.  Colorado Taxes  In Colorado, which will hold its general election on Nov.
1, voters will weigh a proposal to increase the state income tax
to 5 percent from 4.6 percent and the state sales and use tax to
3 percent from 2.9 percent from 2012 to 2016.  Arkansas voters will consider whether to approve a $575
million bond program for highways.  In Louisiana, voters will consider a measure to use 5
percent of non-recurring revenue toward balancing the unfunded
liability for the state employees’ and teachers’ retirement
systems in fiscal years 2013-2014 and 2014-2015.  New Jersey voters will consider whether to allow the
Legislature to legalize betting on sporting events at  casinos  in
 Atlantic City , racetracks and former racetrack sites. Federal
law only allows this betting in Nevada and  Delaware .  In Washington, where the state sells and controls the
distribution and sale of liquor, voters will  decide  whether to
close state-run liquor stores and license private parties to
sell and distribute spirits.  ‘Extraordinary Revenue’  Another Washington ballot measure would require the
Legislature to transfer additional funds to the budget
stabilization account in each fiscal two-year budget cycle in
which the state has received “extraordinary revenue growth.”  In  Ohio , voters will decide whether to uphold a law
limiting collective bargaining for government unions. Opponents
say it’s an effort to bust unions and limit their support of
Democratic candidates. Governor  John Kasich , a Republican,
supports the law, saying it would give local governments tools
to control costs, prevent dismissals and provide equity with
private-industry workers.  The state also will consider a measure that would prevent
people from being forced to get health insurance in defiance of
President Barack Obama’s health-care law. Mississippi voters
will consider a proposed ban on abortions that defines life as
beginning at the moment of conception.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  