-- 
U.S. Sees ‘Dramatic Developments’ Taking Place in Myanmar

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-10-10T11:45:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/u-s-sees-dramatic-developments-taking-place-in-myanmar-1-.html
Myanmar is witnessing “dramatic
developments” and the U.S. stands ready to revamp ties with the
Southeast Asian nation, a top state department official said.  “We are prepared for a new chapter in our relations,”
 Kurt Campbell , assistant secretary of state for  Asia , said today
after a speech in Bangkok. “We are watching carefully
developments on the ground and I think it would be fair to say
that we will match their steps with comparable steps.”  The government in Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, came to
power in an election last year after five decades of military
rule. President Thein Sein has held talks with opposition leader
Aung San Suu Kyi, who was released from detention 11 months ago,
and suspended the construction of a $3.6 billion dam being built
with  China  since taking power.  The U.S. has concerns about Myanmar’s detention of more
than 2,000 political prisoners, a lack of dialogue with ethnic
groups and past relations with  North Korea , Campbell said.
Still, recent developments “demand greater attention and
focus,” he said.  “It’s too early, too soon, to make any final judgments,
but at the same time it’s also too soon to dismiss them as
well,” he said. “We are in the midst of a deep diplomatic
process.”  Suu Kyi said Sept. 21 she was “cautiously optimistic” of
progress in her native land, where she has spent 15 of the past
22 years under house arrest. “We are beginning to see the
beginning of change,” she said via satellite during a seminar
in  New York  organized by former U.S. President  Bill Clinton .  Sanctions  The military retains a quarter of seats in the two houses
of Parliament, according to the constitution. Thein Sein’s Union
Solidarity and Development Party, backed by the former ruling
junta, won about 80 percent of seats in last year’s election,
which was boycotted by Suu Kyi’s party.  The U.S. maintains trade and financial sanctions against
Myanmar.  Europe  has less stringent restrictions in place.  “The process of what goes on behind the scenes still
remains a mystery to us,” Campbell said today, adding that
several people consider Thein Sein “a very serious interlocutor
and prepared to engage differently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  