-- 
U.S. Wildcat Culture Risks Macondo Oil Spill Repeat, Graham Says

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-10-10T11:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/u-s-wildcat-culture-risks-macondo-oil-spill-repeat-graham-says.html
The U.S. risks a repeat of the 2010
Macondo oil spill as its “wildcat culture” fails to put a
premium on safety and security, the co-chairman of the  National
Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill  said.  “U.S. oil and gas culture is the culture of the wildcat
that’s been transferred offshore,”  Bob Graham  said today in an
interview at an oil conference in  Abu Dhabi . “The  Gulf of
Mexico  had a culture of complacency. For every one fatality in
the North Sea, there were four in the Gulf of  Mexico .”  The 2010 blowout of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well, which killed 11
workers, destroyed  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s $365 million Deepwater
Horizon rig and spewed crude for 87 days. Fishing grounds
covering thousands of square miles were closed and deepwater
exploratory drilling was halted after the well blew out about 40
miles (64 kilometers) off the Louisiana coast. The presidential
commission probing the spill released its report in January.  The industry has taken a defensive position, seeking to
install a safety entity within the  American Petroleum Institute ,
a trade association made up of U.S. oil and gas companies,
Graham said. He doubts the credibility of a safety body that is
being run by the same group that advocates oil and gas drilling.  Better Regulated  The  North Sea  is better regulated, said Graham, a former
Democratic U.S. senator and Florida governor. The U.S. should
follow the North Sea’s “safety case” approach, which asks
operators to identify all the risks associated with drilling in
a specific area, rather than the prescriptive approach taken in
the U.S.  Norway has some of the best regulations after spills in the
North Sea, including Ekofisk in 1977, according to Liane Smith,
director at well integrity company Intetech Ltd. The Cullen
report, produced after the 1988 explosion at the Piper Alpha
platform in the U.K. North Sea in which 167 people died,
strengthened the power of the U.K. Health and Safety Executive,
a government body staffed from the oil and gas industry that is
respected by local operators, Smith said.  “In the North Sea, anyone can stop an operation,” Smith
said in an interview at the same conference. “You can’t have a
situation where operators have to do things they don’t feel are
safe. It costs money to stop but it’s worth it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  