-- 
Huntsman Outlines ‘Judicious’ Foreign Policy

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-10-10T17:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/huntsman-plans-to-outline-judicious-approach-to-foreign-policy.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Jon Huntsman  called for scaling back U.S. involvement in
international military engagements -- including Afghanistan --
and cutting military spending in a foreign policy address today.  “We must right-size our current foreign entanglements,”
he said. “Simply put, we are risking American blood and
treasure in parts of the world where our strategy needs to be
rethought.”  In the speech delivered at Southern New Hampshire
University in Hooksett, the former U.S. ambassador to China
under President Barack Obama framed his foreign policy doctrine
as one focused on boosting the domestic economy. He called for
expanding U.S. economic relationships across the globe, in part
through finding areas of cooperation with China and
congressional ratification of new trade deals.  “We need a foreign policy based on expansion -- the
expansion of America’s competitiveness and engagement in the
world through partnerships and trade agreements,” he said.  Huntsman, the former governor of  Utah , is seeking to
distinguish himself in his presidential bid on the strength of
his foreign policy credentials, even as the focus of the
campaign remains squarely on economic issues.  Contrast With Romney  Trying to make gains in the Republican field as polls show
him with little backing, Huntsman in his speech today contrasted
his views with those detailed last week by former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney, who polls show leading the race for the
party’s nomination next year.  Romney detailed his foreign policy outlook in an Oct. 7
speech at the Citadel, a military college in Charleston, South
Carolina. He said that if elected, he would move to boost U.S.
military strength, in part by expanding the Navy and missile
defenses.  Huntsman criticized that approach today, saying the country
needs to “reexamine” its defense spending. He advocated
reducing the post-Cold War military infrastructure in favor of
putting greater focus on counterterrorism and intelligence
gathering.  “Simply advocating more ships, more troops and more
weapons is not a viable path forward,” Huntsman said.  Romney Reaction  Romney, at a campaign stop today at a Veterans of Foreign
Wars post in Milford, New Hampshire, criticized Huntsman’s
foreign policy stance without naming him.  “This is not a time for America to pull back on our
commitment to a strong military,” he said.  In response to a question from an attendee, Romney said
strengthening the armed forces is the best way to prevent the
 United States  from becoming embroiled in foreign conflicts.  “I hope we can avoid becoming the policeman of the world
by instead becoming the example of the world,” Romney said.  Huntsman, 51, took aim at his former boss, saying Obama’s
policies “have weakened America, and thus diminished America’s
presence on the global stage.”  Much of his speech centered on developing economic ties
with fast-growing Asian nations. Huntsman called for passage of
pending trade deals with  South Korea , Colombia and Panama, which
Congress may vote on this week. He said he would pursue
agreements with  Japan  and  Taiwan  and conclude negotiations on a
Trans-Pacific Partnership trade accord, which he said would open
markets in  Australia , Brunei, Chile,  Malaysia ,  New Zealand ,
Peru,  Singapore  and Vietnam.  China  Policy  The United States needs to find areas of cooperation with
China, he said, suggesting that the countries could work
together on developing clean-energy technology, combating global
pandemics, and fighting ocean piracy. He voiced his opposition
to congressional legislation that would punish China for keeping
the value of its currency low.  China’s Foreign Ministry says that the bill violates World
Trade Organization rules and that passage would severely damage
the U.S.-China economic relationship.  Huntsman said the legislation could spark a trade war
between the two nations.  “The last thing you need between the two top economies in
the world is a trade war,” he said.  He also called for the U.S. to expand its relationships
with  Mexico , other Latin American nations and  India , saying he
backed the latter country’s bid to join the United Nations
Security Council.  Afghanistan  Withdrawal  Huntsman reiterated that in Afghanistan, he would withdraw
most U.S. forces while leaving a small core of troops on the
ground in the country next year.  “It is cultural arrogance to think we can make tribal
leaders into democratic leaders,” he said. “It is wishful
thinking to believe that our troops, by staying for a couple
more years, will prevent further instability or even civil
war.”  One area where Huntsman said he doesn’t advocate a more
“judicious approach” is in dealing with  Israel  and the threat
it faces from Iran.  “I cannot live with a nuclear-armed Iran,” he said. “If
you want an example of when I would use American force, it would
be that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Manchester,  New Hampshire , at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  