-- 
Turkey Stocks: Aksa Enerji, Denizbank, Euro Yatirim, Ford Oto

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-10-10T12:24:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/turkey-stocks-denizbank-ford-otomotiv-karsan-otomotiv-move.html
Turkey ’s benchmark  ISE National 100
Index (XU100)  rose 0.9 percent to 57,877.59 at 3:05 p.m. in Istanbul,
rising for a second day.  The following stocks were active.  Aksa Enerji Uretim AS (AKSEN)  , a power generator, added
2.8 percent to 2.96 liras. The company lifted its total capacity
to 1,977 megawatts by completing the last 190-megawatt unit at a
gas-fired plant in Antalya, it said in a statement to the
exchange today.  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  ,  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s Turkish unit, jumped 20
percent to 10.12 liras, its biggest advance since February 2010.
Dexia’s board met yesterday to review a plan under which it
would set up a bad bank for its troubled assets, hive off its
French municipal loan book and seek buyers for the remaining
units including Denizbank. OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest bank,
hired Deutsche Bank AG and Troika Dialog Group Ltd. to advise on
a possible offer, Kommersant reported, and former owner Ahmet Nasif Zorlu of Turkey, who sold the bank to Dexia in 2006, told
Haberturk he would consider making an offer.  Euro Yatirim Menkul Degerler AS (EUROM)  , a Turkish
broker, surged 8.3 percent to 1.18 liras, heading for its
highest close since June. The company applied to the German
market regulator to buy a bank, it said in a statement to the
exchange today without naming the bank.  Ford Otomotiv Sanayi AS (FROTO)  , Ford Motor Co.’s
Turkish unit, fell 1.5 percent, to 13.45 liras, snapping three
days of increases. The company will share production of its
Transit model vans with a factory in  Kansas  in accordance with a
deal Ford made with the United Auto Workers union, Hurriyet
newspaper reported, meaning Ford doesn’t plan to export the
model to the U.S. from Turkey, it said.  Karsan Otomotiv Sanayii & Ticaret AS (KARSN TI), a Turkish
automaker, gained 1.7 percent to 1.23 liras. The company has
almost completed road tests for its V1 taxi, originally designed
for the New York City taxi competition, Milliyet newspaper
reported. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  will test drive
the car as he pushes for domestic auto production, and it will
be exhibited at an auto fair in Geneva in March, Milliyet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  