-- 
Hurricane Jova Forecast to Make Landfall Today on Mexico’s Pacific Coast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-10-11T12:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/hurricane-jova-remains-category-3-as-mexico-extends-pacific-coast-watches.html
Hurricane Jova prompted  Mexico ’s
government to issue storm warnings as the Category 3 weather
system moved toward the nation’s southwestern Pacific coast.  Jova, with maximum sustained winds of 115 miles (185
kilometers) per hour, is expected to come ashore today as a
major hurricane, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center
in an  advisory  at 5 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time. Storm warnings
were issued for the area north of Cabo Corrientes northward to
San Blas, and north of San Blas to El Roblito.  “The concern right now is we have a seaport in Manzanillo
that faces south, and if this hurricane comes up right into the
harbor, it can bring a powerful  storm surge ,” Dan Kottlowski, a
meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania , said yesterday. “Jova is a small hurricane and
that is one positive thing about it.”  The storm is 130 miles southwest of Manzanillo and about
195 miles south of Cabo Corrientes and is moving north-northeast
at 6 miles an hour, according to the NHC.  Jova’s hurricane-strength winds of 74 mph or more extend
only 15 miles from the center and tropical storm force winds of
39 mph reach out 90 miles from the core, according to the
hurricane center. That size will limit the impact.  In comparison, just before  Hurricane Irene  struck  North
Carolina  in August, hurricane-strength winds extended 90 miles
from the center and tropical storm power reached out 260 miles,
according to hurricane center records.  Flooding Expected  The Mexican government has also issued a  hurricane warning 
for Punta San Telmo north to Cabo Corrientes, and a tropical-
storm warning from  Lazaro Cardenas  to south of Punta San Telmo,
the center said.  “A dangerous storm surge is expected to produce
significant coastal flooding near and to the east of where the
center makes landfall,” the NHC said in today’s report. “Near
the coast the surge will be accompanied by large and destructive
waves.”  Twenty inches (51 centimeters) of rain is possible in some
places, the center said.  Kottlowski said the Mexican government does a good job
evacuating its residents and given the storm’s slow forward
speed there should be enough time to prepare. How much damage
the storm does will depend on whether it makes a direct hit on
the port at Manzanillo, he said.  Tropical Storm  Irwin  weakened to a tropical depression,
according to a hurricane center advisory. Maximum sustained
winds fell to 35 mph. Irwin was about 645 miles southwest of the
southern tip of  Baja California  and moving east at 8 mph.  The center is monitoring a third system about 300 miles
south of the Gulf of Tehuantepec moving north-northeastward at 5
to 10 mph. The system has a 50 percent chance of becoming a
tropical cyclone in the next two days, it said in an  outlook .  “Interests along the Pacific coasts of southeastern
Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and  Nicaragua  should
monitor the progress of this disturbance,” the center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  