-- 
Mutant Maize Genes May Help Harness Switch Grass for Biofuels

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-10-11T02:40:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/mutant-genes-help-harness-switch-grass-for-biofuel-pnas-says.html
Mutant maize genes can be inserted
into switch grasses to increase their viability as a biofuel
crop, according to a study in the Proceedings of the  National
Academy of Sciences .  Transferring the so-called CG1 corn gene into switch grass
can more than triple the amount of starch stored in the plant
stems and make it easier to convert into the sugars needed for
biofuels, researchers led by George Chuck at the  University of
California , Berkeley, said yesterday in the  study .  The discovery may help make cellulosic ethanol output on a
commercial scale cheaper and easier. Poet LLC, the largest U.S.
corn-based-ethanol producer,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Abengoa SA (ABG)  all plan U.S.
factories by 2013. Gruppo Mossi & Ghisolfi began building a
plant in  Italy  in April to make the fuel, a second-generation,
or 2-G, biofuel, meaning it’s derived from non-food crops.  The grasses can yield as much as four times more sugar when
treated with the mutant genes, which promote juvenile cell walls
as the plant ages, the researchers found. The altered grasses
didn’t flower, even after more than two years of growth,
limiting the risk of the genetically modified variants spreading
genes into the wild population.  “These results point to the potential utility of this
approach, both for the domestication of new biofuel crops, and
for the limitation of trans-gene flow into native plant
species,” the researchers said.  Biofuels in Law  U.S. Congress  passed a law in 2007 setting annual mandates
for blending corn-based ethanol and cellulosic ethanol into
gasoline every year through 2022. The Environmental Protection
Agency had to lower the cellulosic mandates in 2010 and 2011 by
more than 90 percent because the amount needed wasn’t available.  The enzymes needed to make 2-G biofuels cost about 50 cents
a gallon, compared with 3 to 6 cents a gallon for ethanol from
corn and sugar cane, Novozymes A/S Chief Executive Officer Steen Riisgaard said in February. That’s because a bigger volume of
enzymes are required to break down the cellulosic material. The
Danish company gets 18 percent of its revenue from enzymes for
traditional biofuels, and less than 1 percent from 2-G, he said.  “Having extra starch may minimize the need for extensive
pretreatment of the biomass,” the researchers wrote in the PNAS
study. “Starch is much easier to digest compared with
cellulose.”  Because the switch grasses grow on prairie terrain that’s
unsuitable for corn, they don’t compete for land with food
crops. Additional study is needed to ensure the genetic
modification doesn’t make the grasses more susceptible to
predators, the researchers said. They also said the discovery
could be applied to other plants such as miscanthus grass and
sorghum, to increase their viability as biofuel crops.  Chuck, the study’s lead author, also works for the U.S.
Agriculture Department. The Joint BioEnergy Institute in
Emeryville,  California , contributed to the research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 