-- 
Vitamin Supplements Tied to Higher Death Rates in Older Women in Study

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-10-10T22:17:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/vitamins-may-boost-death-risks-in-older-women-study-suggests.html
Multivitamins and some dietary
supplements, used regularly by an estimated 234 million U.S.
adults, may do more harm than good, according to a study that
tied their use to higher death rates among older women.  The use of multivitamins was associated with a 2.4 percent
increased risk of death, according to the study published in the
 Archives of Internal Medicine . Calcium wasn’t associated with
the danger and had a favorable effect on mortality, the authors
found.  While people typically use supplements in the hope of
maintaining or improving health, today’s study adds to evidence
that some vitamins and supplements may be harmful, said Goran
Bjelakovic, a doctor at the  University of Nis in Serbia , and
Cristian Gluud, a doctor at Copenhagen University Hospital in
 Denmark , in an accompanying editorial. The research also raises
a concern that long-term use of supplements may not be safe, the
researchers said.  “We see little justification for the general and
widespread use of dietary supplements,” wrote the authors, led
by Jaakko Mursu, a nutritionist at the  University of Minnesota 
in  Minneapolis  and the University of Eastern Finland in Kuopio.
It may be best to limit use of supplements to cases of
deficiency, the authors wrote.  Almost 40,000 women, ages 55 through 69 when the study
began, reported their supplement use at three points during the
course of 19 years. The self-reported use of supplements
increased over the years, jumping to 85 percent in 2004 from 63
percent in 1986.  The Risk of Iron  Other supplements linked with increased risk of death were
vitamin B6, folic acid, iron, magnesium, zinc and copper. The
finding that iron increased death risk by 3.9 percent was
replicated in separate short-term analyses that lasted 4 years
and 10 years.  About half of all U.S. adults reported using a dietary
supplement in 2000, according to the study.  Dietary supplements don’t require the rigorous testing that
drugs do. Vitamin sales at U.S. drugstores and other outlets,
excluding Wal-Mart Stores Inc., were $3.3 billion last year,
according to  SymphonyIRI Group , a Chicago-based market research
firm.  A 2007 study published in the Journal of the  American
Medical Association  linked vitamin E, vitamin A and beta-
carotene to higher death rates. Another, published in the same
year in the Journal of the  National Cancer Institute , linked
multivitamins to an increase in prostate cancer.  “We cannot recommend the use of vitamin and mineral
supplements as a preventive measure, at least not in a well
nourished population,” Bjelakovic and Gluud wrote. “Those
supplements do not replace or add to the benefits of eating
fruits and vegetables and may cause unwanted health
consequences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 