-- 
Vodafone’s Spain Revenue ‘Still Suffering’ Amid Economic Woes, Price Cuts

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-10T11:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/vodafone-s-spain-revenue-still-suffering-.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
biggest mobile-phone operator, is struggling to stop a decline
in Spanish sales as the intensifying euro crisis pushes
customers toward cheaper alternative rivals.  “Looking at our figures, we’re still suffering in revenue
due to the declines in voice sales, which are driven by lower
prices,” Francisco Roman, Chairman of Vodafone  Spain , said in
an interview in Madrid today. “Our main challenge is to stop
the damage in revenue.”  Vodafone, based in Newbury, England, is due to report
fiscal second-quarter revenue for the three months through
September on November 8.  Spain, with the highest  unemployment rate  in Europe, last
week had its  credit rating  cut two levels by  Fitch Ratings ,
which cited the “intensification” of the euro crisis, slower
Spanish growth and regional finances as risks to the nation’s
debt outlook. Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao
said in July that the company decided to cut prices in the
country to be more competitive.  Vodafone is still seeing growth from both prepaid and
contract deals and is “optimistic” about the future as the
Spanish market has “room for growth,” Roman said.  Asked about a potential market consolidation, the executive
said “there’s a consolidation trend around the world and that’s
a response to a need of economies of scale. Spain is no
different.”  In the fiscal first quarter through June, Vodafone’s
service revenue in Spain excluding currency swings and
acquisitions had declined by 9.9 percent, accelerating from a
6.9 percent drop in the 12 months ended March 31. The decline in
Spain compared with growth of 32 percent in  Turkey , 17 percent
in India, 1.7 percent in the U.K. and 0.2 percent in Germany,
the company’s biggest market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Brussels 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net 
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net; 