-- 
Volcker Rule Might Reduce Revenue at Fixed-Income Desks by 25%, Hintz Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-10-10T16:50:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/volcker-rule-might-ban-fixed-income-flow-trading-hintz-says.html
Wall Street’s fixed-income desks
could suffer a 25 percent decline in revenue under a Volcker
rule proposal that may outlaw so-called flow trading, according
to brokerage analyst Brad Hintz.  The draft proposal, written by regulators including the
Board of Governors of the  Federal Reserve System  and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., forbids market-makers who trade debt
securities for customers from amassing positions “in
expectation of future price appreciation,” Hintz, of Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote today in a note to investors. “Thus flow
trading may be prohibited.” Such a move would cut fixed-income
revenue by 25 percent and reduce profit margins by 18 percent,
Hintz estimated.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley would be the
most negatively affected if the rules were adopted because they
are most dependent on fixed-income revenue, Hintz wrote. U.S.
regulators are crafting guidelines to implement the so-called
Volcker rule included in the Dodd-Frank legislation passed last
year, which aims to prohibit deposit-taking banks from making
speculative bets with their own money.  “At this point, the Volcker rules are simply proposals,”
Hintz wrote. “We hope the final rules will be revised and give
greater consideration to how brokers will earn a reasonable
return from market making.”  The Volcker rule draft, also written by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, was leaked last week. The proposal would be more
damaging to fixed-income trading units than to equities
businesses, which make a larger portion of their money from
client commissions, Hintz wrote.  Bid-offer Pricing  Fixed-income traders have become more reliant on reaping
revenue from price moves in the market because the profit
margins from buying and selling to clients, known as the bid-
offer spread, have shrunk in recent decades, Hintz wrote.  “As bid-offer pricing narrowed, the Street increased risk-
taking when facilitating client trades, which enabled them to
respond quickly and profit from changing demand conditions,”
Hintz wrote. “By deploying balance sheet to amass inventory
ahead of demand, flow trading allowed the firms to partially
offset the deteriorating economics in pure execution.”  Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , both based in  New York ,
were the biggest and second-biggest U.S. securities firms
respectively before they both converted to bank holding
companies after the bankruptcy of smaller rival Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008. The two companies, which are
now the fifth- and sixth-biggest U.S. banks by assets, came
under the regulation of the  Federal Reserve  and won access to
Fed programs, such as the discount window, that are designed to
protect deposit-taking banks.  The Volcker rule was named after former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , who has argued that banks with access to
Fed lending programs should be prevented from making speculative
bets with their money or from investing in  hedge funds  or
private equity funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 