-- 
Wal-Mart China Temporarily Shuts 7 Stores Amid Mislabeling Probe

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-10T05:33:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/wal-mart-closes-7-stores-in-china-s-chongqing-over-pork-label.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, was ordered to halt operations at seven stores
in southwest  China  as the local government investigates
accusations that it mislabeled some pork products as organic.  Wal-Mart closed the stores in Chongqing for 15 days
starting yesterday after being ordered by the city’s industry
and commerce administration, Anthony Rose, a Hong Kong-based
company spokesman, said by phone today. Some employees have been
detained, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  “The closure of some of the stores in Chongqing for the
next 14 days will allow us time to focus on implementing
corrective actions,” the statement said. Wal-Mart said
it believes the order was because of the mislabeling, in which
“the rights of consumers were infringed.”  The Chongqing government fined Wal-Mart 2.69 million yuan
($423,000), Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing Huang
Bo, director of the Chongqing Administration of Industry and
Commerce. The retailer was accused of selling 63,547 kilograms
of falsely labeled pork over the past two years, the report
said. Rose could not immediately comment on the reported fine
and amount of pork sold.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , is cooperating
with the investigation and is sorry for inconveniencing
customers, the statement said. It set up a hotline to address
customers’ questions, according to the statement.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest listed company, had $7.5
billion annual revenue in China, where it has 329 stores and
107,000 employees, Asia chief executive officer  Scott Price  said
March 30. The retailer, with net sales of more than $400 billion
last year, entered China in 1996.  China fined 19 Wal-Mart and  Carrefour SA (CA)  stores a total of
9.5 million yuan for misleading pricing, the National
Development and Reform Commission said on Feb. 22.  The southern Chinese city of Shenzhen fined Wal-Mart,
Carrefour and Renrenle Commercial Group Co. a combined 1.8
million yuan for misleading prices this year, Guangdong
television station reported on Aug. 2.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  