-- 
Wall Street Employees See Bonuses Shrinking Over Three Years, Survey Shows

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-10T16:25:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/wall-street-employees-expect-bonuses-will-shrink-survey-shows.html
More Wall Street finance
professionals expect bonuses to fall than rise over the next
three years, according to an eFinancialCareers.com survey, as
weak markets and new regulations cut into trading revenue.  About 80 percent of the 1,098 people who responded to the
e-mailed query in the U.S. said they don’t expect bigger bonuses
for the industry over the next three years, with 46 percent
expecting them to shrink, the job-search website said in a
statement today. Forty-one percent said their own bonus will
climb this year, while 30 percent expect less, the survey found.  Approximately half of respondents from  hedge funds  and
boutique banks expected a bigger bonus than last year, while 36
percent of their counterparts at commercial and so-called bulge-
bracket banks expected an increase, compared with 38 percent
anticipating a smaller package. Analysts including Rochdale
Securities LLC’s  Richard Bove  have predicted lower pay at the
biggest U.S. lenders as trading revenue is estimated to have
fallen for the second straight quarter.  “Employees at the large investment and commercial banks are
definitely more negative around expectations this year and the
next three years, and that reflects the reality of what the
large banks are dealing with,” Constance Melrose, managing
director of eFinancialCareers  North America , said in an
interview. “The candy bar has shrunk due to regulatory pressures
and market conditions, and firms are going to have to make some
tough choices about who gets the first bite.”  This Year’s Bonus  About 92 percent of those responding expect to receive some
kind of bonus this year, according to eFinancialCareers, a unit
of  Dice Holdings Inc. (DHX)  The survey was conducted from Sept. 20 to
Oct. 3 and received responses from front-office and support
staff at investment and commercial banks, hedge funds and asset
managers.  Of the respondents who anticipate a bigger bonus, 22
percent attributed it to their firm’s performance and 45 percent
said it’s related to personal accomplishments. Of those who
expect a decline, 40 percent said it was because of their firm’s
performance and 35 percent attributed it to market conditions.  Only 20 percent of those surveyed expect industry bonuses
to climb over the next three years, compared with 34 percent in
last year’s survey. Market conditions were the greatest concern
for 68 percent of respondents, up from 59 percent last year.  “In recent years, this is the most pessimistic people have
been,” Melrose said.  About 14 percent said they are unsure about their
employment status because of job cuts at their firm. Thirty-nine
percent said compensation was the most important factor in their
decision to work in the financial services industry, up from 37
percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  