-- 
Whirlpool, Samsung, ‘Kookaburra,’ Casey Anthony: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-10T11:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/whirlpool-samsung-kookaburra-casey-anthony-intellectual-property.html
Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s largest
appliance maker, said it won a six-month stay of litigation in a
refrigerator-technology patent infringement lawsuit brought in
Trenton,  New Jersey , by South Korean rival  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   The postponement was related “to progress in separate
proceedings challenging the validity of LG’s patents” in the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Whirlpool, based in Benton
Harbor,  Michigan , said in an Oct. 7 statement.  “We expect LG’s patents to be found invalid under the re-
examination proceedings,” said Marc Bitzer, president of
Whirlpool’s North America Region. The stay order was filed by
the court Oct. 5.  In dispute in the New Jersey case is LG’s patent 7,392,665,
a patent for a refrigerator with an icemaker, issued in July
2009.  In another case, Whirlpool and Seoul-based LG halted
proceedings in mid-trial last week in U.S. District Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  “The court’s ruling will be entered and made public in the
near future, resolving the issues that were pending in this
retrial” over a patent for refrigerator icemakers, Kristine
Vernier, a Whirlpool spokeswoman, said in an Oct. 3 e-mailed
statement. LG officials didn’t return messages seeking comment.  In the Delaware case, Whirlpool lawyers asked a jury to
award $16.2 million in patent damages. In dispute in that case
is Whirlpool’s patent 6,082,130, issued in July 2000 and
covering an ice-making system for a refrigerator.  The Delaware case is LG Electronics v. Whirlpool Corp.,
1:08-cv-00234, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  The New Jersey case is LG Electronics v. Whirlpool Corp.,
2:09-cv-05142-GEB, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  Samsung Sues Apple in U.K., Follows France,  Italy  Filings  Samsung Electronics Co. sued  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in a London court
in the latest legal dispute between the two biggest makers of
smartphones and tablet computers.  Samsung sued Apple’s U.K. retail unit on Oct. 6, the same
day it asked courts to ban sales of Apple’s new iPhone 4S in
France and Italy. Court documents laying out claims in the U.K.
lawsuit aren’t yet available. The South Korean company in June
filed another suit against the same Apple unit.  Samsung said in the French and Italian court filings that
Cupertino, California-based Apple infringed two patents on
wireless telecommunications equipment. The two companies have
been at loggerheads since Apple claimed in April that Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung “slavishly” copied its designs for
the iPad and iPhone.  Both companies are competing for a share of the fast-
growing market for smartphones, which is projected to double by
2015 when a billion handsets will be sold, according to research
firm IDC.  Adam Howorth, an Apple spokesman, had no immediate comment
on the suit. Calls to Samsung representatives in the U.K.
weren’t immediately returned.  The case is Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. v. Apple Retail UK
Limited & Anr, U.K.  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division ,
HC11C03451.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Men at Work’s ‘Kookaburra’ Appeal Rejected by High Court  Men at Work, the Australian pop band best known for its
song “Down Under,” was told their country’s high court
wouldn’t review a decision finding the band infringed the
copyright of a song written for the Girl Guides, the Australian
 reported .  The song, “Kookaburra Sits in the Old Gum Tree,” was
composed more than 70 years ago, and the publishing company now
holds its copyright, according to the Australian.  In 2010, a trial court found “Down Under” infringed the
“Kookaburra” copyright and ordered the songwriters, and the
band’s recording company -- EMI Songs  Australia  -- to pay the
publishing company 5 percent of the royalties earned from the
song since 2002, according to the newspaper.  Royalties from infringement couldn’t be collected before
2002 because of a statute of limitations issue, the Australian
reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Toronto Diet Doctor Seeks Sealed Court in Trade Secrets Case  A Toronto physician specializing in weight-loss issues
asked that court proceedings be sealed in a trade-secrets case
against his former colleague, the Toronto Star  reported .  Counsel for Stanley Bernstein told the court he could be
seriously harmed if the treatment programs and methods he uses
at his 60 weight-loss clinics are discussed in open court,
according to the Star.  The judge expressed skepticism that the material Bernstein
seeks to protect is confidential, noting that one of the manuals
covers such commonly available information as statutory holidays
and pay regulations in  Alberta , the newspaper reported.  Bernstein is arguing that even though some of the material
is common knowledge, the way it is put together is unique and
should be protected, according to the Star.  Trademark  USPTO Rejects Company’s ‘Casey Anthony’ Application  A  San Francisco  company was thwarted in its attempt to
register the name of Casey Anthony as a trademark.  Anthony was acquitted of the murder of her 2-year-old
daughter, Caylee, in July following a trial in Florida state
court in Pinellas County.  Grant Media of San Francisco filed an application with the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office July 10, five days after
Anthony’s acquittal. According to the application, Grand Media
had planned to use the mark for “entertainment in the nature of
an on-going special variety, news, music or comedy show
featuring namely broadcast over television, satellite, audio,
and video media.”  In a letter sent Sept. 27, the patent office said the
application was rejected because it may “falsely suggest a
connection with Casey Anthony.” She is “not connected with the
services sold by the application under the mark.”  People who were unhappy with the verdict have created t-
shirt designs through CafePress Inc.’s print-on-demand service
without apparent regard for the trademark status of Casey
Anthony’s name. While none of the designs use her full name,
many of them reference the trial or her daughter.  A search for the name “Casey” brings up one shirt printed
with “Innocent? No way Jose” and another with “Dear Mom,
Justice Awaits You, Love Caylee.” A third makes reference to
the unpopular verdict, saying “Some village in Pinellas County
is missing their 12 idiots,” and a fourth says simply “Casey
did it.”  Mark Lippman, the Orlando, Florida-based attorney who
represented Casey Anthony’s parents, filed an application in May
to register “Caylee Anthony” as a trademark.  According to the patent office database, he was sent a
letter Sept. 6 telling him he must submit a letter specifying
that the name isn’t associated with a living individual. Caylee
Anthony’s body was found in the woods near her home in December
2008, five months after she was reported missing.  Liberty Media’s Corbin Fisher Buys ‘Gay.XXX’ for $500,000  Liberty Media Holdings LLC’s  Corbin Fisher  unit paid
$500,000 for one of the new “XXX” domain names associated with
adult content, the U.K.’s  Daily Mail  newspaper  reported .  The domain name -- “gay.xxx” -- is the most expensive
name sold in advance of the public sale of the XXX domain names,
according to the Daily Mail.  The price is significantly lower than what the Mail said is
the most expensive domain name ever sold, “sex.com,” which
went for $13 million in 2010.  The registry selling the names has compiled a list of 4,300
celebrities including Britney Spears, Brad Pitt and even the
late  Osama bin Laden  -- whose names cannot be sold with XXX
addresses, the Mail reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Patent Lawyer Demand Rises Following U.S. Legislative Overhaul  Patent attorneys, who typically have degrees in fields such
as engineering as well as law, are in such demand that their
specialty may account for more than 15 percent of  law firm  job
openings while representing just 3 percent of U.S. lawyers.  Some law firms are almost doubling recruitment fees to meet
the growing demand for  intellectual property  specialists,
particularly in the technology sector, said T.J. Duane, a
principal at legal recruitment firm Lateral Link.  “There is a boom in IP with many openings in what is
usually a niche practice,” Duane said in a telephone interview.  There are more than 230 open positions for patent lawyers
among the more than 1,400 nationwide for all attorneys, with the
majority in the San Francisco Bay area, home to Silicon Valley,
Duane said. About 60 posts have been open since July. Another 25
were added last month, he said.  “The quantity of qualified attorneys who can perform this
work is limited,” Duane said.  Lateral hires among law firms are on the rise after two
years of decline. They jumped 38 percent last year after
plummeting 52 percent between 2008 and 2009, according to a
report by the National Association of Law Placement. Hiring
among law school graduates continues to weaken as large law
firms filled fewer positions. The employment rate among U.S. law
school graduates fell 4.7 percent last year, NALP said.  The IP lawyer demand can be attributed in part to the
America Invents Act, the biggest overhaul to the U.S. patent
system in six decades. The legislation, which changes how
patents are processed and reviewed, is spurring a race among law
firms for star talent in a small pool of patent attorneys.  About 40,000 patent attorneys and agents are registered
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, having passed a
separate patent bar examination, according to the office.  While patent agents have taken the patent exam, they aren’t
lawyers who have taken state bar tests, the patent office said
on its website. Agents can prepare patent applications and
conduct cases before the patent office, though they can’t
litigate in court or draw up contracts.  “These are hard people to find,” Barton E. Showalter,
chairman of the IP department at Baker Botts LLP in  Dallas , said
of qualified patent attorneys.  About 1.2 million lawyers are licensed in the U.S.,
according to the  American Bar Association .  The patent act, the culmination of more than a decade of
negotiations and lobbying, is putting a high premium on the best
patent lawyers, Showalter said.  “It’s an exceedingly complex law now with a number of new
procedures,” Showalter said. “That puts a premium on highly
technical-skilled patent lawyers.”  In addition to patent reform, law firms are being pressured
by technology clients who have expanded into new growth areas
such as cloud computing, Mark J. Itri, head of the IP practice
group at McDermott Will & Emery LLP, said in a telephone
interview from his office in  Irvine ,  California .  Some companies have also consolidated the number of patent
lawyers they work with to cut costs, Itri said.  “Near term, you’ll see a big demand to hire to meet some
of those client needs,” Itri said.  McDermott has hired 28 patent attorneys and patent agents
so far this year, adding roughly a dozen last month alone, as it
seeks to expand its patent prosecution practice. The firm plans
to hire another 20 by next spring, Itri said. Finding the right
talent for the group hasn’t always been easy, he said.  The most highly sought degrees held by patent attorneys are
in electrical engineering, computer science and computer
engineering, Duane said.  The ideal candidate would hold a doctoral degree in
electrical engineering, have graduated from a top 10 law school
and have worked for four years at a strong law firm, Duane said.  “That person could get a job anywhere,” he said.  The pool of potential hires narrows once you subtract
retirees and non-practicing lawyers from the registered patent
attorneys in the U.S., Itri said. Broken down by specialty, the
most sought-after now are those with experience in software,
telecommunications and the Internet, Itri said.  If the talent isn’t available, Duane said, “some firms may
end up closing their positions or repurposing the general
practice attorneys to focus on the nontechnical sides of these
complex cases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 