-- 
Yen Yield Gap to Foreign Debt at Record Low as Economy Slows: Japan Credit

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-10-11T04:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-10/yen-bond-yield-gap-to-foreign-debt-at-record-low-japan-credit.html
The difference in yields between
Japanese  government bonds  and those sold by other nations has
shrunk to the least on record, curtailing demand for foreign
debt among the Asian nation’s money managers.  An index of yen bonds yields about 100 basis points less
than a gauge of government securities worldwide, the least based
on monthly data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch going back to
1996. The extra yield investors get for buying 10-year
Treasuries instead of same-maturity Japanese bonds narrowed to
74 basis points last month. The gap to German rates shrank to 69
basis points. Both spreads were the least in two decades.  A global economic slowdown that’s spreading to  Asia  gives
investors extra reason to favor  Japan ’s bonds. The world’s
third-biggest economy will shrink 0.6 percent this year,Naohiko Baba, the chief economist for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo,
wrote in an Oct. 4 report. U.S. gross domestic product will
expand 1.7 percent and  Europe ’s 1.6 percent, according to the
firm, one of the 25 primary dealers that underwrite Japan’s
government debt.  “I’m bullish on Japanese government bonds,” said Chiyuki Takamatsu, an investor at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co. in
Tokyo, which has the equivalent of $71.7 billion in assets.
“The risks to the Japanese economy are increasing. From a
Japanese investor’s perspective, U.S. Treasuries and German
bonds are no longer attractive.”  Yield Forecasts  Goldman Sachs reduced its six-month prediction for Japan’s
10-year yields to 1.2 percent from 1.3 percent and trimmed its
call for U.S. rates to 2.25 percent from 3 percent. It lowered
the outlook for German yields to 2 percent from 2.75 percent.  Japan’s 10-year note yielded 0.99 percent as of 12:54 p.m.
in  Tokyo , after falling to this year’s low of 0.965 percent on
Sept. 22. Yields on similar-maturity bonds fell to records of
1.6714 percent in the U.S. and 1.636 percent in  Germany  on Sept.
23.  The Asian nation’s securities lagged behind peers during
the rally. Yen debt returned 1.6 percent in three months ended
Oct. 7, compared with 5.7 percent for Treasuries and 6.6 percent
for bunds, the Bank of America figures show.  Investors sought government debt as stocks tumbled, sending
the MSCI All Country World Index of shares down 17 percent in
the same period, after accounting for reinvested dividends,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Auction Demand  Japan’s sale of 20-year debt on Sept. 13 drew bids for 3.39
times the amount of bonds available, the most since May, and the
last 30-year auction on Sept. 6 drew a higher price than traders
expected. The government is scheduled to sell 30-year bonds on
Oct. 13 and 20-year debt on Oct. 20.  Japan is America’s second-largest overseas creditor after
 China , holding $914.8 billion of  U.S. debt  as of July. It
trimmed its position in April and June, the first net sales
since May 2010, Treasury Department data show.  More recent Federal Reserve figures show central banks
outside the U.S. cut their investment in Treasuries to $2.7
trillion as of Oct. 5 from a record $2.76 trillion in August.
Foreign central banks have sold U.S. debt for six weeks, the
longest run since 2001.  The narrower spreads between domestic and overseas debt
means Japanese investors don’t get as much protection against
possible currency losses when they buy bonds abroad.  Foreign-Exchange Risk  “The attractiveness of overseas bonds has declined,” said
Shuntaro Take, the deputy general manager in Tokyo for corporate
investment at  Tokio Marine  & Nichido Life Insurance Co., which
manages the equivalent of $49 billion. “Yields aren’t
sufficient to take foreign-exchange risk.”  Tokio Marine is favoring debt due in 20 years and longer,
according to Take. Fukoku bought 20-year Japanese bonds in April
and added to the position in September, said Yoshiyuki Suzuki,
the company’s head of fixed income in Tokyo.  The yen rallied 5.1 percent against the dollar in the past
three months, the only one of the 16 most-traded currencies to
gain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It strengthened
to a post World War II record of 75.95 against the dollar on
Aug. 19 from 85.53, its weakest level this year set in April.  A dollar-based investor in yen bonds earned 5.9 percent in
the third quarter after accounting for changes in the currency,
the most since the July-to-September period of 2010.  Insurers Buying  Demand from insurers will help cap Japanese bond yields,
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley, another primary dealer, said in a
report Oct. 3.  “Life insurers may fundamentally rethink their asset
allocation strategies, reducing the percentage of foreign bonds
in their portfolios and increasing the percentage of yen
bonds,” wrote Jun Ishii, the company’s Tokyo-based chief fixed
income strategist.  Insurers had 371.3 trillion yen ($4.8 trillion) of assets
at the end of June, more than investment companies and pension
funds combined, according to the  Bank of Japan . Almost 60
percent of the holdings were in bonds, the  figures  show.  The spread between rates on Japan five-year government
bonds and inflation-linked securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
negative 35 basis points, after touching negative 68 basis
points in March, the biggest spread this year.  The extra yield investors demand to own Japanese corporate
debt instead of similar-maturity government bonds has narrowed
to 71 basis points from 78 basis points in June, according to
Nomura Research Institute Ltd. The average for 2011 is 56 basis
points, or 0.56 percentage point.  Credit-default swaps insuring Japan’s sovereign debt for
five years have fallen to 1.24 percentage points from a record
1.55 percentage points on Oct. 4, according to New York-based
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  