-- 
Activision Holiday Outlook Tops Estimates While Take-Two Forecast Misses

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-11-09T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-09/activision-holiday-outlook-tops-estimates-while-take-two-forecast-misses.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the largest
video-game publisher, posted third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates and raised its full-year forecast, citing
new titles including “Call of Duty.”  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) , publisher of the
“Grand Theft Auto” games, projected third-quarter sales and
profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates because of a
weaker retail lineup.  Retailers may sell 18 million copies of the $60 “Call of
Duty: Modern Warfare 3” by the end of the U.S. holiday season,
according to Arvind Bhatia, a Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. analyst
in  Dallas . The newest installment of Take-Two’s “Grand Theft
Auto” won’t be out until 2012. Both companies will benefit from
online sales of added content for existing titles.  “You’re really starting to see the business change and
move toward the continuous content model,” Chief Executive
Officer Bobby Kotick said in an interview. “It’s part of what
we like from a business perspective -- the ability to have
constant content coming, with revenues that are more
consistent.”  Activision’s third-quarter net income almost tripled to
$148 million, or 13 cents a share, the  Santa Monica , California-
based company said yesterday in a statement. Excluding some
items, profit of 7 cents exceeded the 2-cent average of 19
analysts’ projections compiled by Bloomberg.  Activision, raising its 2011 earnings forecast for the
third time this year, released the first-person shooter game
“Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3” yesterday to strong demand.  ‘Call of Duty’ Orders  “The preorders were far in excess of what we’ve seen on
our products ever,” Kotick said. “Our biggest competition on
‘Call of Duty’ is ourselves, the games we have out there that
people continue to play for hours online.”  The eighth “Call of Duty” may sell as many as 6 million
copies in 24 hours, said Bhatia, who recommends buying
Activision shares.  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) ’s latest “Battlefield”
shooter game went on sale Oct. 25 and sold an estimated 5
million units worldwide in the first week.  Activision’s third-quarter sales, excluding changes in
deferred revenue, fell 27 percent to $627 million from $857
million a year earlier. On that basis, analysts predicted $554.1
million, the average of 18 estimates. Total revenue gained 1.2
percent to $754 million, the company said.  For the year, profit excluding some items will be 85 cents
a share, compared with 77 cents predicted by Activision in
August and the 79-cent average estimate of 20 analysts.  Online Sales  Activision is trying to boost sales with the simultaneous
release of an online subscription called “Call of Duty Elite.”
Users who pay $49.99 annually get new downloads, videos,
strategy guides and other features.  This quarter, the company began offering “Skylanders:
Spyro’s Adventure,” which combines toy purchases with a video
game. Orders have exceeded internal estimates, Kotick said, and
are expected to grow after Thanksgiving, on Nov. 24.  Take-Two expects its 2012 slate of games to contribute to
one of the company’s best years ever, Strauss Zelnick, the
company’s chief executive officer, said in an interview.  On Nov. 2, Take-Two released its first teaser video for
“Grand Theft Auto V,” the long-anticipated next installment of
the hit title from its Rockstar Games studio.  The loss for the quarter ended Sept. 30 totaled 47 cents a
share, excluding some items, New York-based Take-Two said
yesterday in a statement. Analysts expected a loss of 57 cents,
the average of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 56
percent to $107 million. Analysts projected $82.5 million.  Outlook  Sales for the quarter ending Dec. 31 will be $225 million
to $275 million, down from $334.3 million a year ago and less
than analysts’ projections of $311.9 million, the average of 14
estimates. Profit will be 20 cents to 30 cents a share,
excluding items. Analysts project 34 cents.  The company’s upcoming slate and the likelihood it won’t
renew a contract with  Major League Baseball  will lead to a
solidly profitable year, said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with
Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles  who has an “outperform”
rating on the shares.  Activision rose 1.4 percent to $13.93 yesterday in  New
York . The shares have gained 12 percent this year. Take-Two rose
0.6 percent to $15.66 and has gained 28 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  