-- 
Lacrosse Private Party Is Crashed by Michigan Wolverines With $10 Million

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-05-27T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/lacrosse-private-party-is-crashed-by-michigan-wolverines-with-10-million.html
College lacrosse is getting a $10
million dose of big-time athletics as it grows from the province
of private schools in the Northeast into a magnet for corporate
sponsorships and alumni donations.  The  University of Michigan  said Wednesday that it will
spend up to $10 million on men’s and women’s varsity lacrosse
facilities, joining Penn State and the University of  Florida  as
traditional college athletic powers pouring resources into the
sport.  The interest state schools -- with their booster clubs,
conference television packages and football revenue -- are
paying lacrosse may threaten the dominance that private schools
such as  Johns Hopkins  University in Baltimore and  Cornell 
University in Ithaca, New York, have enjoyed.  “We are going to bring the money, coaching talent and
recruiting that we believe will allow us to assume a position of
national prominence in the sport,” Michigan Athletic Director
 Dave Brandon , 59, said in a telephone interview.  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association ’s lacrosse
tournaments wind up this weekend.  Virginia , Denver,  Maryland  and
Duke are competing in Baltimore for the men’s championship;
Maryland, Duke,  North Carolina  and Northwestern are playing in
 Stony Brook , New York, for the women’s title.  Michigan’s decision to elevate its club lacrosse teams has
business sense behind it, said Brandon, who served as chief
executive officer of  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based  Domino’s Pizza
Inc. (DPZ)  from 1999 to 2010.  Growth Sport  “It will take our brand into places that, frankly, we
don’t go with many of our other sports,” Brandon said. “It’s
the sport of the future.”  Youth participation in the sport increased to 297,271 in
2009, from 125,000 in 2001, according to Baltimore-based  U.S.
Lacrosse .  About 120,000 fans are expected to attend the men’s Final
Four this weekend, paying from $75-$130 for a three-day pass, up
from $40-$60 in 2004, according to Baker Koppelman, vice
president of ticket sales and operations for the  Baltimore
Ravens , whose M&T Bank Stadium will host the event.  Corporations have taken notice, too. The number of sponsors
has increased to eight from three in 2004.  Marc Mentry, managing vice president of advertising and
sponsorships at McLean, Virginia-based Capital One Financial
Corp., said fans fit the high-income, college-educated
demographic to which he wants to promote his company’s credit
cards.  On Target  “It’s right in our sweet spot,” he said in a telephone
interview. “We want to get in early with the sport so we can
grow with it.”  It hits the sweet spot for university officials, too.  Penn State Athletic Director Tim Curley has been taking
steps to ramp up the Nittany Lions programs, and will soon begin
talking to donors about raising $11 million for a lacrosse-only
stadium.  “We have many alumni who come from the northeastern
lacrosse hotbeds, so there is a lot of interest, and we think we
can excel at it,” Curley said in a telephone interview. “If it
continues to grow at the high school and club level like it has
been and the sponsors continue to follow, I think you are going
to see a big shift with more schools adding the sport.”  Coaches and athletic directors at the traditional programs
say it’s good that big schools like  Michigan  are entering the
sport because it increases opportunities, promotes the game and
generates jobs and higher salaries.  Change Coming  “I think that’s the biggest news in our sport since we
went to a Final Four 20 years ago,” said Virginia coach  Dom
Starsia , who set the Division I career record for wins at 327
last weekend. “If Michigan provides a little spark, 10 years
from now you could see the Big 10, Pac-10. We could see a
dramatic change in the game.”  The University of Florida spent $15 million on a stadium
and fielded its first varsity women’s team two years ago. The
Gators were ranked as high as No. 2 this season and made it into
the quarterfinals of the tournament.  Denver made the men’s tournament in its eighth year
competing in Division I, the sport’s highest level, and this
year hosted Villanova University in the first NCAA tournament
game played west of the  Mississippi River .  For now, though, NCAA rules and federal laws may temper
ambitions.  Scholarship Limits  Men’s lacrosse teams are allowed to have the equivalent of
12.6 scholarships for roughly 45 players. If the NCAA increased
the number of scholarships, bigger schools could gain an
advantage.  Title IX, a U.S. law requiring schools provide an equal
number of opportunities for men and women, may keep schools from
starting men’s lacrosse programs because it effectively doubles
their costs. And because lacrosse usually doesn’t earn enough to
pay for itself, schools would have to subsidize their teams.  Johns Hopkins coach  Dave Pietramala  said his program costs
$2 million annually, including about $650,000 for scholarships.
The school has an undergrad enrollment of about 5,000.  Penn State Coach  Jeff Tambroni , who won or shared eight Ivy
League titles and appeared in two Final Fours and one national
championship in 10 years while coaching Cornell, said a larger
school must effectively use its advantage in resources and
boosters.  Greater Value  “The value of going to a Final Four or winning a national
championship in lacrosse isn’t nearly as cost effective as going
to a basketball or football championship with all the money they
are making,” he said.  Nonetheless, Penn State, with 38,500 undergrad students on
its main campus, hired Tambroni in June 2010 and is spending
about $2 million annually to fund its lacrosse teams.  Being a sports powerhouse doesn’t ensure success in
recruiting.  Jamie Faus , Denver’s freshman goalie, drew interest
last year from Ohio State, whose main-campus undergrad
enrollment is 42,000. Faus, 20, said in an interview that though
he understands the allure of a big athletic department, he chose
to attend Denver, which has 5,500 undergrads and a Hall-of-Fame
coach in Bill Tierney and four NCAA tournament appearances in
the last six seasons.  “We’ve shown that success doesn’t depend on the prowess of
your whole athletic program but rather the players you get there
and how it comes together,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in  Washington  at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliams@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  