-- 
Thailand Core Inflation May Reach 3% by September, Atchana Says

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-05-27T20:33:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/thailand-core-inflation-may-reach-3-by-september-atchana-says.html
Thailand ´s core inflation rate may
rise to 3 percent by September, reaching the upper limit of the
central bank´s target range, Bank of Thailand Deputy Governor
Atchana Waiquamdee said.  Consumer inflation, excluding food and energy, is
quickening at an annual rate of about 1.7 percent rate, within
the bank´s target range for core inflation of 0.5 percent to 3
percent, she said in an interview at an event in  Rio de Janeiro 
sponsored by the  International Monetary Fund . Including food and
energy, prices rose 4.04 percent last month, the highest since
January 2010.  The central bank raised its benchmark rate by a quarter of
a percentage point to 2.75 percent on April 20, the third time
this year. The next meeting is on June 1.  “We are one of the few countries with a strong economy
that still has negative real  interest rates ,” said Atchana,
referring to key interest rate minus the rate of inflation.
“That makes you ask the question if it should be like that.”  Finance Minister Koran Chatikavanij said May 26 that
inflation is the “biggest concern” for the Thai economy. The
central bank raised its key interest rate for the sixth time in
less than a year, joining other Asian nations from  India  to
 China  trying to damp price pressure stoked by elevated oil and
other commodities prices.  Boost Confidence  Upcoming elections are likely to be peaceful and may
instill stability that could boost investor confidence in the
country, Atchana said at the conference sponsored by the
International Monetary Fund.  The election on July 3 in Southeast Asia’s second-largest
economy will pit Abhisit’s Democrat party against allies of
fugitive ex-Premier  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted in a 2006
coup and lives overseas. About 100 people have been killed
following disputes over the last election in 2007.  The central bank has forecast economic growth will return
to a “normal trend” of 4.1 percent this year following a 7.8
percent expansion in 2010, which was the strongest pace in 15
years. The monetary authority predicts inflation of 3.9 percent
in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  