-- 
Air France Pilots Were Probably Confused by Cockpit Instruments in Crash

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-05-28T09:16:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/air-france-crash-probe-shows-jet-stalled-plunged-3-1-2-minutes-to-ocean.html
Air France Flight 447’s pilots were
probably bewildered by erratic instrument readings and may have
done the opposite of what was needed to keep the jet from
crashing into the Atlantic in 2009, safety specialists said.  One pilot responded to stall alarms by angling the Airbus
SAS A330’s nose higher, according to a preliminary report from
the French air-accident investigation office. Pilots are trained
to avert stalls, which occur when an aircraft slows enough that
its wings lose lift, by dropping the nose to increase speed.  Earlier transmissions from the jet had shown that airspeed
sensors had failed, presenting pilots with a sharp drop in speed
readings after the flight entered ice clouds. Instruments showed
the speed tumbled from 275 knots to 60 knots, the investigation
office, the Bureau d’Enquetes et d’Analyses, said yesterday. The
stall warning sounded three times.  “I don’t think there’s any question the reaction wasn’t
what we would like it to be, what it should be -- you keep the
nose down,” said John Cox, a former pilot now with Safety
Operating Systems LLC in  Washington .  The preliminary  report  showed pilots scrambling to prevent
disaster in the three and a half minutes the jet fell toward the
ocean at a speed of 180 feet (55 meters) a second. The least-
experienced of the three pilots was flying the aircraft until
less than a minute before recordings stopped, with the captain
present though not at the controls. The crash killed all 228
people aboard.  ‘All Over Map’  In repeatedly raising the nose, the pilots may have thought
they were reacting properly because the speed readings were
“all over the map” and turbulence from a storm might have
tricked them into feeling they were going too fast, said Richard
Healing, a former U.S. National Transportation Safety Board
member who is now a consultant in Alexandria, Virginia.  “We don’t have the full picture of what their flight
displays showed them and the full transcript of their
conversations,” Healing said. “All we know is that the
information wasn’t reliable, and that a lot of warnings were
going off and it was probably very, very confusing.”  Because the accident happened at night during foul weather
and in the middle of the ocean, the pilots didn’t have the
benefit of seeing a horizon or using landmarks to help gauge
their speed, orientation and direction the nose was pointing,
Healing said.  ‘What Way Is Up’  “It’s the only thing that would make any kind of sense --
that they’d gotten spatially disoriented, they don’t know what
way is up and they don’t fully understand what the airplane is
doing,” said Bill Waldock, a professor at Embry-Riddle
Aeronautical University who has taught accident investigation
for 25 years.  The plane’s two flight recorders were recovered from 3,900
meters (12,800 feet) beneath the Atlantic and returned to Paris
this month, two years after the jet disappeared on June 1, 2009.  Yesterday’s report doesn’t indicate whether the pilots
realized they were in a stall, or if Captain Marc Dubois, 58,
ever attempted to regain control of the plane. Dubois was away
from the cockpit when the autopilot disengaged four hours into
the flight.  Dubois had logged a total of 11,000 flying hours in his
airline career, compared with 6,500 hours by the first co-pilot
and 2,900 by the second.  Deteriorated Situation  The data and cockpit voice recording suggest the pilots
never realized that the plane had stalled, BEA Chief
Investigator Alain Bouillard said in an interview.  “They hear the stall alarm but show no signs of having
recognized it,” he said. “At no point is the word ‘stall’ ever
mentioned.”  Even as the plane plunged from 38,000 feet to 10,000 feet,
“they make this observation without seeming to understand that
they are in a stall,” Bouillard said.  The BEA’s report gave no indication about the tone in the
cockpit, with only a few reference to exchanges about who was in
charge or the co-pilot saying early on “So, we’ve lost the
speeds.” The third member of the crew was given control in the
last minute before impact.  No comments by pilots in the last minute were published by
the BEA. The office said that the plane’s so-called angle of
attack, which defines the angle between air flow and the
longitudinal axis of the aircraft, always remained above 35
degrees during the descent.  Engines Operational  “What happened is pretty straightforward,” Waldock said.
“It’s just a question of why.”  The report concluded that the aircraft remained stalled
during its descent, and that the engines were operational and
responded to crew commands throughout.  On June 4, 2009, Airbus told airlines to remind pilots how
to respond to inconsistent speed readings and two months later
recommended A330 and A340 operators switch from  Thales SA (HO)  pitot
tubes to  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  versions. Records in  Europe  and the U.S.
document dozens of incidents where the probes failed and pilots
retained control. Airbus said last week that it had no
additional recommendations to operators of the A330 aircraft.  The preliminary findings from the black-box data haven’t
established any conclusions about the accident’s causes or led
to any recommendations. An interim report is due in mid-July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  