-- 
Taiwan to Tighten Food-Safety Checks After Additive Scare

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-05-27T12:42:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/taiwan-to-tighten-food-safety-checks-after-additive-scare-1-.html
Taiwan  will tighten food-safety
inspections after an emulsifying additive was found to be
contaminated with an industrial plasticizer, ordering some
companies to certify their products before sale.  The  Department of Health  has ordered a recall of tainted
food, according to a website statement. Manufacturers of five
major food groups -- including sports drinks, juices and teas --
need to provide proof that their products are free from the
chemical before they can be sold, it said.  The plasticizer, known as DEHP, was found in the additive,
the  Food and Drug Administration  at the Health Department said.
The chemical is harmful and is banned from food products. The
additive is used in fruit jelly, yoghurt drinks, juices and food
supplements, the administration said.  Some food makers have unknowingly used the contaminated
emulsifier made by Yu Shen Co., the statement said.  Hey Song
Corp. (1234)  is among companies whose products contained DEHP,
according to the administration. The government has investigated
186 companies and 371 products may have been tainted.  Hey Song said it has recalled a food item that was found to
contain DEHP, according to a company statement.  Tensall Bio-tech Co. has removed two products containing
the additive from shelves, it said in a statement today. Tensall
has also submitted other products for inspection, the Yilan,
Taiwan-based maker of probiotic and bio-cosmetic products said.  China  has started recalls of sports drinks and other
beverages from Taiwan found to contain DEHP, Xinhua News Agency
said today, citing Li Yuanping, a spokesperson for the General
Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  