-- 
Almost Six Years After Katrina Debacle, FEMA’s Reputation Stages Recovery

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/almost-six-years-after-katrina-debacle-fema-s-reputation-stages-recovery.html
A year after  Hurricane Katrina 
leveled  New Orleans  and revealed the ineptitude of the  Federal
Emergency Management Agency , state and local officials in the
region had so little faith in FEMA that they made their own
arrangements to get ice, food and generators for the next
disaster.  Now, as the sixth anniversary of Katrina approaches,
communities coping this spring with floods and killer tornadoes
are surprised by an agency that has been revamped,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its May 30 issue.  The FEMA team that arrived in Joplin, Missouri, on May 22
after a tornado ripped through the city, killing at least 125
people, quickly coordinated with volunteers and helped with
search-and-rescue efforts, says John Bartosh, presiding
commissioner in Jasper County. “They have been nothing but
great.”  FEMA has deployed more than 1,000 employees in  Alabama ,
where more than 50 tornadoes swept through the state’s northern
half on April 27, leaving 238 dead and flattening thousands of
homes and businesses.  Its crew there and the  Small Business Administration  have
already approved more than $54.7 million in disaster assistance
for the state’s residents, according to FEMA spokesman Mike
Stone.  “I’ve been very impressed with the dedicated professionals
FEMA has put on the ground here in Tuscaloosa,” says Tuscaloosa
Mayor Walter Maddox. FEMA staffers are also on the ground in
Oklahoma and  Arkansas  to help in the aftermath of tornadoes in
those states.  ‘Better Prepared’  Congress has taken notice of FEMA’s improved performance.
“We are better prepared for disasters of all kinds than we have
ever been,” Senator  Joe Lieberman , the Connecticut independent
who is chairman of the Senate Committee on  Homeland Security  and
Governmental Affairs, said in an e-mailed statement.  Lawmakers and emergency-management experts credit the
turnaround to government reports that laid bare FEMA’s flaws, a
2006 law that restructured the agency and, most recently, the
arrival of FEMA AdministratorW.  Craig Fugate .  Before the Senate confirmed him in 2009, Fugate had
directed  Florida ’s Emergency Management Division since 2001. The
52-year-old Florida native got his start as a volunteer
firefighter and paramedic in his hometown of Gainesville.  Professional vs. Political  That accumulated experience stands in marked contrast to
the background of  Michael Brown , a former official at the
International Arabian Horse Association, who headed FEMA in
Katrina’s aftermath.  “When you put a professional emergency manager” in the
top FEMA spot, “it’s a quantum level of performance than when
you have a political” appointment, says James Carafano, a
director at the conservative-leaning  Heritage Foundation  in
 Washington .  Fugate has what he describes as a “Waffle House” theory
of emergency management to assess how bad a situation is after a
disaster.  “If the Waffle House is open and serving food and has got
a full menu, then it’s green,” he said during an interview
inside a FEMA mobile home parked outside a fire station in
Joplin. “If the Waffle House is open but has a limited menu,
it’s yellow, and if the Waffle House isn’t open, that’s red.”
(Joplin’s local Waffle House survived.)  FEMA Recruits  Fugate has recruited former state directors at the agency,
who deal directly with their regional counterparts, says Barry W. Scanlon, a former FEMA official who is president of  Witt
Associates , a Washington-based disaster-management consultant.
Because of their past experience, the FEMA managers are
sympathetic to the state officials and don’t take a “top-down,
‘this-is-the-way-it’s-got-to-be’ approach,” he says.  Before Katrina, as mandated by law, FEMA would wait to
receive a governor’s formal request for help before swinging
into action. Under Fugate and his predecessor, David Paulison,
FEMA staffers now show up ahead of any formal request for help.
Fugate also works closely with local companies affected by
disasters.  Much of the groundwork for the improvements was laid before
Fugate got to the agency, according to disaster-management
experts.  The 2006 law rejiggered the agency’s organization chart so
that the administrator had more support. Fugate says there is
more to do: There is too much focus on temporary shelters and
not enough on building more permanent housing in disaster zones.  The next test is whether FEMA can buttress the long-term
rebuilding efforts of storm-wracked communities. The question to
ask, according to Scanlon, is “What does Joplin look like a
year from now?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Joplin,  Missouri , at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  