-- 
Arizona Land Sells for 8% of Price Calpers Group Paid at Peak

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-05-27T19:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/arizona-land-sells-for-8-of-price-calpers-group-paid-at-peak.html
A 10,200-acre (4,100-hectare) desert
site in  Arizona  sold for $32.5 million this week, five years
after a group with investors including the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System  paid $400 million for the land.  Arcus Property Solutions LLC , a private-equity fund with
about $100 million under management, paid cash for the property
in Goodyear, about 60 miles (97 kilometers) southwest of
Phoenix, said Kent Kleinman, a spokesman for the Gilbert,
Arizona-based company. The site, now called Amaranth Land LLC,
had been planned for a 42,000-home community by the Calpers-
financed group when it was purchased in 2006.  The deal shows how property investors are taking advantage
of a plunge in values after the real estate bubble burst in
Arizona. A group of lenders, led by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
seized control of the Amaranth site in 2009 after the bust
halted development, said Jeff Garrett, owner of Garrett
Development Corp., the land’s manager after the foreclosure.  “Five, six years ago, people were spending $200 million or
$300 million or $400 million,” Garrett said in a telephone
interview. “This just sold for about eight cents on the
dollar.”  The 2006 buyers were a joint venture of MW Housing Partners
III LP, a real estate fund with money from Calpers and
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) ; and Scottsdale, Arizona-based Montage Land
LLC, according to Arizona Corporation Commission records. The
deal was funded by a $250.1 million loan and $150 million in
cash, according to Terry McDonnell, publisher of Business Real
Estate Weekly of Arizona in Scottsdale.  Speculative Deals  “Of all the speculative deals I’ve seen here, this was
right at the top,” McDonnell said in a telephone interview.
“It’s hard for me to think of a more speculative deal of this
magnitude in Maricopa County.”  Calpers, the nation’s largest pension fund, had investments
valued at $209.7 million in MW Housing Partners III in the
fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, according to its  annual report .
The next year, the investment had a negative market value of
$102.9 million, the fund said. MW Housing wasn’t listed as a
Calpers investment in fiscal 2010, its most recent report.  Calpers doesn’t discuss individual real estate deals, said
Wayne Davis, a spokesman for the Sacramento-based pension fund,
which had $234.5 billion of assets as of May 24. Bruce Amundson,
a spokesman for Federal Way, Washington-based Weyerhaeuser, said
MW Housing invested the $150 million cash in the Amaranth
purchase.  Newhall Ranch  In October 2009, Calpers severed ties with Macfarlane
Partners LP, the San Francisco investment firm led by Victor Macfarlane that managed MW Housing Partners. MW Housing also led
Calpers’ $970 million investment in Newhall Ranch, a master-
planned community north of  Los Angeles  that filed for bankruptcy
in 2008, wiping out Calpers’ stake.  Garth Wieger, a founding partner at Montage, the managing
partner of the development, said he couldn’t comment because of
a confidentiality agreement. Michael Duvally, a spokesman for
Goldman Sachs in  New York , declined to comment.  The listing agent for the Arizona property was Nathan &
Associates Inc. in Scottsdale. The land is now used for cattle
grazing with future revenue possible from selling its water
rights or letting Goodyear expand a nearby landfill, said
Kleinman of Arcus Property.  “This won’t be developed in my lifetime,” Kleinman, who
gave his age as “mid-50s,” said in a telephone interview.
“Our plan is basically buy and hold and resell after the market
appreciates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 