-- 
Martha Stewart Recovery Fails as Blackstone Sets Sale: Real M&A

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n ,   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-27T20:21:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/martha-stewart-recovery-fails-as-blackstone-sets-sale-real-m-a.html
While Martha Stewart may double
shareholders’ money in a sale, she can’t come close to making
them whole again.  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia (MSO)  Inc., which hired
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  this week and is considering a sale, may
fetch $10 a share, more than twice yesterday’s price, said Noble
Financial Group Inc. At $551 million, Martha Stewart Living
would still be valued at less than a third of the $1.87 billion
in February 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock has since plummeted 88 percent as the founder served time
in prison and was barred from public boards and some executive
posts after being convicted of lying about a stock sale.  While the owner of the namesake magazine and TV show lost
money in seven of the last eight years, its branded dishes and
furniture at Macy’s Inc. and Home Depot Inc. are profitable. The
New York-based company will consider a sale under the right
conditions, a person familiar with the matter said this week.
Any deal would have to go through Stewart, 69, who’s rejoining
the board and has more than 90 percent of voting power. Private-
equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC may be interested, and
branding companies like  Iconix Brand Group Inc. (ICON)  and  Jarden Corp. (JAH) 
may look at merchandising, said Noble analyst Michael Kupinski.  “Martha Stewart is a textbook example of what can go wrong
with an entrepreneurial company,” said  Malcolm Polley , who
oversees $1 billion as chief investment officer at Stewart
Capital in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania . “Martha Stewart’s company is
undergoing a slow death that is a result of management failing
to make a transition to the next generation. They owe it to
their shareholders to try to realize as much as possible from a
sale.”  Hiring Blackstone  Katherine Nash, a spokeswoman for Martha Stewart Living,
declined to comment. Blackstone, the biggest private equity
firm, declined to comment, according to spokeswoman  Christine Anderson .  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo, declined to
comment. Jessica Macgowan of New York-based Iconix didn’t return
a phone call seeking comment. A voicemail left for James E. Lillie, president and chief operating officer at Rye, New York-
based Jarden, after regular business hours wasn’t returned.  Martha Stewart  Living announced May 25 the hiring of New
York-based Blackstone to help review proposals after being
approached by parties interested in partnering or investing and
to explore other opportunities. The company would consider an
outright sale, a person familiar with the matter, who declined
to be named because the discussions are private, said on May 25.
Stewart, in an interview that day, declined to comment beyond
the statement.  Prison, House Arrest  Her company is exploring its options after losing $1.67
billion of its market value since February 2005, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Martha Stewart Living was worth $208 million
the day before the announcement, and then the stock climbed 23
percent through yesterday. The shares added 11 percent to $5.14
today, for a market value of $283 million.  Stewart was convicted of obstruction of justice for lying
about her 2001 sale of ImClone Systems Inc. stock. She served
five months in prison and about six months of house arrest.  In August 2006 Stewart agreed to a settlement with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission barring her from serving as a
director or an officer with financial or legal responsibilities
for five years. Martha Stewart Living said this week that
Stewart is expected to rejoin the board in the third quarter.  Undersized, Undervalued  “Martha Stewart is a whirlwind of energy and a unique
individual, and her absence and lack of control may have
impacted the business,” said  Chris Marangi , a portfolio manager
at Rye, New York-based Gamco Investors Inc. “The company is
undersized, underfollowed and undervalued to resonate in the
public markets.”  Gamco, which has $35 billion under management, owns 520,000
shares of Martha Stewart Living.  Stewart owns all of the class B shares and controls about
90 percent of the total voting rights. In its 2010 annual
report, the company said her concentrated control could deter
mergers or takeovers that may otherwise benefit shareholders.  While private-equity firms or big media companies may be
interested, David Kestenbaum, an analyst with Morgan Joseph
TriArtisan Group Inc. in  New York , said he doesn’t see Stewart
giving up the reins.  A deal to go private may value the company at more than
$750 million, Robert Routh, a New York-based analyst with
Phoenix Partners Group, wrote in a note April 8. Investors or an
acquirer would be betting on Martha Stewart Living expanding its
line of home goods after a partnership with  Sears Holdings
Corp. (SHLD) ’s Kmart ended, he said in an interview. A licensing
company could expand the brand globally and collect royalties --
a potential “cash machine,” Routh said.  ‘Do It Now’  “It may not be worth $20, but it’s certainly worth more
than $5,” Routh said. “I’d take it private at this level. If
you’re going to do something, you do it now. In a year or two,
it’s going to cost you a lot more.”  Noble’s Kupinski estimates a takeover price of $10 per
share, a 116 percent premium over yesterday’s close.  Gamco’s Marangi is not as optimistic, estimating a bid of
$6 a share. The company has television, publishing and
merchandising all in one, making it difficult to identify a
strategic acquirer, he said.  While magazines such as Martha Stewart Living and Everyday
Food drew $146 million in sales last year, the publishing unit
only generated $2.7 million in operating income, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The merchandising business selling pillows
and paint converted $43 million in revenue into $25 million of
profit. The broadcast operation lost $1.6 million.  ‘Cash Flow Drain’  “All of the areas of the company other than merchandising
are a cash flow drain,” Noble’s Kupinski said.  Private-equity firm Apollo in New York has shown interest
in buying and licensing similar brands, Kupinski said. Apollo
agreed to acquire New York-based  CKX Inc. (CKXE) , the owner of
“ American Idol ” and the rights to the names and images of
 Elvis Presley  and  Muhammad Ali , for $5.50 a share, a 26 percent
premium. In a regulatory filing May 17, Apollo said the deal is
worth about $560 million.  Brand-oriented companies that sell consumer products, such
as Jarden, the maker of Crock-Pot slow cookers and Rawlings
sporting goods, and Iconix, which licenses Mossimo, London Fog
and Joe Boxer, may also be interested bidders, Kupinski said.  ‘Quick Way Out’  Martha Stewart Living is similar to Playboy Enterprises
Inc., which has an array of branded products and a dominant
shareholder in  Hugh Hefner , according to RBC Capital Markets
analyst  David Bank  and Routh of Phoenix Partners. Chicago-based
Playboy said it was going private in January for $207 million.  “A sale is a quick way out,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a
senior portfolio manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati, which manages $14.8 billion. “Martha is still an
asset. People have kind of forgiven or forgotten. The Martha
Stewart name has not faded completely from view.”  Overall, there have been 10,091 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $975.5 billion, a 21 percent increase from
the $803.7 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at +1-212-617-7884 or  pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 