-- 
As Doctors Limit Access, Pharma Taps Viscira for Simulations

-- B y   K a r e n   A .   F r e n k e l
-- 
2011-05-27T15:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/as-doctors-limit-access-pharma-taps-viscira-for-simulations.html
Veteran ophthalmologist Dr. Richard M.
Wong has treated dozens of patients for macular degeneration, an
age-related disease that leads to blindness. Though he trained
with detailed drawings and photographs of the retina while he
was a resident in 1996, he never learned what the condition was
like from the patient’s point of view.  So in 2008, he jumped at the chance to don a special pair of
goggles for a 3-D simulation at an exhibitor’s booth at the
 American Academy  of Ophthalmology’s annual meeting in Atlanta.
He saw shadows that grew darker, expanded into puddles, and
ultimately flowed together to become seas of darkness. “It was
disconcerting and very unnerving,” says Dr. Wong, who practices
in Stockton, Calif. Understanding what patients experience “is a
very underserved idea,” he says, “but it’s super helpful and
timely ...."  The simulation, a form of virtual reality, was a biomedical
computer animation produced for  Genentech  by  Viscira,  a medical
 marketing company  in San Francisco. Viscira specializes in
technology-enabled collateral for pharmaceutical marketers
trying to reach doctors. Best known for its computer animations,
Viscira produces a slew of products, from applications for
mobile devices to continuing education presentations, says Chief
Executive Officer Dave Gulezian, 43. The common thread:
“scientific accuracy and visual effects that tell a story in an
impactful way.”  Gulezian says demand for the 60-employee company’s work is
increasing as it gets harder for pharmaceutical sales
representatives to call on doctors. A survey by sales strategy
consulting firm ZS Associates in Evanston, Ill., pegged the
fraction of doctors in 2009 who are open to meeting with sales
personnel at 58 percent, down from 71 percent in 2008. According
to SK & A, an Irvine, Calif., firm that sells physician and
hospital lists, nearly 50 percent of doctors in independent
practices require marketers to make appointments rather than
unsolicited visits, up from just under 39 percent at the end of
2008. “That’s pretty dramatic,” says SK & A marketing director
Jack Schember. “MDs are busier ... they want a quality meeting
at a specific time.”  BANNED IN PATIENT-CARE AREAS  Some academic institutions and affiliated hospitals and
practices have similar policies. In 2006,  Stanford University 
issued a policy prohibiting pharmaceutical company
representatives from entering patient-care areas. The
university, in conjunction with Stanford Hospital and Clinics
and the Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital, was among the first
to allow sales reps access only to non-patient-care areas such
as research laboratories -- and only by explicit invitation.  While ZS Associates indicates that the size of the drug
industry’s U.S. sales force declined to about 74,000 people as
of May, from a peak of 104,000 in 2005, doctors’ demand for the
latest breakthroughs and gadgetry is undiminished. Thirty-eight
percent of MDs’ smartphone time goes to access clinical or
medical information, according to think tank Manhattan Research
in  New York . Eighty-one percent of U.S. MDs possess smartphones
today and 89 percent will have them by 2012, the think tank
finds.  Profitable since its founding in 2007, Gulezian says Viscira is
well positioned to help marketers reach doctors online and off.
He says the company had $8 million in revenue in 2010 and
expects to take in $11 million to $12 million during 2011,
adding that the first quarter was the company’s best ever. That
same quarter it added MedImmune and  Celgene (CELG)  to a longtime
client list that includes  Abbott (ABT),   Eli Lilly (LLY),  and
 Roche (RHHBY).   “HIGH FIDELITY COMPUTER SIMULATIONS”  Viscira faces direct competition from just a handful of
companies, including nearby Eveo in  San Francisco , XVivo in
Rocky Hill, Conn., and Random 42 Medical Animation in  London .
“Biomedical imaging is a small field, but it is growing rapidly
as better programming tools emerge,” says Kathleen Maher,
Editor-in-Chief of TechWatch and a vice-president at Tiburon
(Calif.)-based Jon Peddie Research, which tracks the computer
graphics and animation industries. While Gulezian describes
Viscira’s animations as “photorealistic,” Maher says that
because Viscira is “visualizing the unseeable,” the company is
really creating “high-fidelity computer simulations.”  Gulezian emphasizes the lengths to which its employees --
technologists, science and medical PhDs, and artists -- go to be
accurate and still create striking images of their characters,
which usually are molecules that obey the laws of chemistry and
physics. The team that was assigned to create an animation for
apoptosis (programmed cell death) searched papers for data on
molecular chemistry and structure. They also studied how
molecules and the cell move and interact, watching real-life
movies of apoptosis on YouTube that scientists had created using
a scanning electron microscope. “A lot of places don’t do as
much research and just say, ‘O.K., there’s a receptor and they
make a triangle,’” says Director of Animation Hagop
Kaneboughazian, “so their characters are often simplified and
diagrammatical looking.” In our animation, “everything looks
alive.”  Apart from focusing on scientific accuracy, Viscira -- taking
advantage of what Kaneboughazian dubs “the Golden Age of
biomedical animation” -- strives for feature film standards by
employing former Hollywood techies with experience at
integrating animation and live action. “We have to make material
engaging and get the message across and excite people,” he says.
“MDs love the science, but they also love  Star Wars .”  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen A. Frenkel at
 kfrenkel@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  