-- 
Stocks, Commodities Rise After G-8 Statement

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-27T20:07:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/asia-stocks-pare-fourth-weekly-loss-on-g-8-comments-won-commodities-gain.html
Stocks rose, preventing the fourth
straight weekly loss for the MSCI All-Country World Index, and
commodities gained after Group of Eight leaders said the global
economy is strengthening. The dollar fell.  The MSCI index added 1 percent at 4:02 p.m. in  New York ,
giving the gauge a 0.3 percent advance since May 20. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent. The S&P GSCI
index of 24 commodities increased 0.6 percent as natural gas,
copper and silver surged 1.6 percent or more. The dollar slid
against all 16 major peers. The Swiss franc rose to records
against the euro, pound and U.S. currency.  The strengthening world economy will pave the way for
reductions in debt, G-8 leaders said.  Europe  vowed to fight its
fiscal woes with “determination,” while President  Barack Obama 
promised a “clear and credible” U.S. deficit-reduction
strategy. Equities gained even after  consumer spending  in the
U.S. climbed less than forecast and sales of previously owned
American home plunged 12 times more than projected.  “The world is healing economically,” said  Philip Orlando ,
the New York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated
Investors Inc., which oversees $358.2 billion. “I’m delighted
to see the G-8 take a longer-term view of things, especially
because some investors have been focused on the near term.”  Commodities, Financial  Measures of raw-material and financial companies in the
 MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of shares in developed nations climbed at least
0.7 percent, leading the measure’s gain. In the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index, energy shares added 1.6 percent and health-care
companies rallied 0.9 percent.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. advanced 2.7 percent as
copper rallied after Standard Chartered Plc predicted price
gains. Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of America Corp. increased at
least 1.6 percent, pacing a rally in financial shares, as
 European Central Bank  governing council member Nout Wellink said
he expects  Greece  to get International Monetary Fund aid next
month. Marvell Technology Group Ltd. surged 11 percent after
projecting higher sales than analysts estimated.  U.S. stocks briefly pared gains after the number of
Americans signing contracts to buy previously owned homes
plunged 12 times more than forecast in April.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.7 percent. Barclays
Plc, the U.K.’s second-biggest lender, advanced 1.5 percent and
BNP Paribas SA of  France  rallied 2.3 percent after Citigroup
Inc. recommended buying shares in European banks.  Russia,  Turkey   The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 1.3 percent,
heading for the highest closing level in two weeks. Russia’s
Micex Index gained 2 percent as OAO Gazprom climbed. The
Shanghai Composite Index lost 1 percent, extending the biggest
weekly drop in 11 months, on concern inflation will accelerate.
Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  fell 2.1 percent after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. cut its rating on the market to “underweight” from
“overweight,” citing a growing current-account deficit and
reduced profit forecasts for banks.  Gold futures rose to a three-week high as the dollar’s
slump spurred demand for commodities. The metal climbed as much
as 1 percent to $1,539.50 an ounce. Copper also climbed to a
three-week high in New York as increased premiums signaled
stronger demand in China and Standard Chartered Plc predicted
price gains, joining banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, dropped 0.8 percent, paring its
first monthly advance since November. The euro strengthened 1
percent to $1.4286. The Swiss franc climbed 1.5 percent against
the dollar, 0.5 percent versus the euro and 1 percent against
the pound.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 