-- 
Asian Currencies Fall as Europe Debt Crisis Curbs Emerging-Markets’ Allure

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-05-27T22:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/asian-currencies-fall-as-europe-debt-crisis-curbs-emerging-markets-allure.html
Asian currencies completed a weekly
decline, led by the Malaysian ringgit and the  Taiwan  dollar, as
the worsening European debt crisis reduced demand for emerging-
market assets.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares posted its fourth
weekly loss as overseas investors sold $1.6 billion more South
Korean, Taiwanese and Thai equities than they bought in the
first four days of the week. Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker said May 26 the International Monetary Fund may
not release its portion of aid for Greece next month.  “With the European debt problems, which dragged the stock
markets lower, Asian currencies also saw downward pressure,”
said  Yuji Kameoka , chief currency strategist at Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co. in  Tokyo . “But whenever there’s risk-on
sentiment, the currencies strengthen as the region’s economic
growth is still outpacing other regions.”  The ringgit slid 0.5 percent to 3.034 per dollar in  Kuala
Lumpur , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Taiwan
dollar dropped 0.4 percent to NT28.888, the peso fell 0.3
percent from a week ago to 43.37 and India’s rupee weakened as
much to 45.165. The Indonesian rupiah declined 0.4 percent to
8,573 and the  Singapore  dollar was 0.1 percent lower at S$1.2373.  Greece’s credit rating was cut three levels by Fitch
Ratings on May 20 while Belgium had the outlook on its rating
lowered to negative on May 23.  China ’s Slowdown  Taiwan’s dollar completed its biggest five-day loss since
March 11 as foreign funds trimmed holdings of the island’s
stocks on concern a slowdown in China’s economy will hurt demand
for exports.  The local dollar fell to a one-month low earlier this week
after the government reported industrial production grew 6.9
percent in April from a year earlier, the slowest gain since
September 2009. The currency rose 0.2 percent yesterday on
speculation exporters were repatriating income.  A Chinese manufacturing index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics fell to its lowest level in 10 months in
May, data this week showed. The world’s second biggest economy
took around 40 percent of Taiwan’s exports in April, according
to official data.  “‘Foreigners’ have been selling Taiwan stocks this week on
concern China’s economy will cool,” said Henry Lin, a Taipei-
based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial
Bank. “Exporters are taking advantage of relatively weaker
levels to sell the  U.S. dollar .”  G-8 Optimism  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index rose 0.2 percent
yesterday as regional currencies pared weekly losses on
speculation Asia’s growth outlook and yield advantage over
developed economies will attract funds.  Emerging-market economies in Asia will expand 8.4 percent
in 2011, compared with 2.4 percent for developed countries,
according to  International Monetary Fund  forecasts in April.
First-quarter year-on-year economic growth was 3 percent in
Thailand, 4.6 percent in Malaysia, 6.6 percent in Taiwan and 8.3
percent in Singapore, compared with 2.3 percent in the U.S., 2.5
percent in the euro zone and minus 1 percent in  Japan .  The ringgit rose 0.2 percent yesterday after Group of Eight
leaders said the global recovery is gaining traction, paving the
way for efforts to cut debt.  South Korea , Thailand, India, China,  Indonesia , the
Philippines, Malaysia and Taiwan have raised  interest rates  this
year to help damp inflation, luring funds to local-currency bond
markets. Benchmark rates in the U.S. and Japan are a maximum
0.25 percent, compared with 7.25 percent in  India  and 6.75
percent in Indonesia.  “Asia is still supported by strong structural, domestic
factors as well as favorable interest-rate differentials,” said
Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at Malayan
Banking Bhd. in Singapore. “We expect a continuation of slight
strengthening in Asia, subject to occasional risk-off
sentiment.”  Elsewhere, the Thai baht fell 0.3 percent for the week to
30.38 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. South
Korea’s won gained 0.1 percent to 1,082.25, while China’s yuan
advanced 0.02 percent to 6.4917.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  