-- 
Asian Currencies Decline This Week, led by Peso, on European Debt Crisis

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-05-27T03:12:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/asian-currencies-decline-this-week-led-by-peso-on-european-debt-crisis.html
Asian currencies were headed for a
weekly decline, led by the Philippine peso and  Malaysia ’s
ringgit, as the worsening European debt crisis reduced demand
for emerging-market assets.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares was poised for its
fourth weekly loss as overseas investors sold $1.6 billion more
South Korean, Taiwanese and Thai equities than they bought in
the first four days of the week. Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker said May 26 the International Monetary Fund may
not release its portion of aid for Greece next month.  “With the European debt problems, which dragged the stock
markets lower, Asian currencies also saw downward pressure,”
said  Yuji Kameoka , chief currency strategist at Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co. in  Tokyo . “But whenever there’s risk-on
sentiment, the currencies strengthen as the region’s economic
growth is still outpacing other regions.”  The peso fell 0.5 percent from a week ago to 43.360 per
dollar as of 10:14 a.m. in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. The ringgit weakened 0.4 percent to 3.0305, the Indonesian
rupiah slid 0.3 percent to 8,568 and the Singapore dollar
declined 0.2 percent to S$1.2387.  Greece’s credit rating was cut three levels by Fitch
Ratings on May 20 while Belgium had the outlook on its rating
lowered to negative on May 23. A report today may say an index
of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro region slid to
105.7 this month from 106.2 in April, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  China’s Slowdown  Taiwan’s dollar was headed for a 0.1 percent weekly loss as
foreign funds trimmed holdings of the island’s stocks on concern
a slowdown in  China ’s economy will hurt demand for exports.  The local dollar fell to a one-month low earlier this week
after the government reported industrial production grew 6.9
percent in April from a year earlier, the slowest gain since
September 2009. The currency rose 0.4 percent today to NT$28.821
per dollar on speculation exporters were repatriating income.  A Chinese manufacturing index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics fell to its lowest level in 10 months in
May, data this week showed. The world’s second biggest economy
took around 40 percent of Taiwan’s exports in April, according
to official data.  “Foreigners’ been selling Taiwan stocks this week on
concern China’s economy will cool,” said Henry Lin, a Taipei-
based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial
Bank. “Exporters are taking advantage of relatively weaker
levels to sell the  U.S. dollar .”  G-8 Optimism  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index rose 0.2 percent
today as regional currencies pared weekly losses on speculation
Asia’s growth outlook and yield advantage over developed
economies will attract funds.  Emerging-market economies in Asia will expand 8.4 percent
in 2011, compared with 2.4 percent for developed countries,
according to  International Monetary Fund  forecasts in April.
First-quarter year-on-year economic growth was 3 percent in
Thailand, 4.6 percent in Malaysia, 6.6 percent in Taiwan and 8.3
percent in Singapore, compared with 2.3 percent in the U.S., 2.5
percent in the euro zone and minus 1 percent in  Japan .  The ringgit rose 0.3 percent today after Group of Eight
leaders said the global recovery is gaining traction, paving the
way for efforts to cut debt.  Interest-Rate Differentials  South Korea , Thailand,  India , China,  Indonesia , the
Philippines, Malaysia and Taiwan have raised  interest rates  this
year to help damp inflation, luring funds to local-currency bond
market. Benchmark rates in the U.S. and Japan are a maximum 0.25
percent, compared with 7.25 percent in India and 6.75 percent in
Indonesia.   “Asia is still supported by strong structural, domestic
factors as well as favorable interest-rate differentials,” said
Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at Malayan
Banking Bhd. in  Singapore . “We expect a continuation of slight
strengthening in Asia, subject to occasional risk-off
sentiment.”  Elsewhere, the Thai baht fell 0.2 percent for the week to
30.36 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. South
Korea’s won gained 0.1 percent to 1,082 while China’s yuan
advanced 0.03 percent to 6.4908.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  