-- 
Asian Stocks Drop for Fourth Week on European Debt Crisis, Falling Profits

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-27T23:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/asian-stocks-drop-for-fourth-week-on-european-debt-crisis-falling-profits.html
Asian stocks fell, dragging the
region’s benchmark index to its biggest string of weekly losses
in two years, as concern deepened over Europe’s debt crisis and
amid speculation a slowing global recovery will crimp earnings.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , which counts Europe as its biggest
market, dropped 5.8 percent in Hong Kong after  Fitch Ratings  cut
 Greece ’s credit rating and  Standard & Poor’s  said Italy’s was at
risk.  Austal Ltd. (ASB) , an Australian shipbuilder, sank 4.4 percent
in Sydney after lowering its full-year earnings forecast.  Tokyo 
Electron Ltd.,  Japan ’s biggest manufacturer of chip-making
equipment, declined 2.4 percent in Tokyo on profit concerns.  “Issues like the softening growth rate of business
activity and Europe’s debt problems have prompted investors to
look for reasons to sell,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages
about $350 million at White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney.
“Long-term investors are sitting on the sidelines and short-
term traders are selling into the market. It’s opening up some
good value in many stocks, and I suspect we’ll see buying start
to emerge.”  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index declined 0.2 percent to 134.34
this week, its fourth straight drop, completing the biggest
string of weekly losses since June 2009. The gauged dropped over
the previous three weeks as Japan’s economy contracted,
disappointing U.S. economic data fueled concern about the global
recovery and  China  restricted bank lending, stoking concern
anti-inflation policies may slow growth in the world’s second-
biggest economy.  Luxury Retailers  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.9 percent.  South
Korea ’s Kospi index retreated 0.5 percent and  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 1 percent in the week. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng index slipped 0.4 percent, even as luxury retailers
surged after data showed visitors to Hong Kong increased.  Esprit, a Hong Kong-based clothier that gets about 83
percent of sales from Europe, declined to HK$28.60 in Hong Kong.
 Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which operates container facilities at
Piraeus, Greece’s largest port, dropped 5.1 percent to HK$15.04.  Fitch Ratings cut Greece three levels to B+, four steps
below investment grade, from BB+. Fitch said even a “soft”
restructuring of debt being studied by European Union policy
makers would be considered a default. Fitch said Greece could
face a further reduction in its creditworthiness.  Europe ’s debt crisis is not limited to Greece. Italy’s
Treasury said it will “intensify” structural changes in the
economy and push ahead with measures to balance the budget by
2014 after Standard & Poor’s said its debt rating is at risk of
a downgrade.  ‘Risk of Contagion’  “The biggest concern about Europe is the risk of contagion
and of credit markets drying up globally,” said Prasad Patkar,
who helps manage about $1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management
Ltd. in Sydney. “The memory of the global financial crisis is
fresh in everyone’s mind, and everybody’s preference is that we
don’t go there again.”  European services and manufacturing growth slowed more than
economists forecast in May, data showed. A composite index based
on a survey of euro-area purchasing managers in both industries
fell to a seven-month low of 55.4 from 57.8 in April, London-
based Markit Economics said May 23.  Separately, the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago’s gauge of
economic activity unexpectedly dropped below zero in April. The
national index, which draws on 85 economic indicators, was minus
0.45 in April versus 0.32 in March. A reading below zero
indicates below-trend growth in the national economy.  Raw Materials  Reports last week showed manufacturing in the New York
region expanded at a slower pace than anticipated in May as the
cost of raw materials surged, and that Japan’s economy shrank
more than estimated in the first quarter, sending the nation to
its third recession in a decade.  Tokyo Electron Ltd. (8035) , Japan’s biggest manufacturer of chip-
making equipment, declined to 4,465 yen in Tokyo this week,
leading chipmakers lower after Applied Materials Inc., the
world’s largest producer of chipmaking equipment, forecast
third-quarter profit and sales that missed analyst estimates.  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the world’s third-largest maker of
computer memory, slumped 3 percent to 1,093 yen.  In Sydney, Austal dropped to A$2.82 after lowering its
full-year profit forecast, citing the “unprecedented strength”
of the Australian dollar alongside “softness” in Europe’s
ferry market.  Among stocks that rose this week,  Korea Zinc  surged 9.2
percent to 392,000 won in Seoul. Jiangxi Copper advanced 5.5
percent to HK$26.10 in Hong Kong. Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest
offshore oil producer, climbed 5.1 percent to HK$19.06.  Copper, Zinc  Goldman Sachs suggested buying oil, copper and zinc even as
it cut forecasts for Asian earnings and economic growth. The
brokerage advised a return to raw materials after suggesting to
investors last month they sell copper and oil.  Goldman raised its three-, six- and 12-month forecasts for
Brent crude futures as Libyan supply cuts lead to the
“effective exhaustion” of spare production capacity in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Luk Fook Holdings (International) Ltd. jumped 8.1 percent
to HK$32.20, and Emperor Watch & Jewellery Ltd. surged 8.2
percent to HK$1.32. Hong Kong-based jewelry retailers advanced
after exports of Swiss watches to  Hong Kong , already the largest
market for the timepieces, jumped 54 percent in value terms in
April from a year before, according to figures from the
Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry.  Separately, visitors to the city last month rose 20 percent
from a year earlier, according to data from the Hong Kong
Tourism Board.  In Seoul, Yoosung Enterprise Co. jumped 87 percent this
week. The company, which supplies auto parts to Hyundai Motor Co.
and Kia Motors Corp. said it resumed production after police
broke up a week-long strike at its plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 