-- 
AT&T’s T-Mobile Bid May Be Reviewed by California Agency

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-05-27T16:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/at-t-s-t-mobile-bid-may-be-reviewed-by-california-utitilies-commission.html
California moved toward opening a
review of  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc.,
potentially adding a second state’s scrutiny to U.S. examination
of the $39 billion deal.  The  California Public Utilities Commission  voted 5-0
yesterday to prepare a potential review of the deal that would
commence following another vote set for June 9, Christopher
Chow, a public information officer for the agency, said in an
interview.  AT&T on March 20 proposed buying  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile in a deal that would combine the second- and fourth-
largest carriers to create a new market leader, ahead of No. 1
Verizon Wireless.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S. wireless
carrier and an opponent of the deal, asked the California agency
on May 19 to open a review.  “Sprint is pleased,”  John Taylor , a spokesman for the
 Overland Park , Kansas-based company, said in an interview. “A
thorough investigation will review the negative implications for
pricing, choice and innovation.”  On May 17, the Louisiana Public Service Commission voted to
open an inquiry. Sprint on May 2 asked the West Virginia Public
Service Commission to review the deal, and AT&T in a May 12
filing asked the agency to reject that request.  Congress View  The purchase needs approval from two U.S. agencies, the
 Justice Department  and the Federal Communications Commission.  In Washington yesterday, House lawmakers said they are
concerned that the deal may thwart competition and raise prices
for wireless users. Congress doesn’t play a direct role in
merger approval and may influence the regulatory agencies.  Once California’s proceeding opens, the commission can hold
hearings and take public comment, Chow said. The commission may
file comments with U.S. authorities reviewing the deal, he said.
The commission can’t order the companies to give up airwaves or
customers, Chow said.  “A combined AT&T and T-Mobile will bring our customers a
stronger California network more quickly than either company
could alone,” Lane Kasselman, a spokesman for AT&T, said in an
e-mail. “We’re confident in the merits of this deal and that
regulatory approvals will be obtained.”  Deutsche Telekom is “prepared to share information,” said
Philipp Kornstaedt, a spokesman for the company in Bonn. “We
continue to be very positive and are supporting the review
process in every way.”  Deutsche Telekom shares slipped 0.2 percent to 10.14 euros
($14.50) as of the market close in  Frankfurt  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washingtont .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmest . 