-- 
AT&T Asked by FCC to Provide Evidence of Airwaves Shortage

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-05-27T19:45:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/at-t-asked-by-fcc-to-provide-evidence-of-spectrum-shortage.html
Federal regulators asked  AT&T Inc. (T)  to
provide evidence of the airwaves shortage the company cited as a
reason for its proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA
Inc.  The Federal Communications Commission in a request posted
on its website today asked AT&T to provide “all plans, analyses
and reports discussing the relative network spectrum capacity
constraints of the company.”  AT&T in its April 21 filing with the FCC seeking approval
of the merger said it “faces network spectrum and capacity
constraints more severe than those of any other wireless
provider.”  The FCC and  Justice Department  are vetting the deal
proposed March 20 in a review AT&T executives have said will
take about a year. The merger would combine the second- and
fourth-largest carriers to create a new market leader, ahead of
No. 1 Verizon Wireless.  “We will provide the FCC with all the data it needs,”
Michael Balmoris, a Washington-based spokesman for AT&T, said in
an e-mailed statement. The information request is “standard
procedure” as the agency reviews a merger, he said.  The FCC asked for AT&T’s presentations to bankers and for
details of the breakup fee associated with the deal for the
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  unit. A failure to complete the deal may
mean AT&T would be required to pay to Deutsche Telekom a fee of
$3 billion, according to a March 21 filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  ‘In-Depth Look’  “We’re glad the FCC is taking an in-depth look at a very
controversial transaction,” Art Brodsky, a spokesman for the
Washington-based advocacy group  Public Knowledge  that opposes
the merger, said in an interview.  Questions posed by the FCC included whether AT&T plans to
continue carrying the T-Mobile brand, and whether the combined
company would offer T-Mobile’s price plans.  T-Mobile competes by offering customers lower prices and
its presence in the market helps restrain consumer costs,  Gigi Sohn , president of  Public Knowledge , said in congressional
testimony May 11.  AT&T in its April 21 statement said the merger will create
“thousands of jobs.” The FCC asked today for “all plans,
analyses, and reports discussing the creation or loss of jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  