-- 
Bachmann Dinner Plans Upended by Palin Motorcycles in Fight for Same Votes

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-27T18:02:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/bachmann-and-palin-could-compete-for-the-same-political-ground.html
It was supposed to have been a big
moment for Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  --
headlining a Republican dinner in Des Moines, Iowa’s largest
city, ahead of a potential presidential campaign announcement
next month.  Then a late vote in Congress kept her in  Washington  last
night and a political shadow appeared, as Sarah Palin announced
a multiday East Coast campaign-style bus tour that will kick off
with a May 29 appearance at a motorcycle rally for veterans in
Washington.  Palin’s “ One Nation Tour ” is stirring speculation that
she will enter the race for the Republican presidential
nomination, in which she and Bachmann would compete for much the
same constituency.  The U.S. is at a “critical turning point,” Palin, 47,
said in a statement on her political action committee’s  website ,
and her aim is to help Americans to “connect with our founders,
our patriots, our challenges and victories to clearly see our
way forward.”  “I think she is trying to make a preemptive strike to
maybe convince Bachmann not to run,” said  Dianne Bystrom ,
director of the Carrie Chapman Catt Center for Women and
Politics at  Iowa  State University in Ames.  Kickoff Contest  The Iowa caucuses, scheduled for Feb. 6, kick off the 2012
presidential nominating contests. Bachmann, whom Palin helped to
boost onto the national stage, stands to be especially hurt if
the former Alaska governor and 2008 Republican vice presidential
nominee enters the race.  Palin’s star power would likely allow her to quickly
mobilize a campaign in Iowa if she decides to run, Bystrom said
“She almost has a shadow operation here,” she said.  Bystrom said that if both women were to run in Iowa,
neither would win the caucuses because they would split the vote
of Tea Party activists and social conservatives.  “The more it is split by potential candidates, it would
probably mean that neither of them would win the caucuses,” she
said.  The Republican field appears to be solidifying. Indiana
Governor Mitch Daniels, former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee ,
real estate developer  Donald Trump  and Mississippi Governor
Haley Barbour have all announced in recent weeks that they
wouldn’t enter the contest.  Pawlenty, Romney  Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  formally entered the
race May 23 with an announcement in Des Moines.  Mitt Romney , a
former Massachusetts governor, visited Iowa today for the first
time this year; his campaign said yesterday that he would
announce his candidacy on June 2.  Huckabee won the Iowa caucuses in 2008, so his decision not
to run provides an opening for those who can appeal to the
social conservatives who were his most loyal supporters.  “That left a huge space in Iowa for someone to pick up
where he left off,” Bystrom said.  In the 2008 Republican caucuses, 60 percent of participants
described themselves in entrance polls as born-again or
evangelical Christians.  ‘Head of Steam’  Charlie Black, a lobbyist and Republican strategist who is
neutral in the party’s race, said Bachmann “has gotten a real
head of steam up and is generating a lot of support among the
social conservative and evangelicals that Palin would need” to
mount a successful presidential bid.  That may have played a role in persuading Palin to reassert
herself on the public stage, with an eye toward preserving the
option of launching a presidential bid, he said.  Bachmann, 55, belatedly made it to Iowa today and during an
interview on “Iowa Press,” a statewide public television show
that is a frequent stop for presidential candidates, she said
she has been praying about the decision over her presidential
announcement.  “Every decision that I make, I pray about,” she said.
“Yes, I’ve had that calling and tugging on my heart that this
is the right thing to do.”  After her television interview, Bachmann told reporters
that she doesn’t believe Palin timed her announcement to
overshadow her.  ‘Wish Her Well’  “I didn’t take it that way at all,” she said. “I
consider Governor Palin a friend and colleague. Whatever her
plans are, I wish her well in her plans. The decision I’m making
is completely independent and unique of any other candidate.”  Bachmann had been scheduled to appear in  Des Moines  before
she was delayed by the House vote to extend expiring provisions
of the USA Patriot Act. She has said that she will make her
presidential intentions known in June.  Via speakerphone, Bachmann told reporters in Iowa last
night that she wasn’t concerned that her supporters overlap with
those of Palin’s.  “Our decision is unique, and we are independent of what
any other candidates decide,” she said. “I consider Governor
Palin a friend and I have great respect for Governor Palin. But
again, I don’t believe any two candidates are interchangeable.”  Should she get into the race, Bachmann said, she would make
her formal announcement in Waterloo, Iowa, where she was born.  “Being born in Iowa gives every advantage, every advantage
a girl would want to have,” she said. “There is no downside to
being born in Iowa.”  Staffing Hires  Bachmann said she is preparing for the race. “We already
have hired staff in  South Carolina , in New Hampshire, in Iowa,”
she said. “We have people on the ground.”  She later addressed the dinner audience in Des Moines on a
video link that periodically cut in and out. Campaigning in the
state is heating up 11 weeks before the  Iowa Straw Poll , a
carnival-like political event sponsored by the Iowa  Republican
Party  and designed to test the organizational ability of
presidential candidates.  Spotlighting her interest in Iowa, Bachmann placed an ad on
the home page of the Des Moines Register’s website that
encouraged Republicans to attend her speech. The ad said it was
 paid  for by her congressional campaign fund.  Republican activists said they were eager to see Bachmann
join the field, and think that she could be a strong contender.  “She does well with social conservatives and fiscal
conservatives and she does well with the Tea Party people,”
said Kevin McLaughlin, chairman of the Republican Party in Polk
County, Iowa’s largest. “She certainly will be a player.”  Poll Results  Nationally, in a  Gallup poll  released yesterday, Bachmann
trails Romney, Palin and other official and prospective
Republican candidates. Romney had 17 percent and Palin was
second with 15 percent in the survey of Republicans and
Republican-leaning independents. Bachmann received 5 percent.  Also ahead of her were Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  (10
percent) former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  (9 percent),
businessman and one-time talk radio host Herman Cain (8 percent)
and Pawlenty (6 percent).  The poll was taken May 20-24 and has a margin of error of
plus or minus four percentage points.  Bachmann said in an April 29 interview that her strategy
would be to marry support from socially conservative voters in
Iowa and South Carolina with that of Tea Party backers in  New
Hampshire .  She has become an uncompromising spokeswoman for
conservative positions on social and fiscal issues, prodding
Republican leaders not to cooperate with President Barack Obama’s administration. Inflammatory comments she has made --
she suggested during the 2008 presidential campaign that Obama
may have “anti-American views” and recently compared the
national debt to the Holocaust -- have raised questions about
her prospects as a presidential candidate.  Other potential candidates for the Republican nomination
include former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who resigned his post
as U.S. ambassador to  China  on April 30; former U.S. Senator
Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania , and former Louisiana Governor
Buddy Roemer, a Democrat-turned-Republican. Former New Mexico
Governor Gary Johnson has declared his candidacy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  