-- 
Ban on Corporate Donations to Candidates Tossed by Judge in Clinton Case

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-05-27T19:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/ban-on-corporate-donations-to-candidates-tossed-by-judge-in-clinton-case.html
A federal judge ruled that a century-
old ban on direct corporate donations to federal candidates was
unconstitutional as he threw out part of an indictment against a
fundraiser for  Hillary Clinton ’s campaigns.  U.S. District Judge James Cacheris said that the Supreme
Court’s Citizens United decision in 2010, which gave
corporations the same rights as individuals to spend money
independently to support candidates, also meant they should be
able to make direct campaign donations that comply with general
legal limits. This year, individuals can give $2,500 to a
candidate per election.  If under Citizens United, “corporations and human beings
are entitled to equal political speech rights, then corporations
must also be able to contribute” within federal limits,
Cacheris said in a decision late yesterday. Such contributions
“do not create a risk of corruption or its appearance --
indeed, that is the point of limits.”  The 52-page decision by Cacheris in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
came in a case against a major fundraiser for Clinton’s
presidential campaign who was indicted with a second man for
improperly reimbursing $186,600 to donors. Cacheris threw out
the count charging them with funneling corporate money to
Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign.  Other Charges  The indictment, which covers Clinton’s 2006 Senate run in
addition, also charged William P. Danielczyk Jr., chairman of
McLean, Virginia-based Galen Capital Group LLC, and Eugene R.
Biagi, Galen’s secretary and treasurer, with conspiracy,
obstruction of justice and causing false statements. Trial is
set to begin July 6, according to court papers.  Bans on direct corporate donations to candidates go back to
the Tillman Act of 1905. The 2002 campaign finance law
prohibited contributions known as “soft money” from corporate
and union treasuries to the political parties.  The  Supreme Court   in 2003  upheld the ban on corporate
contributions.  “Any attack on the federal prohibition of direct corporate
political contributions goes against the current of a century of
congressional efforts to curb corporations’ potentially
‘deleterious influences on federal elections,’ which we have
canvassed a number of times before,” Justice David Souter wrote
for a 7-2 majority.  Supreme Court Review  Cacheris’ ruling could eventually lead to a Supreme Court
review of the corporate contribution ban, said Tara Molloy,
associate counsel for the Campaign Legal Center, a Washington-
based advocacy group that supports stronger campaign finance
laws.  “The District Court is acting way outside of its bounds,”
she said. “Not only it is a bad decision, but it’s a fairly
shocking decision as well.”  Opponents of campaign finance restrictions applauded the
ruling.  “This would appear to be consistent with the  Citizens
United  decision,” said Sean Parnell, president of the
Alexandria, Virginia-based Center for Competitive Politics.
“You would simply have the opportunity for legitimate, ongoing
business corporations and unions to be able to contribute to
candidates that they support. We think this is a great
development.”  The only way corporations and unions can now contribute to
candidates is through political action committees, funded by
voluntary contributions from employees or members. The
corporation or union can pay the PAC’s operating expenses. Such
PACs can donate $5,000 to each candidate per election.  The case is U.S. v. Danielczyk, 1:11-cr-00085, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net 
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 