-- 
Banco do Brasil Buying Homebuilders, Retailers on Bet Inflation Will Ease

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-05-27T17:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/banco-do-brasil-buying-homebuilders-retailers-on-bet-inflation-will-ease.html
Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , which controls
the country’s largest asset manager, is buying homebuilders and
retailers on speculation that easing inflation will bolster
domestic demand, said Jorge M. Ricca, the head of stock funds.  BB DTVM, the asset-management unit, may trim holdings of
electric utilities and telecommunications operators after those
industries outperformed, said Ricca, who oversees 72.1 billion
reais ($45 billion) in stocks.  Brazil  may beat other emerging
markets as its consumer price increases slow, he said.  Companies that depend on domestic growth led declines on
the benchmark Bovespa index this year on concern policy makers’
efforts to curb inflation will hurt sales. Lower unemployment
means that Brazil’s “robust” demand will  keep expanding,
Ricca said in an interview at his office in  Rio de Janeiro .  “There are some very interesting opportunities starting to
appear,” Ricca said, declining to name specific companies.
“The consumer sector should outperform.”  Brazilian economists have cut their 2011 inflation
estimates for three straight weeks, the central bank’s weekly
survey of about 100 analysts showed May 23. The central bank has
raised the benchmark interest rate by 1.25 percentage points to
12 percent this year, after increasing reserve and capital
requirements for local lenders in December to curtail credit
growth.  Gafisa SA, the nation’s third-biggest homebuilder, and
consumer-goods maker Hypermarcas SA are down 30 percent this
year through yesterday. The Bovespa lost 7.5 percent.  Unemployment Decline  Brazil’s jobless rate fell in April to the lowest level on
record for the month, the national statistics agency said
yesterday.  Tim Participacoes SA (TCSL4) , the Brazilian unit of  Italy ’s largest
phone company, is leading gains on the Bovespa this year with a
42 percent surge. Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais , the Brazilian
utility known as Cemig, is up 13 percent this year.  The outlook for slower inflation will increase investors’
appetite for riskier assets, diminishing the appeal of
telecommunications and utilities, Ricca said.  “These sectors, for us, are well priced,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Rio de Janeiro at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  