-- 
Barai Capital Founder Admits Fraud in Insider-Trading Crackdown

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/barai-capital-s-founder-pleads-guilty-in-hedge-fund-insider-trading-probe.html
Barai Capital Management LP founder
Samir Barai pleaded guilty to  securities fraud  and other charges
as part of the U.S. government’s largest crackdown on insider
trading at  hedge funds .  Barai, 39, of New York, also pleaded guilty yesterday in
Manhattan federal court to conspiracy to commit securities and
 wire fraud , wire fraud and obstruction for impeding a federal
grand jury probe by destroying evidence. U.S. Magistrate Judge 
Nathaniel Fox said Barai could face as long as 65 years in 
prison when he is sentenced Aug. 29.  The plea came just hours after Sonny Nguyen, 39, of  San
Jose ,  California , and a former senior financial analyst for
Nvidia Corp., pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff to conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud in a
related case.  “I deeply regret all of my actions in this case,” Barai
said.  Barai and Nguyen are among 13 people charged in a federal
investigation of  insider trading  brought by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. The probe is part of a larger
investigation by Bharara’s office of insider trading by hedge
funds including Galleon Group LLC.  Barai spoke into a microphone to describe his crimes,
saying he conspired with two SAC Capital Advisors LP fund
managers, Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil, to violate federal
securities laws. Freeman and Longueuil have pleaded guilty to
insider trading charges in the case. Freeman is cooperating with
prosecutors.  ‘Numerous Occasions’  Barai said on “numerous occasions” from early 2006 to
late 2010, “I paid for and utilized the services of an expert
networking firm who employed persons working at technology
companies.”  He said that Freeman and Longueuil listened in on calls
with expert networking sources who provided “material,
nonpublic information including revenues, gross margins and
earnings.”  “I used this information in making trades,” he said. “I
also shared this information with Mr. Freeman and Mr. Longueuil
so they could make trades at their hedge funds.”  Both Barai and Nguyen implicated Winifred Jiau, then a
consultant at expert networking firm Primary Global Research LLC
in their schemes.  Barai said in May 2008 he participated in calls with Jiau,
who provided tips about  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) , a  Santa
Clara , California-based maker of chips for personal computers
and mobile phones. Jiau is charged with insider trading and is
scheduled to go on trial before Rakoff on June 1.  ‘Conduct Was Wrong’  “I understood that Ms. Jiau had gotten the information from
a Marvell employee who was not authorized to discuss it,” Barai
said. “I understood at the time my conduct was wrong and
unlawful.”  Daniel Yoo, a spokesman for Marvell, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail message seeking comment about Barai’s statement
that inside information came from a Marvell employee.  Barai said that on Nov. 19, 2010, he saw an article in the
Wall Street Journal that described a federal grand jury probe in
 New York  investigating hedge fund managers who used expert
networking consultants to get inside information.  “I contacted my research analyst and directed him to
destroy certain electronic and hard copies related to trading
activities,” he said.  Barai and his lawyer, Evan Barr, declined to comment after
court.  Substantial Assistance  Barai will provide “substantial assistance,” prosecutors
said in court papers. The U.S. agreed to submit a letter asking
U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  to impose a reduced sentence,
citing his cooperation.  At a May 12 hearing in federal court in New York, Jason Pflaum, a former analyst at Barai Capital, testified he listened
in on phone calls when his boss got nonpublic information on
companies from Jiau.  Pflaum said he listened in on calls with expert networkers,
recorded them, wrote contemporaneous electronic instant messages
and kept notes for Barai, who is hearing impaired. Rakoff ruled
the government could use these notes and recordings as evidence
against Jiau. Pflaum has pleaded guilty and is cooperating with
prosecutors.  Nguyen said in court yesterday that he passed tips about
Nvidia’s quarterly earnings before they were publicly announced
to Jiau. Nvidia, based in Santa Clara, California, is a maker of
graphics chips.  Passed Tips  Nguyen told Rakoff that he conspired with Jiau and another
man he identified as Stanley Ng to pass and receive tips.
“Between 2007 and 2008 I agreed with others to engage in an
insider trading scheme,” Nguyen said. “I provided material
nonpublic information to my co-conspirators.”  Rakoff interrupted him to ask, “Who was that?”  “That was Winnie Jiau and Stanley Ng, about  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA) ’s quarterly financial results before such information was
public,” Nguyen replied. “In exchange I received stock tips.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman told Rakoff that
Nguyen, who is cooperating with the government, is scheduled to
be a witness against Jiau. He also said that Nguyen’s co-
conspirator “executed securities transactions” in Nvidia and
Marvell.  Nguyen faces as long as five years in prison when he is
sentenced by Rakoff on Nov. 29, Weitzman said.  Free on Bail  Nguyen, who said he was born in  Vietnam  and is a U.S.
citizen, was permitted to remain free on $100,000 personal
recognizance bond and allowed to travel between his home in
California and New York.  His lawyer, Douglas Schneider, and Weitzman declined to
comment after court. Rakoff told Nguyen to give his passport to
court authorities.  Bob Sherbin, a spokesman for Nvidia, said in a telephone
interview that Nguyen, who was employed at the company since
October 2006, went on administrative leave on May 26 and has now
resigned.  Sherbin said Nvidia is cooperating with the New York U.S.
attorney’s office and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . He
also said Jiau worked for a brief period of time at Nvidia as an
outside contractor.  The cases are U.S. v. Barai 11-cr-00116, and U.S. v.
Nguyen, 11-CR-161, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  