-- 
BGZ, Cheapest Polish Bank, Jumps 6% After Debut on Warsaw Stock Exchange

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 
2011-05-27T09:34:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/bgz-cheapest-polish-bank-jumps-6-after-debut-on-warsaw-stock-exchange.html
Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA, the
Polish unit of Rabobank Groep, jumped as much as 6 percent in
Warsaw trading after the government sold 312 million zloty ($111
million) of shares in an initial public offering.  The shares climbed to 63.6 zloty and traded at 61.4 zloty
by 10:44 a.m. in Warsaw, valuing the bank at 2.65 billion zloty.  The Treasury Ministry sold 5.2 million shares in the bank
known as BGZ, a 12 percent stake, for 60 zloty a share this
month, below the proposed price range of 66 zloty to 90 zloty.
The government scaled back the IPO from a stake of as much as 37
percent because of “limited” investor demand. Rabobank, the
world’s biggest agricultural lender, owns 59 percent of BGZ.  Based on its price to book value ratio, BGZ is the cheapest
Polish lender trading in Warsaw, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bank trades at 1.06 times its 2010 book value of
2.5 billion zloty, compared with an industry average of 1.88
times. The second cheapest is Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA,
controlled by the Polish government, with a ratio of 1.12.  “The valuation ratio is low for a reason,” said Tomasz
Bursa, a Warsaw-based analyst at Ipopema Securities SA. “BGZ is
one of the least profitable banks in  Poland .”  BGZ’s return on equity ratio, a measure of profitability,
was 4.6 percent last year, according to IPO documents published
on the bank’s  website . The average return for Polish banks is
10.4 percent, according to Bloomberg data. BGZ plans to increase
its return on equity to at least 10 percent in the next three to
five years, BGZ Chief Executive Officer Jacek Bartkiewicz told
Bloomberg today, confirming a report in the Parkiet newspaper.  State Sales  The IPO was part of a government plan to raise 15 billion
zloty from state asset sales in 2011 to help finance the  budget
deficit  and limit debt. The government this year will offer
shares in PKO Bank Polski SA and coal producer Jastrzebska
Spolka Weglowa SA after raising almost 33 billion zloty since
taking office in late 2007.  Poland, whose sole stock exchange is central  Europe ’s
fastest-growing equity market, had 77 IPOs so far this year,
attracting more companies than all of western Europe and ranking
second after  China  among emerging markets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG were the global coordinators for
BGZ’s IPO. PKO and Espirito Santo Investment Bank are acting as
bookrunners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  