-- 
Blagojevich Tells Jury Casino Bill Wasn’t Tied to $100,000 Contribution

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-27T19:57:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/blagojevich-tells-jury-casino-bill-wasn-t-tied-to-100-000-contribution.html
Former Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich , in a second day of testimony in his second
political corruption trial, denied that his signing of a bill
was tied to an expected $100,000  campaign contribution .  Prosecutors have accused the twice-elected Democrat, on
trial in federal court in Chicago, of delaying his signing of a
2008 measure that diverted river boat casino revenue to the
state’s horse-racing industry so that he could pressure a
racetrack owner for the money.  “Rod, were you holding this bill up to get a campaign
contribution?” Aaron Goldstein, the ex-governor’s lawyer, asked
him.  “No,” the former governor replied.  He offered the jury a new explanation for why he hesitated
to sign the bill, saying he was “afraid” of playing into the
hands of a friend and fundraiser who had been indicted on
federal tax-related charges. Blagojevich said the friend,
Christopher Kelly, told him he was seeking a pardon from then-
President  George W. Bush .  Blagojevich, 54, faces 10 wire-fraud counts plus charges of
attempted extortion and extortion conspiracy. If convicted of
any of the counts, he could face as long as 20 years in prison.
He’s also accused of bribery.  His trial last year ended with his conviction on a single
count of lying to federal agents. Jurors deadlocked on 23 other
charges. The ex-governor faces a maximum prison sentence of five
years when he is sentenced for that conviction.  Indicted Three Times  Kelly was indicted three times by federal prosecutors, once
with Blagojevich, before dying of a drug overdose in 2009.  Blagojevich today told the court that after speaking with
Kelly for the first time in a year in November 2008 and then
talking to his gubernatorial attorney, Bill Quinlan, he learned
of Kelly’s interest in the racetrack legislation.  The former governor told jurors he suspected that Kelly was
pushing for his signing of the legislation to curry favor with
 Illinois  racetrack operator John Johnston.  Johnston’s family shared ownership of  Balmoral Park 
racetrack in Crete, Illinois, with New York Yankees owner and
Tampa, Florida, resident George Steinbrenner  Blagojevich said he believed Kelly wanted the legislation
passed so that he could enlist Johnston and, through him,
Steinbrenner to press then-Florida Governor Jeb Bush to ask his
brother, the president, to pardon Kelly.  ‘Bold, Red Flag’  Kelly’s legislative interest was “a big, bold, red flag to
be very careful with this bill,” Blagojevich said today.  The governor’s friend ultimately pleaded guilty to
structuring cash transactions to avoid Internal Revenue Service
reporting requirements and was sentenced to 37 months in prison.
He was also indicted for conspiring to profit from the
governor’s office and, separately, for allegedly overbilling for
airline terminal roofing work at  Chicago ’s O’Hare International
Airport. He pleaded not guilty in each of those cases.  Blagojevich, the only witness at the trial today, is
scheduled to resume his testimony on May 31.  The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  