-- 
Bocom to ‘Narrow the Gap’ in Pay to Attract Top Bankers from Foreign Firms

-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-05-27T00:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/bocom-to-narrow-the-gap-in-pay-with-foreign-investment-banks.html
Bocom International Holdings Ltd.,
the overseas securities unit of  China ’s fifth-largest lender,
plans to hire staff from foreign rivals to help it reach a
target of doubling  investment banking  revenue this year.  Bocom International plans to add 60 bankers, including
managing directors and leading industry analysts, to its 300-
plus workforce, chief executive officer Tan Yueheng said in a
May 23 interview in Hong Kong. The Bank of Communications Co.
unit rented an additional 11,000 square feet of office space in
Hong Kong this year.  “For key positions, we are definitely willing to pay
more,” said Tan, 49. “Chinese investment banks tend to pay
less to bankers than foreign peers. We do want to narrow the gap
to lure talent.”  Matching the pay offered by firms like New York-based
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Deutsche Bank AG of  Frankfurt  has
been a major obstacle for Chinese securities companies trying to
expand outside their home market.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and HSBC Holdings Plc
are among global firms that have said competition for bankers in
 Asia  is driving up pay and squeezing margins.  Haitong International Securities Group Ltd. (665) , the overseas
unit of China’s third-biggest brokerage, aims to double its
investment-banking team, chief executive officer Lin Yong said
in an interview in April. ICBC International, the overseas
investment banking unit of the world’s largest lender by market
value, plans to hire more people from global rivals, Mary MacLeod, who joined the firm from Deutsche Bank in January, said
in an interview the following month.  Ascending the Rankings  Tan was vice-president at China Merchants Finance Holdings
Co., a unit of China Merchants Group Ltd., for more than four
years before becoming the top executive at Bocom International
in 2007. Under his leadership, the firm has improved from 64th
on the Hong Kong stock underwriter list in 2007 to 13th this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are first and
second this year among stock underwriters in Hong Kong,
Bloomberg data show.  Glencore International Plc, the biggest commodities trader,
raised $2 billion from the Hong Kong portion of this year’s
largest initial public offering. Samsonite LLC, the U.S. luggage
maker backed by London-based CVC Capital Partners Ltd., plans to
start trading in Hong Kong in mid-June after a $1 billion IPO,
people with knowledge of the matter said on May 12. Prada SpA,
the Italian producer of Miu Miu bags, aims to list in the
Chinese city in late June after a $2 billion IPO, people with
knowledge of the matter said May 20.  ‘Harvest Time’  “Investment banking and direct investment are our major
business focuses now,” Tan said. “We expect to grow our
revenue and number of deals by 100 percent this year. It’s the
harvest time for the direct investment projects we got involved
in since 2008.”  BOC International Holdings Ltd. and Citic Securities Co.
are among the top 10 underwriters of stock sales in  Hong Kong 
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The two Chinese
banks and HSBC Holdings Plc managed Hong Kong’s first yuan-
denominated IPO for Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust, which
raised 10.5 billion yuan ($1.6 billion) in April.  Bocom International helped arrange the initial offering of
aluminum producer China Hongqiao Group Ltd., which raised HK$6.4
billion ($822 million) in March. It also helped manage the HK$1
billion IPO of Hilong Holdings Ltd., a Chinese provider of
oilfield services, in April.  New Yuan Fund  The brokerage aims to take advantage of the growing use of
China’s yuan in international trade and finance. Bocom
International plans to start a Hong Kong-based fund to invest in
yuan-denominated assets in July, Tan said, declining to comment
on the size of the fund.  “A strong yuan is favorable for us,” he said. “When
Chinese companies go overseas, domestic financial institutions
could benefit. We can play a role in assisting overseas mergers
and acquisitions by Chinese companies.”  The bank is looking to expand overseas through its parent’s
banking network outside China, with  London  and  New York  “among
the first choices,” Tan said. Bank of Communications runs
branches and representative offices in 11 cities outside China
including New York,  Tokyo , London, Sydney,  Singapore , Frankfurt
and Taipei, according to its 2010 annual report  published  in
April.  “The weakest link of Chinese investment banks is the
international sales network, particularly when it comes to major
IPOs,” Tan said. “We also hope to leverage Bocom’s branch
network to secure more deals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net 
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 Fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net 
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  