-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Advances on Commodities Rally, Global Growth Outlook

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-05-27T21:29:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/bovespa-adds-to-weekly-advance-on-commodities-global-growth.html
The Bovespa stock posted its biggest
weekly advance in three months as commodities rose, boosting the
outlook for producers, and the Group of Eight said the global
economy is strengthening.  Oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA and iron-ore miner Vale
SA followed metal prices higher. Positivo Informatica SA,
 Brazil ’s biggest computer maker, gained the most in two years
after it was raised to “buy” from “neutral” by Banco BTG
Pactual SA, which cited the stock’s potential to become an
acquisition target.  The Bovespa index gained 0.3 percent to 64,294.96 at the
close of Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time. The gauge
jumped 2.7 percent this week, the most since the five days ended
Feb. 18. Thirty-two stocks climbed on the index, while 32 fell.
The real strengthened 1.3 percent to 1.5948 per  U.S. dollar .  “Comments from the G8 leaders were positive,”  Pedro Galdi , head of equity research at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW
Corretora, said in a phone interview. “After recent declines,
stocks in Brazil are cheap. Despite all uncertainties we still
see in the global economy, buyers started to show up.”  Oil gained in  New York  on speculation that the global
economic recovery will sustain demand for fuel.  “The global recovery is gaining strength and is becoming
more self-sustained,” according to a statement from G8 leaders
after a two-day summit in Deauville,  France .  Copper rose to a three-week high in New York on signs of
stronger demand in China and as Standard Chartered Plc predicted
price gains, joining banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Petrobras  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known, advanced 0.4
percent to 24.29 reais. Vale rose 0.4 percent to 44.95 reais.
Positivo jumped 8.6 percent to 6.60 reais.  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo, Brazil’s largest online
retailer, dropped 1.8 percent to 22.14 reais. A Brazilian court
banned its Americanas.com unit from selling goods in Rio de
Janeiro state until it improves delivery service, according to a
statement posted on the public prosecutor office’s website.  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio, which shares control of the
world’s biggest sugar-cane processor, slid 1 percent to 23.59
reais. The company said in a filing preliminary figures show
sales increased 4.9 percent in the fiscal fourth quarter that
ended Mar. 31. Result was “weaker than expected,” Bank of
America Corp.’s analysts Fernando Ferreira and Isabella Simonato
wrote in a note no clients.  Investors poured 1.5 billion reais into  Latin America ’s
biggest equity market in the month through May 23, after pulling
4.07 billion reais from February through April, data from the
 Sao Paulo  exchange show.  The Bovespa tumbled 12 percent from a November high on
concern accelerating inflation will hurt economic growth. The
index trades at 10 times analysts’ earnings estimates, the
lowest since March 2009, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 12.8 for the Shanghai
Composite Index, 6.6 for  Russia ’s Micex and 14.4 for  India ’s
Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  