-- 
BP Plans to Invest $10 Billion in Indonesia in Next 10 Years

-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-05-27T11:41:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/bp-plans-to-invest-10-billion-in-indonesia-over-next-10-years.html
BP Plc (BP/)  will invest $10 billion in
 Indonesia  in the next 10 years to boost output at the Tangguh
liquefied natural gas plant and expand into coal-bed methane,
Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said.  London-based BP plans to build a third LNG production line,
or train, at Tangguh and possibly a fourth, Dudley told
reporters after meeting Indonesia’s President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  in Jakarta today. BP, which has operated for more than
35 years in Indonesia, has invested $7 billion in the country to
date, he said.  Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s biggest crude producer that
turned into a net importer after output declined due to aging
fields, is trying to lure investment in its  energy industry  and
switch to natural gas to ease dependence on imports.  “Our focus in investment is Tangguh in Papua, which we
know we handle with great care as that’s already a very large
project for BP,” Dudley said. BP will submit a proposal to the
Indonesian government in the next two months for the
construction of the third train.  Production Capacity  BP will develop coal-bed methane blocks in Kalimantan, on
the Indonesian side of Borneo island, Dudley said. BP said in
April it had signed four coal-bed methane production sharing
contracts in the Barito basin.  The Tangguh LNG plant in West Papua province currently has
two trains with a combined production capacity of 7.6 million
metric tons of LNG a year, London-based BP said on its website.  The $5 billion Tangguh project, which shipped its first LNG
cargoes in 2009, has multi-year contracts to supply 2.6 million
tons a year to  China , 1.15 million tons a year to  South Korea 
and an agreement to supply as much as 3.7 million tons a year to
Sempra Energy, BP said.  LNG is natural gas chilled to liquid form for transportation
by ships to places not connected by pipelines. Indonesia is the
world’s largest LNG exporter after Qatar and  Malaysia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  