-- 
Brazilian Real Advances as Gains in Commodities Bolster Export Proceeds

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-05-27T21:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/brazilian-real-advances-as-gains-in-commodities-bolster-export-proceeds.html
Brazil ’s real gained the most in
seven weeks as a rally in commodities drove up export revenue
and investor demand for higher-yielding assets increased.  The real strengthened 1.3 percent to 1.5945 per U.S. dollar
at 5 p.m. in  New York , from 1.6151 yesterday, bringing the
weekly gain to 1.8 percent. The currency gained 1.8 percent on
April 7.  Commodities rose 0.9 percent, according to a UBS Bloomberg
index. Group of Eight leaders said today in a statement after a
two-day summit in Deauville, France, that a strengthening global
economy will pave the way to cuts in the debt built up during
the recession that followed the 2008 financial crisis.  “If it’s true that world is going to grow faster today
than we thought one week ago, two weeks ago, the dollar is not a
good option,”  Andre Perfeito , the chief economist at Sao Paulo-
based Gradual Investimentos, said by phone. “You need to go
look for alternative investments like in Brazil, the Bovespa,
and in other emerging markets as well there are plenty of
opportunities for the capital right now.”  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in July 2012
and later fell while those due in the next year rose or were
unchanged, after Luiz Awazu Pereira da Silva, the central bank´s
director of international affairs and financial regulation, said
yesterday that policy makers are determined to bring inflation
back to their 4.5 percent inflation target next year.  The yield on the contract due in January 2017, declined
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 12.32 percent.
Yields on the contract due in October 2011 increased one basis
point to 12.25 percent.  Pereira said policy makers need to lift  interest rates  for
“a sufficiently long period’ to ensure they meet their goal,
according to an e-mailed statement sent yesterday by the central
bank’s press office. He made the comments during an event in  Rio
de Janeiro  sponsored by the  International Monetary Fund .  The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  