-- 
Breyer Sold Wal-Mart Shares in Advance of Supreme Court Case

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-05-27T18:47:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/breyer-sold-wal-mart-shares-in-advance-of-supreme-court-case.html
U.S. Supreme Court Justice  Stephen Breyer  sold between $15,000 and $50,000 in  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
shares last year in a move that has let him take part in a case
that may limit class-action lawsuits.  The sale, revealed today in Breyer’s annual financial
disclosure report, took place in January 2010, three months
before a federal appeals court ruled that Wal-Mart had to face a
gender-bias suit on behalf of potentially a million female
workers. The justices heard arguments in March on Wal-Mart’s
appeal of that decision and are scheduled to rule by the end of
June.  Breyer and his wife in recent years have sold shares in
more than a dozen companies so he can take part in additional
cases at the  Supreme Court . Justices typically disqualify
themselves from cases involving companies in which they have a
financial interest.  Chief Justice John Roberts has also sold a number of his
individual stock holdings since joining the court in 2005.
According to his disclosure report, Roberts last year sold his
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  stock, valued at $15,000 or less, eliminating a
holding that on several occasions prevented him from taking part
in Supreme Court cases.  Breyer continues to hold stock in a number of companies,
including IBM Corp.,  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Roberts
owns shares of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Freddie Mac,
while Justice Samuel Alito owns  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. Alito sold less than $15,000 in  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
stock last year.  Justice Sonia Sotomayor said in her disclosure report that
she received a $1,175,000 book advance from Knopf Doubleday
Publishing Group last year. Sotomayor, who grew up in a South
Bronx housing project in New York City, is writing a memoir that
will be published in both English and Spanish.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 