-- 
Bulgarian Finance Minister Submits Spending Caps to Parliament

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-05-27T15:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/bulgarian-finance-minister-submits-spending-caps-to-parliament.html
Bulgaria ’s Finance Minister Simeon Djankov gave Parliament a plan to enshrine in the constitution
spending limits to ensure long-term financial stability.  The 240-seat assembly will set up a special commission to
discuss legal amendments needed before lawmakers vote on the
proposals, Djankov said in Sofia today. The plan envisages
capping the  budget deficit  at 2 percent of gross domestic
product and spending at 40 percent of GDP.  Bulgaria is emerging from its deepest economic slump in
more than a decade and needs to narrow its budget deficit to
below 3 percent of GDP to meet euro-adoption criteria. The
government’s budget-shortfall target for this year is 2.5
percent after 3.9 percent in 2010. It forecasts economic growth
this year at 3.6 percent.  “I have the assurances of a great deal of the lawmakers
that the constitutional changes can be approved by the fall,”
Djankov told reporters.  The plan requires a two-thirds parliamentary majority or
160 votes to change taxes. Bulgaria has a flat 10 percent
corporate and income tax rate, the lowest in the European Union.
Constitutional changes need to be voted on by three-quarters
of the assembly or 180 lawmakers in three votes on separate
days, according to the  Parliament’s  website.  Prime Minister’s Boiko Borissov’s minority government has
117 lawmakers and may gain the support of two smaller groups
that have backed it previously: the Attack party, with 17
Lawmakers, and the so-called Blue Coalition of the Union of
Democratic Forces and Democrats for Strong Bulgaria, which has
14 seats. Djankov may also enlist the support of independent and
opposition lawmakers.  On May 24,  Fitch Ratings  revised Bulgaria’s credit rating
outlook to positive, citing improved economic and financial
stability. Moody’s Investors Service said April 5 it may raise
Bulgaria’s credit rating because government finances are
“healthy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  