-- 
California’s Top Pension Recipient Pleads Guilty to Taking City Funds

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-05-27T20:15:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/california-s-top-pension-recipient-pleads-guilty-to-taking-city-funds.html
The former municipal administrator of
Vernon, California, which faces a takeover by  Los Angeles 
County, pleaded guilty to taking city money for personal use.  Bruce Malkenhorst Sr., 76, pocketed $60,000 in
reimbursements for personal expenses including political
contributions, golf, massages, a personal trainer and a home
security system between 2000 and 2005, Los Angeles County
District Attorney Steve Cooley said in a statement.  Superior Court Judge Kathleen Kennedy ordered Malkenhorst
to repay the $60,000. He was also sentenced to three years of
probation and fined $10,000 in the case, which took more than
five years to conclude.  The California Assembly voted last month to dissolve
Vernon, an industrial city four miles (6 kilometers) south of
Los Angeles, which has been beset for decades by allegations of
corruption. Vernon’s population of 96 residents is the smallest
in the state, though it is home to an estimated 1,800 businesses
that employ 55,000 people.  “He never intended any wrongdoing,” Malkenhorst’s
attorney, Michael Artan, said in a telephone interview from Los
Angeles. “I think he is relieved to have this behind him.”  Vernon’s longtime mayor, Leonis Malburg, his wife and their
son were previously convicted of voter fraud and other charges,
Cooley said in the release. Though registered to vote in Vernon,
none of them lived there.  Malkenhorst’s name appears at the top of a  list  of the
highest-paid pensioners in the state, earning $509,000 annually,
according to the  California  Foundation for Fiscal
Responsibility, an advocacy group.  He would still qualify because only elected officials
convicted of public corruption lose their pension rights,
according to  Brad Pacheco , a spokesman for the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System .  To contact the reporter on this story: Christopher Palmeri in
Los Angeles at   cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  