-- 
Canadian Dollar Has Fourth Straight Weekly Drop on U.S. Economic Slowdown

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-27T21:14:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/canadian-dollar-heads-for-fourth-straight-weekly-decline-on-u-s-slowdown.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for a fourth
week, matching a stretch of losses in July 2009, as signs of a
North American economic slowdown discouraged bets that the Bank
of Canada will resume increasing borrowing costs.  The currency touched this week its lowest level in two
months versus the greenback as a report showed the economy of
the U.S., Canada’s largest trading partner, expanded at a slower
pace in the first quarter. The loonie, as the currency is also
known, dropped against most of its major counterparts since May
20, including the yen.  “The Canadian dollar doesn’t have any allure,” said
 Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New York at Bank
of  New York  Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank,
with more than $20 trillion in assets under administration.
“The data that has come out of Canada recently, much like in
the U.S., has been soft.”  The currency traded at 97.61 cents versus the  U.S. dollar 
at 5 p.m. in Toronto, up 0.2 percent from 97.77 yesterday. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0245. In each of the past two days, the
loonie has touched 98.16, the weakest level since March 28. It
fell 0.2 percent this week and has dropped 3.2 percent in May.  The loonie fluctuated today as futures on crude oil,
Canada’s biggest export, traded at $100.75 a barrel, swinging
between gains and losses. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of shares
increased 0.9 percent.  The Canadian dollar had the smallest advance against the
greenback among the most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
The loonie dropped 0.4 percent to 82.78 yen, extending its
weekly decline to 1.3 percent.  Government Bonds  The government two-year bond yield dropped two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.51 percent. It touched
1.5 percent, the lowest level since November. The price of the
1.75 percent security maturing in March 2013 increased 3 cents
to C$100.42.  Canada will auction $700 million ($716 million) of real-
return bonds on June 1, according to a statement on the Bank of
Canada’s website. The inflation-linked securities mature in
December 2044.  While the  Bank of Canada  is due to meet May 31, it’s not
expected to raise its 1 percent target rate for overnight
lending until the third quarter, according to the median
forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “There’s basically zero chance they are going to move,”
said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York. “Overall, with Fed policy on hold
for a very long time, it’s unlikely that the BOC is going to
move rapidly ahead of them.”  U.S. GDP  America’s gross domestic product grew at a 1.8 percent
annual rate in the first quarter, U.S. Commerce Department
figures showed yesterday. The gain was the same as estimated
last month and compares with a 3.1 percent increase in the prior
quarter. The median forecast of 82 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a revised 2.2 percent gain.  U.S. consumer spending climbed in April less than forecast,
rising 0.4 percent, the Commerce Department reported today. A
0.5 percent increase was predicted by economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Retail sales in Canada stalled in March after a 0.5 percent
gain in the previous month, a government report showed last
week. Economists had forecast growth of 0.9 percent.  Morgan Stanley foreign-exchange strategists have ended
trade recommendations favoring currencies including the Canadian
dollar.  “The broad  risk reduction  and market turmoil of the past
three to four weeks has persisted as investors continue to
unwind overcrowded reflation trades,” analysts including
Christine Tian in New York wrote in a report this week.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  