-- 
Canada’s Harper Confident European Leaders Will Manage Greek Debt Crisis

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-05-27T15:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/canada-s-harper-confident-europe-will-manage-greek-crisis-1-.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper said he’s confident  Europe  will be able to manage
 Greece ’s sovereign debt crisis.  “These are obviously complex matters,” Harper told
reporters in Deauville, France today following a summit of
leaders from the Group of Eight countries. Referring to European
policy makers, he said “I know they are looking at a range of
options going forward and we have every confidence in their
ability to continue to manage these particular challenges.”  Fiscal woes loomed over the G-8 discussions, with Europe
preparing a second aid package to save Greece from default and
the OECD forecasting debt to reach 107 percent of gross domestic
product in the U.S. and 218.7 percent in  Japan  by the end of
2012. The euro yesterday reached a record low against the Swiss
franc after Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads euro-
area finance chiefs, said the International Monetary Fund may
not release its share of aid to Greece next month.  Harper, 52, is travelling to Greece following the G-8
meeting to meet Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  in Athens
Saturday. The Canadian leader said he will use the meeting to
gather more information on Greece’s debt problems.  “It will be interesting to hear directly the Greek
perspective after having had lengthy discussions” on the issue
at the G-8 meeting, Harper said.  Harper also told reporters that Mexican central bank
Governor Agustin Carstens and French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde are both “highly qualified” to take over as head of
the  International Monetary Fund , to replace Dominique Strauss- Kahn after his resignation last week. The 187-member IMF aims to
pick his successor by the end of June.  “These are highly capable, highly qualified individuals,”
Harper said. “What Canada is seeking is a proper process that
will be based on a valuation of merit and competence. Both these
individuals would make outstanding choices in any number of
positions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Deauville, France at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 