-- 
LCH.Clearnet May Be Next Battleground in Global Wave of Exchange Mergers

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-28T10:47:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/lch-clearnet-may-be-next-battleground-in-exchange-consolidation.html
The world’s biggest clearinghouse for
swaps is attracting interest from the world’s highest-profile
operators of equities exchanges.  LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. said today it has been approached
about “some form of possible business combination.” It has
held talks with  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , NYSE Euronext and  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  as part of a strategic business review,
according to three people familiar with the matter. No decision
has been made on any potential sale, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet and  Eurex Clearing 
operate as central counterparties for every buy and sell order
executed by their members, who post collateral, reducing the
risk that a trader defaults on a deal. The business is becoming
more valuable amid firmer regulation of derivatives trading and
a merger wave that has seen more than $20 billion of exchange
takeovers announced in the last seven months.  “It makes logical sense for the exchanges to go after
this,” said  Tim Hartzell , who oversees about $350 million as
chief investment officer for Houston-based Sequent Asset
Management. “There’s a regulatory push to move the business off
the banks’ balance sheets and into clearing houses and
exchanges.”  NYSE, Nasdaq  The LSE said in an e-mailed statement today that the group
isn’t in discussions with LCH about a possible transaction. NYSE
Euronext spokesman  Ray Pellecchia  and Alex Honeysett, a
spokeswoman for Nasdaq OMX, declined to comment.  “LCH.Clearnet confirms that it has received various
proposals indicating an interest in pursuing some form of
possible business combination or other cooperation,” Andrea Schlaepfer, a spokeswoman for LCH, said in a statement today.
“LCH.Clearnet’s considerations are at a preliminary stage and
there can be no certainty that these proposals will result in
any transaction.”  Exchange operators from  New York  to Frankfurt and  Singapore 
have sought takeovers to augment core stock trading businesses
after regulation and computers eroded profits. Nasdaq OMX
withdrew from a bidding contest for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  this month
after U.S. regulators indicated they would block its $11.3
billion hostile offer.  “This is especially attractive for Nasdaq if they can
diversify and start crossing time zones and country borders,
especially after they walked away from the New York Stock
Exchange deal,” Hartzell said.  Dodd-Frank  The U.S. Dodd-Frank Act mandates that most interest-rate,
credit-default and other swaps be processed by central
counterparties and traded on exchanges or similar systems,
taking business from the Wall Street banks that pioneered the
transactions. All OTC trades will be reported to regulators,
while dealers and their biggest clients will face higher  capital
requirements  to access the market. In  Europe , regulators are
also mandating more clearing of OTC derivatives.  NYSE has said it will start clearing all its own trades in
Europe, terminating its contract with LCH.Clearnet and joining
Deutsche Boerse AG, with whom it agreed in February to combine,
and rival  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which operate their own trade and
post-trade services.  Nasdaq OMX, NYSE Euronext and LSE proposed paying between
350 million euros ($500 million) and 1 billion euros for the
company, the Financial Times reported yesterday, citing three
sources it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  