-- 
China’s Industrial Profit Growth Slows After Central Bank Increases Rates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-27T04:43:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/china-s-industrial-profit-growth-slowed-in-first-four-months-on-rate-rises.html
China’s industrial companies’ profit-
growth slowed after the government raised  interest rates  and
curbed lending to rein in inflation and limit asset bubble risks.  Profit rose 29.7 percent in the first four months to 1.49
trillion yuan ($230 billion) from a year earlier, the  National
Bureau of Statistics  said on its website today. That compared
with a 32 percent gain in the first quarter of this year.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is seeking to sustain growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy to create jobs and maintain
social stability while curbing inflation that has exceeded his
target every month this year. The central bank has raised
interest rates twice this year and the government has
intensified its crack-down on speculation in the  property market 
by introducing purchase limits in some cities.  “Profit growth is expected to slow because their revenue
will not grow as fast as before as the economy cools down due to
the tightening,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , said before today’s release.
“Manufactures will be facing higher costs of power as they have
to generate electricity themselves due to the power shortage.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped for a seventh day, falling 0.1
percent by the break at 11:30 a.m. local time. It has slid 4.4
percent this week.  Industrial companies’ sales increased 29.5 percent in the
first four months of the year to 24 trillion yuan, according to
the statistics bureau’s statement.  Profits rose 34 percent in the first two months of this
year.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent in April, staying above 5
percent for the second straight month and exceeding the
government’s target of 4 percent for 2011.  Industrial companies’ profit growth may decline even as
profitability may improve because of the recent decline in
commodity prices, Ping’an Securities Co. analyst, He Qingming,
wrote in a May 23 report.  Aluminum Corp. of  China  Ltd., the nation’s largest producer
of the metal, on April 21 reported a 47 percent drop in first-
quarter profit on higher raw-material and fuel costs.  China’s Sinovel Wind Group Co., the largest wind-turbine
maker in the world’s biggest wind energy market, on April 26
said profit growth slowed to 1 percent in the first quarter,
compared with a 51 percent annual gain in 2010.  With inventory levels rebounding and input prices rising,
industrial firms’ profit growth will be under pressure and is
expected to grow about 23 percent for the whole year, CITIC
Securities Co. said in an April 28 note to clients.  The monthly profit survey covers enterprises in all 31
provinces and municipalities, replacing the quarterly
announcements made previously.  The statistics  bureau  this year changed the annual sales
threshold for companies eligible for inclusion in the survey to
20 million yuan from 5 million yuan.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Ken McCallum, Lily Nonomiya  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  