-- 
China Is Interested in Buying New Zealand Government Bonds, English Says

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-05-27T03:13:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/china-interested-in-n-z-bonds-english-says-marlborough-express-reports.html
New Zealand  Finance Minister Bill English said that  China  Investment Corp., a sovereign wealth
fund, has expressed interest in buying his country’s government
bonds at auction.  Singapore ,  Hong Kong  and Malaysia also are interested in
buying New Zealand debt as Asian governments seek to reduce
their reliance on U.S. dollar assets when investing their
reserves, English was cited as saying by the Marlborough Express,
a newspaper based on New Zealand’s South Island. English’s
comments were accurately reported by the newspaper, Craig Howie,
a spokesman for the minister, said by phone from Wellington.  New Zealand’s dollar climbed to the highest level since
March 2008 on speculation China will buy the nation’s assets to
diversify the world’s largest holdings of foreign reserves.
Asian nations are seeking to reduce their reliance on U.S.
dollar assets as the greenback’s decline threatens to erode
returns. CIC, a $300 billion fund, may have set aside 1.5
percent, or about NZ$6 billion ($4.9 billion), of its reserves
to invest in New Zealand, interest.co.nz reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified person.  “There’s been a big shift in the economic balance in the
last few years where the Asian countries now have very large
reserves and our traditional markets have big piles of debt,”
English said today in remarks broadcast by  Radio New Zealand .
“When you have to borrow as we do then you’re keen to be
borrowing more from the people who’ve actually got the cash to
invest and that’s what’s happening.”  New Zealand’s dollar climbed to 81.71 U.S. cents, the
strongest since March 2008, before trading at 81.62 cents as of
3:03 p.m. in Wellington, from 81.15 U.S. cents yesterday in  New
York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 