-- 
Pakistan Must Act Decisively Against Extremists, Clinton Says During Visit

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-05-27T21:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/clinton-in-pakistan-to-meet-top-leaders.html
The U.S. expects  Pakistan ’s leaders
to take “decisive” action against extremist groups, Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  said, following talks in Islamabad
yesterday that included Admiral Michael Mullen, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff.  “Many of the world’s most vicious terrorists have been
living in Pakistan,” said Clinton, the most senior American
official to visit the country since U.S. commandos killed  Osama bin Laden . “From here, they have targeted innocent people all
over the world,” Clinton said. “There is much more work that
is required and it is urgent.”  Tensions between the U.S. and Pakistan have risen following
the discovery of the al-Qaeda chief in an army-dominated town
close to the Pakistani capital. American lawmakers have
questioned Pakistan’s commitment to fighting militants and the
wisdom of giving $7.5 billion in aid over five years.  Clinton and Mullen had meetings yesterday with Pakistani
President Asif Ali Zardari, army chief General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani and Lieutenant General Ahmed Shuja Pasha, head of the
main intelligence agency, during an unannounced six-hour visit.  The U.S. has expressed its backing for the countries’
relationship and a “commitment to working with and supporting
Pakistan,” Clinton said as the talks began. “No nation has
sacrificed more lives in this struggle against violent extremism
than Pakistan,” she told reporters afterwards.  The two sides set out concrete steps for cooperation on
counterterrorism, including discussion of specific operations to
achieve specific objectives, according to an administration
official, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity.  ‘Work Together’  After Clinton’s departure, Zardari’s office released a
statement that said the two sides agreed to “work together in
any future actions against high-value targets in Pakistan” and
to cooperate on promoting peace in  Afghanistan .  Pakistan responded to the unilateral strike against  bin
Laden  by limiting military contacts with the U.S., while
lawmakers there suggested closing a supply route for NATO troops
in Afghanistan. A week after the bin Laden raid, Pakistani
newspapers published the name of a man they described as the
Islamabad-based Central Intelligence Agency station chief, a
breach of protocol.  “This was an especially important visit because we have
reached a turning point,” Clinton said after discussions she
described as extensive, open and frank. “Osama bin Laden is
dead but al-Qaeda and its syndicate of terror remain a threat to
us both.”  CIA Access  Pakistan’s decision to grant the CIA access to the compound
where bin Laden was killed May 2 is a signal of increased
counterterrorism cooperation, a second administration official
said, speaking before talks began yesterday.  The U.S. administration has made it clear to Pakistani
leaders that they risk losing American aid unless they show
greater efforts to cooperate, the official said under briefing
rules that don’t allow him to be named.  Pakistan’s Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  has said
claims that its forces helped hide bin Laden are “absurd.”
Pakistan’s army has been criticized by the country’s
politicians, media and public for failing to detect either bin
Laden or the U.S. helicopter-borne commandos that killed him.
Clinton said yesterday there was no evidence Pakistan’s leaders
knew of the terrorist leader’s whereabouts.  Political Pressures  Pakistan’s “army and political leaders are under severe
pressure to protect the country’s sovereignty and take a tough
stand against U.S. unilateral actions,” said Nasir Zaidi, an
analyst at the Institute of Regional Studies in Islamabad, in a
phone interview.  After yesterday’s meetings, Clinton said her “conclusion
is that we are both committed to this relationship, we
understand its strategic importance.”  Zardari said in a statement that the two sides agreed to
pursue reconciliation and peace in Afghanistan, adding that he
had reminded the U.S. of Pakistanis’ concerns over breaches of
sovereignty.  The Pakistani leaders made clear in the course of the
meeting that they wanted to play a positive role in the
reconciliation process between Afghans and the Taliban, said the
first U.S. official. The U.S. in turn committed to keep the
process transparent, he said.  Critical Time  “This particular relationship with Pakistan is too
critical, now is too critical a time, to allow whatever
differences we have” to divide the two nations, Mullen said.  The secretary of State’s Islamabad stop also follows a May
16 visit by Democratic Senator  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts , who
asked Pakistani leaders to address some of the complaints from
U.S. lawmakers after the discovery of al-Qaeda’s leader in
Abbottabad, 50 kilometers (30 miles) north of the capital.  Pakistan’s Taliban insurgents have said they carried out a
series of bombings in the last fortnight to avenge bin Laden’s
killing. A suicide bomber in a pickup truck killed at least 34
people in the northwestern town of Hangu April 26, though there
was no immediate claim of responsibility.  Militants laid siege to a navy base in the country’s
biggest city, Karachi, this week and destroyed U.S.-provided
surveillance planes, raising concerns over the army’s ability to
guard assets that include nuclear warheads.  President  Barack Obama  said May 8 that the Pakistani
government must investigate whether any of its officials helped
shelter bin Laden.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Islamabad at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  