-- 
Clyburn Predicts Last-Minute Debt-Limit Deal to Cut Up to $6 Trillion

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-27T14:47:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/clyburn-predicts-last-minute-debt-deal-to-cut-up-to-6-trillion.html
Representative James Clyburn, the
assistant Democratic leader in the U.S. House, said the “odds
are very, very good” that negotiators will agree on a $3
trillion to $6 trillion package of spending cuts and tax
increases in time to raise the U.S. debt limit before an Aug. 2
deadline.  Any agreement with Republicans “absolutely” must include
provisions to raise more revenue, even if it also cuts corporate
tax rates, said the South Carolina lawmaker, who holds the
third-ranking position in the House Democratic leadership and is
part of a bipartisan negotiating group of Senate and House
members led by Vice President  Joe Biden .  “We cannot get an agreement without revenues” being
raised, and absent that “I don’t think we can get to what our
goals are,” Clyburn said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Democrats will resist any Republican plan to reduce
Medicare benefits for future recipients, he said.  “We are not going to reduce benefits at all” because
Medicare is “a very important part of the safety net” in
American society, Clyburn said.  His comments underscore the difficulty negotiators face in
reaching an agreement, as Republicans insist on no tax increases
and demand significant cuts in spending, including a
readjustment of entitlement programs such as Medicare and Social
Security.  Republican leaders also insist that a package of spending
cuts without any net increase in federal  tax revenue  must be
part of an agreement to raise the U.S. debt ceiling.  Cuts Plus Taxes  Democratic leaders say that spending cuts alone will not
suffice, Medicare has to be protected from any benefit-limiting
changes, and new tax revenue must be part of any plan to rein in
the federal  budget deficit .  “I do believe that sometime between now and the first of
August everybody will come to the realization that this cannot
be done without revenue raisers,” he said.  Clyburn said Democrats are willing to find more savings
from health-care providers and to achieve more efficient care in
the health-care overhaul enacted last year.  “There are big bucks to be gathered there,” he said.  Clyburn said he is willing to lower the corporate tax rate
from 35 percent to 26 percent, yet he and fellow party leaders
insist that the elimination of tax exemptions accompanying any
cut in rates must result in a net gain in government revenue.  “If you go down to 26 percent” and “close up the
loopholes, then I think we can have positive revenues coming
from it,” he said.  No Tax Increases  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and other Republican
leaders in Congress have said they won’t increase taxes because
doing so would hurt  job creation . Republicans have ruled out
eliminating tax breaks except as part of a broad tax-code
overhaul that doesn’t raise additional revenue.  Still, Clyburn said that to achieve the kinds of budget
savings both sides want, “sometime between now and the 1st of
August, everybody will come to the realization that this cannot
be done without revenue-raisers.”  Clyburn said he also favors ending the 2001 and 2003 tax
cuts for households with incomes of at least $1 million.  “Most millionaires that I’ve talked to expect that,” he
said. “They’re all for that.”  Late last year, President  Barack Obama  and Congress, then
controlled by Democrats, agreed with Republicans to extend all
of the Bush-era tax cuts through 2012.  Bush Tax Cuts  Their expiration next year will force Congress to revisit
the issue. Clyburn said he hopes that negotiators can deal with
the Bush tax cuts as part of the deficit-cutting package.  Wall Street investors have expressed hope that Congress
will reach agreement by mid-July on raising the debt limit,
currently at $14.3 trillion, so credit markets won’t be shaken
by uncertainty about a possible U.S. default.  Clyburn said investors may have to wait until early August.  “We’ve been given until Aug. 2 to get this done without
any harm being done to the country” and “Congress usually
takes all the time it has,” he said.  The Republican plan to privatize Medicare for new
recipients starting in 2022 wasn’t “the only thing” that
enabled a Democrat, Kathy Hochul, to win a May 24 special
election for a vacant House seat in western  New York , he said.  ‘Tax Breaks to Millionaires’  Democrats were talking about Republican proposals for
“reducing Medicare while continuing to give these big tax
breaks to millionaires, to  oil companies , subsidies they don’t
need, and people saw the correlation between that,” Clyburn
said.  “Those two things working together produced that victory”
in a staunchly Republican district, he said.  Clyburn said he doubted that Obama would be swayed by
widespread Democratic support for a resolution intended to force
him to speed up troop withdrawals from  Afghanistan . The
amendment to a defense measure  failed , with 204 in favor and 215
opposed.  “He’ll probably stick to the proposals that he laid out,”
Clyburn said. “That’s his prerogative. And it’s also mine to
say, ‘Let’s speed it up a little bit.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 