-- 
Colombia Peso Rises Most in Two Months on Investment Grade Bets

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-05-27T19:28:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/colombian-peso-rises-for-second-day-on-global-growth-optimism.html
Colombia ’s peso rose the most in two
months amid speculation the country will get a second
investment-grade rating and after leaders of the Group of Eight
said the global economy is strengthening, helping boost demand
for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  The peso jumped 1 percent to 1,807.64 per  U.S. dollar  at
3:08 p.m. New York time, from 1,826.10 yesterday. That’s its
biggest increase since April 1. It gained 0.4 percent this week
and has dropped 2.2 percent in May, the worst performance among
six Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “There’s speculation we will see a second investment-grade
rating soon, and that led the peso to jump,” said  David Aldana ,
head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Ultrabursatiles SA.
“Comments by the G8 are helping risk appetite today.”  Following the upgrade of Colombia’s foreign debt to
investment grade by  Standard & Poor’s  in March, a second rating
increase is needed by either  Fitch Ratings  or Moody’s Investors
Service for Colombian assets to be included in most investment-
grade portfolios.  Fitch analyst Erich Arispe said in a May 13 interview that
the rating agency is waiting for lawmakers to vote in June on
fiscal measures before deciding whether to upgrade the country
to investment grade.  ‘Very Satisfied’  Central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said in an interview
today that he’s “very satisfied” with the effect of the bank’s
dollar-buying program and that  capital controls  aren’t currently
needed to ease gains in the peso.  Uribe, who spoke at an event in  Rio de Janeiro  sponsored by
the  International Monetary Fund , said the bank plans to buy “at
least” $20 million daily through June 17. He declined to say
whether policy makers will extend the program at its board
meeting next week.  The central bank in February extended a plan to buy a
minimum of $20 million daily in the local market until “at
least” June 17.  Speculation Colombia’s central bank will announce next week
an extension to its plan to buy dollars daily in the  currency
market  helped ease gains in the peso this week, according to
Aldana. Banco de la Republica is slated to hold its monthly
monetary policy meeting May 30.  Uribe’s comments may have spurred bets the central bank
won’t announce an extension in next week’s meeting, according to
Aldana.  “As long as the peso remains weaker than 1,800 we won’t
see levels that would likely trigger more dollar purchases,”
said Aldana. Central bankers will “probably wait for when these
are really needed” to extend the plan, he said.  Banco de la Republica next week will raise its overnight
lending rate by a quarter percentage point to 4 percent,
according to all 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due July 2024 was
little changed at 8.20 percent, according to Colombia’s stock
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  