-- 
U.S. Economy: Consumer Spending Rises Less Than Forecast

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-05-27T21:06:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/consumer-spending-in-u-s-climbs-less-than-estimated-on-food-fuel-prices.html
Consumer purchases in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in April as food and fuel prices climbed, and
pending sales of existing houses plunged, showing the economy
was struggling to strengthen at the start of the second quarter.  Household spending rose 0.4 percent after a revised 0.5
percent March gain that was smaller than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously owned
homes fell 12 percent last month, the second-biggest drop in a
decade’s worth of records.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is among retailers feeling the pinch
as higher grocery and energy bills force households to dip into
savings or cut back on less essential items. Another report
showing that consumer sentiment improved this month indicates
job gains and the recent drop in gasoline prices are helping
ease anxiety and may help revive demand next quarter.  “As long as gas prices come down and jobs numbers continue
to print strongly as they have been, then this concern about the
consumer may also ebb,” said  Jonathan Basile , a senior
economist at Credit Suisse in New York. “Spending is soft as
you start the second quarter, but consumer sentiment suggests
things may turn as we hit the third quarter.”  Stocks rose, trimming the fourth straight weekly drop for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, led by gains among banks. The
 S&P 500  rose 0.4 percent to 1,330.14 at 4 p.m. in New York.  Less Than Forecast  The median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected  consumer spending  would rise 0.5 percent last
month. Estimates ranged from gains of 0.3 percent to 0.6 percent
after a previously reported 0.6 percent gain the prior month.  The report also showed incomes climbed 0.4 percent in April
for a second month, matching the median forecast. The Commerce
Department revised the March reading from a previously reported
0.5 percent gain.  Disposable incomes, or the money left over after taxes,
were little changed for a second month after adjusting for
inflation. The savings rate held at 4.9 percent, matching the
March reading as the lowest since October 2008.  “When you account for higher food and energy prices
there’s barely anything left,” said  Mark Vitner , a senior
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , who accurately forecast the April gain in spending.
“We need to see job growth pick up and we need to see commodity
prices continue to cool.”  More Inflation  The report’s inflation gauge tied to spending patterns
increased 2.2 percent from April 2010, the biggest 12-month gain
in a year. The  Federal Reserve ’s preferred price measure, the
so-called core inflation reading that excludes food and fuel,
rose 1 percent in April from a year earlier, the most since
September.  Sales at U.S. Wal-Mart stores open at least a year dropped
1.1 percent in the first quarter, the eighth decline in a row,
the world’s largest retailer said last week. Customers are still
struggling with economic uncertainty, buying more generic items
rather than their more costly name-brand counterparts,
executives said in a May 17 pre-recorded call.  “A good portion of income was being gobbled up by
inflation,” said  Ken Mayland , president of ClearView Economics
LLC in  Pepper Pike ,  Ohio . Next quarter, “prices might come down
and give consumers a little more wiggle room.”  After surging to an almost three-year high of $3.99 per
gallon nationally on May 4, average gasoline prices have since
retreated. They dropped to $3.81 a gallon on May 26, according
to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  More Jobs  The decrease, along with an improving job market, may be
helping boost confidence. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final index of consumer sentiment for May increased to
a three-month high of 74.3 from 69.8 in April, the group said
today. The index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the
recession that began in December 2007.  Employers added workers for a seventh consecutive month in
April. Payrolls expanded by 244,000, the biggest gain since May
2010, while the jobless rate rose to 9 percent, the Labor
Department said May 6.  The economy began 2011 on a weaker note, expanding at a 1.8
percent annual rate in the first quarter after a 3.1 percent
gain in the final three months of 2010, Commerce Department
figures showed yesterday. Consumer purchases rose at a 2.2
percent pace, less than forecast, following a 4 percent gain the
previous quarter.  Economists at Morgan Stanley in  New York  were among those
cutting household spending forecasts for the second quarter
following today’s April figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  