-- 
Consumer Spending in U.S. Probably Cooled

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-05-27T04:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/consumer-spending-in-u-s-probably-cooled-in-april-as-gasoline-costs-rose.html
U.S. consumer spending probably
cooled in April, restrained by higher food and fuel prices,
economists said before a government report today.  Purchases increased 0.5 percent, the smallest advance in
three months, after rising 0.6 percent in March, according to
the median estimate of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Other data may show consumer sentiment increased, while signed
contracts to buy previously owned homes declined.  Retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  are feeling the pinch
as higher grocery and energy bills force households to cut back
on less essential items. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  is among central bankers who predict the acceleration
in commodity prices will be temporary, providing some relief for
Americans whose spending accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “Even though gasoline is a relatively small component of
spending for American consumers, fluctuations can have a
material impact on purchasing power and consumption habits,”
said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial
Inc. in  Detroit . “The consumer should be in much better shape
in the months ahead” as fuel prices recede, he said.  The Commerce Department’s spending report is due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from gains of
0.3 percent to 0.6 percent.  The report will also show incomes rose 0.4 percent, the
seventh straight monthly gain, after a 0.5 percent increase in
March, according to the survey median.  Bigger Slowdown  Consumer spending  rose at a 2.2 percent annual pace in the
first quarter, down from an initial estimate of 2.7 percent by
the Commerce Department and less than the 2.8 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The 4 percent gain in the fourth
quarter last year was the most since the end of 2006. The
smaller increase reflected less spending on autos, gasoline and
utilities.  The cost of a gallon of regular gas averaged $3.81 in
April, up from $3.54 the prior month, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest motoring organization.  Cost pressures have started to wane this month. Prices at
the pump peaked at $3.99 on May 4, the highest since July 2008,
and declined to $3.81 on May 25.  Sales at U.S. Wal-Mart stores open at least a year dropped
1.1 percent in the first quarter, the eighth decline in a row,
the world’s largest retailer said last week. Customers are still
struggling with economic uncertainty, buying more generic items
rather than their more costly name-brand counterparts,
executives said in a May 17 pre-recorded call.  Housing in Slump  One part of the world’s largest economy that continues to
struggle is the housing market, particularly as foreclosures
mount. Pending home sales, or contract signings for existing
homes, fell 1 percent in April after a 5.1 percent increase the
prior month, economists forecast a report from the National
Association of Realtors will show at 10 a.m. in Washington.  Shares of homebuilders are lagging advances in other
industries. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
Index has climbed 1.3 percent this year, compared with a 5.4
percent gain in the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Gains in employment and higher stock values are outweighing
gas prices when it comes to confidence among Americans,
according to data from Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan.  The group’s final sentiment index for May is projected to
climb to 72.4, matching the preliminary figure and the highest
in three months, from 69.8 at the end of April, according to
economists surveyed ahead of the May 27 report.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  