-- 
Copper Premiums in China Advance to Seven-Month High as Demand Recovers

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-05-27T05:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/copper-premiums-in-china-advance-to-seven-month-high-as-demand-recovers.html
Copper premiums in  China , the world’s
largest consumer, climbed to a seven-month high this week as
end-users boosted purchases following the metal’s decline to the
lowest level this year.  Premiums paid by Chinese importers over the London cash
price are being quoted as high as $120 a metric ton on a cost,
insurance and freight basis to Shanghai, said Zhang Yu, an
analyst at Yong’an Futures Co. That’s the highest level since
October and compares with about $70 at the start of May, she
said. Most deals are being done at $90 to $110 a ton, she said.  The rise in premiums shows that the market is tightening as
demand improves, said Jia Zheng, a trader at  Shanghai  East Asia
Futures Co. Shanghai prices have been trading at a discount to
London since July, and that discount has narrowed this month,
boosting the attractiveness of imported metal. Copper in
Shanghai lost 1.7 percent this month, compared with a 2.4
percent drop in London.  “There have definitely been more people asking for metal
in the past two weeks as prices dropped,” said  Li Ye , an
analyst at Minmetals Starfutures Co., a unit of China’s biggest
metals trader. “While it’s still not profitable to sell
imported copper, the loss is becoming smaller very quickly.”  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange slumped to $8,504.50 a ton on May 12, the lowest price
since December, and traded at $9,108.25 a ton at 1:04 p.m.
Singapore time today. Metal on the Shanghai Futures Exchange,
which includes 17 percent value-added tax, was at 68,000 yuan
($10,478) a ton.  Immediate-delivery copper in Changjiang, Shanghai’s biggest
cash market, traded at about 68,975 yuan yesterday.  Copper Backwardation  Near-term supplies of copper in China have been more
expensive than longer-dated contracts since April, suggesting
demand may be increasing. Spot copper in Changjiang was 895
yuan-a-ton more than futures prices yesterday. Inventories
tallied by the Shanghai Futures Exchange declined to the lowest
in more than seven months last week, a sign that demand may be
picking up.  Stockpiles in the  London  Metal Exchange’s Asian warehouses
are increasing at a slower rate, climbing 5.4 percent this
month, compared with 18.5 percent last month, suggesting exports
from China this month will fall from April’s record 44,595 tons,
said Li. Chinese importers reroute metal to nearby warehouses
when the price gap between London and Shanghai makes inbound
shipments unprofitable.  Arbitrage trades, in which investors try to gain by
exploiting price differences between commodities in different
markets, were mostly profitable for copper in China in the six
months through July 2010.  “China’s physical copper demand has improved recently,”
Christian Schirmeister, executive director at JPMorgan’s global
commodities group, said on May 24. Copper stockpiles in Shanghai
bonded warehouses have been “drawn down modestly” after
reaching as high as 750,000 tons last month, he said. Metal is
stored in bonded zones before duties are paid and these holdings
aren’t officially disclosed.  To contact the reporter for this story: 
Glenys Sim in Singapore at  
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  