-- 
Copper, Coal to Lead Commodities, Standard Chartered Says

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-27T06:40:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/copper-coal-to-lead-three-year-commodity-rally-standard-chartered-says.html
Copper, gold, iron ore and coal will
lead a rally in commodities over the next two to three years as
demand for raw materials from  China  and India outpaces supplies,
according to  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)   “There is a lag between the supply and the demand and
that’s going to drive these commodities higher over the next
three years,” Ashish Mittal, the bank’s global head of
commodity sales, said in an interview in Mumbai. “During the
global financial crisis a lot of investments got postponed.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials beat
stocks, bonds and the dollar for five straight months through
April, the longest run in at least 14 years, as investors sought
a haven against accelerating inflation. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said this week it’s turning “more bullish” on raw materials
and suggested buying oil, copper and zinc, reversing its call
last month to sell commodities.  The Group of Eight leaders yesterday singled out the surge
in commodity prices as a significant threat to the global
economic rebound and pledged to cut the debt built up in the
wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Food costs may extend gains
as it will take time for producers to catch up with demand
driven by the rapid growth of emerging economies, the Bank of
 Japan ’s assistant governor Hiroshi Nakaso said yesterday.  Increases in commodity prices kept global food costs near a
record in April, prompting central banks from Brasilia to
Beijing to raise  interest rates  and helping spur conflict and
riots in the Middle East and North Africa.  Population Unrest  “People can manage with high fuel for cars but they can’t
manage with high food prices,” Mittal said. “That is the
biggest problem that governments are facing, because what you
don’t want is unrest amongst the population.”  Mittal says agricultural commodities will move with crude
 oil prices , as gains in oil will spur demand for alternative
fuels made from crops such as sugar, corn and palm oil.  An index of 55 food commodities rose to 232.1 points last
month from 231 points in March as grain costs advanced,
according to the  United Nations ’ Rome-based Food and Agriculture
Organization. The gauge climbed to a record 237.2 in February.  The S&P GSCI Index plunged 11 percent in the week ended May
6, the most since December 2008. Still, it’s gained 10 percent
this year, led by gasoline, gas oil and silver. Silver for
immediate delivery has jumped 22 percent this year, while crude
oil has advanced 10 percent. Gold for immediate delivery reached
a record $1,557.57 an ounce on May 2, while copper futures in
 New York  rose to an all-time high of $4.6575 a pound on Feb. 15.  ‘Pretty Steep’  “It’s good the correction happened because the run-up was
pretty steep and it was one-way,” Mittal said. “We will see
some of these commodities rally back up again.”  Commodity assets climbed $5.8 billion in April, bringing
total assets under management to record $451 billion, according
to  Barclays Capital . Flows from the start of 2011 gained almost
$23 billion, or $6.8 billion more than in the year-earlier
period, the bank said in a report yesterday. Precious metals had
inflows of $3.2 billion over the month, the largest since June
2010, and agriculture received $1.1 billion, it said.  Demand for commodities from India, the second-most populous
nation, will increase, Mittal said.  “Consumption of commodities in India is still quite low,”
he said. “As  power plants  develop, the road network develops,
you see development happening in the hinterland. There will be
an increase in consumption, an increase in demand from the
current levels in India, and it’s going to be pretty
substantial.”  India ’s commodity demand has reached a tipping point and
growth is set to accelerate significantly, with metals demand
likely to increase 80 percent in the next five years, Barclays
Capital said last November.  Coal demand in India may more than triple to 2 billion
metric tons in the next two decades as  Asia ’s second-fastest-
growing major economy seeks fuel to generate electricity and run
steel and cement plants, according to the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  