-- 
Corn-Planting Delays Signal Price Gain as U.S. Farmers Switch to Soybeans

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-05-27T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/corn-crop-delays-signal-price-gain-as-farmers-switch-to-soybeans.html
U.S. corn farmers are running out of
time to plant this year’s crop after wet weather swamped fields
from North Dakota to  Ohio , signaling higher costs for livestock
and ethanol producers as growers switch to soybeans.  About one-fifth of the corn crop had yet to be sown as of
May 22 in the U.S., the world’s top producer and exporter,
government data show. In Ohio, where some areas got 10 inches
(25 centimeters) of rain in the past month, the pace of seeding
was the slowest in 15 years. Fields planted after mid-May yield
less, while soybeans can be sown until late June.  “I have not planted the first kernel,” said Fred Yoder, a
farmer in Plain City, Ohio, who may switch to soybeans if fields
don’t dry out by next week. Soggy fields are the norm in central
Ohio, Yoder said. “A few guys have tried to mud in some corn,
but the stuff that has been planted looks horrible.”  Corn futures doubled in 12 months, boosting feed costs for
meat producers including Tyson Foods Inc. and ethanol makers
such as Archer Daniels Midland Co. Prices may reach a record $8
a bushel, said  Jeff Sherman , a commodities portfolio manager at
DoubleLine Capital LP. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said farmers are
unlikely to meet the USDA’s March planting forecast of 92.2
million acres, which would be second-largest since World War II.  World grain output is being threatened by adverse weather,
from droughts in  China  and  Europe  to excess moisture in the U.S.
and  Canada .  Tightening supply and rising demand helped boost global
food prices in nine of the past 10 months, including a record in
February, United Nations data show. Companies including Nestle
SA, McDonald’s Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are passing along
more of their costs to customers.  Lagging Behind  While U.S. planting has advanced near the normal pace in
 Iowa  and  Illinois , the biggest corn- and soybean-growing states,
smaller producers including Ohio,  Indiana  and North Dakota are
lagging behind because fields were muddied by  record  rains in
the Ohio Valley, flooding along the Mississippi River and a wet
spring in northern states.  Ohio, the eighth-biggest corn grower last year, is the
furthest behind, with only 11 percent of fields sown as of May
22, compared with an average pace of 80 percent, USDA data show.
The department will update the nation’s crop progress on May 31
in  Washington .  Yoder, who last year at this time completed sowing his corn
crop, said he’s never seen delays this long in 38 years of
farming.  Crop at Risk  As much as 2 million acres of corn are “at risk” of not
being planted because of wet weather, Goldman said in a May 24
report. Lost output from that land would cut U.S. stockpiles by
as much as 317 million bushels before the 2012 harvest, leaving
the smallest ending stockpiles since 1996 for the second
straight year, the New York-based bank said.  “There have been long-term global dynamics in play that
are causing crops to fall short, and the flood situation in the
U.S. is going to be a part of that,” said Sherman, who helps
manage more than $11 billion at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine
Capital. “It’s really hard to see the crop meeting the USDA
projections. You’d have to hit nirvana for that to be the case,
and we’ve had this massive crop destruction.”  The USDA on May 11 forecast that global output in the
2011/2012 crop year would jump 6.4 percent, more than enough to
meet rising demand after harvests the previous year fell short
of consumption. Corn, used mostly in livestock feed, is
increasingly processed to make fuel, with a record 5.05 billion
bushels going to make ethanol next year, or about 37 percent of
projected U.S. production, according to the USDA.  Key Producers  States including Ohio and  North Dakota  are more important
than usual this year because the USDA had been counting on
fringe areas to pick up much of the expansion in U.S.
production, said Frayne Olson, a crop economist at North Dakota
State University in Fargo. In March, the USDA estimated that
planting in North Dakota would jump by 22 percent from 2010.
Instead, the 2011 crop may be little changed at 2.05 million
acres, Olson said.  “In a normal year, a slight increase in yields in Iowa
would offset what we lost in North Dakota,” Olson said. “But
today, everyone is counting every bushel, even on the margins. A
bushel up here is counting more heavily than it used to.”  Many acres originally slated for corn or spring wheat,
which is also delayed in North Dakota, may be used for soybeans,
he said. Other farmers may opt to make insurance claims. In most
areas of the state, growers were eligible for prevented-planting
insurance on corn as of May 25, he said.  Crop Forecasts  U.S. corn planting may total 89 million acres, down 3.4
percent from the government forecast, Olson said. The shift by
farmers means soybeans may jump to 78 million acres this year
rather than the decline predicted by the USDA, and spring-wheat
planting may drop as low as 13 million acres, compared with the
government forecast of 14.427 million, he said.  “Will soybean prices be pulled up because corn prices are
going up, probably yes,” Olson said, without providing
forecasts. “But they’re not going to go up nearly as rapidly as
corn prices would. They will lag behind.”  Corn production also may decline along the  Mississippi
River  and its tributaries. Floods swamped almost 3.6 million
acres of cropland along the river this month, according to
estimates from the Washington-based  American Farm Bureau
Federation .  In  Arkansas , as much as 300,000 acres of rice and 100,000
acres of corn may be used instead for soybeans, said Jeremy
Ross, an agronomist at the  University of Arkansas  in  Little
Rock .  ‘Only Option’  “Every day, fewer and fewer guys are planting corn and
rice,” Ross said. “We’re getting to a point where beans are
just about the only option to plant.”  Rising crop prices are expected to send U.S. farm income to
a record $94.7 billion this year, according to the USDA. Those
profits won’t come if farmers can’t plant fields.  “We’re out doing flower beds for our wives and trimming
shrubs, doing goofy stuff to stay busy, because we’re chomping
at the bit to get in the fields,” said Yoder, the Ohio farmer.
“It’s very frustrating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 