-- 
Coxe Says Sell Stocks Before Europe Debt, U.S. Housing Worsen

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-27T17:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/coxe-says-sell-stocks-before-europe-debt-u-s-housing-worsen.html
Pension funds should sell stocks
before the European debt crisis, U.S. housing and Middle East
tensions worsen and base-metals prices drop, says Don Coxe, a
strategy adviser for  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)   U.S. and Canadian pension funds should cut the equity share
of their portfolios to 37 percent from 46 percent and replace it
with cash and bonds, Coxe, chairman of Chicago-based Coxe
Advisors LLC, said in a report distributed by BMO,  Canada ’s
fourth-largest lender by assets.  “The long-overdue correction in equities has begun,” said
Coxe, who this month received a TopGun Lifetime Achievement
Award from Brendan Wood International. “Runaway bull markets
reward strategists who look only one way when they cross one-way
streets. We may not see such stock markets again for a long,
long time.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.8 percent this month
through yesterday after doubling in the bull market that began
in March 2009 as investors speculated that European countries
are more likely to default on their debt. The S&P/Toronto Stock
Exchange Composite Index declined 3.5 percent from a peak on
April 5, after an 89 percent bull-market surge.  The 7.2 percent advance in gold futures this year through
yesterday reflects speculation that the risk of sovereign-debt
default in  Europe  isn’t abating, Coxe wrote. A 4.4 percent drop
in the U.S. Dollar Index indicates the fiscal straits of the
U.S. will worsen as the country’s government fails to craft a
plan to eliminate its  budget deficit .  Cool Relations  U.S. housing prices are likely to decline further as
relations cool between governments and banks, he said. Pending
home sales plunged 12 percent in April, the National Association
of Realtors said today in  Washington .  In the Middle East and  Libya , continued strife may again
boost  oil prices , Coxe wrote. “The fear premium in oil is a new
tax on the struggling global economy,” he said.  Base-metals prices are likely to sink, as indicated by the
1.6 percent retreat in shares of commodity trader Glencore
International Plc from its May 18 initial public offering to
yesterday, he said.  Investors should shift some of their commodity holdings
from base metals to agricultural futures as growing world meat
consumption and increased ethanol production drive crop demand,
Coxe wrote.  “We can produce enough food to meet global food demands,”
he said. “We cannot produce enough food to meet global food
demands and a growing percentage of global fuel demands.”  Food inflation will have its biggest impact on emerging
markets, so investors should take particular care to reduce
their holdings of equities from those countries, in addition to
non-Canadian financial shares, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  