-- 
Coxe Says Canada Should Review Resource Buyouts With Provinces

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-27T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/coxe-says-canada-should-review-resource-company-takeovers-with-provinces.html
Canada  needs to change its foreign-
takeover rules to allow provinces to reject transactions
involving natural resources, such as BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40
billion bid last year for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.,
said Coxe Advisors Chairman Don Coxe.  The country’s constitution gives provinces jurisdiction
over natural resources, something the current rules don’t take
into account, Coxe, a lawyer and adviser to BMO Capital Markets,
said in a May 26 interview in Bloomberg’s Ottawa newsroom.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper said last year his government
will give investors more clarity on foreign-ownership rules
after it blocked BHP’s hostile takeover bid. Harper’s
Conservatives won a majority of seats in May 2 elections, making
it easier for them to rewrite regulations.  “There is no easy way for the feds around this one,” Coxe
said, using shorthand for the federal government. The rules
could refer to the federal government being “guided” by
provincial wishes, or be written in “harmonization” with the
provinces, Coxe said.  Under the current law, the Industry Minister has the power
to block large transactions that don’t provide a “net benefit”
to the country. The Potash decision on Nov. 3 was Canada’s
second rejection in 25 years.  Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall was one of the biggest
critics of the proposed transaction, saying potash was a
strategic resource. He also threatened to sue the federal
government for lost royalties if the takeover was approved.  More Complicated  Future foreign takeovers of resource companies with
operations in several of Canada’s 10 provinces would become more
complicated if such a change is made, Coxe said, adding the
French-speaking province of  Quebec  would likely assert its
constitutional rights.  “The thing that would blow it sky high would be a takeover
bid for Agnico-Eagle, their production is in Quebec,” Coxe
said. “Quebec has always known whatever loopholes there were in
the constitution and they fight about it.”  Agnico-Eagle Mines
Ltd. (AEM) , based in Toronto, has three operating mines in Quebec and
is  North America ’s fifth-largest gold producer by market
capitalization.  The Potash bid probably should have been rejected because
the 400 years of reserves held by the company are a unique
global asset, Coxe said.  “How do you make a decision on an asset that’s going to
take 400 years to play out?” he said. “You do that on the
basis of current takeover procedures? That’s balderdash, no
other country in the world would approach it that way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 