-- 
CVS Wins $3 Billion U.S. Federal Worker Health-Benefit Contract Over Medco

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-05-27T20:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/cvs-wins-3-billion-u-s-federal-worker-health-benefit-contract-from-medco.html
CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  won a $3 billion
contract to provide pharmacy benefits to federal employees,
easing concern that the largest U.S. buyer and seller of
 prescription drugs  is losing business to rivals.  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS) , which had held the contract,
disclosed today that Blue Cross Blue Shield Association planned
to switch to another provider by 2012. Medco shares sank 9
percent for the biggest loss since October 2008. CVS said the
new agreement, which starts Jan. 1, 2012, will run through 2014.  CVS, based in Woonsocket,  Rhode Island , has sought to
recapture business after losing $4.8 billion in 2010 contracts
to rivals because of pricing and service. The contract may
increase investors’ confidence in the company’s strategy since
the 2007 merger that united Caremark’s drug benefits manager
with the pharmacy chain, said Robert Summers, an analyst for
Susquehanna Financial Group in  New York .  “It’s a very good step in the right direction in a
business that has been challenging to them,” said Summers, who
has a “positive” rating on CVS. “Maybe this is foreshadowing
easier times ahead in terms of them winning share.”  CVS rose 65 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $38.80 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Medco, based in
 Franklin Lakes ,  New Jersey , fell $5.78 to $58.66.  Earnings Benefit  The contract may be worth $80 million in operating income,
or about 4 cents a share, to CVS, Meredith Adler, an analyst for
Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, wrote in a note to clients.
CVS generated net income of $3.43 billion, or $2.49 a share, on
revenue of $96.4 billion last year.  The Blue Cross Blue Shield contract accounted for almost 5
percent of Medco’s $66 billion in revenue last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It includes 9.8 million annual
prescriptions and expires Dec. 31, said Medco, the largest U.S.
pharmacy-benefits manager by revenue.  “We are disappointed that BCBSA has chosen a different
direction for its PBM services,” Jennifer Luddy, a Medco
spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail. “We look forward to the
opportunity to serve BCBSA in the future.”  Medco lost the federal-employees contract primarily because
CVS undercut the company on price, said Art Henderson, an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee .  “CVS needed a win of this magnitude and competed hard on
price,” Henderson said in a telephone interview.  The decision was also probably shaped by the scandal
surrounding a contract with the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , Henderson said. Medco lost a $500 million
contract covering 340,000 Calpers members in March after the
pension fund revealed that Calpers’ board members may have been
influenced with favors to award the original contract in 2005.  “The Calpers scandal left a bad taste in people’s mouth,”
said Henderson, who has a “buy” rating on Medco.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  