-- 
Top-Seeded Wozniacki Eliminated at French Open; Federer Wins in Three Sets

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-27T19:38:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/defending-champ-schiavone-advances-at-french-open-runner-up-stosur-loses.html
Top-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  of
Denmark was upset by Slovakia’s Daniela Hantuchova in the third
round of tennis’s French Open.  Roger Federer  won in straight sets for the third
consecutive match, while the meeting of Grand Slam champions
Novak Djokovic of Serbia and Juan Martin Del Potro of
Argentina was stopped at 6-3, 3-6 because of darkness at
9:14 p.m. local time.  Djokovic, the second seed and trying for his 40th straight
victory to start this season, and Del Potro, the 25th seed, will
resume play tomorrow.  Part of their match, which had been rescheduled from the
main Court Philippe Chatrier to the smaller Court Suzanne
Lenglen, took place as angry fans booed and whistled outside of
the stadium as they were trying to get in.  Hantuchova, the women’s 28th seed, won 6-1, 6-3 for
her first victory in seven chances against the player ranked No.
1 by the WTA tour.  “The last few weeks I have been playing very well,”
Hantuchova said in a news conference. “I felt like my game was
right there. Today it just all paid off.”  Federer, the record 16-time Grand Slam champion from
 Switzerland , beat Serbia’s Janko Tipsarevic 6-1, 6-4, 6-3.
Defending women’s champion Francesca Schiavone of Italy advanced
after  China ’s Peng Shuai quit their match in the second set
because of breathing problems.  Fast Play  “Overall it was a really good match for me,” Federer said
in a news conference. “Obviously I’m happy to have another
early finish, similar to the other day.”  Hantuchova hit 15 winners to none for Wozniacki in winning
the first set. She then took a 4-0 lead in the second before the
Dane won the next three games.  Hantuchova won at love for a 5-3 lead and scored her fifth
service break as Wozniacki put a backhand from the baseline into
the net to end the match.  Wozniacki’s loss leaves No. 3  Vera Zvonareva  of  Russia , who
beat Australian Anastasia Rodionova 6-2, 6-3, as the highest
seed left in the women’s draw. No. 2  Kim Clijsters  squandered
two match points yesterday in losing to Arantxa Rus of the
Netherlands.  Wide Open  The women’s draw is wide open this year, with four-time
champion  Justine Henin  of Belgium retired and sisters Serena and
Venus Williams of the U.S. injured.  “There’s a lot of great players out there,” Wozniacki,
who will retain her No. 1 ranking, told reporters. “Kim had a
tough loss yesterday. I had a tough loss today. It’s just
unfortunate to lose in a Grand Slam, but that’s what happens and
we just need to move forward.”  Federer, the men’s third seed, need just 90 minutes to
defeat Tipsarevic, seeded 29th. Federer had 37 winners,
including 10 aces, and broke the Serb five times. He’s yet to
drop a set in Paris.  “I was honestly expecting more from myself today, but he
was just too good,” Tipsarevic said at a news conference.  Djokovic, the Australian Open champion, has won 39 straight
matches, three short of John McEnroe’s 27-year-old record to
start the season. He’s won all three previous matches against
 Del Potro .  Kanye West   With rapper Kanye West watching from the stands, Djokovic
had asked umpire after the first game of the second set what was
going on outside. He dropped serve in the second set after
French Open organizers decided to let the spectators in. Play
was suspended after Del Potro made a gesture to the umpire that
he couldn’t see the ball anymore, once again to boos from the
crowd.  Schiavone, seeded fifth, was leading 6-3, 1-2 when her
match was stopped. Peng, the 29th seed, retired two games after
having her blood pressure and heart rate checked by a doctor on
court.  “She had breathing problems and I know what that means”
Schiavone said at a news conference. “I felt sorry for her,
because there is nothing worse.”  Schiavone will next face No. 10 Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia ,
who defeated Bethanie Mattek-Sands of the U.S. 6-2, 6-2. No. 8
Samantha Stosur of Australia, runner-up to Schiavone last year,
lost to Gisela Dulko of Argentina 6-4, 1-6, 6-3.  Marion Bartoli , the 11th seed from France, and No. 14
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia advanced in three sets.
Former French and U.S. Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova, the
13th seed from Russia, won 6-0, 6-4 over Canada’s Rebecca
Marino.  More Results  Seventh-seeded  David Ferrer  of Spain and No. 9 Gael Monfils
of France were straight-sets winners, while No. 13 Richard Gasquet of France defeated No. 23 Thomaz Bellucci of Brazil in
four sets.  Mikhail Youzhny  of Russia, the 12th seed, lost to Spaniard
Albert Montanes, while No. 30 Guillermo Garcia-Lopez of Spain
was a four-set loser to Fabio Fognini of  Italy .  Stanislas Wawrinka, the 14th seed from Switzerland, rallied
to defeat French No. 17 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga 4-6, 6-7 (3-7), 7-6
(7-5), 6-2, 6-3 in a match that lasted over four hours, forcing
schedulers to move the match between Djokovic and Del Potro to a
smaller court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 