-- 
Democrats See Improvement in Their Political Prospects for 2012 Campaign

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/democrats-see-revived-political-prospects-for-2012-elections.html
Democrats view their political
prospects in the 2012 elections as improved, following a
surprise victory in a U.S. House race this week and the killing
of  Osama bin Laden  in a raid authorized by President  Barack Obama  this month.  National party leaders took a victory lap in Washington
yesterday, continuing to spotlight Kathy Hochul’s May 24 special
election win in a traditionally Republican western New York
district as a sign of changing political fortunes.  “We are seeing an incredible change of our map that we
didn’t expect five months ago,” Senator  Patty Murray  of
Washington state, chairwoman of the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee, said yesterday. “It’s changing, and it’s
changing dramatically.”  The elections last November in which Republicans won
control of the House and picked up six Senate seats spurred that
party to claim an electoral mandate to pass the steep spending
cuts they promised on the campaign trail. Over the last month
and a half, signs have emerged that voters haven’t embraced the
specifics of their plans.  At contentious town hall meetings and in public polling,
voters have expressed concerns about the depth of the cuts and
efforts to reshape entitlement programs, particularly Medicare -
- the issue key to Hochul’s victory.  That has fed Democratic optimism that the party could win
back some of the 63 House seats they lost in the 2010 midterm
elections, and perhaps regain control of the chamber.  House ‘In Play’  “I fundamentally believe that the  House of Representatives 
is in play and the Democrats can win a majority in November
2012,” said Representative Steve  Israel  of New York, chairman
of the House campaign arm for the party.  Dave Wasserman, House political editor for the nonpartisan
Cook Political Report in Washington, cautioned that a lot could
change before Nov. 6, 2012.  “The Democrats have had a good month,” he said. “But
this isn’t necessarily what we are going to be talking about in
November 2012.”  Special elections, he said, rarely prove to be precise
predictors of broader electoral trends. Republicans lost a
special election for a Pennsylvania House seat in May 2010, six
months before posting their sweeping gains in November.  “How is an election 16 months out supposed to be
predictive?” asked Wasserman, referring to the  New York  race.  Medicare Issue  In that campaign, Democrats hammered Republican candidate
Jane Corwin for endorsing the overhaul of Medicare that was part
of the budget legislation the House passed in April. Democratic
strategists plan to make those attacks central to their 2012
efforts, Israel said.  “No matter how high the odds, no matter how steep the
climb, we will, as Democrats, take the fight almost anywhere in
American to protect Medicare,” said Israel.  The Republican proposal would replace the current
government-run health program for older Americans with a subsidy
to help senior citizens buy private health insurance, starting
with those who turn 65 in 2022.  In a March 4-7 Bloomberg National Poll, a Medicare voucher
plan was opposed by 54 percent of respondents, while 40 percent
supported it.  “The voters have seen the preview. The curtain has been
lifted, and they don’t like it,” Democratic National Committee
Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz told reporters in Washington
yesterday.  Boost for Obama  Wasserman Shultz, who is also a House member from  Florida ,
attributed the Medicare issue and the raid in  Pakistan  that
killed bin Laden to the rise in President Barack Obama’s job
approval rating in a  Quinnipiac poll  of voters in her home state
released yesterday. The survey found 51 percent approving of
Obama’s job performance, compared with 43 percent who
disapproved. That’s a reversal from last month, when the same
survey, conducted before the bin Laden raid, found 52 percent
rating him negatively and 44 percent positively.  “It is largely because of Medicare,” she said at a
breakfast sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor. “The flip
in President Obama’s support in that poll can be partly
attributed to the killing of Osama bin Laden, so in terms of
 homeland security , the economy, Medicare, the president was
already popular -- people liked him -- but now his job approval
rating has dramatically improved.”  As it was in the 2000 presidential election, when a U.S.
Supreme Court decision halting a recount made Republican  George W. Bush  the winner over Democrat  Al Gore , Florida could be
pivotal in the 2012 race.  ‘Small Part’  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio  Republican, said the
Medicare issue played only a “small part” in his party’s loss
in the New York special election, and he reiterated his support
for the overhaul proposal that was written by Representative
 Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican.  “I could be somewhat critical of how the campaign was run,
but the fact is we didn’t win,” Boehner said at a press
conference to unveil a Republican jobs plan. “The small part of
the reason we didn’t win clearly had to do with Medicare.”  Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, said he
isn’t focused on whether a political backlash to his plan costs
his party seats. “Now is not that time to be worried about
political careers,” he said in an  interview  with ABC News. “I
will know I did what I thought was right to save this country
from fiscal ruin.”  Murray said that in next year’s fight for control of the
Senate, the Ryan plan is complicating the bids by several
Republicans who are “tying themselves in knots in order not to
take a position.”  Republican Senate contenders George Allen in  Virginia , Josh Mandel in Ohio and Heather Wilson in  New Mexico  have refused to
say whether they would have backed the plan if they had been in
office.  Democratic Challenge  Murray in her comments made no promises about Democrats
preserving their majority in the Senate, which they control
53-47. One challenge is that they will be defending more than
twice the number of seats as the Republicans, 23 to 10. The
Democrats’ effort to hold the Senate is made more difficult
because five of their incumbents and independent  Joe Lieberman 
of  Connecticut , who caucuses with the party, are retiring next
year, and such open seats are typically more difficult to
protect.  Republicans need to explain the Ryan proposal better, said
Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican in charge of his party’s
2012 Senate campaign strategy.  “Part of what’s happened is people need to speak more
effectively and be willing to defend their position,” he said
in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ; 
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  