-- 
Denmark’s $45 Billion PFA Fund Likes EU Rescue Bonds, Plans to Keep Buying

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-05-27T09:56:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/denmark-s-45-billion-pfa-fund-likes-eu-rescue-bonds-plans-to-keep-buying.html
Denmark ’s second-biggest pension
fund, PFA, is buying European Union rescue bonds designed to
help pay bailouts for the region’s most-indebted members, and is
interested in participating in auctions next month.  “If prices are right we’re buying,” said Henrik Henriksen, chief investment strategist at the $45 billion
Copenhagen-based fund, in a phone interview yesterday. “We like
the product but the price needs to be right.” The investor,
Denmark’s second-biggest pension fund, bought 3.5 percent notes
due 2021 sold on May 24, it said.  Europe  is selling the top-rated bonds as it struggles to
generate funds to keep its bailout-reliant members afloat. The
bloc is enduring its worst crisis since the euro’s inception 12
years ago after failing to ensure adequate sanctions were
deployed when fiscal limits were breached, former European
Central Bank Chief Economist Otmar Issing said yesterday.  The rescue bonds are “more vulnerable” than AAA rated
French government debt, Henriksen said. “If we all of a sudden
get a downgrade of the participants” backing the bonds, “it
won’t be AAA paper anymore,” he said.  The European Commission said the 10-year bonds sold this
week through its European Financial Stabilization Mechanism
enjoyed “very strong” demand, as bids were three times the
amount offered. Investors from  Asia  bought 25 percent of the
issue, according to the commission.  Bailout Auctions  The EFSM and separate European Financial Stability Facility
are each providing 26 billion euros ($37 billion) for  Portugal ,
which is also getting an equivalent amount from the
 International Monetary Fund  after last month becoming the third
euro member after  Greece  and Ireland to seek aid.  Of the 85 billion-euro package for Ireland, the EFSF is
providing 17.7 billion euros and the EFSM 22.5 billion euros.
Greece’s earlier 110 billion-euro rescue involved loans directly
from euro-area governments and the IMF.  The EFSF will tap markets for a second time in June after
its inaugural sale in January of rescue bonds, Chief Executive
Officer Klaus Regling said on May 20.  The EFSM is run by the European Commission, the 27-nation
EU’s executive arm in Brussels. The Luxembourg-based EFSF is
overseen by euro-area governments. The EFSM on May 25 sold 4.75
billion euros of five-year bonds a day after raising the same
amount from a sale of the 10-year notes.  The yield on the EU 10-year note fell 1 basis point to 3.46
percent as of 10:40 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The five-year note yield declined 3 basis points
to 2.76 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The yield on EFSF’s five-year note fell 3 basis points to
2.77 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  