-- 
Dexia to Make $5.1 Billion Provision for Losses on Accelerated Asset Sales

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-27T16:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/dexia-to-make-5-1-billion-provision-for-losses-on-accelerated-asset-sales.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the bank that took the most
Federal Reserve discount-window help in October 2008, said it
will take a charge of 3.6 billion euros ($5.1 billion) for the
anticipated sale of mostly U.S. residential mortgage-backed
securities and disposals of long-term bonds, loans and units.  The second-quarter provision to cover future losses will
reduce Dexia’s Tier 1 ratio, a measure of its ability to absorb
losses, to about 11 percent from 13.4 percent at the end of
March, the bank, based in Brussels and Paris, said today in a
statement. The shares gained the most in seven weeks after Dexia
said it will have a Tier 1 ratio of at least 12 percent by the
end of this year. The cost of insuring its senior debt rose.  Dexia is using surplus capital accumulated over the past
two years to accelerate the reduction of its balance sheet,
which had slipped behind the targets agreed with the European
Commission, and cut risks linked to the evolution of the U.S.
housing market. The decision to speed up divestments shows Chief
Executive Officer Pierre Mariani is more concerned about the
bank’s access to funding than its ability to withstand potential
losses on its Greek sovereign-debt holdings.  “We see the funding and liquidity management as a larger
issue for Dexia than capital adequacy,”  Albert Ploegh , an
analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, wrote in a note to
investors on May 24. “For Dexia, we are concerned over the
ability to comply with the net stable funding ratio and on
leverage less so if successfully deleveraged.”  Funding Ratio  The net stable funding ratio aims to limit the mismatch
between the duration of loans and deposits, ensuring that banks
don’t face cash-flow shortages. The  leverage ratio  would require
banks to have Tier-1 capital equivalent to 3 percent of their
assets, preventing them from accumulating assets worth more than
33 times its capital level.  The European Union may delay a decision on whether to adopt
these two ratios, proposed by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  and endorsed by the Group of 20 nations last year.
Instead, the Brussels-based commission will “consider
proposing” such a requirement “after an observation and review
period,” according to draft proposals for implementing the so-
called Basel III rules in the EU obtained by Bloomberg News.  The shares climbed 4.8 percent to 2.552 euros at the 5:40
p.m. close of trading on Euronext Brussels, the most since April
6 and paring their loss since the start of the year to 1.9
percent. Credit-default swaps on Dexia Credit Local’s senior
debt jumped 28 basis points to 310 as of 4:30 p.m. in  London ,
according to CMA.  Short-Term Funding  The disposals, to be carried out by June 2012 and depending
on market conditions, will cut Dexia’s need for short-term
funding by an additional 20 billion euros, according to the
statement. The bank plans to sell bonds and loans with an
average maturity of about 10 years, according to a presentation
posted on its website.  Dexia borrowed as much as $31.5 billion from the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s discount window on Oct. 24, 2008, according to
Fed documents released in response to a Freedom of Information
Act request. Its total central-bank funding, which peaked at 122
billion euros the same month, dropped to 17 billion euros at the
end of March. Its short-term funding needs amounted to 104
billion euros, or about 20 percent of its balance sheet.  Balance Sheet  The bank agreed to shrink its balance sheet by 35 percent
to 427 billion euros by the end of 2014 to gain European Union
approval for receiving 5 billion euros of capital in state aid
in September 2008. The value of its combined assets amounted to
527 billion euros at the end of March, a 40 billion-euro
decrease from the end of last year.  The bank also agreed to maintain minimum capital levels
during its reorganization, with a core Tier 1 ratio of at least
10.6 percent at the end of last year. The 2011 target is
undisclosed.  Amelia Torres, spokeswoman for EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia , wasn’t available to comment.  Dexia, the former owner of U.S. bond insurer Financial
Security Assurance Inc., wrote down the value of its U.S. asset-
backed securities by almost $2.31 billion by the end of the
first quarter after raising its estimate of future losses on the
underlying mortgages. It will take an additional 1.8 billion
euros to bring the valuation in line with the securities’ market
value pending a sale.  State Guarantees  By writing down the U.S. asset-backed securities to their
market value, Dexia said it will be in a position to waive the
Belgian and French state guarantees covering losses on those
assets and renegotiate the “terms and consequences” arising
from the state support.  “The guarantee on the Financial Products portfolio was a
significant component of the valuation of the state aid we
received at the end of 2008,” Mariani told analysts on a
conference call today. “Waiving this guarantee reduces
considerably the amount of state aid received and that should be
put on the table and discussed with the European Commission in
the coming weeks.”  The remaining half of the provision covers losses arising
from bonds, loans and units, Dexia said in the presentation on
its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  