-- 
Dexia Takes 3.6 Billion-Euro Charge on Asset Sales

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-27T11:03:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/dexia-to-take-5-1-billion-charge-cut-tier-1-capital-to-11-by-end-june.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian bank
forced to shrink its balance sheet by 35 percent by 2014, said
it will take a charge of 3.6 billion euros ($5.1 billion) for
the anticipated sale of mostly U.S. residential mortgage-backed
securities and long-term bond disposals.  The second-quarter provision to cover future losses will
reduce Dexia’s Tier 1 ratio, a measure of the bank’s ability to
absorb losses, to about 11 percent from 13.4 percent at the end
of March, the bank, based in Brussels and Paris, said today in
an e-mailed statement. That ratio will increase to at least 12
percent by the end of this year, Dexia said.  Dexia is using the surplus capital accumulated over the
past two years to accelerate the reduction of its balance sheet,
which had slipped behind the targets agreed with the European
Commission, and cut risks linked to the evolution of the U.S.
housing market. The bank anticipates it will sell the asset-
backed securities in the FSA Financial Products portfolio and
most of the bonds before June 2012, reducing its need for short-
term funding by an additional 20 billion euros.  “The provision is split evenly over the FSA portfolio and
the bond portfolio,” Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani
said on a conference call with reporters today. “This provision
will give us more visibility on future profits.”  By writing down the U.S. asset-backed securities to their
market value, Dexia said it will be in a position to waive the
Belgian and French state guarantees covering losses on those
assets and renegotiate the terms and consequences arising from
the state support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  