-- 
LDK Solar Rises on President Comments, Investment Deal

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-05-27T22:52:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/ldk-solar-rises-on-president-s-comments-chinese-development-bank-stake.html
(Corrects investment to LDK’s polysilicon unit in sixth
paragraph.)  LDK Solar Co., a Chinese maker of
solar panels, climbed after its president said the industry
would rebound this quarter and a China Development Bank Corp.
unit received approval to buy a stake.  LDK rose 41 cents, or 6.2 percent, to $7.02 at 6:47 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Earlier it gained as
much as 63 cents, or 9.5 percent.  Cuts to European government incentive programs have driven
down sales of solar panels, and LDK’s President and Chief
Operating Officer Xingxue Tong said the market is poised to
improve. “The industry hit a low point in the first quarter,”
he said in an interview published today by the Taiwanese
electronics daily DigiTimes. “The solar industry is not as bad
as the general view, and should rebound in the second quarter.”  Wayne Chang, analyst at Brean Murray, Carret & Co. in New
York, said demand for solar panels is about to take off. “We
think the market comes back strong in June, with inventory
workdowns in two to three weeks and orders starting to flow
fairly aggressively,” he said today in an e-mail.  The investment from China Development Bank Capital Corp.
may be “a positive read-through” for investors, Chang said.  China’s economic planner National Development and Reform
Commission approved the development bank unit’s purchase of an
equity stake in LDK’s polysilicon production unit LDK Silicon &
Chemical Technology Co., according to a  statement  released
Thursday by the commission. It did not say how large a stake the
unit may buy.  LDK also won a 45-megawatt panel supply contract with an
Italian solar systems installer, the company said yesterday in a
statement, without naming the buyer.  Today’s rally may be driven by investors buying shares
before LDK releases its earnings on June 7. “We think this is
just a bounce before they report, since most of the negative
news for the sector is pretty much baked in,” Chang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 