-- 
Drought Conditions in Texas Strain Power Transmission Lines

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-05-27T18:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/drought-conditions-in-texas-strain-power-transmission-lines.html
A blackout in  Texas City , Texas, may
be the latest in a series of power failures caused by lack of
rain, which helps clear electrical lines of deposits, according
to Terry Hadley, a spokesman for the Public Utility Commission.  “It’s something we’re looking at” Hadley said today.
“There are certainly a larger number of outages than normal and
most appear to be drought-related. Today’s event underscores
that it’s a concern.”  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) , which
represent almost 5 percent of U.S. refining capacity, lost power
for a time at their Texas City refineries early today. Outages
and resulting production disruptions last month sent gasoline
futures to a 33-month high.  The deposits, which trap heat, may include dust, chemicals
emitted by refineries and other plants and corrosion caused by
salt air, Hadley said. The exact cause of the most recent
blackout is still under investigation, he said.  “There appears to be no one large cause other than that
the drought has caused these compounds to accumulate more,”
Hadley said in a telephone interview from Austin, Texas.  PNM Resources Inc. (PNM)  and  CenterPoint Energy Inc. (CNP) , the
Houston-area’s largest electric distributor, have been spraying
lines with water.  Washing the Lines  “We continue to wash both transmission and distribution
lines because in the Houston area we continue to be in drought
conditions and the buildup of salt, dirt and environmental
contamination continues,” said Leticia Lowe, a spokeswoman at
CenterPoint’s Houston headquarters. “We haven’t experienced any
serious outages recently.”  Drought conditions, which began last year, are expected to
 persist or intensify  through the end of August along Texas’s
Gulf Coast, according to the National Weather Service.  The power company found a broken insulator on the
transmission line and is trying to determine what broke it, said
Cathy Garber, a spokeswoman for Lewisville, Texas-based Texas-
New Mexico Power Co., owned by PNM.  The power outages in April were caused by residue buildup
on the equipment because of the drought, Garber in a telephone
interview from  Albuquerque , where PNM is based.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  