-- 
Drug-Price Decision Threatens U.K. Investment, Industry Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-05-27T11:45:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/drug-pricing-decision-threatens-company-investment-in-u-k-industry-says.html
Pharmaceutical companies are
protesting a U.K. government decision on drug pricing that their
lobbying group says may prompt more of them to scale back
operations in Britain.  The  Department of Health  told drugmakers May 19 it was
ending a deal that allowed some of them to increase prices to
make up for money they lost when a previous agreement was
suspended in 2007. The  Association of the British Pharmaceutical
Industry  objected to both the decision on the accord, known as
the Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme, and the refusal to
share information showing how it was reached.  Switzerland ’s  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,
two of the world’s biggest drugmakers, said this year they plan
to scale back U.K. operations. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
in January he personally called the heads of pharmaceutical
companies to urge them to continue investing, pointing to tax
breaks he was offering. The ABPI said the Department of Health’s
move undermined that effort at a time when the government aims
to replace the 54-year-old drug-pricing system.  “It’s critical that any future schemes uphold the
principles of trust and fairness in order to achieve the
partnership that will benefit patients,” the London-based group
said in an e-mailed statement. “Instabilities caused by
disruption to the PPRS do not reflect well on the financial
stability and predictability of the U.K. environment, factors
which historically have been a positive contribution to global
decisions to invest in the U.K. pharmaceutical industry.”  $15 Billion  The state-run  National Health Service  spends about 9
billion pounds ($15 billion) a year on brand-name drugs, and
since 1957 has used its buying power to negotiate a series of
agreements with the industry under the PPRS. This stipulated
that, over the period of each deal, each manufacturer would aim
to meet a certain overall discount target by modulating their
prices. If the companies failed to meet it, they had to pay the
difference.  The Department of Health  suspended  a deal that took effect
in 2005 two years later, leaving some companies ahead of their
discount target -- 7 percent in that period -- and some behind.
After negotiations with the ABPI, the government reached an
 accord  in 2009 allowing those companies who were out of pocket
from the 2007 suspension to recoup their losses, so long as the
companies that hadn’t discounted enough repaid at least 75
percent of their excess profits.  It was the failure of pharmaceutical companies to meet that
75 percent goal that led the government to make its May 19
decision, the  Department of Health  said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘No Adjustments’  “After a detailed process of calculation for resolving
over-deliveries and under-deliveries of price cuts for medicines
from the previous PPRS in 2005, there will be no compensating
adjustments for companies in the 2009 PPRS,” the department
said. “This is because we did not receive the 75 percent of
repayments for under-deliveries.”  While the ABPI negotiates the PPRS agreement on behalf of
its members, each company must reach its own accord with the
government over prices of individual products and in some cases
submit annual reports on sales. Because those agreements are
confidential and vary by company, the amounts of the
overpayments and underpayments aren’t publicly available.  Pfizer, Novartis and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s
biggest drugmaker, are among the more than 150 participants in
the 2009 pricing agreement, according to the Department of
Health’s  website .  New Pricing System  “We are committed to ensuring the U.K.’s position as a
global leader in pharmaceutical research and development, and to
providing stability for companies to invest here,” the
department said in an e-mailed statement today. “That is why
the government is committed to honoring the terms of the 2009
Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme.”  The industry is in the midst of negotiations on a new
pricing system set to take effect in 2014, part of an effort to
limit overall  government spending . Weeks after Cameron’s
coalition government took power last year, Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley told industry representatives that the prices of
new medicines would be lower than companies wanted, according to
the minutes of a June 7, 2010, meeting with the ABPI.  The Department of Health published its proposal in
December, saying that it would set a basic price for new drugs
that reflected how well they prevented hospitalizations and
other costs in the NHS. The ABPI submitted  comments  on the
proposal in March, saying that “an integrated and consistent
negotiation process between government and industry is central”
to integrating the old and new payment systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  