-- 
The Path From Spilled Milk to the Fine Print in Mortgages: View

-- B y   T h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-05-27T00:50:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/the-path-from-spilled-milk-to-the-fine-print-in-mortgages-view.html
For fans of regulatory reform and
consumer protection, the  White House Web site  was an excellent
place to be yesterday. Not only did the administration announce
nifty new fuel-economy labels to help car-buyers figure out
potential gasoline savings, it also released a plan for a 21st
century regulatory system.  The proposed reforms show that the administration sweated
the small stuff -- and mostly got it right. Thirty agencies
intend to modify or scrap meddlesome rules on matters such as
overlapping medical databases.  Headed for the scrapheap are a host of rules that either
never should have been adopted or grew far more burdensome than
expected. Medical-device approvals are being streamlined.
Gasoline stations may no longer need to install costly vapor-
recovery systems at the pump, now that modern vehicles have
pollution-control devices. Some railroads may no longer be
required to install anti-collision technology that isn’t
necessary in low-traffic areas. The aggregate savings are likely
to be well over $1 billion a year, the White House says.  That’s not much in a $15 trillion economy, but such changes
will go a small way toward reducing business costs and
encouraging job growth. Dairy operators, for instance, no longer
need to use oil-spill cleanup rules when storing and
transporting milk. This switch could save $1.4 billion over 10
years in equipment costs.  Consumer Financial Protection  Such winnowing helps the Obama administration assuage
business executives and trade association leaders who have
complained for years about the cost of unnecessary rules. Still,
it was hard to read the documents without wishing that the
administration would apply the same energy to pressing Congress
on a far more compelling regulatory issue: consumer protection
in financial markets.  At the same time the administration was preparing to roll
out the document,  Elizabeth Warren , who has been advising the
administration on the creation of a Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, was being grilled by Congress. The CFPB,
given life by the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory reform law, aims to
provide the public with reliable information about the risks and
costs of financial products, while also policing against abuses.  Bloomberg News articles have shown widespread confusion
about the risks involved in such exotic instruments as
"structured certificates of deposit," whose returns are tied to
stock market indexes. Consumers can barely figure out the
convoluted terms on bank account fees. Mortgage-disclosure forms
are harder to follow than they should be.  There is room for the CFPB to help consumers and financial
institutions do business together on terms that everyone
understands. Even financial institutions will prosper if the
right customers are buying the right products for the right
reasons. The sparring over Warren shouldn’t be allowed to
obscure the importance of the overall mission.  Now that the administration has ably demonstrated its
ability to shape and advocate small-scale regulatory reform, and
to do so while keeping the interests of business in mind, it
should turn its attention to the big stuff.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  