-- 
ECB’s Wellink ‘Fully Confident’ Greece Will Get June Aid Payment

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-05-27T09:48:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/ecb-s-wellink-fully-confident-greece-will-receive-aid-payment-for-june.html
European Central Bank  Governing
Council member Nout Wellink expects  Greece  to meet conditions
for a 3.3 billion-euro ($4.7 billion) aid payment by the
 International Monetary Fund  next month.  “There is enormous pressure on Greece to resolve this,”
Wellink said in an interview in Amsterdam today. “It is
difficult. I’m fully confident that in the end, Greece will meet
the conditions, meaning that only then the IMF and  Europe  can
say ‘yes.’”  Officials from the European Union, the IMF and the European
Central Bank will complete their review of Greece’s progress in
meeting the bailout terms next week. Their recommendation is
needed before the fifth bailout payment can be distributed and
as a condition for further aid being considered by the EU.  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads a group of euro-area finance
ministers, yesterday said the IMF may withhold aid for Greece as
questions mount about how the country can avoid default next
year. The IMF is contributing to a June payment of 12 billion
euros.  While the terms of Greece’s rescue last year assumed it
would be able to tap the market for financing in 2012, that may
be unlikely as its bonds slide. That puts Greece at risk of
default, increasing the risk tied to any further disbursement of
IMF funds.  “Exports are starting to pick up, which I find a positive
point,” and Greek gross domestic product grew in the first
quarter, said Wellink, who also heads the Dutch central bank.
“The stronger the economic climate becomes, the easier this
very difficult package can be realized” by the Greek
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 