-- 
Lehman, Units Sued by Real-Estate Investors for Overpaying for Properties

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-05-27T20:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/lehman-units-sued-by-real-estate-investors-for-overpaying-for-properties.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  real
estate units and executives including former Chairman Richard Fuld were sued in  New York  State Supreme Court by investors who
said they contributed part of $640 million in 2008 to properties
for which Lehman overpaid.  The investors, including Barbara J. Fried of Virginia,
described themselves in a filing as limited partners of Lehman
Brothers Real Estate Partners III and 10 other partnerships
formed by Lehman mostly in 2007, about a year before the former
investment bank’s bankruptcy. They seek unspecified damages and
fees for themselves and others in a similar situation, they said
in the filing today.  While Lehman was writing down commercial real estate in
2007, the partnerships “spoke only of future market
opportunities,” according to the filing. Overvalued assets
including the “toy building” at 200 Fifth Avenue in  Manhattan 
were bought and “warehoused” for the funds, which planned to
borrow $1.2 billion to buy them and didn’t disclose the risk,
the investors alleged.  The suit is similar to one filed in May 2010 by plaintiffs
including Glickenhaus & Co.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Fried v. Lehman Brothers Real Estate
Associates, 651461/2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan). The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., 08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  