-- 
Einhorn Believes in Mets Turnaround With Fantasy Baseball Becoming Reality

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-27T04:03:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/einhorn-believes-in-mets-turnaround-with-fantasy-baseball-becoming-reality.html
David Einhorn , the hedge-fund manager
who said yesterday he would spend $200 million to buy a minority
stake in the  New York Mets , isn’t afraid of a fight.  On the eve of the announcement, Einhorn, who heads New
York’s $7.8 billion Greenlight Capital Inc., told an investment
conference crowd of 1,800 that software giant  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
board should oust Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer .  “It’s time for Microsoft’s board to tell Steve Ballmer,
‘All right, we see what you can do, let’s give so-and-so a
chance,’” Einhorn, 42, said at the Ira Sohn Investment
Conference in New York.  Einhorn has never been shy. Four months before Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt, he publicly questioned the
firm’s accounting, and for years he fought lender Allied Capital
over how it valued assets. The outspoken Einhorn’s next
challenge is partnering with  Fred Wilpon , the Mets majority
owner who is trying to turn around his money-losing team and
resolve a $1 billion lawsuit brought by the trustee representing
victims of  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  Einhorn is adamant that he will remain a passive owner of a
Major League Baseball franchise that’s made the playoffs once in
the past decade and last won a World Series title in 1986.  “Management isn’t going to change,” Einhorn said
yesterday in a conference call with reporters. “I’m optimistic
that the team’s financials will improve.”  Einhorn said he expects his minority interest in the Mets
to be a “very rewarding investment” that he will hold for a
“very, very long time.” He declined to comment on whether he’s
interested in owning a larger share of the team.  $427 Million Debt  Wilpon has said he won’t sell a controlling interest in the
club he bought with co-owner Saul Katz in 2002 for $391 million.
The Mets, after getting an emergency loan of $25 million last
year, carry $427 million in debt and may lose as much as $70
million this year, Wilpon told Sports Illustrated this month.  Irving Picard , the trustee who is liquidating Madoff’s
business, is seeking to recover $295 million in alleged phony
profits made by Sterling Equities Inc., the team ownership group
Wilpon and Katz set up, and as much as $700 million in principal.
Wilpon and Katz have said they were duped by Madoff.  The team was valued at $747 million when Forbes magazine
released its annual list of franchises in March. That’s a drop
of 13 percent from last year’s valuation by Forbes, which said
the Mets had negative operating income of $6.2 million in 2010.  Even if Wilpon and Katz settle out of court with Picard,
they may be forced to sell their majority interest in the Mets
because Einhorn’s $200 million cash infusion has been earmarked
to pay off debt including last year’s loan from  Major League
Baseball , said Wayne McDonnell, an associate professor of sports
management at  New York University .  ‘Band-Aid’  “It’s like putting a Band-Aid on a gunshot wound,” he
said in a telephone interview.  Einhorn probably has an agreement with the Mets that would
give him the first chance at majority ownership in the future,
according to McDonnell.  “No smart businessman in his right mind would invest $200
million without having some kind of language written in that he
would have right of first refusal if the Wilpons have to sell
their controlling interest,” McDonnell said.  Einhorn was a Mets fan since he lived in  New Jersey  as a
child. At age 6, he wore a homemade Mets jersey for Halloween,
and he remained a fan of the Amazin’s, as the team is known, for
several years after moving to Milwaukee. He eventually changed
allegiances and rooted for the Brewers.  “I’ve followed baseball since my childhood,” Einhorn said
in the press call, adding that he now coaches his daughter’s
Little League team. “I’ve watched thousands of games. This will
be a fantastic life experience.”  19% Annual Gains  Einhorn’s hedge fund has climbed an average of almost 19
percent a year since it was started in September 1996. While
most of the money he’s made is from buying stocks, he’s best
known for his bearish calls.  He began questioning Allied Capital’s valuations in 2002,
setting off a feud that triggered regulatory probes and civil
lawsuits. Einhorn was investigated by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission for possible stock manipulation before the
regulator set its sights on Allied Capital, whose shares
plummeted more than 80 percent in the ensuing eight years.  Alliance Capital in 2007 settled the SEC’s probe into its
valuation practices without admitting or denying allegations.  Einhorn presented his views on  Lehman Brothers ’ accounting
in May 2008 at the same charity-based investor conference he
spoke at this week. In follow-up television interviews, he said
the bank was undercapitalized and wasn’t valuing its commercial
mortgage-related assets based on market prices. Lehman Brothers
filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 15 that year.  Fantasy Baseball Strategy  More recently he’s been wagering on a decline in  St. Joe 
Co., the money-losing landowner based in Watersound,  Florida ,
saying the company sold its best waterfront land and is left
with rural acreage that reduces its true value to $10 a share.
St. Joe fell 16 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $21.71 yesterday in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Einhorn, in a 2006 interview, likened his investment
approach to the strategy he uses to play fantasy baseball, a
game won by assembling a team of players that compile the best
statistics in a variety of categories.  It may help explain how he would run the Mets if he gets
the chance. Einhorn said he’s usually reluctant to spend more
than $30 on individual players in fantasy baseball because he’s
limited to $260 for the whole roster.  Wilpon, in a New Yorker interview published this week,
criticized former General Manager  Omar Minaya ’s decision to sign
 Carlos Beltran  to a seven-year, $119 million contract following
the 2004 season, when the outfielder hit .435 with eight home
runs and 14 runs batted in over 12 playoff games for the  Houston
Astros .  Beltran Signing  He also took aim at himself.  “We had some schmuck in  New York  who paid him based on
that one series,” Wilpon was quoted as saying. Beltran is “65
to 70 percent of what he was,” the owner said.  The Mets fired Minaya after last season and replaced him
with  Sandy Alderson , an Ivy League-educated ex-Marine who built
a World Series-winning team with the  Oakland Athletics  and
previously worked as a top executive for Major League Baseball.  Einhorn has “no qualms” about the Mets’ leadership, he
said on yesterday’s call. He said he’s met Alderson and is
confident he will turn the club around.  “If he wasn’t running a baseball team, I could think of a
lot of other companies I’d rather have him manage,” Einhorn
said. “As long as we stay under his leadership and direction,
the Mets are going to point into a very good direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  