-- 
Einhorn Adds to Drumbeat for CEO Exits With Call to Oust Ballmer

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-05-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/einhorn-adds-to-drumbeat-for-ceo-exits-with-call-to-oust-ballmer.html
David Einhorn ’s call to replace
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  adds to
the drumbeat for change at the top of technology bellwethers.  Boards at increasingly large hardware and software makers
are replacing CEOs to help their companies repel threats from
upstarts such as Facebook Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  The aim is to keep
from getting left behind in emerging technologies including
social networking, mobile computing and the delivery of software
over the Internet, via the so-called cloud.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , Google Inc. and  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD)  lead technology companies with a combined $265 billion in
market value on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that have
changed CEOs since August. That’s up from companies worth $75
billion a year earlier. Privately held Twitter Inc. replaced its
CEO in October, a month after Finland’s  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  did the same.  Investors may clamor for new leadership at companies
including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , said
Bill Coleman, a  partner  at venture capital firm  Alsop Louie
Partners  in San Francisco.  “The companies that haven’t moved are under a lot of
pressure, and one of the first places you look to change things
is at the top,” said Coleman, the former CEO of BEA Systems
Inc., which was acquired by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  “There are lots of
companies like Nokia and RIM and AMD and Cisco that have fallen
behind and lost at least some of their competitive edge.”  Ballmer is being criticized as Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft loses market share to Apple and Google in mobile
phones and Apple’s iPad takes sales from personal computers
running Microsoft’s Windows.  Ballmer Dinged  The board docked Ballmer some of his potential bonus last
year for falling short in mobile and new forms of computers.  Einhorn, president of hedge fund Greenlight Capital Inc.,
said Ballmer has failed to seize on Microsoft’s opportunities
and overspent on efforts to remedy shortcomings.  “He’s allowed competitors to beat Microsoft in huge areas,
including search, mobile-communications software, tablet
computing and social networking,” Einhorn said at a conference
this week. “Even worse, his response to these failures has been
to pour tremendous resources into efforts to develop his way out
of these holes.”  During Ballmer’s 11-year reign as CEO, shares have declined
more than 50 percent, even though sales have more than tripled
and profit has risen 141 percent.  While investors’ patience with Ballmer is wearing thin,
Microsoft’s board may not quickly agitate for change, said Pat Becker Jr., principal of  Portland , Oregon-based Becker Capital
Management, which holds Microsoft.  ‘Losing the Tech World’  “He doesn’t have the investor base and my fear is he’s
losing his customer base and losing the tech world in general,”
said Becker, whose firm has about $2.5 billion in assets. “The
investor base would welcome new leadership, but whether the
board wants him to go is a different thing.”  Ballmer’s supporters could point to the company’s sales and
profit growth on his watch, said Michael Cusumano, a  professor 
at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s  Sloan School of
Management  in Cambridge.  “Financially Microsoft has really done quite well,”
Cusumano said. “They are still printing money essentially.”  Frank Shaw , a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to comment.  Other boards have shown less resistance to change. Hewlett-
Packard directors pushed out former CEO Mark Hurd in August
after an investigation found he violated the company’s code of
business ethics by concealing a personal relationship with a
female contractor.  Hewlett-Packard, AMD, Google  Hurd’s successor,  Leo Apotheker , said this month that he
inherited a company ill-equipped to win business from companies
that want to switch to cloud computing. AMD board members ousted
CEO Dirk Meyer in January amid frustration with the company’s
lack of progress in chips for tablets.  Google turned to one of its co-founders, Larry Page, 38, to
succeed  Eric Schmidt , 56, who ran the company for a decade. The
move was aimed at helping Google bolster its defenses against
Facebook and recapture the entrepreneurial ethos that fostered
the creation of the most-used search engine.  Some companies aim for executives who, by dint of age or
strategic vision, convey the sense they can cater to younger,
technology-savvy consumers, said Paul Saffo, managing director
at investment adviser  Discern Analytics .  Under CEO Steve Jobs, Apple has gained share in the
digital-music and mobile-phone industries with products that
demonstrate his appreciation of customers’ preferences, says
Saffo, whose firm is based in  San Francisco .  Knowing Customers’ Needs  “There’s that notion that a younger perspective really
matters,” he said. “It’s the difference between understanding
new technologies intellectually versus intuitively. It’s not
necessarily an age thing. Look at Steve Jobs -- he’s old enough
to join  AARP  -- but he has an intuitive understanding.”  Cisco CEO John Chambers, who scrapped a longstanding target
for annual sales increases of as much as 17 percent earlier this
month after five straight quarters of disappointing earnings
reports, “could be the next target,” Cusumano said.  Chambers is taking steps to revive growth by eliminating
jobs, exiting lower-margin consumer businesses and dismantling a
management structure that slowed decision making. Still, the
shares have yet to reverse a slide that has left them 29 percent
lower in the past 12 months, compared with a 24 percent gain in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “People worry Cisco has lost their edge and  John Chambers 
isn’t what he used to be,” said Dan Morgan, a  fund manager  at
Synovus Securities Inc., which oversees $7.5 billion and cut its
Cisco holdings this year, according to Bloomberg data.  Karen Tillman, a spokeswoman for San Jose, California-based
Cisco, declined to comment.  CEO ‘Term Limits’  Some CEOs have spent too long in the job to be able to
undertake the continual reinvention needed to keep pace, said Ed Zander, who served as CEO at the company then known as Motorola
Inc. and chief operating officer at Sun Microsystems.  “I’ve always thought there ought to be some term limits on
CEOs,” said Zander, who stepped down in 2008 as Motorola’s CEO.
“There’s more questions and more focus on the management ranks,
and do they have the wherewithal to keep reinventing. Some CEOs
have been at it a while and it’s hard.”  Analysts from at least eight securities firms have cut
their ratings on RIM after the Waterloo, Ontario-based company
reduced profit forecasts late last month, adding to evidence
that the maker of the BlackBerry is struggling to compete
against Apple and Google in the smartphone market.  Lazaridis’ ‘Technological Brains’  Sameet Kanade, an analyst at  Northern Securities Inc.  in
Toronto, has suggested the company should scrap its dual-CEO
structure, elevating co-CEO Mike Lazaridis over Jim Balsillie.  “When the momentum was in their favor, not a lot of
attention was paid to the disconnect of a co-CEO structure, but
with it, accountability is divided, or is not focused on one
person,” Kanade said. “Right now, they’re facing technological
challenges and Lazaridis, the technological brains, should be
running the whole show.”  RIM’s share of global smartphone sales fell to 13 percent
in the first quarter, from 20 percent a year earlier, Gartner
Inc. said. Share for Google’s Android more than tripled to 36
percent from 9.6 percent and Apple’s iOS rose to 17 percent from
15 percent. RIM stock has plummeted 27 percent in the past year.  Marisa Conway and Tenille Kennedy, spokeswomen for RIM,
didn’t respond to requests for comment.  “There’s market impatience with anyone who is not No. 1 in
their area,” Saffo said. “With all the technology shifts, the
degree of uncertainty has increased dramatically. Executives
have never had more pressure on them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 