-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Erase Weekly Loss as G-8 Says Economy Strengthening

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-27T22:16:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/emerging-market-stocks-erase-weekly-loss-on-rising-profit-economic-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, giving
the benchmark index its first weekly gain in five, as leaders of
the Group of Eight said the global economy is gaining strength
while Morgan Stanley raised South Korean and Brazilian stocks to
“overweight.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 1.3 percent to
1,147.82 at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , bringing this week’s gain to
0.6 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index posted its biggest
weekly gain since February as commodities rose.  South Korea ’s
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  climbed 0.4 percent and the won strengthened 0.6
percent against the dollar. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 2 percent
as OAO Lukoil and OAO Gazprom rose on higher oil prices.  G-8 leaders said a strengthening economy will pave the way
for cuts in the debt built up during the recession that followed
the 2008 financial crisis, with President Barack Obama promising
a “clear and credible” U.S. deficit-reduction strategy. While
the MSCI index snapped four straight weeks of losses, the 21-
country gauge is still down 0.3 percent this year, compared with
a 4.6 percent advance in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of developed-
nation equities.  “A not-too-hot, not-too-cold global economic backdrop
supports investment in emerging markets,” said Pablo Goldberg,
New York-based global head of emerging-market research at HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Korea Rally  South Korea and Brazil stocks were raised to “overweight”
at Morgan Stanley, which said valuations have improved after a
drop in developing-nation equities over the past five weeks.  The Kospi posted its best two-day rally since April 21. The
current-account surplus was $1.88 billion, compared with a
revised $1.33 billion in March, the Bank of Korea said. Global
demand has boosted South Korea’s exports at a double-digit pace
since November 2009 even as the won has risen.  The Bovespa index gained 0.3 percent as oil company
Petroleo Brasileiro SA and iron-ore miner Vale SA followed crude
and metal prices higher. The real gained 1.3 percent against the
dollar, the most in seven weeks.  “The global recovery is gaining strength and is becoming
more self-sustained,” according to a statement prepared for the
G-8 leaders at a two-day summit that ended today in Deauville,
France. Without mapping out binding targets, the leaders pledged
to “remain focused on the action required to enhance the
sustainability of public finances.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points to 3.12
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Index.  Japan  had the outlook on its AA- sovereign-debt rating cut
to negative from stable by Fitch Ratings, which called on Prime
Minister Naoto Kan’s government to step up efforts to control
the largest debt load in the industrialized world.  Turkey Selloff  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  has retreated 10.2 percent
in May, heading for the steepest monthly decline since October
2008. The gauge is down 11 percent from its 2011 high on May 3.
JPMorgan cut Turkish stocks to “underweight” from
“overweight,” citing a growing current-account deficit and
reduced profit forecasts for banks.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index declined 1 percent,
extending the biggest weekly drop in 11 months, on concern
inflation will accelerate. Consumer prices may increase as much
as 5.5 percent from a year earlier this month, the National
Business Daily reported today, citing Huachuang Securities Co.
China’s inflation rate was at 5.3 percent in April, the fastest
since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 