-- 
Tepco Failed to Disclose Scale of Fukushima Radiation Leaks, Academics Say

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-05-27T09:22:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/tepco-faces-massive-problem-containing-radioactive-water-at-fukushima.html
As a team from the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  visits  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s crippled
nuclear plant today, academics warn the company has failed to
disclose the scale of radiation leaks and faces a “massive
problem” with contaminated water.  The utility known as Tepco has been pumping cooling water
into the three reactors that melted down after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami. By May 18, almost 100,000 tons of
radioactive water had leaked into basements and other areas of
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The volume of radiated water may
double by the end of December and will cost 42 billion yen ($518
million) to decontaminate, according to Tepco’s estimates.  “Contaminated water is increasing and this is a massive
problem,” Tetsuo Iguchi, a specialist in isotope analysis and
radiation detection at Nagoya University, said by phone. “They
need to find a place to store the contaminated water and they
need to guarantee it won’t go into the soil.”  The 18-member IAEA team, led by the U.K.’s head nuclear
safety inspector, Mike Weightman, is visiting the Fukushima
reactors to investigate the accident and the response. Tepco and
 Japan ’s nuclear regulators haven’t updated the total radiation
leakage from the plant since April 12.  Tepco has been withholding data on radiation from Dai-Ichi,
Goshi Hosono, an adviser to Japan’s prime minister, said at a
press briefing today. Hosono said he ordered the utility to
check for any data it hasn’t disclosed and release the material
as soon as possible.  ‘Public Distrust’  “This kind of repetition will invite public distrust,”
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters today when
asked whether the perception that the government has withheld
data since the accident is eroding public trust. “This is a
grave situation for the entire nuclear energy administration as
much as the accident itself is.”  Japan’s nuclear safety agency estimated in April the
radiation released from Dai-Ichi to be around 10 percent of that
from the accident at Chernobyl in the former  Soviet Union  in
1986, while a Tepco official said at the time the amount may
eventually exceed it.  “Tepco knows more than they’ve said about the amount of
radiation leaking from the plant,” Jan van de Putte, a
specialist in radiation safety trained at the Technical
University of Delft in the Netherlands, said yesterday in Tokyo.
“What we need is a full disclosure, a full inventory of
radiation released including the exact isotopes.”  Leakage  Radiation leakage from Fukushima was raised at a hearing of
the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee this
week. U.S. regulations may need to be changed after the
Fukushima meltdown, William Ostendorff, a member of the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission said.  The Japanese utility is trying to put the reactors into a
cold shutdown, where core temperatures fall below 100 degrees
Celsius (212 degrees Fahrenheit), within six to nine months.
Ostendorff rated the chance of Tepco achieving that goal at six
or seven out of 10.  Tepco took more than two months to confirm the meltdowns in
three reactors and this week reported the breaches in the
containment chambers. The delay in releasing information has led
to criticism of Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  for not doing more to
ensure Tepco is keeping the public informed.  ‘Fundamentally Incorrect’  “What I told the public was fundamentally incorrect,” Kan
said in parliament on May 20, referring to assessments from the
government and Tokyo that reactors were stable and the situation
was contained not long after March 11. “The government failed
to respond to Tepco’s mistaken assumptions and I am deeply
sorry.”  Public disagreements emerged this week between Tepco and
the government over whether orders were given to halt seawater
injection into reactors to cool them the day after the tsunami.  Tepco is considering whether to discipline the manager of
the Fukushima plant, Masao Yoshida, after he ignored an order to
stop pumping seawater, Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at
the company, said yesterday.  He was commenting after  Kyodo News  cited Tepco Vice-
President Sakae Muto saying Yoshida will be removed for
disobeying the order. Hosono said Yoshida is needed at the plant
to contain the crisis.  Blackout  The earthquake and tsunami knocked out power in the
Fukushima plant, depriving reactor cooling systems of
electricity. Fuel rods overheated, causing fires, explosions and
radiation leaks in the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency on April 12
raised the severity rating of the Fukushima accident to 7, the
highest on the global scale and the same as Chernobyl. The
partial reactor meltdown at Three Mile Island in  Pennsylvania  in
1979 is rated 5.  The government needs to investigate the total amount of
radiation leaked from the plant to ascertain damage to the ocean
from contaminated water, said van de Putte, also a nuclear
specialist at environmental group Greenpeace International.  The group found seaweed and fish contaminated to more than
50 times the 2,000 becquerel per kilogram legal limit for
radioactive iodine-131 off the coast of Fukushima during a
survey between May 3 and 9.  Mol, Belgium-based  Nuclear Research Centre  and Herouville-
Saint-Clair, France-based  Association pour le Controle de la
Radioactivite dans l’Ouest  confirmed they conducted analysis of
the samples supplied by Greenpeace.  Radiation Readings  Ascertaining the cumulative volume of radiation emitted by
the plant is possible, van de Putte said.  “Perhaps the government will speak about this matter after
the detailed accident analysis,” the University of Nagoya’s
Iguchi said. “It’s possible to calculate this with the time-
series plant data recorded in the control room. The most
important thing we need to know is the amount of fuel left in
the reactor core.”  Tepco is planning to treat the contaminated water at Dai-
Ichi with a unit supplied by  Areva SA (CEI)  from mid-June. The
decontamination equipment can process 1,200 tons of water a day,
Tepco said.  The company had little choice in pouring water on the
reactors because the risk of contamination was outweighed by the
risk of leaving fuel rods exposed, Peter Burns, a nuclear
physicist with 40 years of radiation safety experience, said in
an interview.  Burns, the former representative for  Australia  on the
 United Nations ’ scientific committee on atomic radiation, added
pumping in the water “was a desperate measure for desperate
times.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  