-- 
Ethiopia Rebel Group Says It’s Holding Two Abducted United Nations Workers

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-05-27T12:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/ethiopia-rebel-group-says-it-s-holding-two-abducted-united-nations-workers.html
Ethiopia ’s rebel Ogaden National
Liberation Front said it is holding two World Food Programme
workers who have been missing since May 13 and plans to hand
them over to the  United Nations  agency.  “We have the two WFP workers,” ONLF spokesman Abdirahman
Mahdi said in a phone interview from  London  today. “We will hand
them over to the United Nations or any other relevant body as
soon the conditions on the ground allow us to.”  The pair went missing in the eastern Somali region after an
attack on their convoy in which one worker died and another was
injured, according to the WFP. The government and the ONLF,
which has been fighting for self-determination of the Ogaden
area of the region since 1984, accused each other of carrying
out the armed ambush.  The WFP doesn’t have any confirmation that its two staff
members have been freed, Judith Schuler, the agency’s spokesman
in Ethiopia, said in a phone interview today from  Addis Ababa .
“The search for them is ongoing.”  The ONLF said it attacked a prison in Galalshe, about 395
kilometers (245 miles) east of the capital, Addis Ababa, where
the WFP workers had been detained after being abducted by
Ethiopia’s army. The two were among hundreds of people freed
from the jail following clashes early yesterday morning that
resulted in “heavy” casualties for state forces, the banned
organization said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Absolute Lie’  “It’s an absolute lie,” Communications State Minister
 Shimeles Kemal  said in a phone interview from Addis Ababa today.
“The group is fractured into factions and the majority of
factions are involved in peaceful negotiations. The hardcore
element is splintered and trying to attract publicity by making
false statements.”  Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi ’s administration signed a
cease-fire with a faction of the group in October and released
402 ONLF fighters from prison in January.  Shimeles said in the past two days, Ethiopian special
police ambushed an armed wing of the ONLF about to attack
Galalshe and killed more than 70 fighters. Three policemen were
killed in the incident, he said.  The government last month issued an appeal backed by aid
agencies for $75 million to provide emergency help to 2 million
people in the south and southeast of the Horn of Africa nation
amid a drought. Emergency deliveries have resumed in some parts
of the region after they were suspended following the attack,
Schuler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 