-- 
EU Plan to Drop Serial Numbers for Carbon May Raise Fraud Risk

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-05-27T12:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/eu-plan-to-drop-serial-numbers-for-carbon-may-raise-fraud-risk.html
The European Union  proposal  to hide
the serial numbers on carbon dioxide permits “makes no sense”
because it may expose the market to greater fraud, according to
SJ Berwin LLP.  “The whole point of serial numbers is to allow
identification,” Angus Evers, a London-based partner at the  law
firm , said by e-mail. “The fact that each allowance has a
serial number allowed the stolen allowances to be traced very
easily. Not having serial numbers would make it even easier for
fraudsters.”  The EU proposed May 5 changing its policy on serial numbers
to better protect the bloc’s carbon market from fraud and abuse.
The proposed regulation for the EU carbon registry, slated to
start operating next year, includes a plan to make serial
numbers of carbon permits invisible to market participants.  The identifiers “also minimize the risk of the same
allowances being sold to multiple buyers,” said Evers, who has
specialized in environmental law since 2002.  Regulators are responding after computer hackers improperly
transferred about 4 million metric tons of EU allowances in the
past year valued at 65 million euros ($94 million) at today’s
price on BlueNext SA of 16.31 euros a ton. Permits have jumped
6.6 percent in the year to date.  “This is an attempt to find a solution to the issue of
what happens to buyers who unwittingly buy stolen EUAs,”  Trevor Sikorski , a London-based analyst at  Barclays Capital , the
investment unit of Barclays Plc, said by e-mail. “I don’t think
that it fully solves the issue.”  It might discourage traders from holding allowances, and
cause a “flight from spot” trading, Sikorski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  