-- 
EU Says It Won’t Weaken Effects of Basel Rules in the Region

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-05-27T15:08:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/eu-says-it-won-t-weaken-the-effects-of-basel-rules-in-the-region.html
The European Union’s financial
services chief said the region will respect the “level of
ambition” of global rules on capital and liquidity endorsed by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Criticisms that the EU will not “properly” implement the
measures, known as Basel III, are “unjustified and simply
factually wrong,”  Michel Barnier , the member of the European
Commission dealing with banking regulation, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Barnier told lawmakers earlier this week that the EU would
carry out a thorough analysis before deciding whether to
implement a binding limit on bank indebtedness proposed by the
Basel committee. Draft legislation prepared by the commission,
and circulated to national finance ministries this month also
says the EU is debating whether to apply some Basel rules.  “ Europe  will implement Basel III: we have said it before
and I confirm it to you today, the commission’s proposals to
implement Basel III will respect the balance and level of
ambition included” in the committee’s work, Barnier said today.  Global regulators in the Basel committee adopted the
standards last year to mitigate the effects of future banking
crises.  “It seems unlikely that we will see a proposal which is
wholly consistent with Basel III,” Bob Penn, a financial
regulation partner at law firm Allen & Overy LLP in  London , said
in an e-mail.  “Reconciling Basel III with the existing EU capital
requirements framework is technically difficult and likely to
prove problematic in a number of areas,” Penn said.  Lack of Clarity  Barnier told lawmakers on May 24 that “there is a lack of
clarity” about the possible consequences of the debt limit,
known as a  leverage ratio . “I have to be careful,” he said.  The commission’s draft proposals for implementing Basel III
fall short of promising to seek a mandatory adoption of a so-
called net-stable funding ratio, which aims to limit the
mismatch between the duration of loans and deposits, to ensure
that banks don’t face cash-flow shortages. Instead, it says the
commission will “consider proposing” such a requirement
“after an observation and review period.”  The EU intends to apply Basel rules to a “much wider
universe of institutions” than foreseen by the Basel committee
and that will affect the design of the European legislation,
Monika Mars, a PricewaterhouseCoopers AG director, said in a
phone interview.  Internationally Active Banks  “Implementing properly means you take into account that
there are situations where rules that were drawn up for
internationally active banks do not appropriately address the
situation of small local financial institutions and investment
firms in the EU,” Mars said.  Barnier will be vigilant in ensuring that the Basel rules
do not include “loopholes” in the capital treatment of banks’
insurance units,  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for the
commissioner, told reporters at a press briefing today.  Barnier has said that he will unveil the final version of
his plans by the end of July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 