-- 
EU Unlikely to Offer Deeper CO2 Cut Before Summit, Poland Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-05-27T12:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/eu-unlikely-to-offer-deeper-co2-cut-before-summit-poland-says.html
The European Union is unlikely to
propose a deepening of the bloc’s greenhouse-gas reduction
target before the next global climate summit, due to start in
November, Polish Environment MinisterAndrzej Kraszewski said.  The EU, which wants to lead the global fight against
 climate change , is on schedule to meet its binding goal of
cutting emissions by 20 percent in 2020 compared with 1990
levels. It has said it’s ready to move to a 30 percent target if
other countries follow suit.  Kraszewski, who met with EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  in Brussels yesterday before Poland adopts the
rotating EU presidency in July, said  Europe  will keep its
options open during the international climate talks in Durban,
South Africa, scheduled from November 28 to December 9.  “I don’t expect a proposal from the European Commission on
a deeper target before Durban,” he told reporters today. “The
Polish government has repeatedly highlighted its negative
opinion about a stricter goal. The conditions for it, namely
comparable efforts by other countries such as  China  or the U.S.,
haven’t been met.”  Carbon-dioxide allowances under the EU emissions trading
system, a cornerstone of the bloc’s climate initiative, traded
1.5 percent higher at 16.59 euros a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange as of 11:52 a.m. in  London . The contract
has gained 17 percent this year.  Kyoto Expiry  Global talks to iron out a climate-protection framework
after the expiry of the Kyoto Protocol in 2012 have stalled amid
differences between developing and industrialized countries.  While envoys from more than 190 nations at the last United
Nations climate summit in Cancun,  Mexico , agreed in December to
send as much as $100 billion a year to vulnerable nations by
2020, protect forests and outline methods to verify cuts in
fossil fuel emissions, disagreements have kept the negotiators
from crafting a new binding agreement.  As China,  India ,  Brazil  and  South Africa  pressed developed
nations to make pledges of bigger cuts,  Japan ,  Russia  and  Canada 
said they don’t want to extend the Kyoto treaty to the so-called
second commitment period unless the two biggest emitters, China
and the U.S., accept the agreement.  “The world is recovering from a crisis and certain
countries are not willing to make long-term commitments,”
Kraszewski said. “But I still think that the second commitment
of the Kyoto Protocol is possible under certain conditions.”  ‘Scale Up Efforts’  The EU urged governments and businesses in March to make
energy efficiency a higher priority to help the bloc surpass its
current carbon-reduction goal and achieve a 25-percent cut in
pollution, reduce reliance on fossil fuels and boost security of
energy supplies.  The EU may cut pollution by 25 percent domestically in 2020
as long as it steps up energy-saving measures, according to an
analysis by the commission. The most cost-efficient scenario to
reach the EU aim of reducing carbon discharges by 80 percent in
2050 is to cut emissions by 40 percent in 2030 and 60 percent in
2040, the commission said.  “We’re looking into the possibilities of how we can scale
up efforts,” said Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for
the commission. “We’re still in a debate on going to 30 percent
and in the coming months we’ll come up with a breakdown of costs
at national level for EU member states.”  A decision by the 27-member EU to adopt a more ambitious
emissions-reduction target would have to be backed by national
governments and the European Parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 