-- 
Dollar Tumbles Versus Major Counterparts; N.Z. Currency Approaches Record

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-27T21:05:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/euro-heads-for-weekly-decline-versus-yen-on-debt-woes-falling-confidence.html
The dollar dropped against all of its
16 most-traded counterparts as U.S. consumer spending rose less
than forecast, adding to speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
lag behind other central banks in raising  interest rates .  The Swiss franc rallied to a record against the euro and
greenback as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis encouraged demand
for a refuge and Switzerland’s leading economic indicator held
at the highest level in almost five years. New Zealand’s dollar
approached a record versus the dollar after Finance Minister
Bill English said  China  Investment Corp. is interested in buying
his country’s government bonds.  “We’ve gotten a lot of weak data out of the U.S., so
that’s fueling speculation of longer-term accommodation by the
Fed,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist at Gain
Capital Group LLC in New York. “We’ve been looking a lot at the
 New Zealand dollar . China is a big player in the market, and
when they say they’re looking at a particular currency or
region, you see the market react.”  The  U.S. dollar  tumbled 1.2 percent to $1.4319 per euro at
5 p.m. in New York, from $1.4145 yesterday, after reaching
$1.4324, the weakest level since May 20. It has lost 1 percent
this week. The greenback depreciated 0.6 percent to 80.80 yen,
from 81.29, after touching 80.70, the lowest level since May 16.
The yen weakened 0.6 percent to 115.67, from 114.97.  ‘Insufficient’ Progress  The U.S. said China has made “insufficient” progress on
letting the yuan rise and urged faster appreciation, without
branding the world’s fastest-growing major economy a currency
manipulator. The report, originally due in April, said “no major
trading partner” of the U.S. met the legal standard of
improperly manipulating its currency.  Futures traders cut bets the dollar will fall against five
of its major peers to the lowest since January in the week ended
May 24, according to figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decrease in the dollar versus the
euro, yen, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Swiss franc
compared with those on an advance -- so-called net shorts -- was
115,541 on May 24, the smallest since Jan. 16.  The greenback slumped today as Commerce Department data
showed U.S. consumer purchases rose 0.4 percent in April after a
revised 0.5 percent gain in March that was smaller than
previously estimated, Commerce Department data showed. A
Bloomberg News survey forecast a 0.5 percent rise. National
Association of Realtors data showed pending home resales in the
U.S. plunged 12 percent in April.  Rate Bets Drop  Interest-rate futures contracts show traders cut bets on a
rise in the Fed’s benchmark rate in March 2012 by almost half
over the past month. The likelihood is 24 percent, compared with
47 percent odds a month ago, the data showed. The U.S. central
bank has kept its fed funds target at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell as much as 1.1 percent to 74.754, the
lowest in two weeks.  New Zealand ’s dollar climbed to the strongest level versus
the greenback since March 2008, approaching a record high, as
Finance Minister English confirmed that China Investment, a
sovereign wealth fund, was interested in buying the nation’s
bonds at auction.  Kiwi Record  The currency, nicknamed the kiwi, advanced as much as 1
percent to 81.98 U.S. cents before trading at 81.92 cents. The
kiwi’s record high since  exchange-rate  controls ended in 1985 is
82.14 cents, which was reached on Feb. 27, 2008. It gained 2.9
percent this week.  Australia ’s dollar gained 0.6 percent to $1.0709.  “Investors drew the conclusion that if Chinese official
buyers like New Zealand bonds so much, they must at least have a
bit of a crush on Australian bonds and other risk-related
currencies with much bigger bond markets than New Zealand,”
Steven Englander, head of Group-of-10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in  New York , wrote to clients.  Switzerland’s franc was up 0.7 percent to 1.2156 per euro
after earlier touching 1.2102, the strongest level since the
shared currency’s 1999 debut. It appreciated as much as 2.2
percent to 84.65 centimes per dollar, the strongest since at
least 1971.  Swiss National Bank   The franc gained for a second week versus the euro amid
speculation the exchange rate won’t prevent the Swiss National
Bank from raising interest rates as the economy expands. Policy
makers may boost rates from near zero as soon as next month,
Jan-Egbert Sturm, head of the KOF Swiss Economic Institute, told
state television on May 25.  The  KOF  said today  Switzerland ’s leading economic indicator
was at 2.30, unchanged from April, which was the highest since
August 2006. Economists forecast a drop to 2.22.  “The Swiss franc seems like it really can’t do anything
wrong,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. “It firms on the
back of  risk aversion  in the  euro zone  as a safe haven, but it
also looks more favorable as the SNB may have to tighten policy
after favorable data.”  The franc has gained 5 percent this year as the best
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The currency, perceived as a refuge, gained yesterday as
Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads a
group of euro-area finance chiefs, said yesterday the
 International Monetary Fund  may not release its share of aid to
debt-strapped  Greece  next month.  The euro has weakened 2.4 percent over the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as European
leaders have struggled to keep the debt crisis from worsening.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  