-- 
European Stocks Advance; Lloyds, BNP Paribas, Rio Tinto Increase

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-05-27T16:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/european-stock-index-futures-rise-tate-lyle-financial-shares-may-move.html
European stocks climbed, with the
benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index paring this week’s drop, as the
Group of Eight said the global economy is strengthening.  Banking shares gained 1.1 percent as a group after
Citigroup Inc. raised its recommendation on the sector to
“overweight.” Lloyds Banking Group Plc jumped 2.8 percent,
while  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA rose 2.3 percent. Xstrata Plc, the largest
exporter of coal used by power stations, and  Rio Tinto  Group,
the third-biggest mining company, led gains in basic-resource
companies as metal prices rallied in  London .  The Stoxx 600 increased 0.7 percent to 279.05 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, trimming this week’s decline to 0.2
percent. The gauge has risen 6.4 percent from this year’s low on
March 16 amid optimism that company profits and government
stimulus measures will sustain the economic recovery.  “I’m still bullish on equities until the end of the year,
but we should see more volatile sessions in the summer,” said
 Robert Halver , head of research at Baader Bank AG in  Frankfurt .
“We’re still facing the debt crisis, but the liquidity
environment is still good.”  The strengthening world economy will pave the way for
reductions in debt, G-8 leaders said at the end of their two-day
summit in a statement.  “The global recovery is gaining strength and is becoming
more self sustained,” the statement said. Without mapping out
binding targets, the leaders pledged to “remain focused on the
action required to enhance the sustainability of public
finances.”  U.S. Consumer Confidence  In the U.S., a report today showed that consumer sentiment
increased in May. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final consumer confidence gauge increased to 74.3 in May from
69.8 in April, the group reported today. A separate report today
showed that  consumer spending  cooled in April as purchases
increased 0.4 percent, their smallest advance in three months.  In the U.K., consumer confidence jumped the most in 18
years in May as Britons became less pessimistic about their
finances and the economy, a report by GfK NOP Ltd. showed.  Inflation in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy,
unexpectedly eased in May after  oil prices  dropped from a 2 1/2-
year high. The harmonized inflation rate fell to 2.4 percent
from 2.7 percent in April, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists had predicted that inflation
would hold at the highest level since September 2008, the median
of 17 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  National benchmark indexes in all 18 western European
markets except  Greece  advanced today. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  added
0.7 percent and the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rallied 1 percent.
 France ’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  climbed 0.9 percent.  Bank Shares Rally  Banking shares gained 1.1 percent as a group after
Citigroup recommended the industry, citing its recent
underperformance. The broker named  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , BNP
Paribas and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  among its preferred stocks.  Separately, the Financial Times reported that banks in the
European Union could dodge part of the globally agreed new Basel
III capital requirements under draft legislation implementing
the standards. The newspaper cited unnamed people who had seen
the draft.  HSBC climbed 1.1 percent to 630.5 pence and BNP Paribas,
France’s largest bank, rose 2.3 percent to 53.50 euros. Lloyds,
Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, surged 2.8 percent to 52.8
pence, its largest increase in seven weeks.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  climbed 2.3 percent to
37.50 euros after UBS AG upgraded eastern Europe’s third-biggest
lender to “buy” from “neutral.”  Bank of Ireland  Bank of Ireland Plc soared 3.4 percent to 18.5 euro cents,
its first gain in three days. The Dublin-based lender will soon
complete an offer that allows junior bondholders to swap their
debt for equity in the bank, according to two people familiar
with talks on the plan.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  shares rallied 4.8 percent to 2.55 euros, their
largest advance in seven weeks. The lender to local governments
that was rescued by France and  Belgium  in 2008 said it will take
a charge of 3.6 billion euros ($5.1 billion) to cover future
losses from mostly U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities
and long-term bond disposals.  Aegon NV (AGN)  jumped 4.4 percent to 4.86 euros after the Dutch
owner of U.S. insurer Transamerica Corp. was raised to “buy”
from “neutral” at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, which
said the shares were punished too much for the company’s
relatively weak first-quarter earnings.  Xstrata, Rio Tinto  Xstrata rose 2 percent to 1,423.5 pence, while Rio Tinto
climbed 2.9 percent to 4,267 pence. Basic-resource shares were
the best performing industry group in the Stoxx 600, rising 1.5
percent.  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA, Europe’s biggest supplier of
building materials, and  CRH Plc (CRH) , the world’s second-largest
buildings material maker, gained 1.5 percent to 45.09 euros and
1.4 percent to 15.05 euros, respectively. Builders were among
the best performers in Europe today, rallying 1.1 percent as a
group.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  jumped 3.1 percent to 361 pence as Europe’s
second-biggest discount airline was raised to “buy” from
“hold” at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  surged 3.4 percent to 253.3 pence after the
world’s largest publicly traded hedge fund manager was also
upgraded to “buy” from “hold” by the brokerage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  