-- 
European Confidence Worsened in May

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-05-27T10:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/european-confidence-in-economy-dropped-this-month-on-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
European confidence in the economic
outlook weakened for a third straight month in May as the
region’s worsening debt crisis and surging commodity costs
clouded growth prospects.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
member euro region slipped to 105.5 from 106.1 in April, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. Economists had
forecast a drop to 105.7, the median of 27 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey showed.  The euro-area economy is showing signs of a slowdown as
governments toughen austerity measures to lower budget gaps as
investors grow increasingly concerned that  Greece  may default,
while oil-driven inflation squeezes household incomes. European
manufacturing growth slowed this month and money supply expanded
at a weaker pace in April, easing pressure on the  European
Central Bank  to raise borrowing costs further.  “Greek restructuring fears, high  oil prices , fiscal
tightening and slower external demand are damping the economic
mood,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Group in
Amsterdam. “The ECB is likely to stay in a gradual tightening
mood.”  The euro declined after the data were released, dipping to
$1.4199 at 11:00 a.m. in Brussels before rebounding to $1.4215,
up 0.5 percent.  ‘Major Risk’  A gauge of sentiment among euro-region manufacturers fell
to 3.9 in May from 5.6 in the previous month, today’s report
showed. An indicator of services confidence slipped to 9.2 from
10.4, while a measure of  consumer confidence  rose to minus 9.8
from minus 11.6 in April. Sentiment among builders and retailers
also worsened this month.  Euro-region growth may lag behind an expansion in the U.S.
this year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said on May 25, when calling the debt crisis a
“major risk” to the outlook. In the currency union, gross
domestic product may rise 2 percent this year, while U.S. GDP is
seen increasing 2.6 percent. Japan may contract in 2011, the
Paris-based group said.  “The pace of recovery is likely to be dampened by required
fiscal consolidation” as well as rising energy costs, the OECD
said. “Risks around the pace of the recovery in domestic demand
remain substantial but broadly balanced.”  European governments are seeking ways to fight the debt
crisis from spreading as investors grow increasingly concerned
that Greece won’t be able to repay its debt after last year’s
110 billion-euro ($157 billion) bailout.  Andrew Bosomworth , a
 fund manager  at Pacific Investment Management Co., said on May
25 that a default “might be inevitable.”  ‘Growth Moderation’  “So far, the tensions in the periphery didn’t have
implications for the growth performance of the region’s core
countries,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in London. Still, “we expect to see some growth
moderation starting from the second quarter.”  Euro-growth is cooling after the economy expanded 0.8
percent in the first quarter. European manufacturing and
services growth weakened in May, French business confidence fell
and German executives grew less pessimistic about the outlook.
M3 growth, which the ECB uses as a gauge for future inflation,
slowed to 2 percent in April from 2.3 percent in March, central
bank data showed today.  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, may continue to
drive the region’s expansion this year as companies step up
output and hiring to meet export demand, encouraging  consumer
spending . The European Commission on May 13 forecast German GDP
to rise 2.6 percent this year after increasing a record 3.6
percent in 2010.  ‘Good Start’  Schaeffler Group , the roller-bearing maker that owns 60
percent of Continental AG, on May 17 reported a return to profit
in the first quarter and Chief Executive Officer Juergen Geissinger said that “following a good start to 2011, we are
looking forward to the remainder of the year with confidence.”  An indicator of manufacturers’ order books slipped to minus
2.5 in May from 0.1 in the previous month, today’s report
showed. An indicator of employment expectations fell to 6.3 from
7.3 and a gauge measuring the assessment of the development in
selling prices dropped to 19.8 from 21.3.  With governments toughening austerity measures and the
recovery faltering, companies may struggle to pass on higher
costs. Crude oil prices have increased 35 percent over the past
year, pushing euro-region inflation to 2.8 percent in April.  A gauge measuring households’ confidence in their ability
to save money over the coming year rose to minus 7.4 from minus
8.1 in April. An indicator of expectations in unemployment
dropped to 13.7 from 16.6 and a gauge of price developments over
the coming 12 months fell to 27.4 from 30.7. Consumers also were
less willing to purchase big-ticket items over the coming year,
according to the report.  ‘Uncertain’ Outlook  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, the Paris-based maker of Birkin
handbags, said on May 11 that the forecast for 2011 is “clouded
by geopolitical and economic uncertainties.”  The ECB, which aims to keep annual gains in consumer prices
just below 2 percent, last month raised borrowing costs for the
first time in almost three years to fight price pressures. While
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has signalled the central bank may
keep the benchmark rate at 1.25 percent next month, he said
yesterday that policy makers are “carefully monitoring”
developments and will “do whatever is necessary.”  “The ECB is clearly looking to ram home the message that
it will be tough on inflation, despite the uncertain growth
outlook and the problem facing the southern euro-zone periphery
countries and Ireland,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . “July remains the
most likely choice for the next ECB interest rate hike.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB will hold its next policy meeting
on June 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  