-- 
European Stocks Slide for Fourth Week as Sovereign-Debt Concern Escalates

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/european-stocks-slide-for-fourth-week-as-sovereign-debt-concern-escalates.html
European stocks fell for a fourth
straight week as mounting sovereign-debt concern in  Greece  and
 Italy  and the worst election defeat for Spain’s ruling Socialist
Party in 30 years weighed on investor sentiment.  Alpha Bank SA and Italy’s Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl led
a retreat in Greek and Italian lenders.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) 
dropped 4.5 percent after saying operating margin will probably
fall in the first half of its fiscal year. Cable & Wireless
Communications Plc plunged 7 percent. Mining companies limited
declines as copper climbed and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
it’s turning “more bullish” on commodities.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.2 percent to 279.05
this past week as national benchmarks in every west European
country except Spain and  Norway  retreated. The benchmark gauge
has fallen 1.7 percent so far this month as commodity producers
tumbled with metal and oil prices and Greek 10-year bond yields
soared to a record as rating firms downgraded the nation’s
credit rating.  “Near term, the outlook is tricky given leading indicators
are rolling over, ongoing concerns over euro-zone sovereign debt
and a gap in the corporate newsflow,” said London-based UBS AG
equity strategist  Nick Nelson , in a report to clients dated May
24. “However, we stick to our year-end target of 310 for the
Stoxx 600.”  The head of the group of euro-area finance ministers, Jean- Claude Juncker, this week said the  International Monetary Fund 
may withhold its 3.3 billion-euro ($4.7 billion) contribution to
the 12 billion-euro payment that Greece had expected to receive
next month.  Greek Debt  Juncker earlier in the week said an assessment on new
measures for Greece may come as soon as the beginning of June.
The Luxembourg prime minister reiterated that he strongly
opposes a full restructuring of Greece’s debt.  The euro touched a record low against the Swiss franc and
reached its lowest in a week against the dollar after  Spain ’s
Socialist Party suffered a defeat in local elections as voters
punished Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s party for
soaring unemployment and spending cuts.  The 17-nation currency also fell after  Standard & Poor’s  on
May 20 cut Italy’s credit-rating outlook to negative from
stable, citing slowing economic growth and “diminished”
prospects for a reduction of government debt. Italy’s Treasury
said in a statement from  Rome  that it will “intensify”
structural changes in the economy and push ahead with measures
to balance the budget by 2014.  Stock gains were also limited after a report in the U.S.
showed that the world’s largest economy grew at a 1.8 percent
annual rate in the first quarter, missing economists’ forecasts
for a 2.2 percent pace. A separate report showed that orders for
durable goods also fell last month more than forecast.  Alpha, Piraeus, Popolare  Alpha Bank, which swung to a profit in the first-quarter,
still dropped 5.3 percent this week.  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) , Greece’s
fourth biggest, declined 2.9 percent and Banca Popolare di
Milano, which was downgraded to “underweight” at HSBC Holdings
Plc, fell 7.1 percent in Milan.  Burberry tumbled 4.5 percent as the U.K.’s biggest luxury
retailer said its operating margin will probably fall in the
first six months of the fiscal year.  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc plunged 7 percent after
warning it’s cautious on the outlook for the company’s Caribbean
operations.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  led mining companies higher as the copper
producer in  Chile  reported a 30 percent jump in first-quarter
profit. The stock surged 8.7 percent this week.  Kazakhmys Plc increased 3.8 percent, Rio Tinto Group
advanced 3.7 percent and Xstrata Plc climbed 2 percent.  Basic Resources  A gauge of basic-resource shares was the best performing of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 this week as commodities
rebounded after Goldman Sachs turned more bullish on raw
materials.  British Airways Plc led carriers down, falling 4.9 percent
after a volcanic eruption in Iceland disrupted trans-Atlantic
flights. Air France-KLM Group slid 3.2 percent and Deutsche
Lufthansa AG lost 3.7 percent.  Ericsson AB paced technology shares lower, falling 3.3
percent after BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research lowered its
recommendation to “underperform” from “neutral,” saying
expectations for earnings in coming quarters may be too high.  Logitech International Ltd. lost 7.9 percent after a class
action began in  New York  against the company, law firm Robbins
Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP said in an e-mailed statement.  Renewable Energy Corp. slumped 18 percent in Oslo after the
company forecast it will make a smaller second-quarter operating
profit than it did in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  