-- 
Tevez Won’t Make $33 Million Move to Juventus, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-27T10:30:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/tevez-won-t-make-33-million-move-to-juventus-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  No Juve  Carlos Tevez  has rejected a lucrative transfer to Juventus,
giving the biggest indication yet that he will remain at
Manchester City, the  Daily Mail  said.  Juventus officials made an offer of 20 million pounds
($32.9 million) a year, plus bonuses, to Tevez’s agents, who
turned it down, the Mail said.  Tevez had refused to consider Juventus and now appears
likely to captain City into the Champions League next season,
the Mail said.  Gael Going?  Inter Milan is looking to sign Arsenal defender  Gael Clichy , whose contract expires after next season,  the Sun said.   The 25-year-old Frenchman has been given an ultimatum to
sign a new contract with his London club in the next few months
or be sold, the newspaper said. Bayern Munich and Juventus may
also be interested, the Sun said.  Birmingham Blues  Birmingham faces losing both of its central defenders after
being relegated from the Premier League, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Liverpool is chasing  Scott Dann , who could be available for
around 10 million pounds, and Sunderland is interested in Roger
Johnson, who can be had for just 4 million, the newspaper said.  Blackburn is also planning another attempt for Blues
midfielder Sebastian Larsson after a deal for the Swede fell
through in January, the  Sun said .  Parker Wanted  Aston Villa  has joined the race to sign West Ham midfielder
 Scott Parker , the  Sun said .  Parker is sure to leave the Hammers after the east London
team was relegated, with Tottenham and Liverpool leading the
chase the Sun said. Parker is rated at 10 million pounds and
Villa will raise money from the sale of winger  Ashley Young , the
newspaper said.  Villa Keepers  Villa will also move for Nottingham Forest goalkeeper Lee
Camp to replace American Brad Friedel, who’s leaving,  the Mirror
said .  The former Derby player is valued at about 3.5 million
pounds, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 