-- 
Texas Pay-Day Lenders Dodge Caps as Bills Put Industry on Watch

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/texas-pay-day-lenders-dodge-caps-as-bills-put-industry-on-watch.html
Texas  lawmakers rejected limits on
rates lenders can charge for loans tied to car titles and
paychecks, while telling companies that they may face tougher
rules if they abuse consumers in the second-most populous state.  Two bills, headed to Governor  Rick Perry  for enactment,
require greater disclosure of terms and give the state the
authority to collect consumer complaints. The measures don’t
limit fees or add enforcement powers, said Leslie Pettijohn,
head of the Office of Consumer Credit Commissioner in Austin.  Caps on loans at 35 percent of a family’s income and limits
on how many times a loan tied to a vehicle or paycheck can be
refinanced failed to win support. The lenders spent more than $8
million on lobbying, according to an advocacy group. Legislative
leaders warned the industry to rein in business practices barred
by states including  Maryland  and  North Carolina .  “If it’s the industry’s intent going forward to hide
behind an army of lobbyists rather than sitting down and working
in good faith to resolve these issues, then those of us who
understand that this industry has a place in the market may not
be so understanding next time,” Senator John Carona, a Dallas
Republican who heads the business and industry committee, said
at a May 18 hearing. “We’re going to look very carefully at
this industry over the next two years.”  Carona, who voted for the new rules, said industry lobbying
influenced many lawmakers, making passage of lending limits
unworkable, particularly in the  House of Representatives .  Industry Concerns  Lenders including  Cash America International Inc. (CSH)  and
 Ezcorp Inc. (EZPW)  warned that tougher laws would lead to job cuts,
said Rob Norcross, a spokesman for trade group  Consumer Service
Alliance of Texas . He added that some said tighter limits may
push them to leave the state.  Many legislators consider rules to cap interest rates and
limit loans to be excessive regulation, Representative Gary Elkins, a Houston Republican who owns 12 pay-day lending stores,
said in an interview.  Pay-day lenders spent $8.4 million on lobbyists from
January 2009 to March 11 and donated $1.37 million to state
lawmakers’ campaigns, according to a March report from  Texans
for Public Justice . The Austin-based nonprofit monitors lobbying
activity and political finance and advocates for consumers.  Ezcorp, an Austin-based pawn-shop operator, opposed
legislation that “would negatively impact the financial model
of the business and make it harder for us to innovate,” Chief
Executive Officer Paul Rothamel said on an April 21 conference
call with analysts and investors. Rothamel also didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  Put to Rest  “Cash America would like to see an acceptable bill passed
in Texas this year, which would hopefully allow the Legislature
and the industry to put this issue to rest,” Daniel Feehan,
chief executive officer of the Fort Worth-based company, said on
an April 21 conference call with securities analysts and
investors. He didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call to
his office seeking further comment.  Supporters of tighter rules, including consumer and
religious groups, spent less than lenders to promote their
views, said Stephen Reeves, a Christian Life Commission
lobbyist. The group is affiliated with the Texas Baptist church.  “The industry played total hardball by saying the bill
would cost Texas jobs and no one dared call their bluff,” said
Craig McDonald, director of the Public Justice group.  About 3,600 retail stores in the state offer short-term
loans, some that carry effective annual  interest rates  of more
than 300 percent, Senator Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth Democrat,
said May 23.  “This is the smallest little advancement,” said Davis,
who voted “present” instead of for or against both bills.
“It’s not what any of us would have hoped for,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  