-- 
Farm-Equipment Makers May Follow Corn Rebound: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-05-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/farm-equipment-makers-may-follow-corn-rebound-chart-of-the-day.html
Agricultural-equipment stocks are due
for a rebound because their machines are in greater demand after
a surge in commodity prices, according to UBS AG.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the shares of two equipment
makers,  Agco Corp. (AGCO)  and  CNH Global NV (CNH) , with the price of corn on
the  Chicago  Board of Trade, which has more than doubled in the
past year. This month, the stocks have fallen further than the
commodity, which has recouped most of a 10 percent loss.  Demand for farm machinery is rising along with prices,
according to a report yesterday by Henry Kirn, a UBS analyst. He
based this conclusion on a semiannual survey of U.S. dealers for
Agco, CNH and  Deere & Co. (DE)  equipment.  “Dealers are generally optimistic,” Kirn wrote. Seventy-
one percent of the survey participants expect sales to increase
this year. The percentage is the highest since 2004. Prices for
new and used farm machines are generally rising, the report
said, and inventories of older gear are below normal levels.  Agco and CNH were raised to “buy” from “neutral” at UBS
in response to the results. Their shares had losses of 12
percent and 14 percent for May, respectively, as of yesterday’s
close. Deere, previously rated “buy,” was 13 percent lower.  UBS has conducted the farm-equipment dealer survey since
1997. The latest results were based on responses by more than
300 dealers to a mailing in late March, the report said.  Corn for July delivery settled yesterday at $7.455 a bushel
in Chicago. The price was 6.7 percent away from the record for a
most-active contract: $7.9925 a bushel, set in June 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  