-- 
Fed’s Loans, EU Bank Penalties, Finra Fines, Austria Raids: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-27T12:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/fed-s-loans-eu-bank-penalties-finra-fines-compliance.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  each borrowed at
least $30 billion in 2008 from a Federal Reserve emergency
lending program whose details weren’t revealed to shareholders,
members of Congress or the public.  The $80 billion initiative, called single-tranche open-
market operations, or  ST OMO , made 28-day loans from March
through December 2008, a period in which confidence in global
credit markets collapsed after the Sept. 15 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Units of 20 banks were required to bid at auctions for the
cash. They paid  interest rates  as low as 0.01 percent that
December, when the Fed’s main lending facility charged 0.5
percent.  Robert A. Eisenbeis, former head of research at the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta  and now chief monetary economist at
Sarasota, Florida-based Cumberland Advisors Inc., described the
loans as “a pure subsidy.”  The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , which oversaw ST OMO,
posted aggregate data about the program on its website after
each auction, said Jeffrey V. Smith, a  New York  Fed spokesman.
By increasing the availability of short-term financing when
private lenders were under pressure, “this program helped
alleviate strains in financial markets and support the flow of
credit to U.S. households and businesses,” he said.  Records of the 2008 lending, released in March under court
orders, show how the central bank  adapted  an existing tool for
adjusting the U.S. money supply into an emergency source of
cash.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Banks That Mislead Watchdogs in EU May Be Fined 10% of Sales  The European Union may give national regulators the power
to impose tougher penalties for banks that fail to disclose
dangers to their survival, according to proposals designed to
safeguard the region’s financial markets.  Banks may be fined at least 10 percent of their annual
sales for the worst cases of misleading regulators about levels
of capital reserves, liquidity, indebtedness and risk taking,
under the draft EU proposals obtained by Bloomberg News. Bankers
may also be fined at least 10 percent of their yearly pay or 5
million euros ($7.1 million) for the most serious breaches.  “Effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctioning
regimes are key” to ensuring “compliance with EU banking
rules, protect users of banking services and ensure safety,
stability and integrity of banking markets,” said the draft
legislation prepared by the  European Commission .  The Group of 20 countries is seeking to toughen financial
rules to curb excessive risk-taking and prevent a repeat of the
crisis triggered by the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  in 2008. Regulators in the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision agreed last year to more than double the high
quality capital that lenders must hold to cushion against
possible losses, as well as to enforce rules on bank liquidity
and indebtedness.  The EU overhaul would be used to police lenders’ reporting
on whether they comply with the new Basel standards.  For more, click here.  Swiss Bank Earnings May Be Squeezed by Rule Changes, IMF Says  Swiss banks, including UBS AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ,
may see earnings come under pressure from stricter capital rules
and changes to banking secrecy, the  International Monetary Fund 
said.  “Profitability is likely to be muted going forward,” the
Washington-based fund said in a report yesterday. “A possible
fall in tax sensitive wealth management flows over the medium
term would also weigh on profits.”  The strength of the Swiss franc and regulatory uncertainty
about banking secrecy and tax environments may result in
consolidation among private banks, the IMF said. Some observers
estimate the amount of undeclared money in Switzerland at
between 300 billion francs ($347 billion) and 1 trillion francs,
the Fund said.  Switzerland agreed in March 2009 to comply with
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  standards
to avoid being blacklisted as a tax haven.  Compliance Action  Finra Fines Credit Suisse, Bank of America Over RMBS Errors  Credit Suisse Group Inc. will pay $4.5 million and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit will pay $3 million to
resolve Financial Industry Regulatory Authority claims that they
misrepresented delinquency data in issuing residential subprime
mortgage securitizations.  Credit Suisse Securities failed to inform clients of
misrepresentations on 21 subprime RMBS it underwrote and sold in
2006, Washington-based Finra said in a statement yesterday. In a
separate case, Merrill Lynch negligently misrepresented
delinquency rates for 61 subprime RMBS, though it corrected the
errors on its website in June 2007, Finra said.  The two companies agreed to resolve the claims without
admitting or denying wrongdoing.  Issuers of subprime RMBS are required to disclose
historical performance information for past securitizations that
contain mortgage loans similar to those being offered to
investors, Finra said. Because there are different standards for
calculating delinquencies, issuers are required to disclose the
specific method they used, the brokerage regulator said.  “We are pleased to resolve this matter, which pre-dated
Bank of America’s acquisition of Merrill Lynch,” said  Bill
Halldin , a spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
lender, which bought the brokerage in 2009. “Merrill Lynch
identified this problem and corrected it by September 2007.”  Steven Vames, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, declined to
comment on the fine.  OSHA, EPA, Other Agencies Plan Changes to Regulations  The White House announced yesterday that 30 U.S.
agencies are seeking to repeal or modify regulations  in an
effort to reduce reporting requirements and save businesses and
individuals billions of dollars in compliance costs.  Among the revisions the Obama administration is proposing
is elimination of a requirement in some states for vapor
recovery systems at gas stations and changes in labeling
mandates for hazardous materials, according to a fact sheet
prepared by the White House. Other proposals to come out of the
review include changes to railroad safety rules and an easing of
paperwork requirements in the Endangered Species Act that would
“streamline” approval of conservation agreements.  The Occupational Safety and Health Administration plans to
cut more than 1.9 million hours of annual reporting requirement
for business, a step the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  said would
have little effect on companies.  The OSHA rule would save more than $40 million a year, Cass
Sunstein, director of the  White House Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs , said yesterday in outlining an overhaul of
rules. The agency also plans to make hazard labels on some
products match the labels adopted in other nations, an effort
that would save more than $585 million a year.  Marc Freedman, executive director of labor law policy at
the Chamber, the nation’s largest business lobbying group, said
yesterday in an interview that the overhaul will “generate
negligible changes at best.”  Cass Sunstein, director of the White House’s Office of  Separately, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency plans
31 regulatory reviews, including how to improve estimates of
industry costs, after scrapping a definition of milk as oil that
forced farmers to meet petroleum-spill rules.  The EPA is under fire from businesses and lawmakers who
say jobs are being threatened by overly strict measures,
including greenhouse-gas limits. The agency said yesterday that
its regulatory review will include re-examining the cost
estimates of five rules; the agency didn’t identify which five
rules would be studied. A goal of the project is to determine
whether any “systematic biases” exist in EPA cost projections
developed before a regulation is issued, the agency said.  The revisions result from the review of “outdated
regulations” President Barack Obama ordered on Jan. 18 for the
purpose of making the economy more competitive.  For more, click here.  Austria Raids Homes, Offices in Probe of Ex-Finance Minister  Austria yesterday raided 10 homes and offices connected to
an investigation into possible tax evasion by the country’s
former Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser.  The raids took place in Vienna and in the provinces of
Carinthia and Tyrol, the Austrian state prosecutor said in an e-
mailed statement.  Grasser has denied any wrongdoing.  Senate’s Grassley Says SAC Met With Investigation Staff  Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, the top Republican on the
 Judiciary Committee , talked about his examination of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s oversight of hedge-fund
firm SAC Capital Advisors LP’s trading practices.  In a letter this week, Grassley asked SEC Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  to explain how the regulator has handled allegations of
suspicious trading at SAC Capital, referring to about 20
examples he received from the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority of possible  insider trading  involving the firm founded
by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen . Grassley spoke with Betty Liu
and Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.”  For the video, click here. For more, click here.  Slovenian Banks to Pass European Stress Test, Kranjec Says  Slovenian lenders Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. are likely to pass the European
stress test after recent capital increases, central bank
Governor Marko Kranjec told reporters today.  Courts  Swiss Resident to Pay $1.4 Million to Settle SEC Insider Case  Giuseppe Tullio Abatemarco, an insurance salesman living in
Switzerland, will pay $1.4 million to resolve U.S. regulatory
claims that he used nonpublic information to bet on Royal DSM
NV’s 2010 acquisition of  Martek Biosciences Corp. (MATK)   Abatemarco, 40, bought 2,616 call options on Martek stock
from Dec. 10 to Dec. 15, then sold them on Dec. 21, the day the
deal was announced, the Securities and Exchange Commission said
in a complaint filed in April. He agreed to surrender $1.2
million in proceeds that were frozen by a U.S. federal court on
Dec. 22 and pay a $200,000 penalty, the SEC said in a statement
released yesterday citing the May 24 settlement.  Abatemarco agreed to settle the SEC’s claims without
admitting or denying wrongdoing. Douglas Tween, his attorney at
Baker & McKenzie LLP in New York, declined to comment.  Royal DSM completed the acquisition of Columbia, Maryland-
based Martek on Feb. 28.  U.S. High Court Upholds Arizona Illegal-Hiring Sanctions  The U.S. Supreme Court, rejecting business arguments,
upheld an Arizona law that threatens companies with the
revocation of their corporate charters if they hire illegal
immigrants.  In a 5-3 ruling, the justices said a federal law governing
immigrant hiring leaves room for states to impose their own
penalties for non-compliance. Bloomberg’s Greg Stohr talked
about the ruling with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bottom Line.”  For the video, click here.  Interviews/Speeches/Testimony  Bair Is Concerned About Lack of FDIC Board Nominations  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
discussed her concerns about what she called a lack of urgency
in filling jobs for regulators who would sit on the agency’s
five-member board of directors.  Bair, who testified about financial regulation before a
 House Financial Services  subcommittee, is planning to step down
as FDIC chairman in July after her five-year term expires. The
Obama administration has yet to nominate her successor or a
director for the new  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , which
would hold a seat on the FDIC board.  For the video, click here.  Donovan Prefers an Economist, Not a Lawyer to Run IMF  Paul Donovan, deputy head of global economics at  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
discussed the outlook for the Group of Eight leaders’ two-day
summit and the prospects of French Finance Minister Christine
Lagarde’s selection as the next chief of the International
Monetary Fund.  Donovan, who spoke with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday,” also talked about the global economy
and inflation.  For the video, click here.  Tucker Says BOE Needs to Coordinate New Bank-Regulation Powers  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said the
central bank must coordinate its powers over banking supervision
and address concerns about accountability.  “The new architecture that is being brought in is the
world of separate boxes -- monetary policy, bank supervision,
securities regulation, debt management,” Tucker said in a
speech in  London  yesterday. “Unless we connect up the different
bits of what we do, we will let everyone down.”  Britain’s government is planning the biggest shakeup of
regulation since 1997, scrapping the current banking regulator
and handing the powers to a new authority within the Bank of
England. The plan will also create a  Financial Policy Committee 
chaired by Governor Mervyn King.  Former U.K. policy makers Willem Buiter and Kate Barker
criticized the overhaul this week, telling a U.K. parliament
hearing that ownership of financial stability should be with the
U.K. Treasury rather than the central bank.  The proposed new system was “disastrously misconceived”
and leaves the central bank “overburdened and too powerful,”
Buiter told lawmakers on May 23.  Comings and Goings  Wellink Calls Hoogduin Good Candidate for ECB Executive Board  European Central Bank Governing Council member Nout Wellink
said Lex Hoogduin, who leaves the Dutch central bank in July,
would be a “good candidate” for the ECB’s executive board.  Wellink, who also heads the Dutch central bank, made the
remarks in an interview in Amsterdam today.  “It depends on what will happen with the post of Bini
Smaghi, who will fill that, and that depends on what happens
next year with the Spaniard in the ECB’s executive board,”
Wellink said, referring to Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, whose
term ends in May 2012.  Hoogduin, who was seen as a possible successor to Wellink,
last week announced his resignation after Finance Minister Jan
Kees de Jager picked top civil servant Klaas Knot to lead the
bank in July. Hoogduin, 54, a former adviser to late ECB
President Wim Duisenberg, joined the Dutch central bank’s
governing board in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 