-- 
Fiat Plans to Boost Chrysler Stake to 57% Buying Shares From U.S. Treasury

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-05-27T19:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/fiat-says-it-plans-to-purchase-chrysler-group-stake-held-by-u-s-treasury.html
Fiat SpA (F)  plans to buy the U.S.
government’s remaining stake in Chrysler Group LLC by the end of
2011, boosting the Italian carmaker’s holding to 57 percent.  The  U.S. Treasury  has been notified of the plan to exercise
an option to purchase the government’s 6 percent stake in the
nation’s third-largest automaker, Turin, Italy-based Fiat said
today in a statement.  “They’re moving faster and more decisively than most
investors anticipated,” said  Max Warburton , a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in  London , who has a “market perform”
rating on the stock. “It seems the plan is that Fiat-Chrysler
will at some point be merged to create one firm.”  Fiat boosted its holding in Chrysler to 46 percent this
week after the U.S. carmaker repaid $7.6 billion in U.S. and
Canadian government loans. Fiat expects to get an additional 5
percent stake in the fourth quarter in return for developing a
fuel-efficient car for  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler.  The price for the shares will be negotiated between Fiat
and the U.S. Treasury. If an agreement can’t be reached within
10 business days of the notice, the price will determined by
investment-bank evaluations, Fiat said.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who runs both
automakers, said earlier this week that Fiat could boost its
stake in Chrysler to more than 51 percent before an initial
public offering of the U.S. automaker, as it seeks to buy the
shares for less money. Fiat will consolidate Chrysler’s results
starting June 1.  Merger Plans  While Fiat and Chrysler have no set timing on their plan to
merge to reduce costs and improve integration, the combination
isn’t likely this year, Marchionne said May 25. Chrysler may
sell shares to the public later this year or in 2012, depending
upon market conditions and cash needs, he has said.  The companies’ new models in the U.S. have included the
revamped Jeep Grand Cherokee and the Fiat 500 subcompact. The
Grand Cherokee increased U.S. sales 86 percent through April,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. That helped Chrysler’s
global sales rise 18 percent through April and contributed to a
first-quarter profit of $116 million, the automaker’s first
since exiting bankruptcy in 2009.  Paying Taxpayers  “I don’t know anyone who wouldn’t be pleased that Fiat is
paying back the U.S. taxpayers,” said Jim Gillette, an analyst
with Northville, Michigan-based IHS Automotive. “Chrysler is
bringing on some really good product with the help of Fiat and
will very likely be in pretty good shape here over the next
decade.”  Fiat has options to increase its Chrysler holding to more
than 70 percent, the U.S. company said this month in a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Those options
include the right to buy the Treasury’s remaining stake in the
12 months after government loans are repaid.  That would make an IPO of Chrysler less likely, Jochen
Gehrke, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst, said in a note.  The option to acquire 40 percent of the original stake held
by the UAW trust is exercisable from July 1, 2012, to Dec. 31,
2016, and in amounts of as much as 8 percent in any six-month
period, according to a company filing.  Eileen Wunderlich, a Chrysler spokeswoman, and  Mark
Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman, declined to comment.  Fiat rose 12 cents, or 1.6 percent, to 7.20 euros in Milan
today prior to the announcement, giving the company a market
value of 8.88 billion euros ($12.7 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  