-- 
FIFA Ruling Body Says It Will Add President Sepp Blatter to Ethics Probe

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-27T14:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/fifa-ruling-body-says-it-will-investigate-president-sepp-blatter.html
Soccer ruling body FIFA opened a
probe into its president Sepp Blatter following a request by
Mohamed  bin Hammam , who is seeking to unseat him in an election.  Bin Hammam and fellow FIFA board member Jack Warner are
facing a May 29 ethics panel hearing into a meeting where bin
Hammam is accused of handing out about $2 million in cash to
Caribbean soccer officials for “development” of the sport.
Last night, Bin Hammam said Blatter knew of any payments, and
suggested the president be added to the investigation.  FIFA’s ethics committee invited Blatter to attend the
hearing in two days, the Zurich-based ruling body said today in
an e-mailed statement. Bin Hammam and Blatter are running in the
June 1 presidential election. Bin Hammam, from Qatar, and Warner
deny any wrongdoing.  In an e-mailed statement yesterday, Bin Hammam said he’s
asked for Blatter to be included in the probe because -- as part
of the evidence provided to FIFA -- there were statements
suggesting the FIFA president “was informed of, and did not
oppose” the alleged payments.  “The timing of the accusations so close to the election of
FIFA president on June 1, 2011, suggests that they are part of a
plan to damage Mr. Bin Hammam and force him to withdraw as a
candidate for the FIFA presidency,” he said in the statement.  Blatter’s U.K.-based communications adviser, Brian
Alexander, declined to comment on Bin Hammam’s statement.  Blatter, in a column yesterday on the Inside World Football
website, said the charges made against Bin Hammam and Warner,
who oversees the sport in the Caribbean, “brought him no joy.”
He said claims that the entire matter was somehow masterminded
by him were “ludicrous and completely reprehensible.”  Reform Demand  U.K. sports minister Hugh Robertson said FIFA needs reform
after several rounds of allegations of improprieties. Earlier
this month, former chairman of the English Football Association,
 David Triesman , told U.K. lawmakers that four officials sought
favors during England’s failed bid for the 2018  World Cup , which
was secured by  Russia .  Robertson said FIFA needs change in the way that the
 International Olympic Committee  did after a bribery scandal into
the award of the 2002 Games to  Salt Lake City . An internal IOC
investigation led to the expulsion or resignation of 10 members
for taking gifts. Canadian member Dick Pound, who led the probe,
said the scandal involved ethics violations but wasn’t criminal.  U.K. Parliament also heard allegations that Qatar’s
successful 2022 World Cup bid team had paid bribes to secure the
 soccer tournament , accusations that the Qataris said were
“completely false” and based on “worthless” evidence.  Farce  A former employee of Qatar’s bid told the Sunday Times
newspaper that the country paid FIFA Vice President Issa Hayatou
and Ivory Coast official Jacques Anouma $1.5 million for their
votes. Both men also deny the claim.  “The FIFA presidential election campaign has descended
into a farce,” Robertson said in a statement. “With both of
the candidates having allegations of corruption aimed at them
the election should be suspended. Sports governing bodies have
to be transparent and accountable and change has to happen for
the good of world football.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Duff at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net  