-- 
Forint Weakens Against Franc for Fifth Week Before Mortgage Plan

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-05-27T15:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/forint-weakens-against-franc-for-fifth-week-before-mortgage-plan.html
The forint strengthened, paring a
fifth straight week of losses against the Swiss franc, as the
government prepares to announce steps to help foreign-currency
mortgage holders by fixing exchange rates on loans.  The Hungarian currency gained 0.2 percent to 220.195 per
franc as of 4:56 p.m. in Budapest, taking its depreciation this
week to 2.2 percent. The Swiss franc rallied to a record 1.2165
against the euro today as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis raised
demand for a refuge and the nation’s leading economic indicator
held at the highest level in almost five years.  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will announce
measures to help borrowers with foreign-currency mortgage loans
“early next week,” his spokesman,  Peter Szijjarto , said in an
e-mail yesterday. Lenders will fix the rate at 180 forint per
Swiss franc for either three years or 3 1/2 years, Janos Muller,
the chief adviser of the country’s Banking Association, said by
phone on May 20. The rate for euro- and yen-denominated
mortgages will also be fixed, he said, without giving a rate.  “In an important development for mortgage holders, a
global change of wind has been felt on the  currency market  in
May,” analysts at Equilor Befektetesi Zrt. led by Akos Kuti in
Budapest wrote in a research report today. “That was mostly
felt in the Swiss franc-forint rate,” the analysts wrote.  The forint appreciated 0.6 percent against the euro to
268.38, for a gain of 0.2 percent on the week, the most since
the five days through April 22 and compared with a year high of
262.57 reached on April 25.  “Next week, the euro-forint  exchange rate  may be
influenced by any additional news about the Greek story and
perhaps the possible announcement on the agreement between
Hungarian banks and the government,” Zoltan Arokszallasi,
analyst at Erste Group Bank AG in Budapest, said in an e-mail to
clients.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  