-- 
Formula 1 Team Uses 175-Mile-Per-Hour Rolling Billboard to Find Sponsors

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-27T02:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/formula-1-team-uses-175-mile-per-hour-rolling-billboard-to-find-sponsors.html
Spain ’s Hispania Formula One team is
using a 175-mile-per-hour billboard to drum up sponsors as its
cars race through the glitzy streets of  Monaco  this weekend.  The team has failed to snag a main corporate backer in its
second season in the world’s most-watched racing series. Its
cars in the Monaco Grand Prix in two days will feature ‘This
Could Be You’ signs to lure support as the economic slump at
home makes it harder to find a sponsor.  Team owner Jose Ramon Carabante said he is using his own
funds to cover part of its 50 million-euro ($71 million) budget.
Spain is struggling to emerge from a three-year economic slump
and has a 21 percent unemployment rate, the highest in  Europe .
Carabante said he hopes confidence in the team, which has a
former economy minister on its advisory board, rises among
potential backers the longer Hispania survives.  “We’re still alive, which in these times is no small
feat,” Carabante said in an interview. “The car’s message is
striking but we hope it disappears soon.”  Many Formula One teams are having difficulty finding
sponsors as companies don’t see the series as environmentally
friendly, according to Adam Parr, chairman of Grove, England-
based Williams, whose main backer is AT&T Inc. Red Bull GmbH
bankrolls the champion team of the same name, while Vodafone
Group Plc sponsors McLaren.  Carabante, 59, said his team is in talks with two Spanish
companies about sponsorship, without identifying them. He is
also steering his Murcia-based real estate company, Grupo
Hispania, through the fallout of a housing market collapse.
Earlier this year, he agreed to about 400 million euros of debt
refinancing for the company, Carabante added.  Finance Director  The company’s finance director is Miguel Boyer, who was
Spain’s economy minister from 1982 to 1985. Boyer is also an
adviser to the Formula One team along with investors Alberto
Cortina and Alberto Alcocer, business partners and former
husbands to the Koplowitz sisters, two of Spain’s richest women.  Hispania relied on drivers Narain Karthikeyan of  India  and
 Italy ’s Vitantonio Liuzzi to bring minor sponsorship deals to
the team this season. The team also gets a $10 million share of
the series television rights from London-based Formula One
Management Ltd., Carabante said.  The drivers were unable to qualify for the opening race in
 Melbourne  in March and Karthikeyan was lapped five times at last
weekend’s race in Barcelona. Liuzzi didn’t finish because of a
gearbox problem.  The team’s commitment is unquestionable, Carabante said.
Mechanics had twice worked through the night leading up to the
May 22 event to get the cars ready.  “We have staff who when we need to work 10 hours instead
of eight they do it,” Carabante said. “If they have to work 24
hours-a-day, then they do that too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  