-- 
G-8 Finds $40 Billion for Arab Spring From Development Banks, Direct Aid

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-05-27T14:30:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/g-8-support-for-arab-spring-tested-in-talks-with-leaders-of-egypt-tunisia.html
Group of Eight leaders pledged to
support pro-democracy movements in North Africa, announcing a
mix of loans from international development banks and direct aid
totaling at least $40 billion.  Institutions such as the World Bank and the  African
Development Bank  could provide more than $20 billion for Egypt
and Tunisia through 2013, including 3.5 billion euros ($5
billion) from the European Investment Bank, to support
“suitable reform efforts,” said a statement today on the so-
called Arab Spring after a two-day summit in the French seaside
resort of Deauville.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy, in a press conference,
said G-8 countries will provide another $10 billion in direct
aid to Tunisia and Egypt, and that oil exporting countries in
the Gulf such as Kuwait, Qatar and  Saudi Arabia  will kick in
another $10 billion. Those figures weren’t included in the
communique.  Egypt and Tunisia have seen foreign investment plunge and
tourism suffer since toppling their autocratic leaders this
year, threatening economic instability as war rages in
neighboring  Libya . The  International Monetary Fund  says the
region will need more than $160 billion over the next two years.  Hosted by Sarkozy, the fellow leaders of the G-8 nations --
the U.S.,  Russia ,  Italy , the U.K.,  Germany ,  Canada  and  Japan  --
agreed to set up a “partnership” with the region to encourage
the transition to democracy and foster “short-term economic
stability.”  Sarkozy, who invited the interim leaders of Tunisia and
Egypt as well as representatives of the IMF, the World Bank and
 Arab League  to the second day of the summit that ended today,
said the success of the two countries at the vanguard of the
Arab Spring is “absolutely crucial.”  Fragile Democracy  Encouraging the fragile democracy in both countries “is
the most important issue at this G-8,” Sarkozy told reporters
in Deauville.  The promise of support was one of the main goals of
President  Barack Obama  heading into the summit. Obama last week
promised  Egypt  $1 billion in loan guarantees through the
 Overseas Private Investment Corporation  and the cancellation of
$1 billion in debt, about a third of what Egypt owes the U.S.  The European Union said two days ago it would increase aid
to countries in North Africa and to the east of the 27-nation
bloc by 1.2 billion euros. Sarkozy said France’s share of the
direct aid is 1 billion euros.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
Germany will contribute as much as 300 million euros, with the
emphasis on creating jobs for young people in the region.  Aid Flowing  “What’s important now is to get the money to the people
quickly,” Merkel told reporters in Deauville. The EU should set
up “new, fast and efficient structures” to get the aid
flowing.  Britain will provide Egypt,  Tunisia  and other Arab nations
with 110 million pounds ($180 million) of aid over four years to
encourage political and economic development, Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s office said yesterday.  Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, doesn’t view debt
cancellation as the right approach, said an official attending
the summit who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks
are confidential.  “Most of the aid that will be delivered quite frankly will
be done through multilateral channels,” Canadian Prime Minister
Stephen Harper told reporters last night. “Debt forgiveness
really would not be a particularly useful tool in terms of what
we could do in this region.”  Tourism Drops Off  Foreign direct investment in Tunisia plunged 25 percent in
the first four months of 2011, the Tunisian Foreign Investment
Promotion Agency said May 19, one day after the tourist board
said that tourist arrivals fell 41 percent over the same period.  Egypt’s budget deficit may widen to 11 percent of gross
domestic product in the fiscal year that ends June 2012, the
most in a decade, Finance Minister Samir Radwan said May 19.  Tunisian Finance Minister Jelloul Ayed said Tunisia wants
to invest $5 billion a year over the next five years to create
jobs for the country’s 700,000 unemployed. “We are looking for
multiple types of aid: grants, long-term loans, direct
investments,” Ayed said at a press conference. The program
includes infrastructure projects as well as seed money for small
companies, he said.  “We are very satisfied” with the G-8’s support, Ayed
said.  Encourage Trade  Under the so-called Deauville Partnership, G-8 countries
said they will consider improved market access for Arab Spring
nations to encourage trade. They urged the IMF to “respond with
the necessary support to help meet the external financing
needs” of the countries of the region.  The  World Bank  earlier this week said it plans to provide
as much as $6 billion for the two countries, where popular
revolts toppled their leaders earlier this year.  The money announced is “not a blank check” and will be
tied to “overall reform programs,” Michael Froman, Obama’s
deputy national security adviser for international economic
affairs, told reporters in Deauville.  “More important than any numerical figure, I think, is the
vision that it lays out,” he said. “This is largely a case of
trade not aid, investment not assistance over time. It’s really
about establishing the conditions under which the private
sectors in these economies can flourish and the benefits of
growth are broadly shared.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Deauville,  France  at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Deauville, France at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  