-- 
Four German States Say Inflation Slowed in May on Oil Drop

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-27T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/german-state-of-saxony-says-inflation-slowed-in-may-on-oil-drop.html
Inflation in four German states
slowed in May after crude- oil prices  retreated from a 2 1/2-year
high.  Brandenburg’s inflation rate fell to 1.9 percent from 2.2
percent in April, while annual consumer-price gains in Hesse
eased to 2 percent from 2.1 percent, the state’s statistics
offices said today. Inflation in Saxony and North Rhine-
Westphalia dropped to 2.3 percent from 2.5 percent. Economists
forecast German inflation, calculated using a harmonized
European method, to hold at 2.7 percent, the median of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey shows. That report, based
on data from six states, is due later today.  Oil prices have dropped 11 percent this month after
breaching $114 a barrel in April. European Central Bank
officials have signaled they are ready to raise borrowing costs
further to curb price pressures after increasing the benchmark
interest rate to 1.25 percent last month.  “Energy costs have eased quite a bit and that’s good news
for  Germany ,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in
Hanover. “That doesn’t mean that the ECB won’t raise rates
again this year, as the overall rate is still too high.”  Heating oil was 5 percent cheaper than in the previous
month in Brandenburg, while fuel prices in Hesse dropped 1.7
percent. Consumer prices fell 0.1 percent in the month in
Brandenburg, Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia, and dropped 0.2
percent in Hesse.  ECB Rates  VCI, the main association of German chemical companies, on
May 17 raised its forecast for production, sales and prices this
year in the industry, on increasing global demand.  “We have to avoid commodity-price increases becoming
entrenched in longer-term inflation expectations, which could
have second-round effects on wages and prices,” ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday. “We are carefully
monitoring the situation and we stand ready to do whatever is
necessary to fulfill our mandate.”  Euro-area inflation accelerated to 2.8 percent last month,
the highest since October 2008. The European Union’s statistics
office in  Luxembourg  will release this month’s data on May 31.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast the ECB to raise its
main lending rate to 1.75 percent by the end of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net , Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
   jblack25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  