-- 
German Two-Year Notes Rise as Inflation Slows, Denting Interest-Rate Bets

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-05-27T16:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/german-government-bonds-rise-after-fitch-revises-japan-outlook-to-negative.html
German two-year notes rose after a
report showed inflation in  Europe ’s largest economy unexpectedly
eased this month, denting the case for higher interest rates
from the European Central Bank.  Ten-year notes headed for their longest streak of weekly
gains in more than a decade as French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said bondholders need to share the burden of solving Greece’s
fiscal woes. The advance pushed 10-year bund yields down to a
four-month low after  Fitch Ratings  revised  Japan ’s credit
outlook to negative. Belgian bonds fell as Dexia SA said it will
take a charge of 3.6 billion euros ($5.1 billion) in the second
quarter. Greek, Spanish and Italian bonds declined.  “Some slightly weaker German state inflation data provided
a boost for the front-end of the yield curve,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate
& Investment Bank in London. “The news that Fitch has lowered
Japan’s outlook to negative prompted flight-to-quality buying of
bunds, taking yields below the psychologically important 3
percent level.”  The two-year note yield declined five basis points to 1.57
percent as of 4:37 p.m. in London, after reaching 1.57 percent,
the lowest since March 18. The 1.75 percent security due June
2013 traded at 100.365. Ten-year yields were one basis point
lower at 2.98 percent.  German Inflation  Germany ’s harmonized inflation rate fell to 2.4 percent
from 2.7 percent in April, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists had expected inflation to hold
at the highest level since September 2008, the median of 17
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  European Central Bank  officials have signaled they are
ready to raise borrowing costs further to curb price gains after
increasing the benchmark interest rate to 1.25 percent last
month, even as peripheral nations such as Greece, Portugal and
Ireland remain mired in a sovereign-debt crisis. The ECB left
the rate unchanged on May 5 following last month’s increase,
which was the first in almost three years.  Benchmark bund yields are set for their seventh consecutive
week of declines, their longest downward slide since January
2001, as investors purchase the securities as a buffer against
the euro-region’s worsening debt crisis. Sarkozy called for a
“formula” involving investors, adding to talk that Europe
might engineer an extension of  Greece ’s debt-repayment schedule
or press bondholders to buy new bonds as old ones mature.  Burden Sharing  “Restructuring is a poorly used word,” Sarkozy told
reporters today after a Group of Eight summit in Deauville,
 France . “If it means that we can think of ways for the private
sector, private operators, to take on a share of the burden,
it’s not restructuring at all; then there are formulas, there is
no problem, and we should then converge in that direction.”  German  government bonds  have handed investors 0.1 percent
this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, while
Treasuries have returned 2.6 percent. Greek bonds have lost
13.13 percent so far this year, the data show.  “Peripherals remain under pressure today while core paper
continues to enjoy a flight to quality bid,” said  Richard
McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank in  London .  Greek 10-year yields increased four basis points to 16.42
percent, widening the spread between Greek 10-year debt and
similar-maturity German bunds for the first time in four days.
Two-year Greek yields rose five basis points to 25.24 percent.  Dexia Writedown  Spanish 10-year bond yields were two basis points higher at
5.32 percent, while Portuguese 10-year yields were four basis
points lower at 9.59 percent. Italian 10-year bond yields
increased three basis points to 4.75 percent. The country sold
1.5 billion euros of inflation-protected bonds due 2021 today.  Belgian 10-year bond yields rose two basis points to 4.15
percent. Dexia, the French-Belgian bank that’s forced to shrink
its balance sheet by 35 percent by 2014, said it will take a
charge for the anticipated sale of mostly U.S. residential
mortgage-backed securities and long-term bond disposals. The
company’s shares rose after the bank said it will have Tier 1
capital of at least 12 percent by the end of this year.  Irish 10-year bond yields were three basis points higher at
11.07 percent, after reaching a euro-era record of 11.19 percent
following a report that showed retail sales contracted 0.8
percent in April from the previous month. The move widened the
spread between benchmark Irish bonds and German debt of similar
maturity to a euro-era record 821 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  