-- 
German Inflation Unexpectedly Slowed in May, Led by Retreating Oil Prices

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-05-27T12:24:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/german-inflation-unexpectedly-eased-in-may-as-price-of-crude-oil-declined.html
Inflation in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, unexpectedly eased in May after  oil prices 
dropped from a 2 1/2-year high.  The harmonized inflation rate fell to 2.4 percent from 2.7
percent in April, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said today. Economists had expected inflation to hold at the
highest level since September 2008, the median of 17 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey showed. On the month, consumer prices
declined 0.2 percent.  Oil prices have dropped 11 percent this month after
breaching $114 a barrel in April, leaving households with more
money to spend. European Central Bank officials have signaled
they are ready to raise borrowing costs further to curb price
pressures after increasing the benchmark interest rate to 1.25
percent last month, even as peripheral nations such as Greece,
 Portugal  and Ireland remain mired in a sovereign-debt crisis.  “Today’s German inflation numbers are just a temporary
breather,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “Obviously, with these inflation numbers, the ECB
won’t hastily rush to a June hike. The German data is also not
soft enough to put the ECB off from another hike in July.”  On a non-harmonized basis, inflation slowed to 2.3 percent
in May from 2.4 percent and prices were unchanged on the month,
the statistics office said.  Price Mandate  VCI, the main association of German chemical companies, on
May 17 raised its forecast for production, sales and prices this
year in the industry, on increasing global demand.  “We have to avoid commodity-price increases becoming
entrenched in longer-term inflation expectations, which could
have second-round effects on wages and prices,” ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday. “We are carefully
monitoring the situation and we stand ready to do whatever is
necessary to fulfill our mandate.”  Euro-area inflation probably remained at 2.8 percent this
month, according to the median of 27 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey. The European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
will publish the data on May 31. Economists in a separate survey
forecast the ECB will raise its main lending rate to 1.75
percent by the end of the year.  The German economy grew 1.5 percent in the first quarter as
companies boosted spending to meet increased export demand and
construction rebounded from a slump in the previous three
months. The government predicts growth of 2.6 percent this year
after a record 3.6 percent expansion in 2010.  At the same time, countries from  Greece  to Portugal are
struggling to grow amid a debt crisis that’s shaking the
foundations of the single currency. The euro area will grow 1.6
percent this year after expanding 1.8 percent in 2010, the
European Commission forecast this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  