-- 
Glencore Investor Relations Manager Nicholas Bias Leaves After Four Months

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-05-27T16:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/glencore-investor-relations-manager-bias-departs-after-4-months.html
Glencore International Plc  investor
relations  manager Nicholas Bias has left the company less than
four months after starting in the role, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  Bias, who took on the job with the Baar, Switzerland-based
company in February, resigned on May 25, the person said,
declining to be identified as the terms are confidential.  Simon
Buerk , a spokesman for Glencore, the world’s largest commodities
trader, declined to comment. Bias was formerly investor
relations manager at  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)   His name wasn’t among Glencore contacts listed in a company
statement to the London Stock Exchange today after being
included in a May 24 filing.  Marc Ocskay , who has worked at
Glencore for 13 years and is head of corporate finance which
incorporates investor relations, was listed as a contact on
today’s statement.  Bias accompanied Chief Financial Officer Steven Kalmin on a
global roadshow, meeting investors in preparation for the IPO,
while Ocskay joined Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg in
briefing other potential shareholders, the person said.  Glencore raised $10 billion in an initial public offering
in London and Hong Kong this month, selling shares at 530 pence
apiece. The IPO, the biggest in the world this year, attracted
12 cornerstone investors, including  Abu Dhabi ’s Aabar
Investments PJSC and BlackRock Inc., who committed a combined
$3.1 billion that they are locked into for six months.  Three calls to Bias’ mobile phone went unanswered and he
didn’t return a voice message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 