-- 
Global Economic Rebound Weakens on Quake, Oil Price, European Debt Crisis

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-05-27T11:13:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/global-economic-rebound-weakens-on-quake-oil-price-european-debt-crisis.html
The world economy is losing strength
halfway through the year as high oil prices and fallout from
Japan’s natural disaster and  Europe ’s debt woes take their toll.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. now expects global economic growth
of 4.3 percent in 2011, compared with its 4.8 percent estimate
in mid-April, while UBS AG has cut its projection to 3.6 percent
from 3.9 percent in January. Downside risks also include a shift
to tighter monetary policy in emerging markets.  “The world economy has entered a softer patch with the
incoming growth data mostly disappointing,” said Andrew Cates,
an economist at UBS in  Singapore . “We suspect this soft patch
will endure for longer.”  Data this week backed that outlook as reports showed
Chinese manufacturing expanding at the slowest pace in 10
months, orders for U.S. durable goods dropping the most since
October and confidence among European executive and consumers
sliding for the third straight month. Investors are tuning in,
pushing the MSCI World Index of stocks in advanced economies
down 4.2 percent this month.  Goldman Sachs economists led by  Dominic Wilson  and Jan Hatzius said in a May 25 report they now expect “less upside in
equities” with their colleagues reducing price targets for most
of the major regions even though they still anticipate another
10 percent gain in developed markets this year.  The concern comes as leaders from the Group of Eight
conclude a summit in Deauville,  France , with a statement that
declared the world economy is “gaining strength” and that its
recovery will pave the way to debt reduction. They identified
commodity prices as a “significant headwind” to expansion.  The MSCI World Index rose 0.6 percent at 6:15 a.m. in  New
York  today, paring its weekly lose, after the G-8 statement.  Energy Costs  Oil prices  reached a 31-month high of $114.83 on May 2 as
the war in  Libya  cut supply. Goldman Sachs this week raised its
forecast for  Brent crude  at the end of 2012 to $140 a barrel
from $120, suggesting the price’s path will be 20 percent higher
than anticipated at the start of the year. That’s enough to
shave 0.5 percentage point from U.S. growth over two years and a
little less in other wealthy nations, they said.  The fallout from Japan’s earthquake, tsunami and nuclear
disaster may also be reverberating, said David Hensley, director
of global economic coordination at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York, who calculates the international expansion will duck
beneath its long-term trend this quarter.  Japan ’s Consumers  Japan’s retail sales fell 4.8 percent from a year earlier
in April, the Trade Ministry said in a report released today,
underscoring the impact on consumers from the March disasters
and forecasts for gross domestic product to shrink for a third
straight quarter in the three months to June.  While spillover to  Asia ’s emerging economies has been
“surprisingly modest,” Hensley said supply-chain disruption is
“likely to rise with time” as Japanese production and exports
remain depressed before beginning to recover around September.  “The global economy is losing momentum,” Hensley said.  China, after powering the global economy out of the 2009
recession, may also be slowing. The world’s No. 2 economy has
raised  interest rates  four times since mid-October and boosted
banks’ reserve-requirement ratio eight times since November,
most recently on May 12.  ING Groep NV this month cut its estimate for  China ’s full-
year growth to 9.8 percent from 10.2 percent and reduced its
second-quarter forecast to an annual pace of 9.6 percent, from
10.3 percent. Credit Suisse Group AG adjusted its 2011 expansion
estimate to 8.8 percent from 9.1 percent. China’s stocks this
week fell by the most in eleven months.  Central Banks  “Investors are worried that the tightening is overdone and
concerns have widened to a slowdown in earnings and economic
growth from just inflation,” said  Wang Zheng , chief investment
officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co. in  Shanghai , which
manages about $120 million.  Emerging-market central banks elsewhere are also throttling
back. Those in  India , the Philippines, Chile, Poland, Peru and
Malaysia all raised their benchmark borrowing costs this month
to cool price pressures.  Europe’s 18-month debt crisis is another brake on growth as
its policy makers prepare a second aid package to save  Greece 
from default and other so-called peripheral economies deploy
austerity measures to slash debt. At the same time, the euro’s 6
percent gain against the dollar since the start of the year and
the  European Central Bank ’s shift toward tighter monetary policy
may be slowing expansion elsewhere in the region.  Impact on Companies  The global economy’s change in tone is reflected in some
company announcements. Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , the world’s
largest aerospace company, said it received two orders last
month compared with 98 in March. Hermes International SCA, the
Paris-based maker of Birkin handbags, said on May 11 that its
forecast for 2011 is “clouded by geopolitical and economic
uncertainties.”  The slower growth may still be short-lived and by cooling
the oil price could even provide some support for consumers and
inflation relief for central bankers, allowing them to keep
monetary policy looser for longer. Other reasons for confidence
include job growth in the U.S., expectations for an
infrastructure-led bounce in Japan’s economy, supportive equity
markets and a likely recovery in inventory accumulation, said
Hensley at JPMorgan Chase.  Economists Nariman Behravesh and Sara Johnson of IHS Inc.
said in a May 24 report that while they expect worldwide growth
to slow to 3.5 percent this year from 4.1 percent in 2010, it
will rebound to 4 percent in each of the next two years as the
pain of austerity, Japan’s woes and high oil prices passes.  “Assuming these shocks do not get any worse and that the
world economy is not hit by additional unforeseen jolts, chances
are good that the period of slow growth will be relatively short
and that the recovery will pick up steam again,” they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 