-- 
Global Tire Demand Exceeding Supply Helps Bridgestone, Goodyear, Sumitomo

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-05-27T07:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/global-tire-demand-exceeding-supply-helps-bridgestone-goodyear-sumitomo.html
Global tire demand is expanding at a
faster pace than production, led by growth in  China , as vehicle
sales are increasing,  Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd. (5110)  said.  Tire sales in China, the world’s largest auto market, may
increase 30 percent this year, or at 10 times the global rate,
President Ikuji Ikeda said in an interview. Sumitomo Rubber, the
largest Japanese tiremaker after  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , said global
sales will increase 3.1 percent to 93.7 million tires this year.  Rubber prices climbed 41 percent in the past year and
reached a record in February after auto sales in China surged 32
percent in 2010 to an all-time high, surpassing the U.S. market
for a second year. Increasing costs spurred tiremakers from
Bridgestone to Akron, Ohio-based Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. to
raise prices. Commodities beat stocks, bonds and the dollar for
five straight months through April, prompting central banks from
Beijing to Brasilia to raise interest rates to cool inflation.  “Tire supply/demand is tight globally and particularly in
 North America ,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts including
Yuichiro Isayama said. “In contrast to many makers that
retrenched due to the financial crisis, Bridgestone and Sumitomo
Rubber increased capacity and are benefitting from growth in
demand amid a global supply shortage,” they said May 12.  Bridgestone shares advanced 24 percent in the past year and
settled at 1,814 yen in Tokyo today, while Sumitomo Rubber
shares increased 15 percent to 918 yen.  China Sales  While auto sales in China reached a record 18 million last
year, they slowed in 2011 as the nation increased retail
gasoline and diesel prices and tightened monetary policy to cool
the fastest inflation since 2008. The government increased
 interest rates  and raised bank reserve-ratio requirements to
curb price gains that have exceeded the government’s 4 percent
target every month this year. Demand for replacement tires is
growing in China as  car ownership  expands, Ikeda said.  Sumitomo Rubber, which controls about 6 percent of the
global tire market, said it can process 46,000 tons of rubber a
month this year, up 3.5 percent from last year. The Kobe-based
company said May 17 it is building a plant in  Brazil  that will
have a capacity of 2,200 tons a month by 2013 and is also
expanding production capacity in Thailand and China.  “Our production capacity is not large enough to meet
expanding demand,” Ikeda said in  Tokyo  on May 25. “The
shortage may worsen” as global consumption is expected to grow
by 3 percent annually in coming years, he said.  Tire Demand  Global sales of passenger-car tires are forecast to grow
6.1 percent this year from 2010, while sales of commercial-
vehicle tires are forecast to rise 11 percent, International
Rubber Study Group forecast on Jan. 26.  Natural-rubber production in key growing countries may miss
estimates this year as output slows in the second quarter, the
Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries said yesterday.
Production from member countries, representing 92 percent of
global supply, may expand 4.9 percent, less than the 5.8 percent
forecast last month, the group said in an e-mailed report.  Rubber futures in Tokyo tumbled to 335 yen a kilogram
($4,098 a metric ton) on March 15 from a record high of 535.7
yen reached on Feb. 18. The March 11 earthquake and tsunami
disrupted supplies of car parts, forcing Toyota Motor Corp. and
rivals to slash output and stoking concerns that tire demand
from automakers will weaken. Futures settled at 387 yen today.  Pre-Quake Level  The disaster will reduce tire sales for new cars in  Japan 
by about 2 million units from March to June, Ikeda said. The
loss may be recouped in the second half of this year as
automakers step up efforts to restore production, he said.  “Some of the carmakers may return their production to pre-
quake levels by July,” Ikeda said.  The company plans to use 505,000 tons of natural and
synthetic rubber this year for tire production, gaining 6.5
percent from last year. Natural rubber represents more than half
of the volume, said Shizuma Kubota, general manager at Sumitomo
Rubber’s public relations department.  More than 80 percent of the natural rubber used by the
company is technically specified rubber, which is cheaper and
easier to process than ribbed-smoked-sheet rubber, Ikeda said.  Technically specified rubber for June delivery on the
 Singapore Exchange  closed at $4.62 a kilogram yesterday. The
price reached a record $5.75 on Feb. 10 amid speculation the
supply shortage may worsen after heavy rains disrupted output in
 Thailand ,  Indonesia  and  Malaysia  -- the top-three producers.  Seasonal Increase  Ribbed-smoked-sheet rubber for June delivery on the
Singapore bourse closed at $5.14 a kilogram yesterday,
retreating from a record $6.488 reached on Feb. 17.  The company expects to buy so-called TSR-20 rubber at $5.5
a kilogram on average for the second quarter of this year, $5.2
for the third quarter and $5 for the fourth quarter as a
seasonal increase in supply from Thailand, the world’s largest
producer and exporter, will put a drag on prices.  “I don’t expect the price will exceed $6,” Ikeda said.
Supply will also increase as trees planted five to seven years
ago in  Southeast Asia  will become available for tapping, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  