-- 
Global Food Costs May Rise More on Supply Lag, BOJ Executive Nakaso Says

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 
2011-05-27T02:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/global-food-costs-may-rise-more-as-supply-lags-growth-boj-s-nakaso-says.html
Global food costs may extend gains as
it will take time for producers to catch up with demand driven
by the rapid growth of emerging economies, the Bank of  Japan ’s
assistant governor said.  The surge in commodity prices is also being spurred by
increased trading of financial products linked to commodities
such as exchanged-traded funds and indexed-investment products,
Hiroshi Nakaso, who leads a Group of 20 panel studying global
commodity inflation, said in an interview yesterday in  Tokyo .  “The lead time for increasing  food production  is often
long and we can’t rule out the possibility that food prices may
become volatile to some extent,” Nakaso, 58, said at the BOJ’s
headquarters. He added that there won’t be a “critical
situation” if food production can be increased at a
“reasonable pace.”  Soaring commodity costs, seen in the United Nations FAO
Food price index’s rise to a record in February, threaten to
drive millions of people into poverty and have prompted central
banks around the world to boost borrowing costs.  France , which
hosts G-20 meetings this year, made it one of the group’s
priorities to consider commodities market regulation.  The increase in commodity-linked financial products is
making prices more responsive to investors’ market positions,
said Nakaso, who is also an executive director in charge of the
BOJ’s international affairs. “Accommodative monetary
conditions” worldwide may also be increasing demand for
commodities, he said.  Nakaso is one of six executive directors at the BOJ, the
highest ranking officials after the two deputy governors. He is
also an assistant governor because of his role in overseeing
global affairs.  Agriculture Rally  This month’s market decline may reflect “a rewinding of
investors’ positions, combined with the effect of increased
required margins for oil and sliver future trading,” he said.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities has
declined 7.9 percent this month. Crude  oil prices  have tumbled
12 percent and silver dropped 18 percent during the period.
Still, the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index, the gauge
of eight commodities, rallied 7.1 percent since May 13 on
draughts in Europe and  China .  Providing more inventory data may be an effective step to
curb volatile trading, Nakaso said.  Increasing Transparency  “If disclosure of information is insufficient, commodity
prices may deviate from equilibrium prices, which are suggested
by fundamentals,” he said. To reduce such deviation as much as
possible, disclosure of information “would be a useful way
forward” because “increasing transparency is one important
element in improving the functions of markets.”  G-20 nations agreed in February to analyze underlying
drivers of commodity price volatility, in coordination with
international organizations. Nakaso’s panel plans to submit a
report to G-20 finance ministers and central bankers in July.  The panel, participated by 35 bodies, will report on
factors driving global commodity cost increases and their
implications, including the influence of commodity-linked
financial products trading. The panel won’t make any specific
policy proposals or calls for regulations, as it’s up to policy
makers to come up with them, he said.  Europe ’s finance ministers last month called for a stricter
oversight of commodity-derivatives trading following concerns
that speculation is driving up prices for raw materials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net  