-- 
Pansy Ho Raises $1.5 Billion in MGM China IPO at Top of Range

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-05-27T03:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/mgm-china-prices-h-k-ipo-shares-at-hk-15-34.html
Pansy Ho , the daughter of Macau
casino billionaire  Stanley Ho , raised the maximum $1.5 billion
sought by selling shares in MGM China Holdings Ltd. as gambling
revenue surges in the former Portuguese enclave.  MGM China, the casino venture between  MGM Resorts
International (MGM)  and Pansy Ho, priced shares at HK$15.34 ($1.97) 
each, the company said in a statement today. That was at the top
end of a range marketed to investors.  MGM China is the city’s first $1 billion-plus IPO priced at
the top end since AIA Group Ltd. in October, a testament to
optimism that Macau’s growth will continue to outpace that of
Las Vegas. The sale drew investors including billionaire  John Paulson ’s hedge fund.  “Macau gaming is a popular sector this year as revenue
keeps going up,” said Victor Yip, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Uob-Kay Hian Ltd. “Compared with its peers, MGM China serves
high-end customers, offers better service and provides a more
comfortable environment.”  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the casino company backed by billionaire
 Sheldon Adelson , has risen 23 percent in  Hong Kong  trading this
year. Steven Wynn’s Wynn Macau Ltd. has jumped 54 percent. Both
companies went public in Hong Kong in 2009.  All net proceeds of the IPO will go to Pansy Ho, who is
selling down her interest in the 50-50 joint venture, according
to a prospectus for the deal. MGM China started the sale after
casino gambling revenue in Macau rose 58 percent last year to
188.3 billion patacas ($23.5 billion), about four times that of
the Las Vegas Strip.  Ho Sell-Down  Pansy Ho’s stake in MGM China will decrease to 29 percent
from 50 percent upon completion of the IPO, Las Vegas-based MGM
Resorts said in an April 13 statement. She may exercise an
overallotment option to further reduce her interest to 26
percent, the statement said.  Bank of America Corp.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan
Stanley are the global coordinators for the sale, according to
the prospectus.  BNP Paribas (BNP) , CLSA Ltd.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are joint bookrunners, the
document shows.  Pansy Ho, 48, is chairwoman and executive director of MGM
China, according to a May 9  filing  to the exchange. Her 89-year-
old father held a gambling monopoly in Macau for four decades
before the government in 2002 allowed the entry of foreign
players including  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)   Paulson & Co., the $36 billion hedge fund founded by
Paulson, agreed to buy $75 million of shares in MGM  China ’s
initial offering, according to the prospectus. MGM Resorts
founder and biggest shareholder Kirk Kerkorian and a trust fund
controlled by Hong Kong property magnate Walter Kwok also
committed to buying stock, the prospectus shows.  Casino revenue in Macau  climbed 43 percent to 79 billion
patacas in the first four months of this year, according to data
from Macau’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau. Macau
gambling revenue may rise more than 25 percent in 2011,
cementing the city’s position as the world’s biggest gambling
hub by sales, Standard & Poor’s credit analyst Joe Poon said in
a report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  