-- 
Greece’s Papandreou Vows to Press Ahead With Austerity Measures to Win Aid

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-05-28T16:15:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/greece-s-papandreou-vows-to-move-ahead-with-austerity-measures.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he’ll press ahead with new austerity measures
after failing to win backing from the main opposition parties as
he races to keep bailout funds flowing and avoid default.  Antonis Samaras, leader of Greece’s biggest opposition
party,  New Democracy , rejected the plan at a meeting with
Papandreou and other opposition leaders in Athens, saying his
party wouldn’t be blackmailed. Papandreou said he will go ahead
with the measures even while continuing to seek support and
ruled out early elections.  “My determination is to continue with this program in a
very determined and decisive way,” Papandreou said today at a
press conference in Athens. Greece has achieved “impressive”
targets and there are signs of improvement in the economy, he
said, adding that the country will “soon be out of the woods”
by following through with plans for fiscal adjustment, state-
asset sales and development of government-owned real estate.  European Union officials have called for consensus on the
package, which includes an additional 6 billion euros ($8.6
billion) of budget cuts and a plan to speed 50 billion euros of
state-asset sales, before approving more aid that  Greece  needs
to avoid default. The wage cuts and tax increases Papandreou has
imposed under a 110 billion-euro bailout last year have prompted
strikes and protests, complicating efforts for compromise on the
new plan.  Showing Unity  Papandreou said yesterday the country needed to show unity,
decisiveness and seriousness as possible. “It’s not the time
for conventional opposition politics” or “glib talk,” he
said. Papandreou will continue to seek a political consensus, he
said at today’s news conference.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said yesterday it was “essential for all parties to support the
EU-International Monetary Fund program.”  “We expect that the efforts toward a cross-party
agreement” will continue, he said in an e-mailed statement from
Brussels. “An agreement has to be found soon. Time is running
out.”  Greece’s benchmark ASE Index pared gains after the talks
broke up, declining 1.7 percent to 1,264.92 on concern the asset
sales would stall. The yield on the country’s 10-year bond rose
4 basis points to 16.42 percent, more than twice the level at
the time of the bailout.  New Measures  One year after the rescue, which aimed to stem the spread
of the region’s debt crisis, Greece remains shut out of
financial markets and  Portugal  and Ireland have followed in
needing bailouts. EU leaders are considering new loans and a
voluntary extension of bond repayments for Greece to close a
funding gap in 2012 of about 30 billion euros. Greece ended last
year with a budget deficit of more than 10 percent of gross
domestic product and the euro-region’s biggest debt at 143
percent of GDP.  Greece’s asset-sale plan must be “more ambitious,”
European Central Bank Executive Board member Juergen Stark told
Welt am Sonntag in an interview. Greece owns real estate and
stakes in publicly listed companies with a sales potential of as
much as 300 billion euros, and a part of that must be used to
cut Greek debt, Stark said, according to the newspaper.  ‘Outperform’  Greece needs to “outperform” market expectations on its
fiscal policy, pushing forward with structural changes and asset
sales as “it’s not about the budget alone,” Dutch Finance
Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said today at a press conference in
Limassol, Cyprus. Euro-area finance ministers have also “asked
for an investigation of possibilities of some soft reprofiling”
of Greece’s debt, he added.  Soft restructuring, also referred to by EU officials as
reprofiling, is a “pure extension of maturities of existing
bonds without changing the principal and the  interest rates ,”
German Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said in Brussels
on May 17.  Such a setup would be designed to avert a chain reaction of
claims linked to credit-default swaps. Still, any restructuring
would be “destructive” for Greece and the 17-nation currency
bloc, ECB Governing Council member Athanasios Orphanides said
today in Limassol, echoing similar comments by ECB board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi and council member  Christian Noyer .  The EU and the IMF had demanded that Papandreou adopt the
additional budget measures before approving the next aid
installment and considering additional funds for next year.
Under the rescue plan, Greece was due to return to markets in
2012. Papandreou acknowledged last week that won’t be possible.  ‘More Procrastination’  “We will see yet more procrastination and confusion over
the coming days,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European rate
strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “We believe Greece
and Ireland and other sovereigns all have the wherewithal to
avoid a worsening of their public finances. But their will to
take tough decisions is weakening.”  Popular and political opposition to austerity measures that
aim to stop the spread of the region’s debt crisis has already
toppled governments in Ireland and Portugal.  Spain ’s ruling
Socialist party suffered its worst election defeat in 30 years
this month in regional voting and Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has said he won’t lead his party into general
elections due next year.  Officials from the EU, the IMF and the ECB are due to
complete their review of Greece’s progress in meeting the
bailout terms as soon as next week. The recommendation from the
group of inspectors known as the troika is necessary before the
next installment of the bailout, worth 12 billion euros, can be
distributed.  IMF Funds  “There are conditions and criteria associated with the
dispersal of funds,” IMF acting Managing Director  John Lipsky 
said in an interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television
yesterday. “Our staff, along with European colleagues, are in
 Athens  right now in discussions with the Greek authorities.”  He added that there is “no set timetable but we’re in
active negotiations.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said May 26 that
the IMF may withhold its 3.3 billion-euro share of the June
payment until the EU gives assurances on how it will close
Greece’s funding gap for next year, adding to pressure on
politicians to reach agreement on the new measures.  “At this point the issue hasn’t closed as to how Greece
will get the tranche,” Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said in an interview with Greek television
channel Mega TV today. The EU is now saying that if the IMF
doesn’t pay its share of the installment, then it can’t commit
to financing for 2012, he added.  “I believe we will get the fifth tranche because a
solution will be found, but a condition for this is for the
Greek government to do its part,” Papaconstantinou said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at  acullen8@bloomberg.net . 