-- 
Greece’s Papandreou Vows to Press Ahead With Austerity Measures to Win Aid

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-05-27T18:50:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/greek-political-parties-meeting-to-build-consensus-on-austerity-measures.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he’ll press ahead with new austerity measures
after failing to win support from the nation’s main opposition
parties as he races to keep aid flowing and avoid default.  Antonis Samaras, leader of Greece’s biggest opposition
party,  New Democracy , rejected the plan at a meeting with
Papandreou and other opposition leaders in  Athens , saying his
party wouldn’t be blackmailed. Papandreou said he will go ahead
with the measures even while continuing to seek support and
ruled out early elections.  “It’s our duty to get Greece out of this crisis,”
Papandreou said today on state-run NET TV. “And we will do all
it takes, with or without cross-party agreement.”  European Union officials have called for consensus on the
package, which includes an additional 6 billion euros ($8.6
billion) of budget cuts and a plan to speed 50 billion euros of
state-asset sales, before approving more aid that  Greece  needs
to avoid default. The wage cuts and tax increases Papandreou has
imposed under a 110 billion-euro bailout last year have prompted
strikes and protests, complicating efforts for compromise on the
new plan.  Papandreou said the country needed “to show as much unity,
decisiveness and seriousness as possible to everyone at this
moment.  “It’s not the time for conventional opposition politics,”
he said. “It’s not the time for glib talk.”  Support ‘Essential’  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said today it was “essential for all parties to support the EU-
International Monetary Fund program.”  “We expect that the efforts toward a cross-party agreement
to support the EU-IMF program will continue,” he said in an e-
mailed statement from Brussels. “An agreement has to be found
soon. Time is running out.”  Greece’s benchmark ASE Index pared gains after the talks
broke up, declining 1.7 percent to 1,264.92 on concern the asset
sales would stall. The yield on the country’s 10-year bond rose
4 basis points to 16.42 percent, more than twice the level at
the time of the bailout.  One year after the rescue, which aimed to stem the spread
of the region’s debt crisis, Greece remains shut out of
financial markets and  Portugal  and Ireland have followed in
needing bailouts. EU leaders are considering new loans and a
voluntary extension of bond repayments for Greece to close a
funding gap in 2012 of about 30 billion euros.  Aid Payment  The EU and the IMF had demanded that Papandreou adopt the
additional budget measures before approving the next aid
installment and considering additional funds for next year.
Under the rescue plan, Greece was due to return to markets in
2012. Papandreou acknowledged last week that won’t be possible.  “We will see yet more procrastination and confusion over
the coming days,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European rate
strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “We believe Greece
and Ireland and other sovereigns all have the wherewithal to
avoid a worsening of their public finances. But their will to
take tough decisions is weakening.”  Popular and political opposition to austerity measures that
aim to stop the spread of the region’s debt crisis has already
toppled governments in Ireland and Portugal.  Spain ’s ruling
Socialist party suffered its worst election defeat in 30 years
this month in regional voting and Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has said he won’t lead his party into general
elections due next year.  Progress Report  Officials from the EU, the IMF and the  European Central
Bank  are due to complete their review of Greece’s progress in
meeting the bailout terms as soon as next week. The
recommendation from the group of inspectors known as the troika
is necessary before the next installment of the bailout, worth
12 billion euros, can be distributed.  “There are conditions and criteria associated with the
dispersal of funds,” IMF acting Managing Director  John Lipsky 
said in an interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television
today. “Our staff, along with European colleagues, are in
Athens right now in discussions with the Greek authorities.”  He added that there is “no set timetable but we’re in
active negotiations.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said yesterday
that the IMF may withhold its 3.3 billion-euro share of the June
payment until the EU gives assurances on how it will close
Greece’s funding gap for next year, adding to pressure on
politicians to reach agreement on the new measures.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at  acullen8@bloomberg.net  