-- 
Iberdrola’s Galan Rebuffs ACS Break-Up Threat Hosting Shareholders Meeting

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-05-27T12:44:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/iberdrola-s-galan-to-rebuff-acs-break-up-threat-as-he-hosts-shareholders.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE)  Chief Executive Officer
Ignacio Galan faced renewed criticism from his biggest investor,
which analysts say may be plotting to undo the international
expansion he carried out at the Spanish utility.  Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA General
Secretary Jose Luis Del Valle Perez told Iberdrola stockholders
gathered for their annual meeting in Bilbao, northern Spain,
that Galan’s stewardship of the world’s biggest clean-energy
producer has been geared toward blocking ACS’s attempts to both
claim a board seat and increase its influence in Iberdrola.  Galan defended his record, saying he’d delivered return of
143 percent over the past 10 years including dividends and
protected the company from Spain’s economic slump by investing
in the U.K., the U.S. and Brazil.  “What is distasteful about this is that ACS is probably
mainly interested in Iberdrola’s strong cash flows,” Ingo
Speich, senior portfolio manager at Union Investment Privatfonds
GmbH in  Frankfurt , told delegates. “It cannot ultimately be in
Iberdrola’s interest to act as ACS’s helping hand.”  While Speich, who said his company owns about 160 million
euros of Iberdrola shares, said he “fully” supports
Iberdrola’s management, he said he was concerned Galan might
take action to defend the company from ACS that would damage
shareholders interests. He said he would vote against a proposal
to allow Galan to increase the company’s share capital by 50
percent.  Thwart ACS  “There are concerns among investors that the company might
use these funds to embark on an acquisition spree merely to
thwart ACS’s plans,” he said. “This strategy might well harm
the company in the long term.”  Galan’s strategy has made Iberdrola the world’s biggest
producer of renewable energy and the main conduit of  Spain ’s
efforts to attract clean-power investment. Florentino Perez,
chairman of Spanish builder ACS, sees more value in dismembering
the company, Carles Vergara, a professor of finance at Iese
business school in Barcelona, said.  “Florentino doesn’t care about” Iberdrola’s strategic
importance for Spain, Vergara said in an interview before the
meeting. “He’s looking out for his own interests and those of
ACS shareholders.”  Galan today said Iberdrola’s record 2.87 billion-euro (4.1
billion) profit last year demonstrates the benefits of its
expansion strategy.  Record Profit  “Reaching a record net profit clearly shows the positive
impact of the investments we have made in recent years, which
have given the group a portfolio of activities and geographical
areas that can provide sustainable growth even in adverse
scenarios like the one we’re in,” he told shareholders. “We’ll
continue working to drive our company along the path of
profitability and sustainable growth.”  That message was emphasized for shareholders arriving at
Bilbao airport this morning. As they emerged from the terminal
amid a drizzle they were greeted by a 20 meter-high Iberdrola
advertisement on the side of the parking lot. “Once you find
your path, there’s no turning back,” it said.  Del Valle said ACS would vote against a number of
resolutions including one approving Galan’s management of the
company during 2010 and 2011. Del Valle told directors that a
change to the company’s statutes would prevent shareholders
selling their  voting rights  and was “denying shareholders their
rights.”  Madrid-based ACS, with less than a third of Iberdrola’s
market value, has control of 20 percent of Iberdrola shares and
is pushing Galan to grant him a representative on the utility’s
board. It owns 13 percent of the shares directly, 1.9 percent
through a “prepaid forward share” and controls 5.1 percent via
a swap contract, according its annual report.  Court Challenge  At last year’s meeting, shareholders voted to refuse ACS’s
request for a seat on the board, after Iberdrola said it was a
competitor. Galan said that decision was “fully justified” as
shown by a January ruling by a Bilbao court ACS’s legal
challenge to that decision. ACS is challenging the ruling at the
 Supreme Court .  ACS may wait to make its next bid for representation. Its
position will be strengthened on July 1 when an Iberdrola
statute limiting a single shareholder’s voting rights to 10
percent becomes illegal under Spanish law. The construction firm
also plans to sell most of its renewable generating assets by
the end of this year, weakening the case that ACS is a
competitor.  ‘Stuck With Problem’  “Galan is stuck with this problem,” said Alberto Espelosin, head of analysis at investment company Ibercaja
Gestion SGIIC SA in Zaragoza, Spain, before the meeting.
“Florentino wants to control the company but we’re very far
from that at the moment.”  ACS would be able to add about 50 euro cents per share by
selling off Iberdrola’s units in the U.S. and U.K., including
Energy East and Scottish Power Plc, according to a January note
by UBS AG.  Such a move would mean undoing much of Galan’s work to
increase revenue more than three-fold since he joined the
company a decade ago. Galan shifted gears in 2006 as Spain’s 10-
year economic boom peaked announcing the acquisition of Scottish
Power Plc, for which he paid $27.2 billion including debt,
according to Bloomberg data. Iberdrola added U.S. network
operator Energy East Corp. about $8 billion in 2008 including
debt, and  Brazil ’s Elektro Eletricidade e Servicos SA for $2.4
billion this year.  Beating EON  Iberdrola’s shares, excluding dividends, have risen about
45 percent since Galan became CEO in May 2001 compared with a
gain of almost 5 percent for EON AG,  Germany ’s biggest power
utility, and a 26 percent decline for Rome-based Enel SpA in the
same period. ACS rose about 220 percent.  “For the long-term the Iberdrola option of investing in
the energy business internationally makes a lot of sense,”
Vergara said. “The ACS vision is more short-termist.”  Galan has also taken steps that dilute ACS’s influence.
Qatar Investment Authority, the investment arm of the Qatari
government, bought a 6.2 percent stake in the utility in March
to become the third-biggest investor after Basque savings bank
Bilbao Bizkaia Kutxa.  ACS’s first-quarter profit dropped about 31 percent as
Iberdrola elected to pay its dividend in May instead of March as
it did in 2010. The construction firm saw income from its equity
holdings slump 64 percent in the quarter.  The dispute between Galan and Perez risks becoming a row
between “two alpha persons,” Hans-Martin Buhlman, a
representative of the Association of Institutional Shareholders,
told the meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  