-- 
U.S. Consumer Sentiment Index Unexpectedly Rises to 74.3 in Michigan Index

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-05-27T14:40:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-rose-in-may.html
U.S. consumers grew more confident in
May than a month earlier as declining gasoline prices helped
lift Americans’ spirits.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment increased to a three-month high of 74.3 from
69.8 in April. Economists forecast a reading of 72.4, the same
as the preliminary figure issued earlier this month, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline prices have begun to retreat after rising to the
highest level since July 2008, providing some relief for
consumers whose purchases account for about 70 percent of the
economy. Bigger gains in employment may help boost spending that
slowed in the first quarter.  “Income generation has been soft, and a good portion of
income was being gobbled up by inflation,” said  Ken Mayland ,
president of ClearView Economics LLC in  Pepper Pike ,  Ohio . “For
the summer months, prices might come down and give consumers a
little more wiggle room.”  Consumer spending climbed less than forecast in April as
food and fuel costs increased, a Commerce Department report
showed today. Purchases rose 0.4 percent after a 0.5 percent
gain the prior month that was smaller than previously estimated.
Economists projected a 0.5 percent rise in April spending,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Housing Struggling  A struggling housing market may be limiting confidence. The
National Association of Realtors said today that the number
Americans signing contracts to purchase previously owned homes
plunged in April.  The group’s index of pending home resales declined 12
percent after a revised 3.5 percent gain the prior month. The
median projection in a Bloomberg survey called for a 1 percent
drop.  Stocks held earlier gains after the reports, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rising 0.4 percent to 1,330.47 at
10:38 a.m. in  New York . Treasuries were little changed with the
benchmark 10-year note yielding 3.06 percent.  Confidence forecasts in the Bloomberg survey of 64
economists ranged from 70 to 74. The index averaged 89 in the
five years leading up to the recession that began in December
2007.  Today’s sentiment report parallels other gauges. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 48.1 in the week
to May 22, ending a monthlong slide. The Conference Board’s
confidence index increased in May, economists in a Bloomberg
survey project ahead of the May 31 release.  Current Conditions  The Michigan survey’s current conditions gauge, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether they consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars, decreased to 81.9 from 82.5 the prior month.  Consumer expectations for six months from now, which more
closely projects the direction of  consumer spending , rose to
69.5, the highest since February, from 61.6, today’s confidence
report showed.  Today’s confidence survey showed consumers said they expect
an inflation rate of 4.1 percent over the next 12 months,
compared with a rate of 4.6 percent projected in April. Over the
next five years, the period tracked by Federal Reserve policy
makers, Americans’ expectations for inflation held at 2.9
percent.  Employers added workers for a seventh consecutive month in
April. Payrolls expanded by 244,000, the biggest gain since May
2010, while the jobless rate rose to 9 percent, the Labor
Department said May 6.  Gasoline Prices  Meantime, gasoline prices surged to $3.99 per gallon
nationally on May 4. Fuel costs have since moderated, dropping
to $3.81 a gallon on May 26, according to AAA, the nation’s
biggest motoring organization.  “The biggest concerns that I have on an ongoing basis are
anything that impacts the consumer’s ability to buy
discretionary items: gas, jobs,” said Ken Hicks, chief
executive officer of  Foot Locker Inc. (FL) , the largest U.S. athletic
shoe store chain. “As those stay up, that is a challenge.”  The two-year extension of Bush-era tax cuts President
Barack Obama signed into law in December has helped consumers
cope with higher food and energy costs, Hicks said during a May
20 conference call with analysts.  New York-based Footlocker, which reported first-quarter
revenue of $1.45 billion that beat the average analyst estimate,
raised its forecast for sales in the final three quarters of
2011 at stores open more than year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  