-- 
IMF´s Blanchard Says End of QE2 Won´t Slow Flows Much to Emerging Markets

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-05-27T20:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/imf-s-blanchard-says-end-of-qe2-won-t-slow-flows-much-to-emerging-markets.html
Capital flows to emerging markets
won’t significantly slow when the U.S. Federal Reserve ends its
bond-purchasing program known as quantitative easing, said
 Olivier Blanchard , chief economist at the  International Monetary
Fund .  “QE2 has only a marginal impact on flows,” Blanchard,
referring to the Fed´s program to stimulate the  U.S. economy ,
told reporters at an IMF-sponsored event in Rio de Janeiro. “As
QE2 is phased out I don’t expect it will lead to a significant
change in capital flows.”  Blanchard’s remarks contradict the position of Brazilian
Finance Minister Guido Mantega, who has complained that the
Fed´s asset purchases are causing a flood of “hot money” to
emerging markets, fueling inflation and currency gains. Mantega
said April 27 that he hoped Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke won’t
announce another round of quantitative easing.  Blanchard also said that a recent increase in  Brazil ’s
foreign direct investment is “suspicious,” since investors may
be disguising portfolio flows to circumvent government
restrictions.  Inflow Shift  FDI inflows exceed economists’ forecasts for a tenth
straight month in April.  The country received $23 billion in FDI in the first four
months of this year, from $7.7 billion in the same period in
2010. Foreign investments in shares and domestic bonds fell to
$532 million from $14.3 billion over the same period.  Brazil’s government suspects “irregularity” in inflows
registered as foreign direct investment and may ask the tax
agency to open a probe, Estado de S.Paulo newspaper reported
March 24.  As part of efforts by Brazilian President DilmaRousseff’s
administration to stem the real’s gains, the government on March
29 increased to 6 percent a tax on new corporate loans and debt
sales abroad by banks.  A few days later, Rousseff applied the higher tax to
renewed, renegotiated, or transferred loans of up to two years
in length.  Companies previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to
90 days and zero tax when the operation exceeded three months.  In October, Brazil tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreign
investors’ fixed-income purchases. Last year, Mantega said that
countries were competitively devaluing their exchange rates in a
global “currency war.”  Permanent Flows  Blanchard, speaking to reporters, said today that the share
of emerging market assets held by portfolio investors globally
still has more room to rise, as faster economic growth in  Latin
America  and  Asia  attract capital.  He said policy makers should use other instruments --
 interest rates , fiscal policy, foreign currency reserves
accumulation and other macro-prudential tools -- before
resorting to the use of capital controls to fend off
”excessive´´ inflows.  Nicolas Eyzaguirre, the IMF´s Western Hemisphere director
and a former finance minister in  Chile , said that policy makers
in Latin America should be ready to withstand pressure on their
currencies in coming years by finding ways to boost productivity
and increase savings.  ”Make no mistake, there´s part of this that is
permanent,´´ he said at the same event, which brought together
central bankers from  Thailand , Turkey, Colombia and Chile to
discuss capital flows to emerging markets.  The real gained 1.2 percent to 1.5960 per  U.S. dollar  at
4:21 p.m. New York time. The currency has appreciated 45 percent
against the dollar since 2009, the best performer of 25 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  -- With assistance from Iuri Dantas and Andre Soliani in
Brasilia. Editors: Joshua Goodman, Robert Jameson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  