-- 
IMF Candidate Carstens Wins Over Bond Investors: Mexico Credit

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-05-27T22:09:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/imf-candidate-carstens-winning-over-bond-investors-at-home-mexico-credit.html
Bond traders’ confidence is growing
in Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens’s ability to
hold down inflation in Latin America’s second-biggest economy.  The yield gap between government debt tied to inflation and
fixed-rate notes, a gauge of investor expectations for annual
price increases over the next three and a half years, tumbled
116 basis points since March 7 to a four-month low of 3.5
percentage points. As concern about inflation wanes, traders are
pushing back their estimates for when Carstens, a candidate to
head the  International Monetary Fund , will begin raising the
benchmark rate to December, futures trading shows.  While policy makers from  Brazil  to  Chile  have been
ratcheting up borrowing costs over the past year to quell
surging inflation, Carstens has held Mexico’s key rate at a
record low 4.5 percent as a bet that the economic expansion
wouldn’t trigger a jump in consumer prices. Annual inflation
slowed to 3.3 percent in mid-May from 4.4 percent in 2010 and
touched a five-year low of 3.04 percent in March.  Carstens’s “credibility has been enhanced,” Pablo Cisilino, who helps manage $22 billion in emerging-market debt
at Stone Harbor Investment in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Carstens came out and said we’re going to stay put
and inflation is not going to pick up, it’s going to come down.
Something that you’ve been predicting happens, your credibility
gets enhanced.”  Today’s Meeting  Banco de  Mexico ’s board, led by Carstens, kept the
overnight rate at 4.5 percent at a nineteenth straight meeting
today. The decision matched the forecast of all 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yields on 28-day interbank rate futures due in December,
known as TIIE, has declined 34 basis points, or 0.34 percentage
point, in the past month to 5.03 percent, indicating traders are
betting the central bank will wait until that month to increase
the key rate. As recently as April 4, they predicted an increase
by July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on Mexico’s 9.5 percent peso bonds due 2014 have
dropped 75 basis points from a 10-month high on March 7 to 5.97
percent, helping narrow the gap with inflation-linked bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 116-basis point
drop in the yield differential between the two securities, known
as the breakeven rate, compares with declines of 52 basis points
in  Colombia  and 34 in Brazil in the same period.  “It definitely says that the market is perfectly happy
with the way that Carstens is conducting monetary policy,”
 Kieran Curtis , who helps manage more than $3 billion of
emerging-market assets, including peso debt, at Aviva Investors
in  London , said in a telephone interview. “No change for still
a reasonable period of time is quite a reasonable sort of policy
outlook to expect.”  ‘Well-Behaved’  Policy makers on May 11 kept their annual inflation
forecast of 3 percent to 4 percent for 2011 while raising growth
estimates. The economy will expand as much as 5 percent, up from
a previous forecast of up to 4.8 percent, the central bank in
its quarterly inflation report.  “Taking everything together, inflationary expectations are
relatively well-behaved,” Carstens, who served as finance
minister from 2006 to 2009, told reporters in Mexico City on May
11.  The central bank declined to comment further in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Mexico’s consumer prices fell for the first time in 10
months in April as housing costs tumbled. Prices fell 0.01
percent in April from a month earlier while rising 3.36 percent
from a year earlier, the central bank reported May 9. Prices in
the first two weeks of May declined 0.75 percent. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts was for a 0.41
percent drop.  ‘Weak’ Growth  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged today at 147
basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The peso rose 0.6 percent to 11.6035 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day interbank rate
due in October fell one basis point to 4.91 percent.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell one basis point to 105, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  “Weak” economic growth is more responsible for the
decline in consumer prices in Mexico than Carstens, said  Benito Berber ,  Latin America  strategist at Nomura Securities.  France’s Lagarde  Gross domestic product grew 4.6 percent in the first
quarter, less than the 5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 17 analysts, the government said in a report on May
19. The  U.S. economy , which buys about 80 percent of Mexico’s
exports, expanded at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, less than the 2.2 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The economy is weak,” Berber said in a telephone
interview in New York. “The recent collapse in break-even
inflation is just because people realize growth is not there.”  Mexico has nominated Carstens, who was deputy managing
director at the IMF from 2003 to 2006, to replace  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who resigned as head of the organization last week
to defend himself against criminal charges including attempted
rape. French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde , who is also
seeking the top job at the Washington-based Fund, has won
endorsements from European countries including the U.K., Germany
and  Sweden .  ‘Model’ Country  Carstens said in a May 24 interview on Bloomberg Television
that it was too early to say which countries will back his
nomination and that he has “a chance” of winning the race.  Stone Harbor’s Cisilino said Carstens would be a “great”
IMF head because of his experience helping Mexico recover from
past crises. The economy last year rebounded from a 6.1 percent
contraction in 2009, the worst since 1995, when a devaluation of
the peso sparked capital outflows across the region in what
became known as the Tequila Crisis.  “Mexico -- it’s a model, they’ve been through every crisis
you can imagine in emerging markets,” Cisilino said. “They
have so much experience. It would be wonderful. They should be a
model for a lot of guys in emerging markets. He would be a
wonderful head of the IMF.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  