-- 
IMF Needs More Women, Developing-Country Staff, Report Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-27T16:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/imf-needs-more-women-developing-country-staff-report-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund  needs
to further boost the representation of women and of developing
economies among senior positions, a report on diversity within
the agency showed.  The proportion of women in such jobs “remains low”
according to the annual report by the IMF Diversity Advisor,
which was discussed May 11 by the Washington-based lender’s
board. The share of employees from  Africa , East Asia, the Middle
East and so-called “transition countries” that include most of
Eastern Europe “is still unacceptably small,” it said.  The internal report was released after Dominique Strauss- Kahn’s resignation as managing director, following his May 14
arrest in  New York  on charges of attempted rape. French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde , who has European backing to succeed
him, could become the first woman to lead the institution since
it was founded in 1945.  “Recent years have seen some tangible successes as well as
a change in culture, but the job of making the Fund sufficiently
diverse is far from done,” the report said. “The business case
for greater diversity is self evident: it improves the Fund’s
intellectual and human capital and makes it more representative
of its global membership.”  The share of women in managerial jobs met a target of 20
percent in May 2010 and reached 21.5 by the end of the year,
according to the report. That’s lower than the 36 percent at the
 World Bank  and 27 percent at the  Inter-American Development
Bank , the report said.  To achieve 2014 targets for underrepresented regions, 30 to
35 staff from developing economies would need to be appointed at
managerial positions through external recruitment or
international promotions, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  