-- 
IMF Staff Recommends Higher Capital to Address ‘Too-Big-to-Fail’ Bank Risk

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-05-27T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/imf-staff-recommends-higher-capital-to-address-too-big-to-fail.html
Solving the issues posed by banks
deemed too important to fail will require a combination of
capital, supervision and resolution measures, an  International
Monetary Fund  staff report says.  The staff report released today said that reducing the size
and activities of complex institutions is not enough to solve
the matter, often referred to as too-big-to-fail. Instead, the
fund recommended a combination of higher capital, transparency,
stronger supervision, and resolution authority for banks labeled
too important to fail, or TITF.  “Policies are therefore needed to address the systemic
risk posed by institutions perceived as TITF and to reinstate
market discipline,” the IMF staff wrote in the report.
“Efforts to address the TITF problem should aim to internalize
the risks taken by these institutions and limit the negative
externalities imposed on others.”  While the fund’s staff made recommendations to manage
systemic institutions, it noted the difficulty to fully solve
the problem.  Aditya Narain, division chief in the Monetary and Capital
Markets Department of the IMF, said without a solution to too-
big-to-fail, higher capital standards should be imposed on the
financial institutions. The IMF called for capital standards
above the international Basel III capital requirements for
systemic institutions and the use of contingent capital in the
case of systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs.  “We are concerned, however, that the solutions may take a
long time to implement. Therefore we support rapid practices in
the interim,” she said on a conference call with reporters
today. “This calls for conservative efforts that SIFIs hold
higher capital.”  Narain is one of the authors of the report.  The fund’s staff report recommended that the higher capital
surcharges be accompanied with intensive supervision,
transparency and resolution authority.  The report said policies to discourage growth and complex
activities of systemic institutions are insufficient.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  