-- 
India Gives Tanzania $190 Million of Aid for Water, Education Development

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-05-27T13:05:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/india-gives-tanzania-190-million-of-aid-for-water-education-development.html
India ’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
said his country will provide $190 million of development
assistance to  Tanzania .  About $180 million will be provided for water-supply
projects, while $10 million will be spent on capacity building
in social and education sectors, Singh told reporters today in
Tanzania’s commercial capital,  Dar es Salaam . Singh is on a two-
day visit to the East African nation to deepen economic and
diplomatic cooperation.  The $1.3 billion invested by India in Tanzania to date is
“too small, and we have agreed with the president to increase
it,” he said at a joint media briefing with President Jakaya Kikwete, his Tanzanian counterpart.  India is boosting economic ties with Africa amid
competition from  China , its regional rival, whose trade with the
continent totalled $106.8 billion in 2008, according to
 Consultancy Africa Intelligence ’s website. Trade between India
and Africa currently stands at $50 billion, according to the
African Union.  Yesterday, Indian High Commissioner Kocheril Velayudhan
Bhagirath said that Kamal Group of India plans to spend 327
billion shillings ($211 million) establishing a steel mill in
Tanzania, while Chennai, India-based  Apollo Hospitals Enterprise
Ltd. (APHS)  will establish a specialty hospital in Dar es Salaam.  Joint Accords  Singh and Kikwete today signed an agreement on the
hospital, as well as accords to avoid double taxation and
develop small business. Kikwete also said his government is in
talks with Indian companies to establish a tractor-assembly
plant to support his country’s five-year so-called Agriculture
First initiative.  Tanzania and India will share intelligence information on
countering piracy and terrorism, Kikwete said at the briefing.  “We have had 18 attempts to hijack ships, five of them
successful,” Kikwete said. “We are buying bigger navy ships to
go deeper into the waters to fight piracy.”  Somali pirates have made 145 attacks and hijacked 22 ships
in the  Indian Ocean  so far this year, according to the
 International Maritime Organization . The pirates added at least
$2.4 billion to transportation costs in 2010 as ships altered
course to avoid attacks off east Africa, said One Earth, a non-
profit group.  Tanzania and India will also work together to seek a
reorganization of the United Nations Security Council, Singh
said. Tanzania supports India’s bid to become a permanent member
of the council and wants both permanent and non-permanent
membership to be extended to include Africa, Kikwete said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at 
440 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 