-- 
India Nifty to Stay ‘Under Pressure,’ Aditya Birla’s Nahata Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-05-27T05:12:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/india-nifty-to-stay-under-pressure-aditya-birla-s-nahata-says.html
Avinash Nahata, head of fundamental
desk at Aditya Birla Money Ltd., a brokerage owned by  India ’s
third-biggest industrial group, comments on the outlook for
Indian stocks. He spoke by phone today in Mumbai.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. added 0.7 percent to 5,450.10 as of 10:15 a.m. local
time, paring a fifth straight week of losses.  On market concerns:  “Lack of policy clarity on the oil, gas and coal sectors
will continue to cripple investments. With  Europe ’s recovery in
doubt and a rise in bond yields in  Greece , stock markets will
continue to remain under pressure. U.S. unemployment data and
its quarterly gross domestic output figures were also
lackluster.”  On June derivatives:  “The Nifty is likely to trade in 5,250-5,500 range in the
June futures and options series. It may rebound to 5,500 today
as investors may find value at lower levels after the recent
declines.  Indian derivative contracts expire on the last Thursday of
every month. The May series ended yesterday.  On Tata Motors’ earnings:  ‘‘The quarterly numbers were below street expectations.
That’s leading to the stock decline. The domestic business is
not doing well as volumes and prices are yet to pick up. The
drop in commercial vehicle sales is worrying.  Shares of Tata Motors, the owner of Jaguar  Land Rover , are
set for the lowest close in almost three months as higher raw
material costs eroded fourth-quarter profit. The stock tumbled
5.3 percent to 1,100.6 rupees at 10:20 a.m. in Mumbai, headed
for the lowest closing price since Feb. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  