-- 
Insider-Trading Probe Defendant Samir Barai Set for Plea Hearing in N.Y.

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-27T14:54:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/insider-trading-probe-defendant-samir-barai-set-for-plea-hearing-in-n-y-.html
Insider-trading probe defendant
Samir Barai is set for a plea hearing today in  New York , a U.S.
court clerk said.  Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management LP, is listed on
the Magistrate Court’s daily calendar today for a “felony
plea” hearing, court records show.  Evan Barr, a lawyer for Barai, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Barai, who was charged in February with conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud  and securities fraud, faces as long as
20 years in prison on the most serious charges.  Barai met with the U.S. in its probe of former Primary
Global Research LLC consultant Winifred Jiau, prosecutors said
in court papers filed in April.  He had an April 4 meeting called a “proffer session,” in
which prosecutors and defense lawyers meet to determine whether
a suspect will cooperate with the government. The U.S. described
the meeting in court papers filed in Jiau’s insider-trading
case.  At a May 12 hearing in federal court in New York, Barai’s
assistant, Jason Pflaum, a former analyst at Barai Capital
Management, testified he listened in on phone calls when his
boss, Barai, got nonpublic information on companies from Jiau.  Kept Notes  Pflaum said he also recorded the calls, wrote
contemporaneous electronic instant messages and kept notes and
that Barai didn’t tell anyone on the calls that his assistant
was listening in, Pflaum testified in federal court in
 Manhattan .  Barai is hearing impaired, Pflaum said. The U.S. now has
those notes as evidence against Barai, Pflaum and Jiau.  Pflaum also testified there were taped recordings of
conversations between Barai, Jiau and Noah Freeman, a former SAC
Capital Advisors LP junior portfolio manager who pleaded guilty
in February to federal charges and is also cooperating with
prosecutors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 