-- 
Lionel Messi’s Bonuses Mount as Barcelona Plans Salary Review Amid Losses

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-27T03:42:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/lionel-messi-s-bonuses-mount-as-barcelona-plans-salary-review-amid-losses.html
Lionel Messi  and his Barcelona
teammates’ winning ways are bringing the Spanish champion
losses.  The 23-year-old Argentine will share 20 million euros
($28.1 million) with 20 teammates if Barcelona beats  Manchester
United  in  London  tomorrow to win the Champions League, Vice
President Javier Faus said in an interview. The players got 50
million euros in bonuses after winning six trophies in 2009 and
40 million euros for taking the last two Spanish league titles.  Barcelona’s  15th trophy since 2005  would widen its loss for
the year through June to about 15 million euros as it struggles
to make money out of its success. About 70 percent of
Barcelona’s projected 450 million euros in revenue for the year
will be paid in player compensation, Faus said.  “It’s good to pay bonuses if we win because it’s an
incentive,” Faus said. “But next time the fixed-salary
payments have to be lower,” Faus added, referring to the next
players the club hires.  The bonuses, written into contracts, vary from player to
player at Barcelona. Messi, who has  49 goals  in the  Champions
League , Spanish league and cup, extended his contract through
2016 two years ago along with first-team players including
Andres Iniesta and  Xavi Hernandez .  In Argentina, Messi is using his income to invest in a
luxury development in the province of  Santa Fe , according to
 impulsonegocios.com , a website that covers the region. Messi
also has real estate in Barcelona, according to company filings:
El Rincon de Rosario SL, which had assets worth 814,000 euros in
2009, and Limecu Espana 2010 SA.  Social Projects  Pablo Negre, the commercial director of Leo Messi
Management SL, declined to comment on the soccer player’s
investments. Messi is spending on social projects like school
and sports facilities for children in northern  Argentina  through
 his foundation , Negre said.  Barcelona’s projected fiscal loss, which follows a 79
million-euro loss in fiscal 2010, is partly down to the club
writing off the rest of the 69.9 million-euro acquisition of
Zlatan Ibrahimovic, helping to reduce net debt to 370 million
euros, Faus said. The Sweden striker joined from  Inter Milan  in
2009, leaving a year later for AC Milan for 24 million euros,
according to Barcelona.  Barcelona, which signed what it called a “record” 30
million-euro annual jersey sponsorship deal with Qatar in
December, won’t carry out work on its Camp Nou stadium until the
club’s net debt is reduced further, Faus said. Last year, it
canceled plans for a 250 million-euro redesign by architect
Norman Foster that would have given the arena a multicolored
exterior influenced by Antoni Gaudi.  It’s not only Messi that will be celebrating if  Barcelona 
beats United: Staff “including the cleaning ladies” will also
get an extra pay-check, Faus said.  “It will be like Christmas,” Faus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Barcelona at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  