-- 
Issa Presses NRC’s Jaczko on Failing to Respond in Japan Inquiry

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-05-27T20:20:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/issa-presses-nrc-s-jaczko-on-failing-to-respond-in-japan-inquiry.html
The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
hasn’t provided information sought by an independent panel
investigating the agency’s response to  Japan ’s nuclear crisis,
House Oversight Committee Chairman  Darrell Issa  said.  The NRC has denied access to the Advisory Committee on
Reactor Safeguards, which is examining the agency’s
recommendation to evacuate U.S. residents within 50 miles (80
kilometers) of the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant,
Issa said in a letter to NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  released
today. NRC staff on April 7 agreed to provide the panel with
data, according to Issa, a California Republican.  “I would like to understand why, for more than a month,
the ACRS has not received this information,” Issa wrote in the
letter dated yesterday.  Issa said he wants to understand the discrepancy between
the U.S. recommendation and the 12-mile zone implemented by
Japan after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami overwhelmed the
plant’s emergency systems, triggering explosions and radiation
leaks.  Jaczko said in April that the NRC’s response to the
Fukushima incident was “consistent with what we would do under
similar circumstances in the  United States ,” according to the
letter. Issa said U.S. state and local officials would make an
evacuation recommendation if a nuclear disaster occurred.  A separate letter was sent to advisory committee Chairman
Said Abdel-Khalik seeking to learn why the panel hasn’t received
the information from the NRC.  Issa has asked Jaczko and Abdel-Khalik to reply by June 9.  “We will respond in the usual process,” David McIntyre,
and agency spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  Jaczko didn’t consult with the four commissioners before
issuing the recommendation for U.S. citizens to evacuate in
Japan, William Ostendorff, a commission member, said on May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 Bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  