-- 
Japan Risks Rating as Kan Fumbles Fiscal Plan

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-05-27T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/japan-s-aa-rating-outlook-lowered-to-negative-by-fitch-in-warning-to-kan.html
Japan  faces the rising risk of a
reduction in its sovereign-debt rating as Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  struggles to assemble the political support needed to craft
a plan for paring the world’s largest public debt burden.  Fitch Ratings yesterday joined  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service in lowering its outlook to negative
for the nation’s sovereign rating, which is the fourth-highest
grade at Fitch and S&P and third highest at Moody’s. Fitch urged
a credible plan to address long-term government finances even as
Japan rebuilds from the March 11 earthquake and ensuing tsunami.  Kan has seen his party’s top tax-policy official dissent
from the prospect of tax rises, and he faces a no-confidence
vote in parliament next week as opposition lawmakers call for
his resignation. A debt-rating cut would hurt the foreign demand
for Japanese bonds that the  Finance Ministry  has sought to build
as the nation’s savings pool shrinks with an aging population.  “It’s an alarm bell for Japan to demonstrate political
leadership to take an action to ensure the credibility of the
nation’s debt,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS
Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “Concerns over Japan’s fiscal
conditions will become an issue again in the  bond market  in
coming months, which could make it more likely for bond yields
to rise.”  Bond Yields  For now, Japanese bondholders -- more than 90 percent of
whom are domestic investors -- have shown little sign of angst
over the nation’s debt that exceeds 200 percent of gross
domestic product. Benchmark 10-year government bond yields were
at 1.12 percent late yesterday, down from 1.295 percent before
the March catastrophe.  The cost of protecting the bonds against default were
little changed after the Fitch announcement. Five-year credit-
default swaps on Japanese government debt increased 0.5 basis
point to 85.5, Citigroup Inc. prices showed late yesterday.  Yields slipped yesterday even after a government report
showed the nation escaped deflation for the first time since
2008 in April. Consumer prices, excluding fresh food, rose 0.6
percent from a year before. Economy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
signaled that the report didn’t indicate sustained inflation
will be forthcoming.  Retail sales fell 4.8 percent from a year earlier in April,
the Trade Ministry said in a separate report released yesterday,
underscoring the impact on consumers from the March disaster.
The drop reinforced forecasts for gross domestic product to
shrink for a third straight quarter in the three months to June.  Shirakawa’s Take  While  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa this week
said there were budding signs of a rebound taking hold later
this year, Fitch warned that there may be a long-term hit to the
economy from the earthquake.  “There is a further risk that prolonged delays in
restoring infrastructure could lead more Japanese corporate to
consider relocating their activities abroad, leading to a
greater permanent loss of output from the disaster,” Fitch said
in yesterday’s statement.  The central bank is poised to keep its monetary stimulus,
contrasting with counterparts from  China  to  India  that are
tightening policy to stem inflation. Prices climbed in Japan
after global energy and food costs rose and retailers suffered
product shortages in the aftermath of the natural disaster.  Shirakawa on May 25 repeated the bank’s readiness to take
more action if needed. His board discussed the potential need to
expand an emergency-lending program to quake-stricken lenders on
April 28. The board left its key lending rate near zero and
other policy tools unchanged at that meeting as well as at this
month’s gathering.  Price Stability   The consumer inflation gains are still far from the median
1 percent definition of price stability by BOJ board members.
The bank has pledged to keep policy accommodative until it can
expect stable prices.  “Japan is working very hard right now to recover from the
earthquake,” Tetsuro Fukuyama, deputy chief cabinet secretary,
told reporters in Deauville,  France  yesterday. “It goes without
saying that Japan will work hard to mend its finances.”  Japan’s government debt is projected to reach 219 percent
of gross domestic product next year, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said on May 25. Lack of
policy option risks causing debt to become “uncontrollable,”
according to Yuichi Kodama, chief economist at Meiji Yasuda Life
Insurance Co. in  Tokyo .  “There’s a risk that the government will chip away at
fiscal discipline, leading to the uncontrollable expansion of
public debt,” he said. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see the
Japanese bond market start pricing in a fiscal collapse at any
time given how much the nation’s fiscal health has
deteriorated.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  