-- 
Jared Sandberg Joins Bloomberg

-- B y  
-- 
2011-05-27T15:13:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/jared-sandberg-joins-bloomberg.html

Press Release  Named Editor of Bloomberg.com  New York --  Bloomberg  today announced that Jared Sandberg will be
joining the company as editor of Bloomberg.com. Sandberg will
report to  Josh Tyrangiel , editorial director of Bloomberg
Digital and editor of  Bloomberg Businessweek .  “Jared has great journalistic skills and a passion for the web,”
Tyrangiel said. “His ability to blend those things makes him the
ideal person to lead Bloomberg.com.”  Sandberg joins Bloomberg from  The Wall Street Journal , where he
spent nearly 20 years reporting and editing stories on
technology, politics, religion, science, the environment, and
personal finance. He started in 1991 and later became the
Journal’s first Internet beat reporter covering the emergence of
the new medium. Most recently, he was banking and finance editor
covering trends and developments including the foreclosure
crisis and the cost of the financial meltdown. Sandberg also
conceived and wrote the Journal’s weekly column Cubicle Culture,
satirizing office life.  Prior to rejoining the Journal in October 2000, Sandberg was a
senior technology writer for  Newsweek magazine , authoring news
and features including cover stories “How Bill Blew It” and
“Citizen Case.” Sandberg began his journalism career as an
intern for the MacNeil Lehrer NewsHour in 1990 and became an
associate producer.  In 2003, Sandberg was a member of a team of Journal reporters
awarded the 2003 Pulitzer Prize in Explanatory Writing “for its
clear, concise and comprehensive stories that illuminated the
roots, significance and impact of corporate scandals in
America.” Sandberg also shared a 2003 Gerald Loeb award for
“WorldCom’s Whirlwind Demise” in the category of Deadline
Writing and the 2003 Society of American Business Editors and
Writers award for the “What’s Wrong” series about how companies
hide executive compensation.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit the  Bloomberg
Blog  and  About Bloomberg . In addition, follow us on Twitter
 (@BloombergNews ) and  Facebook .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  CONTACT:  Lauren Meller, +1 212-617-8185,  lmeller@bloomberg.net 
