-- 
Jones Lang LaSalle Buys King Sturge to Overtake Competitors in U.K. Market

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-05-27T09:25:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/jones-lang-lasalle-buys-king-sturge-to-overtake-competitors-in-u-k-market.html
Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , the world’s
second-largest publicly traded real estate broker, bought the
London-based firm King Sturge LLP for 197 million pounds ($324
million) to become the largest property adviser in the U.K.  Jones Lang  will pay King Sturge’s partners 98 million
pounds on the completion of the purchase, with the balance paid
over five years, the Chicago-based company said today in a
statement.  Jones Lang has expanded its global presence to 60 countries
by acquiring 30 smaller brokerages since 2005. The purchase of
King Sturge, the biggest adviser for industrial and logistics
real estate in the U.K., bolsters Jones Lang’s efforts to
increase the share of revenue it gets from Europe. The continent
accounted for 25 percent of income last year, the company said.  “The obvious strategic and cultural fit” of the two
companies “makes this a logical and very attractive proposition
for both firms,” Christian Ulbrich, Jones Lang’s chief
executive officer for  Europe ,  Africa  and the Middle East, said
in the statement.  Jones Lang sold shares in an initial public offering in
1997, making it easier to raise money in the stock and debt
markets to finance its expansion. King Sturge’s partnership
structure made it harder to expand.  King Sturge  employs 4,200 people in 45 countries, according
to its website. The firm handled 3.3 billion pounds of
commercial real estate transactions in the U.K. last year, the
fifth-highest by value, according to Stafford-based  Property
Data . Jones Lang handled the second highest, according to the
research company, so the two companies combined will overtake CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc. as the U.K.’s No. 1 broker.  Large brokers aim to expand as global real estate
transactions recover amid an increase in lending, rising prices
and banks selling properties that back delinquent loans.  CB Richard Ellis Inc. in February acquired ING Groep NV’s
global real estate investment arm for about $940 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  