-- 
Joplin, Poorer Than the U.S. Before Twister, Vows to Rebuild

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-27T17:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/joplin-poorer-than-the-u-s-before-twister-vows-to-rebuild.html
Amanda Marshall says she’s a lot like
her hometown of Joplin,  Missouri : She’s suffered a blow and she
won’t let it keep her down.  Marshall, 29, lost a sister-in-law and niece in the tornado
that tore through the city May 22, among at least 132 killed.
Another niece is missing and a third is hospitalized. She still
spent the week volunteering to help other victims.  “These people are my family, too,” Marshall said in an
interview at an American Red Cross shelter set up at Missouri
Southern State University. “I have to step up and be family for
them to help them get through this.”  City political and business leaders say that spirit is
common in this city of about 50,000, which has higher poverty
and lower incomes than the rest of Missouri and the nation, U.S.
Census data show. It may take years to heal from one of the
deadliest tornadoes in U.S. history.  “We will recover, and we will recover strongly,” Mark Rohr, the city manager, told reporters May 24 while standing
near twisted vehicles, smashed buildings and scattered debris in
the heart of the storm’s  six-mile-long path . Rohr said it
damaged a quarter of the city.  The  Missouri Department of Public Safety  released  a list 
today of 156 people who are still reported missing. Besides the
132 fatalities confirmed by the city, almost 1,120 patients have
been treated at Joplin’s  Freeman Health System , Bob Denton,
director of emergency trauma services, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Poorer Than Average  In 2009, 18.3 percent of Joplin residents lived in poverty,
compared with 13.7 percent of Missourians and 13.5 percent of
Americans, according to Census data. Joplin’s median household
income increased 16.4 percent from 2000 to 2009 to $35,566,
while income statewide in Missouri increased 21.3 percent to
$46,005 and U.S. income was up 22.5 percent to $51,425.  Rohr said about 8,000 building units, including apartments,
were damaged or destroyed, and the  Joplin Area Chamber of
Commerce  estimates that 300 businesses with about 4,000
employees were affected. Many small-business owners, especially
those near retirement, may decide it’s not worth rebuilding,
said  J. Chris Moos , an instructor in management and
international business at Missouri Southern State.  His wife, Liliya, owns an embroidery and custom sewing shop
that employed five and was severely damaged, Moos said. She
doesn’t know whether she will rebuild, he said.  “A lot of people are in that position,” Moos said in a
telephone interview.  Clearing Rubble  It will take months just to clean up the debris and restore
utilities, said John Bartosh, presiding commissioner of  Jasper
County . The  Federal Emergency Management Agency  will be
assisting Joplin for years, Administrator W. Craig Fugate said.  “This will not be a, ‘We’re in and out in 60 days,’”
Fugate said in an interview May 25 inside a FEMA mobile home
parked outside a Joplin fire station.  Insurers’ losses may reach $3 billion, according to an
estimate from catastrophe risk-modeler Eqecat Inc.  Still, the cost of living in the Joplin area is 91.4
percent of the national average for metropolitan areas,
according to data published by the  Council for Community and
Economic Research  in Arlington,  Virginia , and that attracts
retirees and residents, Moos said.  Money to Help  Joplin’s population grew 10.2 percent during the past
decade, while the average growth of all Missouri cities of
between 40,000 and 60,000 residents was 5.9 percent and the
average U.S. growth rate was 9.7 percent, according to Census
data.  The region will gain construction and clean-up jobs, and
it’s difficult to say how much they will offset employment lost
from the tornado, Moos said.  The Joplin Area Chamber of Commerce and the  U.S. Small
Business Administration  opened a business recovery center
yesterday to provide loans of up to $2 million for businesses
and $200,000 for residents affected by the tornado.  It could take two years before properties are rebuilt and
three years or longer for companies to recapture their customer
bases, said Rob O’Brian, the chamber president.  The twister missed the city’s industrial parks, and some
major employers have said they are coming back, O’Brian said.  Sisters of Mercy Health System , which is the city’s third-
largest employer with 2,480 workers and had its St. John’s
Regional Medical Center destroyed in the twister, announced May
25 it plans to rebuild.  “I hate to sound like a raving optimist, but in point of
fact, I think we’ll come back stronger,” O’Brian said in an
interview. “That’s due in large part to the people here; they
just don’t give up.”  Marshall, the Red Cross volunteer, is confident.  “It’ll take years to rebuild, but we will be back,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  