-- 
Karnataka Yet to Approve Iron Ore Exports After Ban Lifted

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-05-27T08:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/karnataka-yet-to-approve-iron-ore-exports-after-ban-lifted-1-.html
Iron ore  miners in Karnataka have yet
to start exports, more than a month after the southern Indian
state lifted the ban, an industry group said.  The state government started issuing permits this week only
for internal shipments, Federation of Indian Mineral Industries
Director David Pichamuthu said today. Consignments for exports
are pending approval, he said.  Mining companies including  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  and MSPL Ltd. cut
output by more than two-thirds since July 26, when overseas iron
ore shipments from the state were halted to increase supplies to
local steelmakers. The nation’s highest court allowed exports to
resume from April 20 and gave 15 days to the state government to
implement new rules about transport and storage of iron ore.  “There’s no logic in not allowing exports after the court
order,” Pichamuthu said by phone from Bangalore. “I can’t say
now when actual exports can start from the state. It’s a fact
that no one’s benefitting from this.”  The miners expect to ship as much as 1 million tons, mainly
to  China , by the end of May, Pichamuthu had said in an interview
after the April 5 court order. Exports may touch 3 million
metric tons by the end of July before the monsoon rains halt
ship movements from ports in the state, he had said.  Sesa Goa,  India ’s largest iron ore exporter, plans to mine
as much as 8 million tons in Karnataka this year, Managing
Director Prasun Kumar Mukherjee said on a conference call on
April 8.  The price of 62 percent-content iron ore delivered to
Tianjin port in China averaged $158 a ton in the year ended
March 31, a 58 percent increase over the previous 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  