-- 
Kim, Former Tiger Asia Managing Director, Plans New Hedge Fund

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-05-27T04:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/kim-former-tiger-asia-managing-director-plans-new-hedge-fund.html
Hugh Kim, a former managing director
of Tiger Asia Management LLC, is planning to start a hedge fund
in the third quarter to invest in domestic demand industries in
Greater China,  Japan  and  South Korea .  Greyson Capital Management LLC’s first fund will start with
$35 million contributed by Kim, its managing partner, and
Alignvest Capital Partners, said a document distributed to
potential investors and seen by Bloomberg. The New York-based
fund is also trying to attract other investors, which may
include Tiger Asia founder Bill Hwang. Kim declined to comment.  Kim, 37, is among managers and senior analysts leaving the
so-called Tiger Cubs, a group that received backing from  Julian
Robertson  or worked at Tiger Management LLC. Peter Boodell, a
former partner at Eastern Advisors, another Asia-focused Tiger
Cub, started his own hedge fund Boodell & Co. in March, said
another document seen by Bloomberg.  Greyson  Asia  Fund, which bets on rising and falling stocks,
will invest in large and medium-sized companies by market value
in industries including property, construction, industrials,
consumer, internet, media and financial companies, the document
to investors said. It will pick stocks using fundamental
analyses, it added.  Under Scrutiny  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission is seeking a
court injunction to ban Tiger Asia from trading all Hong Kong-
listed securities and derivatives. The regulator alleged that
the hedge fund founded by Hwang in 2001 engaged in  insider
trading  and market manipulation of shares of Bank of China Ltd.
and China Construction Bank Corp. in 2008 and 2009.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued a
subpoena, requesting trading records and other documents, Tiger
Asia told investors in an October document.  Kim, who worked for Tiger Asia for five years, left the
company earlier this year, said the document. Four analysts left
Tiger Asia in 2011, a person with knowledge of the matter told
Bloomberg this month.  Tiger Asia’s fund lost 16 percent this year, hurt by bets
against Chinese stocks, said the person. Assets fell to $1.3
billion by April from $3 billion at the end of September, the
person added.  Kim worked at Fenway Partners for six years before leaving
as a vice president to join Tiger Asia. He began his financial
career as a business analyst with consulting firm McKinsey & Co.  Alignvest, led by Reza Satchu, a former general partner at
private equity firm  Fenway Partners LLC , will receive a share of
Greyson’s fee revenue in exchange for being a so-called
“seeder” of the fund.  Robertson founded his New York-based firm in 1980 and built
it into one of the world’s largest hedge-fund managers before
returning clients money in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  