-- 
Nasdaq OMX Climbs After Goldman Sachs Reinstates ‘Buy’ Rating

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-05-27T16:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/nasdaq-omx-climbs-after-goldman-sachs-reinstates-buy-rating.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-
largest U.S. exchange operator, gained the most in more than a
month after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reinstated its
recommendation that investors buy the shares.  Nasdaq OMX climbed 4.8 percent to $25.54 at 11:37 a.m. in
New York after rallying 5.4 percent earlier, the most intraday
since April 1. That was the day it announced a joint offer with
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  for larger rival NYSE Euronext,
which agreed two months earlier to merge with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
in Frankfurt. The shares have gained 7.7 percent in 2011. Nasdaq
OMX and ICE dropped their bid May 16.  “The earnings growth of Nasdaq remains under-
appreciated,” Daniel Harris, a New York-based analyst at
Goldman Sachs, wrote in a note today. “ Nasdaq  will outperform
peers as its results provide it optionality to return capital to
shareholders or pursue accretive niche acquisitions.”  Nasdaq OMX beat or matched profit estimates in all but one
of the past 12 quarters, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The exchange operator has been expanding beyond
equities into derivatives and, at the same time, returning
capital to shareholders -- it bought back $797 million of stock
in 2010. Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld said yesterday
he is “maniacally focused” on the existing business plan and
on keeping Nasdaq OMX open to “emerging growth opportunities.”  Goldman Sachs withdrew its rating of the New York-based
company after Nasdaq announced its  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  bid, because
Goldman was advising NYSE Euronext on the proposals. Harris has
a $29 price estimate for the next 12 months, according to the
note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 