-- 
Natural Gas Futures May Advance on Hot Weather, Survey Shows

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-05-27T19:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/natural-gas-futures-may-advance-on-hot-weather-survey-shows-1-.html
Natural gas futures may climb as
hotter-than-normal weather sparks demand for the power-plant
fuel, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Nine of 17 analysts, or 53 percent, forecast that gas
futures will rise on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through
June 3. Seven, or 41 percent, said futures will fall and one
predicted that prices will stay the same. Last week, 44 percent
of participants said  gas prices  would decline.  Temperatures may be above-normal across the eastern and
central U.S. through June 9, according to Commodity Weather
Group in Bethesda,  Maryland . The high in  St. Louis  on June 8 may
be 96 degrees Fahrenheit (36 Celsius), 12 degrees above normal,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  “Warmer temperatures are coming into the picture,” said
Alan Lammey, natural gas markets analyst at WeatherBell
Analytics LLC in Houston. “We’re still running a pretty wide
inventory deficit compared with last year, and it’s going to be
hard to catch up.”  Natural gas for July delivery gained 22.8 cents, or 5.3
percent, to $4.518 per million British thermal units this week
on the New York exchange.  Gas inventories totaled 2.024 trillion cubic feet for the
week ended May 20, 10 percent below the year-ago level and 1.3
percent below the five-year average, according to the Energy
Department.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 48 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  9     7         1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 Cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  