-- 
Nippon Yusen to Favor Short-Term Container-Ship Charters on Fuel Concerns

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-05-27T01:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/nippon-yusen-to-favor-short-term-container-ship-charters-on-fuel-concerns.html
Nippon Yusen K.K.,  Japan ’s second-
largest container line, plans to make more use of short-term
charters to avoid being stuck with aging vessels as fuel prices
rise.  The move will enable the company to continually introduce
new vessels using the latest fuel-saving technology, Hidetoshi Maruyama, its container-shipping head, said in an interview in
 Tokyo  yesterday. The shipping line this month agreed to charter
four 13,500-container vessels for three years from Orient
Overseas (International) Ltd.  The company expects fuel savings to outweigh the higher
leasing charges it will face from shunning charter deals running
as long as 20 years, Maruyama said. Short-term leases will also
give Nippon Yusen greater ability to cut capacity during demand
plunges like the one caused by the global financial crisis after
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “I don’t think we’re the only ones worried about owning
ships,” Maruyama said. After the Lehman failure, “we couldn’t
get rid of ships” fast enough, he said.  The shipping line, which also operates dry-bulk vessels and
tankers, has said that every $1 increase in fuel prices cuts
pretax profit by 200 million yen ($2.4 million).  The price of 380 Centistoke marine bunker fuel, used by
ships, has surged 56 percent in the past year in Singapore
trading alongside a jump in oil prices. It closed at $649.50 a
ton yesterday.  Nippon Yusen, based in Tokyo, fell 0.3 percent to 301 yen
on the city’s stock exchange at 9:41 a.m. It has dropped 16
percent this year, compared with a 6.8 percent decline for the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The company has no plans to charter any more ships with a
capacity of more than 10,000 containers following the Orient
Overseas deal, Maruyama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  