-- 
Norex Suit Against Blavatnik, Access Over Yugraneft Put on Hold by Judge

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-27T22:30:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/norex-suit-against-blavatnik-access-over-yugraneft-put-on-hold-by-judge.html
Norex Petroleum Ltd.’s lawsuit
against billionaire Leonard Blavatnik, his  Access Industries 
Inc. and 13 other defendants was put on hold by a  New York 
judge, according to a lawyer in the case.  The judge also rejected an attempt by Norex to prevent BP
Plc from concluding a deal with Access and Renova Inc., said
Faith Gay, a lawyer for Blavatnik and Access Industries.  Norex sued in state court in  Manhattan  in March, accusing
Blavatnik and others of scheming to strip its controlling
interest in a Russian  oil company  with an estimated value of
$500 million. The state suit followed dismissal of a federal
court suit alleging racketeering based on the same transaction.
The defendants in the state suit include TNK-BP Ltd., a joint
venture with BP Plc.  “This new state lawsuit, which is simply a rehash of the
federal lawsuit, which Norex already lost, has now been put on
hold until the loss in the federal court is made final,” Gay
said today in a phone interview.  Norex has petitioned the U.S.  Supreme Court  to review
dismissal of the federal case.  A Norex motion, filed yesterday, for a preliminary
injunction to stop the proposed transaction with BP was also
denied. The “attempt to prevent BP from concluding a deal with
Access and Renova was rejected by the court,” Gay said.  New York state Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten’s
rulings couldn’t immediately be confirmed in court records.  Barry Ostrager, an attorney for Norex, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment. Representatives of Norex, a
Cypriot company, didn’t immediately return a call to its Calgary
office.  Armed Militiamen  In the suit, Norex claimed that New York-based Access and
other defendants took control of ZAO Yugraneft Corp. through
illegal means, including corrupting Russian court proceedings
and sending militiamen armed with AK-47s to storm Yugraneft’s
offices and production field. Norex is seeking damages of at
least $500 million.  In September, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York upheld
a lower court’s dismissal of the federal racketeering case,
citing a ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court that limits the reach
of civil claims for acts occurring outside the country.  Access is a closely held company controlled by Blavatnik,
who was ranked No. 93 on Forbes magazine’s 2010 list of the
world’s billionaires.  The case is Norex Petroleum Ltd. v. Access Industries
Inc., 650591/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  