-- 
North Korean Dependence on China Trade Rises as Sanctions Worsen Isolation

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-27T07:53:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/north-korean-dependence-on-china-trade-rises-as-sanctions-worsen-isolation.html
North Korea’s dependence on  China 
deepened last year as exports of coal and other minerals to its
main ally jumped and global sanctions left Kim Jong Il’s regime
increasingly isolated.  China accounted for 83 percent of North Korea’s $4.2
billion of international commerce in 2010, the Seoul-based Korea
Trade-Investment Promotion Agency said today in an e-mailed
statement. China made up 79 percent of trade in 2009, and 53
percent in 2005, according to the statement.  The U.S. and its allies repeatedly criticized China last
year for failing to restrain North Korea from provocative acts,
including its pursuit of nuclear weapons and attacks on South
Korea. Yesterday, Kim returned from his third trip to China in a
year, highlighting the growing importance of ties to the Beijing
government as well as his possible failure to win the money he
needs to prop up North Korea’s faltering economy.  “Even as the two nations move ahead with economic
cooperation, they seem to differ over how they go about doing
it,” said Kim Yong Hyun, professor of North Korean studies at
Seoul-based  Dongguk University . “Kim Jong Il would have wanted
the Chinese central government’s pledge of investment, and there
is little evidence to suggest this has materialized.”  China’s President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao both
vowed to strengthen ties with North Korea in their May 25
meetings in Beijing with Kim, according to reports by Xinhua
News Agency and the Korean Central News Agency. Wen told Kim
that China is ready to “further encourage the initiatives of
localities and enterprises” in joining economic projects,
Xinhua reported last night, a reference that wasn’t mentioned in
a report by North Korea’s KCNA.  China Model  Wen’s comments signal China’s reluctance to provide
economic assistance to North Korea at the state level, Dongguk’s
Kim said. China would instead focus on projects promoted by
private companies based on business interest, he said. Wen told
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  last week in a meeting in
 Tokyo  that China wants North Korea to learn and apply the
lessons of its own market-oriented reforms.  Kim Jong Il last year ordered the northeastern city of
Rason to be developed into a center for foreign trade. Rason,
which was named a free economic zone in 1991, lies on the east
coast and includes ports facing the Pacific Ocean.  North Korea in April announced plans to develop Rason to
raise port capacity and modernize railways. The city has drawn
many businesses from countries including China,  Hong Kong ,
Thailand and  Australia , KCNA said April 6.  Prisoner Freed  Kim’s trip to China came as U.S. envoy Robert King was
visiting  North Korea  to assess the country’s food needs.
Following requests by King and others, North Korea decided to
release U.S. citizen Jun Young Su, who had been held in the
country since November, KCNA said today.  North Korea’s requests for international donations of food
may be “politically motivated” as this year’s shortages aren’t
more severe than in previous years, South Korean Unification
Minister Hyun In Taek said April 25 in  Seoul .  Kim has pledged to build North Korea into a “strong and
prosperous nation” next year, which marks the centennial of the
birth of his late father and the country’s founder, Kim Il Sung.  “North Korea’s dependence on China will further grow as
global sanctions and suspension of inter-Korean trade continue
to be in place,” the South Korean agency, known as Kotra, said.  South Korea ’s Lee cut off most trade with North Korea in
May last year, accusing Kim’s regime of torpedoing a naval
warship, killing 46 South Korean sailors. An industrial complex
in North Korea, where South Korean firms operate using local
workers, is the only joint project currently in operation.  UN Sanctions  Kim’s government was also put under tougher United Nations
sanctions banning weapons trade and restricting financial
transactions after its second nuclear test in May 2009. That was
followed last year by further U.S. trade restrictions aimed at
cutting off money to key figures in the regime and military.  The 2010 trade value represented a 22 percent jump from a
year earlier and was the highest recorded since Kotra started
compiling data on North Korea in 1990, the statement said. The
country doesn’t release its own economic figures.  North Korea’s overseas sales of coal, its No. 1 export item,
jumped 50 percent in value from a year earlier, while exports of
steel grew 59 percent, Kotra said. Exports of other mineral
resources gained 80 percent.  Fuel including crude oil was the biggest import, increasing
52 percent from a year earlier. Machinery purchases rose 38
percent, while imports of electrical appliances gained 43
percent.  North Korea’s trade with South Korea, which isn’t included
in total figures, increased 14 percent to $1.9 billion in 2010,
as South Korean firms at the Gaeseong complex increased
production, the agency said. Products made at the complex are
shipped across the border to South Korea and counted as trade.  Countries trading with North Korea included  Russia ,  Germany ,
 India ,  Thailand ,  Singapore ,  Bangladesh ,  Italy  and  Mexico ,
according to Kotra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  