-- 
Nvidia Senior Analyst Pleads Guilty in Insider Trading Case

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-27T19:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/nvidia-senior-analyst-pleads-guilty-in-insider-trading-case.html
Sonny Nguyen, a senior financial
analyst for  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit
securities and wire fraud in a case that is part of the U.S.
government’s largest crackdown of insider trading at  hedge
funds .  Nguyen told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff today that he
passed tips about Nvidia’s quarterly earnings before they were
publicly announced to Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with
expert networking firm Primary Global Research LLC, who is
scheduled to go on trial before Rakoff on June 1. Nvidia, based
in  Santa Clara ,  California , is a maker of graphics chips.  Nguyen told the judge that he conspired with Jiau and
another man he identified as Stanley Ng to pass and receive
tips. He is one of 13 people charged in a federal investigation
of  insider trading  brought by  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. That probe is part of a larger investigation of insider
trading by hedge funds including Galleon Group LLC.  “Between 2007 and 2008 I agreed with others to engage in
an insider trading scheme,” Nguyen said. “I provided material
nonpublic information to my co-conspirators.”  Rakoff interrupted him to ask, “Who was that?”  “That was Winnie Jiau and Stanley Ng, about Nvidia
Corp.’s quarterly financial results before such information was
public,” Nguyen replied. “In exchange I received stock tips.”  Cooperating With Government  Assistant U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman told Rakoff that
Nguyen, who is cooperating with the government, is scheduled to
be a witness against Jiau. He also said that Nguyen’s co-
conspirator “executed securities transactions in Nvidia and
 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) ”  Nguyen faces as long as five years in prison when he is
sentenced by Rakoff on Nov. 29, Weitzman said.  Nguyen, who said he was born in  Vietnam  and is a U.S.
citizen, was permitted to remain free on $100,000 personal
recognizance bond and allowed to travel between his home in
California and New York.  His lawyer, Douglas Schneider, and Weitzman declined to
comment after court. Rakoff told Nguyen to give his passport to
court authorities.  Bob Sherbin, a spokesman for Nvidia, said in a telephone
interview that Nguyen, who was employed at the company between
October 2006 and yesterday, went on administrative leave
yesterday and has now resigned.  Sherbin said Nvidia is cooperating with the  New York  U.S.
attorney’s office and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Another individual charged with receiving tips from Jiau,
Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management LP, is listed
on the Manhattan federal court’s daily calendar for a “felony
plea” hearing later today, court records show.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-CR-161, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 