-- 
Oakley Capital Buys Controlling Stake in Time Out New York

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-05-27T10:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/oakley-capital-buys-controlling-stake-in-time-out-new-york-1-.html
Oakley Capital Investments Ltd. (OCL) , a
U.K. private-equity firm, agreed to buy a majority stake in Time
Out New York to complement its investment in Time Out London.  The firm invested 14.2 million pounds ($23.2 million) in
Time Out New York, after putting 11.3 million pounds into Time
Out London in November, it said in a statement today. Oakley
holds a 65.7 percent stake in Time Out New York alongside
existing investors including the Clark Estates and the Louis-
Dreyfus Family Office LLC, it said.  Oakley Capital bought a 50 percent stake in Time Out London
in November to help the listings magazine publisher expand
online. Time Out, founded in 1968, publishes weekly cultural and
entertainment guides in 35 cities and says it has an audience of
16 million people. It has been appointed official publisher of
travel guides for the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Time Out New York, started in 1995, and Time Out London control
the worldwide rights to the Time Out brand except in  Chicago ,
the firm said.  “The interest is the switch between print and digital,”
Peter Dubens, director of Oakley Capital, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s such a go-to brand. People read it to go do
something.”  Time Out could generate income by selling tickets and
products online to visitors and local residents, he said. The
London operations have added daily online deals, similar to
those offered by U.S.-based Groupon Inc.  Time Out would like to add websites for cities including
 Los Angeles , Miami, Berlin and Paris, bringing the total to 50
from 35 today, Dubens said.  Tony Elliott, the magazine’s founder, retained a 50 percent
stake in Time Out London, Oakley said in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  