-- 
Obama Says U.S., France Resolve to ‘Finish the Job’ They Began in Libya

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-05-27T09:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/obama-says-u-s-france-resolve-to-finish-the-job-they-began-in-libya.html
President  Barack Obama  said he and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy agreed to “finish the job” in
 Libya , where  Muammar Qaddafi  remains in power “directing his
forces in acts of aggression against the Libyan people.”  “We are joined in resolve,” and making progress in the
NATO campaign against Qaddafi’s regime, Obama told reporters at
the Group of Eight summit in Deauville,  France , after talks with
Sarkozy today.  Both leaders said they had a convergence of views on many
issues, including the urgency of the Middle East peace process.
Sarkozy called Obama’s speech last week, in which he said the
template for an agreement between Israel and the Palestinians
should use the 1967 borders as a starting point in peace talks,
“clear-sighted and bold.”  Obama’s proposal stirred criticism from Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and some Republicans in the U.S.  Obama said the uprisings that have toppled the leaders of
Egypt and  Tunisia  and inspired pro-democracy protests across the
region, including in Yemen and Syria, have made “the pursuit of
peace between the Israelis and Palestinians more urgent, not
less.”  The three-month fight between troops loyal toQaddafi and
those opposed to his four-decade rule has cut the country’s oil
exports and spawned a North Atlantic Treaty Organization air
campaign against pro-government forces. The U.S. is continuing
to provide support for the NATO-led operations after taking part
in the initial airstrikes.  After the G-8 summit ends later today, Obama travels to
Poland, the last leg of his six-day European trip.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Deauville, France at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Deauville at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  