-- 
Omega Pharma Shares Rise on Newspaper Report of Possible Management Buyout

-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m   a n d   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 
2011-05-27T15:46:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/omega-pharma-shares-climb-on-media-report-of-possible-delisting.html
Omega Pharma (OME)  NV, Belgium’s biggest
supplier of consumer-health products, rose the most in almost
three years in Brussels trading after  De Tijd  reported that the
company is in informal talks that may lead to a buyout.  Omega Pharma, whose brands include Prevalin allergy
treatments and Dermalex skin-care products, reviews possible
changes to its structure “on a frequent basis” and it’s
premature to comment further, the Nazareth, Belgium-based
company said in a statement today. Omega Pharma has a market
value of about 891.2 million euros ($1.27 billion).  Talks are preliminary with no agreement on a price, De Tijd
reported, without saying where it got the information. Mark Coucke, chief executive officer and holder of 30 percent of
Omega Pharma, would stay on and remain a shareholder, the
newspaper said.  Waterland Private Equity Investments BV  is a
potential candidate for the purchase, the newspaper said.  Omega Pharma rose 4.81 euros, or 15 percent, to close at
36.78 euros, the biggest advance since July 18, 2008.  Omega Pharma said it frequently analyzes “several
scenarios relating to the structure in which the company could
optimally evolve,” adding that “the current lines of thinking
are too premature for providing further information.”  Communication  The company will “communicate if and when a relevant fact
would occur or a decision would be taken in this context,” it
said. “That is not the case today, and it is not clear whether
or not it would eventually come to that stage.”  Chris Van Raemdonck, spokesman for Omega Pharma, declined
to elaborate on the statement when reached by telephone today.  Waterland bought 24 percent of Arseus NV, a supplier of
ingredients to pharmacies, from Omega Pharma in 2009. Margreet
Vos, a spokeswoman for Waterland in Bussum, the Netherlands,
declined to comment.  Omega Pharma Chief Operating Officer Georges De Vos
resigned in February because of “differences in vision.” The
company’s country manager for  Belgium , Bart Meermans, left at
the same time.  Before today, the stock had lost 2.1 percent including
reinvested dividends in the past year, compared with a 36
percent return for the MSCI World Health Care Small Cap Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  