-- 
Top Seed Wozniacki Defeated at French Open; Crowds Disturb Djokovic Match

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-27T22:09:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/top-seed-wozniacki-defeated-at-french-open-crowds-disturb-djokovic-match.html
Grand slam champions Novak Djokovic
and Juan Martin  Del Potro  will resume their third-round match
today at the French Open tennis tournament after darkness
stopped a contest that had been disturbed by angry fans.  Top-seeded woman  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark was upset by
Slovakia’s Daniela Hantuchova yesterday at the clay-court
tournament, while  Roger Federer  won in straight sets for the
third consecutive match.  Hantuchova, the 28th seed, won 6-1, 6-3 for her first
victory in seven chances against the player ranked No. 1 by the
WTA tour.  “The last few weeks I have been playing very well,”
Hantuchova said in a news conference. “I felt like my game was
right there. Today it just all paid off.”  Djokovic, a 24-year-old Serbian who is 39-0 this year and
is four wins away from moving up to No. 1 in the world rankings,
was tied 6-3, 3-6 with  Argentina ’s Del Potro when play was
halted because of darkness at 9:14 p.m. local time.  Their match, which was rescheduled from the main Court
Philippe Chatrier to the smaller Court Suzanne Lenglen because
earlier matches on the main court were running long, was
disrupted by fans booing and whistling outside the stadium
because they weren’t allowed in.  With rapper Kanye West watching from the stands, Djokovic
asked officials after the first game of the second set what was
going on outside the stadium. He lost his serve in that set
after organizers decided to let the spectators in.  Approaching McEnroe’s Record  Djokovic, the Australian Open champion, is three victories
short of  John McEnroe ’s 27-year-old record of 42 straight wins
at the start of a season. He’s won all of his three previous
matches against Del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open champion.  Also today, Victoria Ararenka, the No. 4 seed from Belarus
who is seeking her first Grand Slam title, plays Roberta Vinci
of Italy. That match will be followed by five-time French Open
champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain against Antonio Veic, a Croatian
qualifier ranked 228th who ousted two-time semifinalist Nikolay Davydenko of Russia in the previous round.  Mardy Fish , the only American left in the tournament, faces
Frenchman  Gilles Simon , while Russia’s  Maria Sharapova  continues
her quest for the only major title that has eluded her against
Yung-Jan Chan of Taipei. Britain’s  Andy Murray , the No. 4 seed,
meets Germany’s Michael Berrer.  Federer, the record 16-time Grand Slam champion from
Switzerland, beat Serbia’s Janko Tipsarevic 6-1, 6-4, 6-3.
Defending women’s champion Francesca Schiavone of  Italy  advanced
when China’s Peng Shuai quit their match in the second set
because of breathing problems.  ‘Really Good Match’  “Overall it was a really good match for me,” Federer said
in a news conference. “Obviously I’m happy to have another
early finish, similar to the other day.”  Hantuchova hit 15 winners to none for Wozniacki in winning
the first set. She then took a 4-0 lead in the second before the
Dane won the next three games.  Hantuchova won at love for a 5-3 lead and scored her fifth
service break as Wozniacki put a backhand from the baseline into
the net to end the match.  Wozniacki’s loss leaves No. 3 Vera Zvonareva of  Russia , who
beat Australian Anastasia Rodionova 6-2, 6-3, as the highest
seed left in the women’s draw. No. 2  Kim Clijsters  squandered
two match points in the second round in losing to Arantxa Rus of
the Netherlands. Rus today plays Russia’s Maria Kirilenko, the
No. 25 seed.  Four-time women’s champion Justine Henin of Belgium has
retired, and sisters Serena and Venus Williams of the U.S. are
injured.  Retains Top Ranking  “There’s a lot of great players out there,” Wozniacki,
who will retain her No. 1 ranking, told reporters yesterday.
“Kim had a tough loss yesterday. I had a tough loss today. It’s
just unfortunate to lose in a Grand Slam, but that’s what
happens and we just need to move forward.”  Federer, the men’s third seed, won in 90 minutes against
the 29th-seeded Tipsarevic. Federer had 37 winners, including 10
aces, and broke the Serb’s serve five times. He has not yet
dropped a set this year in Paris.  “I was honestly expecting more from myself today, but he
was just too good,” Tipsarevic said at a news conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 