-- 
Optimer Wins U.S. Approval for Drug to Fight Fatal Bacteria

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-05-27T21:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/optimer-wins-u-s-approval-for-drug-to-fight-fatal-bacteria-1-.html
Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OPTR)  won U.S.
approval for the first antibiotic in a quarter-century that
fights a deadly bacterium linked to intestinal infections often
caught in hospitals.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared fidaxomicin, the
agency said today in a statement. Optimer will sell the drug
under the name Dificid.  Dificid will be San Diego-based Optimer’s initial product
and the first drug cleared in more than 25 years for Clostridium
difficile, which attacks the lining of the colon and can cause
severe diarrhea. The germ sickens about  500,000 people  a year in
the U.S. and kills about 30,000, according to the  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention . Optimer plans to start selling
the treatment as early as July, Chief Financial Officer John Prunty said in a telephone interview.  “We think this will give us an opportunity to bring this
drug to patients who have a significant unmet need” for
treating their C. difficile infections, Prunty said.  Sales of the drug may surpass $217 million in 2015,
according to the average estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The treatment may generate as much as $500 million
worldwide, said Alan Carr, a Needham and Co. analyst.  Optimer declined $1.01, or 7.2 percent, to $12.98 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
gained 14 percent this year.  Unanimous Backing  The company rose 11 percent -- the most in 22 months -- on
April 1 after FDA  staff reviewers  said fidaxomicin is as
effective as  ViroPharma Inc. (VPHM) ’s vancomycin in curing illnesses
and prevented more recurrences in clinical trials. A 13-member
FDA advisory panel unanimously backed the drug on April 5.  Optimer and  Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST)  will jointly market
the drug to U.S. health-care providers under a two-year
agreement the companies announced last month.  The FDA evaluated fidaxomicin under a six-month priority
review and aimed to make a decision by May 30. While the FDA
typically takes at least 10 months to rule on drug applications,
it grants  priority status  to therapies that may provide major
advances in treatment.  An Optimer-funded study of 548 patients found that
infections subsided in 88 percent of those treated with
fidaxomicin and 86 percent of those taking vancomycin, the only
drug approved by the FDA for C. difficile infections.  Cut Recurrence  Fidaxomicin also cut the recurrence rate by almost half,
according to a Feb. 2 report in the  New England Journal of
Medicine . About 13 percent of patients who took Optimer’s drug
suffered relapses, compared with 24 percent of those treated
with vancomycin.  FDA staff said in last month’s report that they agreed with
the company’s conclusions about the drug’s efficacy, and found
the overall incidence of side effects with fidaxomicin was
similar to that of vancomycin.  Members of the agency’s advisory panel split last month, in
a 6-6 vote, on whether the company’s data on recurrence
prevention was clinically significant.  The final prescribing  language  backed the company’s claims
about the drug’s ability to prevent recurrences more effectively
than vancomycin, said Needham’s Carr.  “It does call out the benefits of Dificid over vancomycin
in preventing recurrence over 25 days after the end of
treatment,” Carr said.  At Risk  People ages 65 and older are among those most  at risk  for
C. difficile illnesses, according to the  Mayo Clinic  in
Rochester,  Minnesota . Infections often strike after a patient is
treated with antibiotics that destroy the good bacteria normally
found in the intestine. About 25 percent of patients suffer
 relapses .  Optimer’s drug is the first in a new class of antibiotics
that kill harmful bacteria by inhibiting an enzyme known as RNA
polymerase without weakening the normal intestinal flora,
according to a company fact sheet.  Vancomycin, approved by the FDA in 1986 for the infection
under the brand name Vancocin, is one of two standard C.
difficile treatments. The other is an unapproved use of
metronidazole, sold by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  as Flagyl and available in
generic form. ViroPharma bought Vancocin from  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  in
2004.  Optimer’s drug is the 16th novel medicine approved by the
FDA this year, suggesting the agency may top its tally of 21 new
drugs approved in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Waters in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  