-- 
Ozawa Says Kan Should Quit as Japan’s Prime Minister, WSJ Says

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 
2011-05-27T01:57:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/ozawa-says-kan-should-quit-as-japan-s-prime-minister-wsj-says.html
Indicted Japanese lawmaker  Ichiro Ozawa  said Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  should resign over his
handling of the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years triggered by a
March earthquake, the Wall Street Journal reported.  Ozawa said in an interview with the newspaper that the
sooner Kan is replaced the better, saying his policies haven’t
helped the country since the earthquake and tsunami crippled the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant. Ozawa also reiterated
his innocence of charges of violating campaign funding rules.  The comments from a former head of the ruling  Democratic
Party of Japan  is the latest sign of internal discord over Kan’s
administration. While Ozawa was suspended from the party for the
duration of his trial, he retains the loyalty of some members
for engineering the DPJ’s landslide victory in 2009.  Kan is facing a backlash from some DPJ legislators over
plans to raise taxes to pay for rebuilding from the temblor and
tsunami, which left almost 24,000 people dead or missing and
100,000 more homeless. His approval ratings remain below 30
percent and the head of the main opposition party yesterday said
he will submit a no-confidence motion against the government.  Ozawa in the interview with the Journal declined to say
whether he would back such a motion, which would fail without
the support of about 80 ruling-party lawmakers in the DPJ-
controlled lower house of parliament. Ozawa didn’t say who
should succeed Kan as prime minister or whether he would be
interested in the position, the newspaper said.  Public Support  Public support for higher taxes to pay for reconstruction
has decreased in recent weeks, as the quake’s damage caused the
world’s third-largest economy to contract. Public broadcaster
NHK reported last week that 31 percent of those it surveyed
oppose higher levies, compared with 26 percent who support them,
whereas right after the quake supporters exceeded opponents.  Kan’s approval rating was 26 percent in an Asahi newspaper
poll published on May 16, up five percentage points from a month
ago, while his unfavorable rating was 51 percent. Almost two-
thirds of respondents disapproved of his response to the
disaster.  Sadakazu Tanigaki, head of the  Liberal Democratic Party ,
which the DPJ ousted from more than half a century of power in
August 2009, yesterday said he “definitely” will submit a no-
confidence motion against Kan. He didn’t give a timetable for
doing so.  Kan defeated Ozawa in an election to head the ruling party
and remain prime minister in September after polls showed the
public favored Kan by a margin of three-to-one. Ozawa was
indicted in January over a case that led to the trial of three
of his former aides for under-reporting 545 million yen ($6.7
million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  