-- 
Pending Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Drop 12% as Foreclosures Hurt Values

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-27T14:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/pending-sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-drop-12-as-foreclosures-hurt-values.html
The number of Americans signing
contracts to buy previously owned homes plunged more than
forecast in April, a sign the industry that triggered the
recession continues to struggle.  The index of pending home resales declined 12 percent after
a revised 3.5 percent increase the prior month, the National
Association of Realtors said today in Washington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 1 percent
decline.  The prospect that foreclosures will continue to drive down
property values may keep buyers on the sidelines awaiting
further price declines. Unemployment at 9 percent and stricter
credit requirements are further signs that a housing recovery
may take years to unfold.  “This makes me believe it will take longer to clear the
excess inventory,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York. “It pushes the
housing recovery even further out into the future.”  Other reports today showed  consumer spending  rose less than
forecast in April and consumer sentiment climbed this month.  Consumer purchases rose 0.4 percent in April after a
revised 0.5 percent gain the prior month that was smaller than
previously estimated, Commerce Department figures showed. The
increase compared with the 0.5 percent median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Incomes climbed 0.4
percent, matching the median forecast.  Sentiment Improving  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final May index
of consumer sentiment increased to 74.3 in May from 69.8 a month
earlier, the group reported. The median forecast of 64
economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a reading of 72.4,
the same as the preliminary figure issued earlier this month.
The index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the
recession that began in December 2007.  Stocks trimmed gains after the reports. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,328.8 at 10:26 a.m. in
 New York , after climbing as much as 0.5 percent earlier.
 Treasury securities  were little changed.  Sales were projected to fall after an originally reported
gain of 5.1 percent in March, according to the median of 39
forecasts in the Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from a
decline of 3 percent to a gain of 5.5 percent. From a year
earlier, pending home sales fell 27 percent.  Broad-Based Drop  Three of four regions saw decreases from the prior month,
today’s report showed, led by a 17 percent drop in the South.
The Midwest decreased 10 percent, indicating bad weather may
have played a role in those regions.  Last month was the 10th wettest April since record-keeping
began in 1895, with 875 preliminary reports of tornadoes, a
record for any month, according to the National Climatic Data
Center. Most wind damage occurred from the southern and central
plains to the Atlantic coast.  Flooding on the  Mississippi River  may continue to constrain
homebuilding and sales in the region this month, Morgan Stanley
economists  David Greenlaw  and Ted Wieseman wrote in a note to
clients May 17.  “The pullback in contract signings is disappointing and
implies a slower-than-expected market recovery in upcoming
months,”  Lawrence Yun , the NAR’s chief economist said in a
statement. “The economy hit a soft patch in April from sharply
rising  oil prices , widespread severe weather with the heaviest
precipitation in 20 years, and a sudden rise in unemployment
claims.”  Leading Indicator  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Purchases of existing
homes are tabulated when a contract closes, typically a month or
two later.  Previously owned homes sold at a 5.05 million annual rate
in April, down 0.8 percent from the prior month, data from the
National Association of Realtors showed May 19. All-cash deals
accounted for 31 percent of transactions, and distressed
properties, including foreclosures and short sales, made up 37
percent, the group said.  The supply of existing houses will probably remain an issue
for builders and buyers alike. CoreLogic Inc. in March estimated
about 1.8 million homes were more than 90 days delinquent, in
foreclosure or bank-owned, a so-called “shadow inventory” set
to add to the unsold supply of 3.87 million previously owned
homes on the market at the end of April.  Foreclosures, Prices  Foreclosures have weighed on  home prices . The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell 3.3 percent
in February from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month decrease
since November 2009, the group said last month. The gauge is
down 33 percent from its July 2006 peak.  Prices tracked by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  showed
a 5.5 percent decline in the first quarter from a year earlier,
the biggest drop in almost two years, another report showed this
week.  In addition to the drop in values, persistent joblessness
may be keeping potential buyers away. The 9 percent unemployment
rate last month, almost two years into an economic recovery,
compares with an average of 4.8 percent in the three years
before the recession began.  Builders aren’t optimistic. Douglas Yearley Jr., chief
executive officer at  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder, on May 11 told a housing conference in New
York that the spring home-selling season has been
“disappointing” and that “people are still scared.”  Demand for new houses will remain weak into next year, Bill
Wheat, chief financial officer of D.R. Horton Inc., told the
same conference.  “We still see housing demand at very weak levels, volume
levels at very low levels today,” Wheat said. “In terms of the
overall strength of the economy, we really don’t see enough
drivers that will change that pattern significantly in 2011, and
we feel like it could still be a struggle in 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  