-- 
Peru’s Sol Bonds Rise to 7-Week High on Fujimori Poll Advance

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-05-27T22:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/peru-s-sol-bonds-rise-to-7-week-high-on-fujimori-poll-advance.html
Peru ’s sol bonds rose to their
highest level in seven weeks as polls showing rising support for
Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori fueled bets she will win the
country’s presidential runoff and spur foreign investment.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 6.67 percent, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 0.20 centimos to
108.02 centimos per sol, the highest since April 8.  The sol rose to a three-year high on May 25 as opinion
polls showed Fujimori extended her lead over ex-military rebel
Ollanta Humala. Fujimori had 46.9 percent support in a May 22
poll by Datum Internacional published yesterday, and Humala had
41.8 percent. Humala, who topped the field in the first round of
balloting last month, has pledged to renegotiate contracts with
foreign companies and revise a free trade agreement with the
U.S. if he wins the June 5 vote.  “An Humala victory now seems a lot less likely,” said
Dirk Willer, head of Latin American local markets strategy at
Citigroup Inc in  New York . Demand for sol bonds has increased
after the central bank intervened to stem a rally in the
currency, spurring demand for other types for alternative
investments.  The central bank bought $148 million this week after ending
a three-month absence from the spot currency market May 23. The
bank didn’t buy dollars today.  The sol weakened 0.2 percent to 2.7542 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 2.7485 yesterday.  The sol fell after former president  Alejandro Toledo , who
came fourth in the first-round vote, said he supports Humala’s
bid for the presidency, Gonzalo Navarro, head trader at  Banco
Santander , said in an e-mail to investors.  The currency also fell after anti-mining protesters looted
government offices in Peru’s southern highlands, which has
created “political instability,” Navarro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  