-- 
Philippine Stocks: Aboitiz Power, Filinvest, Philex Mining Corp.

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-05-27T04:56:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/philippine-stocks-aboitiz-power-filinvest-philex-mining-corp-.html
Shares of the following companies had
unusual moves in Philippine trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the noon close in  Manila .  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 1 percent to
4,274.51, the sharpest gain since May 10.  Aboitiz Power Corp. (AP)  , which owns electricity plants
and retailers, advanced 3.2 percent to 29 pesos, the sharpest
gain since March 31. The company was rated “buy” at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets, which resumed coverage of the stock.  Earnings are forecast “to accelerate on the back of
stronger demand and a recovery in generation prices for the
remainder of the year,” Raf Mercado, analyst at CLSA, wrote in
a report. The brokerage has a 12-month share-price estimate of
34.50 pesos.  Filinvest Development Corp. (FDC)  , which has investments
in property, banking and sugar, advanced 2.9 percent to 5.04
pesos, the sharpest gain since April 13. President Josephine
Gotianun-Yap said the company will pay 4.75 centavos a share in
dividends, build four  power plants  and open more bank branches.  Philex Mining Corp. (PX)  , the largest Philippine metals
producer, rallied 9 percent to 20.70 pesos, the highest close
based on prices going back to January 1990. The company will
seek approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission and
the stock exchange to list its Philex Petroleum Corp. unit,
according to a filing to the Philippine bourse.  The board approved a dividend of one share in the petroleum
unit for every eight Philex Mining shares, along with a cash
payment of 5.2 centavos a share, the mining company said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  