-- 
Pig Farming Inspired ‘Jerusalem’ Author Butterworth: Interview

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-05-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/pig-farming-inspired-jerusalem-author-butterworth-interview.html
At 42, British playwright Jez
Butterworth is too old to be promising and too young to be an
eminence. But in his journeyman years, he has been tossing
Molotov cocktails into theaters from the West End to Broadway,
none less explosive than “Jerusalem,” which stands a good
chance of walking off with the  Tony Award  for best play on June
12.  “Jerusalem”  is set in the woods outside a growing British
town and concerns a local irritant named Johnny “Rooster”
Byron, played at the Music Box Theatre with astonishing life
force by  Mark Rylance .  A daredevil motorcyclist and fabulist gone wildly to seed,
Rooster reigns over a ragtag bunch of mostly teenagers who
drink, do drugs, have sex and generally carry on under his none-
too-watchful eyes. He is distant kin to  England ’s original Angry
Young Man, John Osborne’s Jimmy Porter.  The play, says Butterworth -- whose real first name is also
my own -- was inspired in part by a pig farm he bought a few
years back 200 miles west of London. We spoke at Bloomberg’s  New
York  headquarters.  Gerard: I understand that “Jerusalem” was written at a
fever pace.  Butterworth: Yes, the whole thing did take on a dreamlike
quality. You don’t set out to write archetypes, to have a
character line up with a really established idea, but Rooster
kind of has done in a way that surprised me. He embodies a
spirit of individuality and defiance that speaks to people
beyond my intentions. I was just trying to tell a story.  Good Neighbors  Gerard: Rooster’s no paragon of virtue.  Butterworth: I don’t think that writers have any
responsibility to be good neighbors to the audience. If we were
to create characters that were supposed to appeal on that level,
I think that people would be looking at their watches very soon.  It’s not my responsibility at all. Or you don’t end up with
a play like “Macbeth.” Or you don’t end up with “Medea,” if
the idea is that you wouldn’t want to live next door to Medea.  Gerard: The play is quintessentially British. How have you
managed to win over the Broadway audience?  Butterworth: We had no idea that it wouldn’t just sail over
audiences’ heads, because it is an English play, a long play,
it’s hard to describe in a few words what it’s about. But we
knew in early previews that we were having a similar effect to
the one we had in  London .  More Questions  Here there are a lot more questions. No one ever asked me
what the play was about in London. It never came up. And here it
comes up an awful lot -- as if I’ve encoded something that
they’re trying to crack.  Gerard: Six years ago you bought a pig farm in Somerset.
Has that influenced your work?  Butterworth: Way beyond what I expected. If you’re going to
raise a creature, get to know it, nurture it, watch it grow and
then kill it, and witness that -- which I did and do every time,
I go along and watch the slaughter of the animal --it has a
profound effect on you. You realize that behind every simple
exchange of food is this death, if you’re going to eat meat.  I was a vegetarian for almost 10 years before this, and
getting connected to animal husbandry, to actually seeing, to
participate in that process, shocked me in ways I don’t think
I’ve fully come to terms with.  “ Jerusalem ” is running at the Music Box Theatre, 239 W.
45th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com .  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 