-- 
Piraeus’s First-Quarter Profit Declines on Bad Debt Provisions

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 
2011-05-27T09:46:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/piraeus-s-first-quarter-profit-declines-on-bad-debt-provisions.html
Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) ,  Greece ’s fourth-
biggest bank, reported a drop in first-quarter profit as it
increased provisions for bad debt.  Net income was 2 million euros ($2.8 million), down from 7
million euros a year earlier, according to an e-mailed statement
from the bank. Piraeus was expected to report a profit of 1.4
million euros according to the average estimate of 11 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  “What we really like is our ability to generate robust
core operating income every quarter,” Managing Director
Alexandros Manos said in a telephone interview. Non-performing
loans, on the other hand, are showing no sign of improvement, he
said. Greek non-performing loans on the business portfolio
accelerated “quite a lot.”  The bank’s Tier 1 capital, a measure of financial strength,
stood at 10.7 percent at the end of the quarter. Piraeus had
loan losses and provisions of 171 million euros, compared with
134 million euros a year earlier. Operating expenses fell 3
percent.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s wage and pension cuts
damped profit for Greek lenders as the economy contracted 4.4
percent last year and unemployment rose. Piraeus has focused on
cutting costs and raising capital, including an 807 million-euro
rights offer in January, to ride out the crisis, which required
a 110 billion-euro bailout by the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  last year.  Turning Point   Piraeus is “hopeful” the third quarter will be the
“turning point” in non-performing loan growth, as tourism is
expected to support an economic recovery, executives said during
a conference call with analysts.  Shares of the bank, down 46 percent so far this year, were
little changed at 2.88 euros as of 11:51 a.m. in  Athens .  Greek and Cypriot bank shares have declined 25 percent so
far this year as concerns over the the banks’ holdings of Greek
debt mount. That compares with a 2.2 percent average drop by the
48 biggest European financial stocks. Greece’s credit rating was
cut three levels on May 20 by Fitch, which said that even a
voluntary extension of its bond maturities being studied by EU
policy makers would be considered a default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Athens at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  