-- 
U.K. Pound Weakens Against Euro on Bets Economic Recovery Remains Fragile

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-27T15:44:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/pound-rises-versus-dollar-after-consumer-sentiment-house-prices-increase.html
The pound weakened for the first time
in three days versus the euro on speculation improving
confidence and  house prices  aren’t enough to boost the recovery
and convince the  Bank of England  to raise borrowing costs.  Sterling declined against most of its 16 major peers. An
index of sentiment rose 10 points to minus 21 in May from the
previous month, the highest in five months, GfK NOP Ltd. said.
The gain may be partly due to a “feel-good factor” following
two consecutive four-day holiday weekends and the wedding of
 Prince William  and  Kate Middleton  at the end of April, according
to GfK. House prices increased 0.3 percent this month, a
separate report showed, beating the median economist estimate.  “Although we’ve seen a few more positive data releases
this week, it’s largely a blip in what we’ve seen over the past
couple of months,” said  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at
UBS AG in London. “The U.K. picture remains very bearish,
interest rate expectations have come off massively. The pound
should stay under pressure.”  Sterling declined 0.4 percent to 86.57 pence per euro as of
4:41 p.m. in London. It reached 86.11 pence yesterday, the
strongest since March 11. The pound added 0.5 percent to $1.6479
and was 0.2 percent weaker  at 133.08 yen.  The increase in U.K. consumer sentiment was the biggest
since May 1993 and lifts the gauge from a level equal to that
seen in the depth of the recession in February 2009.  Wedding ‘Euphoria’  “The gain in consumer confidence is due to the good
weather and the euphoria of the Royal Wedding,” said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in
London. “For the most part,  consumer confidence  is still very
depressed and I expect that to continue to pressure the pound.”  The pound has gained 0.4 percent over the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The euro has weakened 2.6
percent over the same period, and the dollar has appreciated 1.5
percent, the indexes show.  U.K. central bank officials are locked in a debate over
whether to tighten monetary policy after inflation accelerated
to 4.5 percent in April, the fastest since 2008. Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  says it’s too soon because the recovery
remains weak. The  European Central Bank  and Sweden’s Riksbank
have already started raising rates.  Key Rate  Money markets price in a 25 basis-point increase in the key
rate in February, according to sterling overnight interbank
average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show. As recently as
February investors bet the rate would be lifted this month.  The pound’s depreciation against the euro trimmed its
weekly advance to 0.8 percent. It has gained versus  Europe ’s
shared currency in two of the past three weeks as euro-region
policy makers clashed over how to resolve  Greece ’s debt woes.
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads a group
of euro-area finance chiefs, said yesterday the  International
Monetary Fund  may not release its share of a 12 billion-euro aid
package to Greece next month.  Sterling has appreciated 1.5 percent against the dollar
this week, climbing 0.8 percent yesterday, as a report showed
U.S. gross domestic product grew at a less-than-forecast 1.8
percent annual rate in the first quarter. The median forecast
was for a 2.2 percent increase.  U.K. government bonds rose, pushing the yield on the 10-
year gilt down two basis points to 3.29 percent. Two-year note
yields also fell two basis points, to 0.92 percent.  Gilts have handed investors a gain of 2.3 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. German bunds are
little changed, while U.S. Treasuries gained 2.6 percent, the
indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  