-- 
Valero, Marathon, BP Start Texas Refineries After Power Loss

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-27T21:50:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/power-restored-to-texas-city-oil-refineries-resume-operations.html
BP Plc (BP/)  said its Texas City, Texas,
refinery returned to normal operations after a power loss today.
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  are restarting their
refineries in the Gulf Coast City.  The three refineries, with combined crude oil processing
capacity of more than 800,000 barrels a day, represent almost 5
percent of U.S. refining capacity. The power outage was the
second since April 25 and comes the day before the beginning of
the three-day U.S. Memorial Day holiday, the traditional kickoff
of the summer driving season.  “Our operations are normal now and there was minimal
impact,”  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman in Chicago, said in an
interview.  “Power has been restored to all production units,”  Bill Day , a Valero spokesman based in  San Antonio , said in an e-mail.
“We expect the plant to be back at planned rates quickly.”  Robert Calmus, a Marathon spokesman, declined to comment on
the progress of the restart at that plant. A wet gas compressor
at the refinery shut down around 9:30 a.m. local time yesterday,
leading to a partial plant shutdown, according to a  filing  with
state regulators. Marathon had restarted the plant shortly
before today’s power outage at 1:47 a.m.  Lack of Rain  The blackout appears to be the latest failure related to
lack of rain that clears lines of heat-trapping deposits, said
Terry Hadley, a spokesman for the Public Utility Commission of
 Texas .  The heat-trapping deposits may include dust, chemicals
emitted by refineries and other industry, and corrosion caused
by salt air, he said. The most recent blackout is still under
investigation, he said.  The outage affected 13,500 residential customers and three
industrial facilities, Cathy Garber, a spokeswoman for
Lewisville, Texas-based Texas- New Mexico  Power Co., said in a
telephone interview.  The power company found a broken insulator on the
transmission line and is trying to determine what broke it, said
Garber, who is based in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Texas-New
Mexico Power is owned by PNM Resources Inc. of Albuquerque. The
power outages in April were caused by residue buildup on the
equipment due to the drought, Garber said.  Centerpoint Energy Inc., the Houston area’s largest
electric distributor, and PNM have been spraying lines with
water to try to reduce the problem with buildup.  Last month’s outages and resulting production disruptions
sent gasoline futures to a 33-month high. Gasoline for June
delivery today rose a sixth consecutive time, gaining 0.3
percent to $3.0569 a gallon at 11:57 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net ;
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  