-- 
Private-Plane Owners Can’t Keep Flight Plan Secret, FAA Says

-- B y   A n d r e a   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-05-27T22:15:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/private-plane-flight-plans-must-be-public-faa.html
Private-plane owners will no longer
be able to cite privacy and instead must provide a “valid
security concern” to have flight information blocked from 
public viewing, the U.S. Transportation Department said.  The registration number, flight path, departure point,
destination and flight length will be accessible to the public
unless operators and owners provide the  Federal Aviation
Administration  “written certification” that it would create a
security threat, the Transportation Department said in a
statement today. The change will take effect 60 days from
publication in the Federal Register.  “Both general aviation and commercial aircraft use the
public airspace and air traffic control facilities, and the
public has a right to information about their activities,”
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in the statement.  Corporate groups protested the plan proposed in March,
saying security and business deals would be risked with public
knowledge of their trips. Opponents included the Washington-
based National Business Aviation Association, which represents
8,000 companies, ConocoPhillips and PepsiCo Inc. LaHood
countered that many fliers taking advantage of the secrecy,
including drug dealers, don’t deserve it.  Attempt to Block  Representative John Mica, the Florida Republican who is
chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee, had sought to block the bid to require more public
disclosure with a bill that won U.S. House approval in March.  The FAA requires business-jet operators to provide their
origin, route and destination so the agency can manage traffic
flow. Anyone who knows the registration or “N” number on the
tail of an aircraft can use Web sites such as  FlightAware.com ,
the largest tracking service, to see that information.  At the behest of aviation operators, Congress in 2000
directed the FAA to let companies block the flight data. They
don’t have to give a reason. Operators of about 2,000 planes,
making up about 5 percent of flights, take advantage of the
program, Daniel Baker, chief executive officer of Houston-based
FlightAware, said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Snyder in Washington at 
 asnyder5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  