-- 
Putin Says Shell ‘Comfortable Partner’; BP Still Has Chance

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-05-27T17:21:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/putin-says-shell-comfortable-for-russia-bp-still-has-chance.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is a
“comfortable partner” that could replace  BP Plc (BP/)  in an alliance
with OAO Rosneft, Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said.  He didn’t rule out that BP and Rosneft, Russia’s biggest
oil producer, could still cooperate on offshore deposits.  “We have worked with Shell for a long time, it’s quite a
comfortable partner for us,” Putin told reporters outside
Moscow today. “But work with BP isn’t over yet; different
variants are possible there.”  BP’s $7.8 billion share swap with Rosneft collapsed last
week after the U.K. company’s local billionaire partners blocked
the deal in court. BP had sought, with Rosneft’s support, to buy
out AAR, as its partners in the Russian TNK-BP venture are
known, for about $32 billion, a person with knowledge of the
talks said last week.  Rosneft said talks with BP could continue after proposals
beyond the original deal, which expired on May 16, were made.
For the Arctic venture, Rosneft has the right to seek a new
partner, the person said at the time. Shell, Exxon Mobil Corp.
and Chevron Corp. are potential candidates should Rosneft look
for a new partner to explore the blocks in the Kara Sea, the
person said.  Shell’s Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  and Putin’s
deputy in charge of energy,  Igor Sechin , met this week to
discuss possible projects, including exploration in the Arctic
and Black Sea waters. Rosneft CEO Eduard Khudainatov also
attended the meeting.  The discussions excluded any proposals to use Shell’s
shares, Kirsten Smart, a London-based spokeswoman at Shell, said
on May 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net 
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at o
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  