-- 
Qiyi Explores Charging Fees as Users Reach 150 Million

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-27T07:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/qiyi-explores-charging-fees-as-users-reach-150-million-correct-.html
Qiyi.com Inc., the online video
venture majority owned by  China ’s largest Internet search
engine, Baidu Inc., said it’s exploring charging users for some
content.  The site reached 150 million users in March after a year in
operation and will next look to expand in the mobile video
market, Vice President Yuan Bin told an Internet conference in
Beijing today. He reiterated the company’s desire to sell shares
to the public, without specifying a market or timeframe.  “The future of the online video industry is to have two
models: customer paid, and advertising paid by companies,” Yuan
said. “We are now exploring the paid-by-customer model.”  Baidu Chief Executive Officer Robin Li is diversifying from
the search-engine business after overcoming a challenge from
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , which lost market share in China after a censorship
dispute with regulators last year. Li said in February that Qiyi
may seek a listing, without giving a timeframe.  Qiyi recently started offering monthly plans that allow
paying members to view premium content such as newly released
feature films, Ren Guanjun, a marketing executive at the
company, said by telephone today. Qiyi will continue to offer
free content, he said.  The number of paying customers is still “quite small,”
Yuan said, without supplying details. The company is benefiting
from its connection to Baidu, which controls about 80 percent of
the search market in China and can help drive users to the Qiyi
site, Yuan said.  Baidu owns 61 percent of Qiyi.com. For accounting purposes,
it is deemed not to have control over Qiyi due to rights
provided to a convertible redeemable preferred shareholder, the
company said in its annual report in March.  Providence Equity Partners , an investor in Hulu LLC, last
year said it would provide $50 million of funding to Baidu’s
video website. Hulu, based in  Los Angeles , offers video content
from owners including General Electric Co.’s  NBC Universal , News
Corp.’s Fox, and Walt Disney Co.’s ABC.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  