-- 
Rand Gains on U.S. Growth; Bonds Yields Fall to 4-Month Low on Inflation

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-27T14:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/rand-gains-on-u-s-growth-bonds-yields-fall-to-4-month-low-on-inflation.html
The rand strengthened against the
dollar for a second day on signs the U.S. economic recovery is
slowing. Bonds rose, with yields falling to four-month lows,
after the central bank said inflation is “somewhat benign.”  The rand gained as much as 1.1 percent against the dollar,
and traded 0.8 percent stronger at 6.9225 as of 3:57 p.m. in
Johannesburg, paring its decline this week to 0.1 percent. Ten-
year bonds rose 40 cents to 89.73 rand, driving the yield down
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.25 percent,
the lowest since Jan. 11.  The U.S. currency retreated to a one-week low against the
euro today after  consumer spending  in the U.S. rose less than
forecast in April, fueling speculation the  Federal Reserve  won’t
raise  interest rates  until next year. Reports yesterday showed
the  U.S. economy  expanded at a slower rate than analysts
forecast and initial jobless claims unexpectedly increased.  “The immediate pressure comes from yesterday’s weak U.S.
data,” John Cairns and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists
at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in a research note.
“With this impacting on treasury yields, the dollar is weaker
across the board.”  Bonds rose and the rand pared its gain on speculation the
South African Reserve Bank will delay an interest-rate increase
after Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said the nation’s inflation
picture is “somewhat benign” when compared with other emerging
markets.  ‘Economy Risks’  Risks to  South Africa ’s economic recovery remained large,
and central banks need to find ways of dealing with inflation
without jeopardizing the economic recovery, Mminele said in a
speech in Johannesburg. The central bank kept its benchmark rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent on May 12.  Mminele’s comments came after the Pretoria-based statistics
agency reported yesterday that producer-price growth slowed more
than the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg in
April.  “Given a contained inflation outlook, we expect monetary
policy to remain on hold this year,” Adriaan du Toit and
Shireen Darmalingam, analysts at Johannesburg-based Standard
Bank Group Ltd., said in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 