-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yields Drop to 2011 Low Before Consumer-Spending Report

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-05-27T10:26:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/treasury-10-year-yields-drop-to-2011-low-before-consumer-spending-report.html
Treasury yields fell to the lowest
this year before a government report that economists said will
show U.S. consumer spending cooled in April.  Bonds headed for a second weekly gain as a debt crisis in
 Europe  and signs of slowing growth in the world’s largest
economy increased demand for the relative safety of government
debt. Japan’s credit outlook was lowered to negative by  Fitch
Ratings . U.S. consumer spending increased 0.5 percent, the
smallest advance in three months, after rising 0.6 percent in
March, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
government sold $99 billion of notes this week.  “A combination of factors -- disappointing U.S. data, well
received auctions plus ongoing uncertainty in peripheral markets
in Europe,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at
RIA Capital Ltd. in Edinburgh. “It’s all combining to keep
yields lower, especially at the longer end.”  Ten-year yields were little changed at 3.07 percent as of
6:24 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 3.125 percent note due May 2021 traded at 100 1/2.  The rate, which has fallen eight basis points this week,
dropped to 3.04 percent earlier today, the lowest since Dec. 7.  Trading  of Treasuries is scheduled to end at 2 p.m. in New
York today and stay closed on May 30 for Memorial Day.  The refuge appeal of Treasuries amid concerns about the
spread of the euro-area debt crisis helped boost demand at the
$29 billion offering of seven-year notes yesterday to the
highest since the U.S. resumed selling the securities in 2009.  Treasury Auctions  The bid-to-cover ratio, which compares total bids with the
amount of securities on offer, was 3.24, the most since February
2009, when Bloomberg began compiling data on the notes.  Treasuries have returned 1.46 percent in May, heading for
the best month since August, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. They rose 1.15 percent in April.  The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks is little
changed this quarter.  Rising commodities may make central bankers more concerned
with curbing price gains in the economy later in the year, said
Masazumi Fukuoka, chief dealer at the Singapore branch of
Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp., which is part of  Japan ’s
largest lender.  “Fed officials may turn more hawkish later in the year as
they fight inflation,” he said. “By the end of the year, it’s
highly likely yields will go up.”  ‘More Hawkish’  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index of 19 raw materials
has gained 36 percent in the past year.  “We are close to the high tide for easy monetary policy,”
Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said in a speech
at Cape Girardeau,  Missouri , this week. “If all goes well, we
will be in a good position to take back some of the
accommodation in the second half of the year or after that
depending on how the economy performs,” said Bullard, who
doesn’t vote on monetary policy in 2011.  The odds the  Federal Reserve  will raise  interest rates  in
the first quarter of next year dropped to 26 percent from 46
percent a month ago, futures contracts indicate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 