-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yield Falls to 2011 Low Before Consumerr Spending Report

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-27T05:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/treasury-10-year-yield-falls-to-2011-low-before-consumerr-spending-report.html
Treasury yields fell to the lowest
level this year before a government report that economists said
will show U.S.  consumer spending  cooled in April.  Bonds headed for a second weekly gain as a debt crisis in
 Europe  and signs of slowing U.S. growth increased demand for the
relative safety of government debt. The difference between 10-
year rates and the upper end of the  Federal Reserve ’s target for
overnight loans narrowed to 2.81 percentage points, the least
since December.  “Inflation is stable and that’s positive for fixed
income,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $37 billion as a senior investor in  Tokyo  at
Mizuho Asset Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s second-largest
bank. “The economy is slowing down a little bit. Consumer
spending will gradually slow.”  Ten-year yields were little changed at 3.06 percent as of
6:54 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 3.125 percent note due in May 2021 traded at 100 18/32.  The rate, which has fallen nine basis points this week,
dropped to 3.04 percent earlier today, the lowest since Dec. 7.
It will decline to 2.5 percent by year-end, Nakamura said.  The 10-year yield slipped below its 200-day moving average
yesterday for the first time since December.  U.S. consumer spending increased 0.5 percent, the smallest
advance in three months, after rising 0.6 percent in March,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Separate figures
today will show consumer sentiment gained, while signed
contracts to buy previously owned homes fell, the surveys show.  Inflation Protection  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, has narrowed to 2.26
percentage points from a three-year high of 2.67 percentage
points in April. The average over the past decade is 2.10
percentage points.  Trading  of Treasuries is scheduled to end at 2 p.m. in  New
York  today and stay closed on May 30 for Memorial Day.  Ten-year yields fell seven basis points yesterday on
concern the  International Monetary Fund  will withhold aid for
 Greece  and as a report showed U.S. growth is losing momentum.  “The European situation has heated up again,” said  Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader in New York at  Societe Generale , one
of the 20 primary dealers obliged to participate in U.S. debt
sales. “Guys are feeling you’re in for a pretty heated debate
and better safe than sorry, so they’re piling into Treasuries.”  Greece Concerns  Policy makers are seeking ways to restore investor
confidence on concern Greece won’t be able to repay its bonds
even after last year’s 110 billion euro ($156 billion) bailout.  A debt restructuring by Greece is “necessary and
unavoidable,” and warnings by the  European Central Bank  that it
can’t be done “are dangerous,” economist  Nouriel Roubini  told
reporters at a seminar in Bucharest, Romania.  The odds the Fed will raise  interest rates  in the first
quarter of next year dropped to 26 percent from 46 percent a
month ago, futures contracts indicate.  Rising commodities may make central bankers more concerned
with curbing price gains in the economy later in the year, said
Masazumi Fukuoka, chief dealer at the Singapore branch of
Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp., which is part of Japan’s
largest lender.  “Fed officials may turn more hawkish later in the year as
they fight inflation,” he said. “By the end of the year, it’s
highly likely yields will go up.”  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index of 19 raw materials
has gained 33 percent in the past year.  Yield Forecast  The 10-year yield will advance to 3.84 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  “We are close to the high tide for easy monetary policy,”
Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said in a speech
at Cape Girardeau,  Missouri  this week. “If all goes well, we
will be in a good position to take back some of the
accommodation in the second half of the year or after that
depending on how the economy performs,” said Bullard, who
doesn’t vote on monetary policy in 2011.  The refuge appeal of government debt helped boost demand at
the $29 billion offering of seven-year notes yesterday to the
highest since the U.S. resumed selling the securities in 2009.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which compares total bids with the
amount of securities on offer, was 3.24, the most since February
2009, when Bloomberg began compiling data on the notes.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at 1.8 percent annual rate
in the first quarter, the Commerce Department said yesterday.
The gain was the same as estimated last month and compared with
a 3.1 percent increase in the prior quarter. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg predicted 2.2 percent.  Treasuries have returned 1.46 percent in May, heading for
the best month since August, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. They rose 1.15 percent in April.  The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks is little
changed this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 