-- 
Ringgit Pares Weekly Loss as Stocks Gain on G-8 Growth Optimism

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-05-27T08:20:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/ringgit-pares-weekly-loss-as-stocks-gain-on-g-8-growth-optimism.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit rose for a second
day as speculation the global economic recovery is intact buoyed
regional stock markets. Government bonds fell.  Group of Eight leaders said the recovery is gaining
traction, paving the way for efforts to cut debt. The MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of stocks rose 0.8 percent, adding to its biggest
gain in five weeks yesterday. Borrowing costs of 3 percent in
Malaysia compare with a maximum 0.25 percent in the U.S. and
 Japan . The ringgit was poised for a fourth weekly loss, as
concern Europe’s debt crisis will deepen deterred risk taking
earlier in the week.  “Asia is still supported by strong structural, domestic
factors as well as favorable interest-rate differentials,” said
Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at Malayan
Banking Bhd. in  Singapore . “We expect a continuation of slight
strengthening in Asia, subject to occasional risk-off
sentiment.”  The ringgit advanced 0.4 percent to 3.0280 per dollar as of
4:11 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency touched 3.0695 on May 25, the weakest
level since March 17, and has declined 0.3 percent this week.  “The global recovery is gaining strength and is becoming
more self-sustained,” according to a draft statement prepared
for the Group of Eight’s two-day summit that ends today in
Deauville, France.  Asian central banks including Malaysia, Thailand,  South
Korea  and India have raised  interest rates  this year to help
damp inflation, luring funds to local-currency bond markets.  Government bonds  declined ahead of a planned sale of
Islamic securities next week. The treasury will auction 4
billion ringgit ($1.3 billion) of Shariah-compliant notes
maturing in November 2016 on May 30.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.434 percent note due August 2014
increased two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, during the
week to 3.32 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia. The rate was
unchanged from yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 