-- 
Rise to Democracy Resonates in Obama’s Visit to Poland During Arab Spring

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-05-28T13:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/rise-to-democracy-resonates-in-obama-s-visit-to-poland-during-arab-spring.html
President  Barack Obama  told Central
and Eastern European leaders, who are eager to offer lessons
from their democratic transition to the Arab world, that their
struggle for freedom and economic growth has been inspirational.  Obama sought to extend his message of trans-Atlantic unity
in Poland, the final leg of his six-day European trip, at a
dinner in Warsaw last night with 17 leaders from the region
jointly hosted with Poland’s President  Bronislaw Komorowski  and
at a news conference today with Prime Minister  Donald Tusk .  “Poland is one of our strongest and closest allies in the
world,” Obama said at the news conference in Warsaw. The Poles
serve as “a living example of what is possible when countries
take reform seriously.”  While in Warsaw, Obama announced an agreement on setting up
an aviation detachment in Poland that will help train pilots on
the U.S.-made military aircraft, including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
F-16 fighters, and discussed the Polish government’s complaints
about requirements that its citizens get visas to travel to the
U.S. He and Polish official also talked about development of
Poland’s shale gas reserves.  As it was at the Group of Eight summit that concluded
yesterday in Deauville,  France , one of the prime topics of
discussion for Obama in Warsaw will be the upheaval in the
Middle East and North Africa and the lessons learned from the
collapse of the Soviet bloc.  Parallels in History  “I think the comparison between the events in the Middle
East and what happened here is absolutely viable,” Radoslaw Sikorski, Poland’s foreign minister and a former executive
director at the  American Enterprise Institute ’s New Atlantic
Initiative, said in an interview. “The dilemmas they are facing
are exactly the same that we faced 22 years ago.”  The popular uprisings that toppled long-time rulers in
 Tunisia  and  Egypt  and the civil conflicts that continue from
Yemen to  Libya  have been a main focus of Obama’s foreign policy
since they began in January.  Obama has promised $2 billion worth of loan guarantees and
debt relief for Egypt and sought to marshal international
assistance at the G-8. G-8 leaders pledged to support pro-
democracy movements in the region with a mix of loans from
international development banks and direct aid totaling at least
$40 billion.  Offering Advice  Poland, the first country in the region to overthrow its
communist regime, already has stepped in with advice. Lech Walesa, the leader of the Solidarity movement that helped to
bring down the Iron Curtain in Eastern Europe and  Poland ’s first
democratically elected president after 1989, visited Tunisia
last month to advise the country’s new leaders on the transition
to democracy.  While Obama will have a discussion today on democracy with
current and former Polish officials, including the country’s
first post-communist prime minister, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, Walesa
canceled his participation.  Obama outlined many of the instruments used in post-
communist Eastern and  Central Europe  in a May 19 speech on the
U.S. response to the turmoil. Those models include cutting
countries’ debts, arranging financing through international
institutions, economic reforms and trade.  Reorienting Resources  “Some of the very same institutions and infrastructure
that was set up to support democratic transitions in Europe, in
Eastern  Europe  in particular, are now being reoriented towards
the south,”  Ben Rhodes , deputy national security adviser for
strategic communications, told reporters traveling with Obama.  Obama’s visit to Poland comes as U.S. popularity is
declining there. Ties between the two countries, forged with the
help of a Polish-American community of 10 million, have been
frayed by differences over the invasion of  Iraq  and, more
recently, by Poland’s exclusion from a  U.S. program  that allows
citizens of 36 countries to enter the U.S. without first
obtaining a visa.  In a survey for the  Center for Public Research in Warsaw ,
43 percent of Poles are currently well disposed toward the U.S.,
the lowest number since the center began conducting the poll 18
years ago.  Obama said promised to work on the visa issue with Congress
to change the law that resulted in Poland’s exclusion.  Gas Reserves  He also promised greater cooperation on energy. Poland may
have as much as 187 trillion cubic feet (5.3 trillion cubic
meters) of shale gas reserves, the U.S.  Energy Information
Administration  estimates. That would meet domestic demand for
three centuries, enabling the former Soviet satellite to reach
its goal of independence from Russian gas imports.  Poland’s resources are attracting attention from  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the three biggest
U.S. oil companies, which are among those granted 86 licenses to
explore for shale gas.  On arrival in Warsaw yesterday, Obama laid a wreath at the
Tomb of the Unknown Soldier before heading to the presidential
palace. He also stopped at a monument to commemorate the
uprising in which Jews incarcerated in the Warsaw ghetto fought
their deportation to concentration camps during the Nazi
occupation of Poland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Warsaw at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  