-- 
Roubini Says Banks to Plunge Irish Into ‘Disastrous’ Crisis

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-05-27T15:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/roubini-says-banks-to-plunge-irish-into-disastrous-crisis.html
Ireland may be plunged into a
a “disastrous” sovereign debt crisis within three years as the
cost of rescuing its banks mounts,  Nouriel Roubini , who
predicted the global financial crisis, said.  Ireland’s government has injected 46 billion euros ($65.5
billion) to bailout the country’s debt-laden financial system,
after a decade-long real estate bubble collapsed in 2008. The
banks need another 24 billion euros in capital, and the state
has pledged to provide whatever they can’t raise alone.  “Eventually the back of the government is going to crack”
by “taking all the huge losses of the banking system,” said
Roubini, chairman of  Roubini  Global Economics LLC, at a
conference in Budapest today. The approach will “lead us with
almost near certainty to a sovereign debt crisis in Ireland in a
matter of two or three years.”  The government sought an international bailout last year,
as the costs of saving the banks and financing the  budget
deficit  became too big to handle. Ireland’s debt will rise to
118 percent of gross domestic product next year from 96 percent
in 2009 and 25 percent at the end of 2007, according to European
Commission forecasts.  “Eventually we’re going to have a sovereign debt crisis
that’s going to be disastrous for Ireland and for the euro
zone,” Roubini said.  The economy is struggling to grow, with a report today
showing retail sales fell 3.9 percent in April from the year-
earlier period. Eircom Group, the Dublin-based phone economy,
said today it is seeing no signs of a recovery in the Irish
economy and plans to cut 1,000 jobs over the next two years.  Yield  Brian Hayes, a junior minister in the Irish government,
said the government isn’t seeking “at this point in time” to
lengthen the time period it repays the debt from the nation’s
bailout. He made the comment in an interview with Dublin-based
broadcaster RTE.  The difference in yield between Irish and German 10-year
bonds has widened 162 basis points, or 1.62 percentage point,
since Nov. 26, before the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  signed off on Ireland’s rescue. The so-called
spread widened 3 basis points to 807 basis points today.  Roubini, who predicted in July 2006 a “catastrophic” global
financial meltdown that central bankers would be unable to
prevent, hasn’t always been right. In 2008, he said that he
still saw “significant downside risks to equity markets,”
failing to predict a stock market rebound that sent shares
soaring around the globe. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
almost doubled from its low in March 2009.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ; 