-- 
Roubini Sees Stock-Correction ‘Tipping Point’ as Economic Growth Slows

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-05-27T20:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/roubini-sees-stock-correction-tipping-point-.html
Nouriel Roubini , the economist who
predicted the global financial crisis, said stock markets are at
the “tipping point” of a correction as economic growth may
begin to slow.  Companies had ridden a worldwide recovery to boost sales
and profits, supporting equity price increases, Roubini, co-
founder and chairman of Roubini Global Economics, told a
conference in Budapest today. Now, signs of a global economic
slowdown may drag down stock prices, he said.  “Until two weeks ago I’d say markets were shrugging off
all these concerns, saying they don’t matter because they were
believing the global economic recovery was on track,” Roubini
said. “But I think right now we’re on the tipping point of a
market correction. Data from the U.S., from  Europe , from  Japan ,
from  China  are suggesting an economic slowdown.”  The world economy is losing strength halfway through the
year as high  oil prices  and fallout from Japan’s natural
disaster and Europe’s debt woes take their toll.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. now forecasts global economic
growth of 4.3 percent in 2011, down from its 4.8 percent
estimate in mid-April. UBS AG has trimmed its forecast to 3.6
percent from 3.9 percent. Downside risks also include a shift to
tighter monetary policy in emerging markets.  Meltdown Prediction  Roubini, 53, a professor at New York University’s Stern
School of Business, predicted in July 2006 a “catastrophic”
global financial meltdown that central bankers would be unable
to prevent. In October 2008, Roubini said he still saw
“significant downside risks to equity markets,” failing to
predict the stock market rebound that sent shares soaring around
the globe last year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has almost
doubled from its low in March 2009.  Stocks rose today, preventing the fourth straight weekly
loss for the MSCI All-Country World Index, and commodities
gained after the Group of Eight leaders said the global economy
is strengthening. The MSCI index added 0.8 percent at 10:32 a.m.
in  New York , putting the gauge 0.1 percent higher since May 20.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent.  Data this week showed Chinese manufacturing expanding at
the slowest pace in 10 months, orders for U.S. durable goods
dropping the most since October and confidence among European
executive and consumers sliding for the third straight month.
The MSCI World Index of stocks in advanced economies dropped 4.2
percent this month.  “Until now, equity prices were supported by better-than-
expected earnings, sales and profit margins,” Roubini said.
“But all three are under squeeze. With slow global economic
growth, they’re going to surprise on the downside. We’re going
to see the beginning of a correction that’s going to increase
volatility and that’s going to increase  risk aversion .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  