-- 
Royal Bank of Canada Raises Payout as Profit Misses Estimate

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-05-27T20:14:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/royal-bank-of-canada-increases-dividend-for-the-first-time-in-four-years.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s
largest lender, raised its dividend for the first time in almost
four years after second-quarter profit climbed 13 percent,
missing analysts’ estimates.  Profit for the period ended April 30 rose to C$1.51 billion
($1.54 billion), or C$1 a share, from C$1.33 billion, or 88
cents, a year earlier, the Toronto-based bank said today in a
statement. Revenue rose 2.4 percent to C$7.13 billion.  Royal Bank is the third Canadian lender to miss estimates
in the quarter, joining Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, after lending margins narrowed and
trading and capital markets declined. The bank’s net interest
margin, the difference between what it charges for loans and
pays in deposits, fell to 1.55 percent from 1.69 percent a year
earlier.  “Banking is going to be more of a ‘show me’ industry
now,” said Tony Demarin, chief investment officer at Winnipeg,
Manitoba-based BCV Asset Management, which oversees C$300
million including banks. “The revenue growth is certainly not
as strong as it was and loan growth is slowing down.”  Excluding one-time items, Royal Bank said it earned C$1.03
a share, missing the C$1.13 a share average estimate of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Shares Fall  Royal Bank fell C$1.79, or 3 percent, to C$57.36 at 4 p.m.
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest drop since
Dec. 3. The stock had risen 9.6 percent this year, compared with
an 8.2 percent increase for the 10-company  Standard & Poor’s /TSX
Banks Index.  Royal Bank benefited from a 16 percent increase in Canadian
lending, and higher earnings in  wealth management  and insurance,
helping offset lower profit from capital markets and a loss in
international operations. The lender set aside C$344 million for
bad loans in the quarter, down from C$504 million a year
earlier.  “The miss was largely the result of significantly greater
drop off in capital markets revenues than had been
anticipated,”  John Aiken , an analyst at  Barclays Capital , said
today in a note.  The bank raised its dividend 8 percent to 54 cents a share,
the first increase since August 2007.  National Bank of Canada 
also raised its payout this quarter.  Canada Lending  Canadian consumer-banking earnings rose to C$851 million,
from C$736 million, as mortgages, personal loans and credit-card
balances grew and provisions fell.  Earnings from the RBC Capital Markets investment-banking
unit fell 19 percent to C$407 million as lower trading offset
higher fees from advising companies on stock sales and arranging
takeovers.  Trading revenue across the bank fell to C$609 million, from
C$958 million a year earlier, dragged down by interest rate and
credit trading, as well as foreign exchange and commodities.  Royal Bank Chief Executive Officer Gordon Nixon said today
in a conference call with analysts that he anticipates a
“moderate improvement” in trading this year compared with 2010
as economic, market and regulatory environments stabilize. Nixon
said he expects trading revenue will range from C$700 million to
C$900 million a quarter.  International banking, which includes Raleigh, North
Carolina-based RBC Bank, narrowed its loss to C$23 million from
C$27 million. It was the 11th quarterly loss in three years for
the unit, driven down by losses at its U.S. consumer lender.  Break-Even  Chief Financial Officer Janice Fukakusa said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television that the bank is focused on
returning its international unit “to break-even to slightly
profitable” by the end of the fiscal year on Oct. 31.  “With respect to the U.S. bank, yes we have been losing
money, mostly related to provisions for credit losses,”
Fukakusa said. “We’re very committed to turning around that
bank and we’re seeing some very good progress there.”  Royal Bank, which put the money-losing RBC Bank unit up for
sale this year, has drawn interest from lenders including  BB&T
Corp. (BBT)  and  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , according to people
with knowledge of the matter.  “Although I will not comment on speculation with respect
to RBC Bank, we do remain focused on turning around these
operations and we are making good progress,” Nixon said on the
call.  RBC Bank has posted 11 consecutive quarterly losses as of
March 31, according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. filings.
The U.S. consumer lender has posted losses totaling about $3.1
billion since 2007, FDIC data show.  Profit from wealth management, which includes mutual funds
sales, more than doubled to C$220 million from C$90 million.
Insurance earnings rose 36 percent to C$146 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  