-- 
Rupiah Posts Weekly Drop as Overseas Funds Trim Share Holdings

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-05-27T09:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/rupiah-poised-for-weekly-drop-after-funds-trim-share-holdings.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah recorded its
biggest weekly decline since January after overseas investors
reduced holdings of the nation’s shares for a fourth day
yesterday. Bonds advanced this week.  Global funds sold $257 million more local stocks than they
bought this week through yesterday, exchange data show. The
Jakarta Stock Exchange fell 1.1 percent this week, the most
since March. The currency, which rallied for a third month in
April, weakened 0.1 percent this month after  Bank Indonesia  left
its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 6.75 percent during a
review on May 12.  Consumer spending  in the U.S. eased more than
previously estimated in the first quarter, data showed yesterday.  “There’s overall  risk aversion  not just because of
 Europe ’s debt crisis but there’s also concern about U.S.
growth,” said Johanna Chua, Hong Kong-based head of Asian
economic research at Citigroup Inc. “In the near term there
could be a little bit of bounce to go because of all the
uncertainties.”  The rupiah lost 0.4 percent this week, the most since the
five days ended Jan. 14, to 8,576 per dollar as of 4:14 p.m. in
Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
climbed 0.1 percent today.  Household purchases in the U.S. rose at a 2.2 percent
annual pace from January through March, less than the 2.7
percent calculated last month, according to the Commerce
Department.  Indonesian  government bonds  rose for a third week. The
yield on the 8.25 percent note due July 2021 dropped two basis
points to 7.4 percent this week, according to closing prices
from the Inter-Dealer Market Association. The rate slipped three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  