-- 
Russia Says Qaddafi Has Lost Legitimacy to Govern, Joining Support of NATO

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-05-27T16:11:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/russia-seeking-to-negotiate-qaddafi-exit.html
Russia  said it’s seeking to negotiate
the exit from power of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , for the
first time supporting the goals of the NATO-led military
campaign in Libya.  Qaddafi has forfeited his right to govern and Russia is
using its contacts with the Libyan regime’s leadership to
persuade him to step down, President  Dmitry Medvedev  said today
in Deauville, France, after a Group of Eight summit.  “Qaddafi’s regime has lost its legitimacy and he must
go,” Medvedev told reporters. Russia isn’t willing to grant
refuge to the Libyan leader, “but such countries can be
found.” He said Russia is sending an envoy, Mikhail Margelov,
to the Libyan rebel stronghold of Benghazi, who also plans to
meet with representatives of Qaddafi.  Russia abstained from the United Nations Security Council
 vote  in March that authorized military intervention by the U.S.
and its allies in  Libya  to protect civilians from attack by
Qaddafi’s forces. Russia later accused the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization of violating the resolution by backing anti-Qaddafi
rebels and causing civilian casualties with its air campaign.  President  Barack Obama  told Medvedev during their meeting
yesterday that Russia’s abstention at the UN was key to getting
action on Libya,  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national security
adviser, told reporters traveling with the U.S. leader to
 Poland . Medvedev told Obama that Russia would share information
from its discussion with Qaddafi’s government and the Libyan
opposition, Rhodes said.  Consultations  “We are going to be in close touch with the Russians as
they pursue their conversations with the Libyans,” Rhodes said  Allied forces have intensified their attacks on the Qaddafi
regime this week. Before leaving France, Obama said he and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  agreed at the G-8 summit to
“finish the job” in Libya. Qaddafi is shuttling between
hospitals in Tripoli to elude nighttime raids by NATO jets, a
European government official said yesterday.  Sarkozy said Western powers are only willing to discuss the
timing of Qaddafi’s departure. “There is no mediation possible
with Qaddafi: his soldiers must go back to their barracks and he
must go,” he told reporters in Deauville.  Opposition Meeting  Russia hosted a Libyan rebel representative this week after
holding a meeting in Moscow on May 17 with envoys from Qaddafi
in a bid to negotiate a cease-fire in the North African country.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov held a phone conversation
with his Libyan counterpart yesterday, Deputy Foreign Minister
Sergei Ryabkov told reporters in Deauville.  “Russia understands that Qaddafi won’t survive and will be
forced out at some point,” Irina Zvyagelskaya, a Middle East
analyst at the Academy of Sciences in Moscow, said in a May 17
phone interview. “The result will be a new leadership that we
will have to establish ties with, so Russia is being pragmatic
as it wants to revive contracts and play an active role.”  Russian weapons exporters may lose contracts worth $4
billion,  Sergei Chemezov , head of state-owned Russian
Technologies Corp., said on March 3 after the UN imposed an arms
embargo on Libya. Potential civilian contracts in Libya,
including for the construction of a railroad network, are worth
“billions of dollars,” Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said on
March 22.  Western countries asked Russia yesterday to help mediate in
the Libyan conflict, said Natalia Timakova, Medvedev’s
spokeswoman.  “This request was voiced by our partners at practically
all the bilateral meetings,” Timakova told reporters at the
summit late yesterday. Her comments came after Medvedev held
talks with Obama, Sarkozy and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Deauville,  France , at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  