-- 
Russian Gas Tax Rise May Be Less After Putin Seeks Revisions

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-05-27T16:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/russia-may-decide-on-gas-tax-for-gazprom-next-week-kudrin-says.html
Russia  may increase the natural gas
extraction tax by less than planned after Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  called on the government to consider rising fuel
prices and investment needs.  The decision has been delayed until next week while
calculations are made for the next two years of taxes, Finance
Minister Alexei Kudrin said after a government meeting outside
Moscow today. The levy may be adjusted to take into account high
gas prices in the first half of 2012, he told reporters.  “The finance ministry’s original proposals were excessive
compared with possible increases,” Lev Snykov, an analyst at
VTB Capital, said by phone today. “Final decisions will be more
balanced, but I wouldn’t expect the taxes to remain unchanged.
They will be rising from next year.”  Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, relies on oil
and gas revenue for its budget. The  finance ministry  had sought
to double the tax on companies that own gas pipelines to 536
rubles ($19) per 1,000 cubic meters next year, Deputy Minister
Sergei Shatalov said today. Gas monopoly OAO Gazprom owns
Russia’s main network and is the country’s biggest tax payer.  Putin today called for a tax that would meet both the state
budget needs and investment plans of gas producers.  “We must make a balanced decision,” he said, according to
a transcript of his comments on the government’s  website .  Additional Revenue  The plan to double the tax may be scrapped if Gazprom can
find other ways of boosting budget revenue, Energy Minister
Sergei Shmatko told reporters today in Almaty,  Kazakhstan . The
government hasn’t shifted from its plan to add 150 billion
rubles of revenue, and the mineral extraction tax is the main
tool, Kudrin said.  Russia raised the extraction tax on gas by 61 percent for
2011, the first increase in more than five years. State-run
Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas exporter, lobbied the
government to defeat similar proposals in 2009.  Gazprom has commitments in Russia to invest in pipeline
construction and developing regional gas supply systems. A
spokesman for the Moscow-based producer declined to comment on
the tax proposals.  Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  said in October the
company’s tax burden may rise by 200 billion rubles in the next
three years.  Gas prices follow crude prices with a lag of as much as
nine months, meaning the gas rates will be high in the first
half of 2012, Kudrin said today.  Miller said last month the gas price for  Europe  may reach
$500 per thousand cubic meters in December, while demand for the
fuel recovers at its main market by revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  