-- 
HSBC Shareholders Record Biggest Revolt of 2011 on Bank Pay

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-05-27T16:36:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/hsbc-chairman-says-it-s-irresponsible-to-ignore-pay-pressure.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said about 19
percent of shareholders voted against the bank’s executive pay
report, marking the biggest protest over compensation among the
U.K.’s five biggest banks this year.  “Does it cause us a sense of concern? I guess to be honest,
not,” said Chief Executive Officer Stuart Gulliver in an
interview following the decision at its annual general meeting
in London today. “These are simple 50 percent majorities, so
you need to get to 51 percent, therefore a substantial part of
the shareholder base beyond that voted in favor.”  Shareholder dissent on pay was less than 10 percent at
other British banks.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last month said that 9.7
percent of shareholders voted against its executive pay report,
compared with 8.1 percent at  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , 7.8
percent at  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and less than 1 percent at
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)  Last year, about 13 percent of
HSBC investors opposed the London-based bank’s pay report.  The vote follows a February pledge by HSBC and other
British banks to pay less in bonuses for 2010 than in the
previous year. Chairman  Douglas Flint  said that while HSBC
understood that banker pay was a “sensitive” issue, the
payments were essential to retain employees.  “Our best people are highly marketable,” Flint told the
meeting. “It would be irresponsible to allow our comparative
advantages to wither by ignoring the market forces that exist
around compensation, even though we understand how sensitive
this subject is.”  ‘Obscene’ Pay  At least eight individual shareholders spoke against HSBC’s
executive remuneration plan at the  London  meeting, with one
describing the bank’s pay levels as “obscene.”  About 14 percent of shareholders also voted against the
bank’s 2011 executive share plan, which could see Gulliver paid
as much as 13.3 million pounds ($21.8 million) this year. Awards
under the new long-term incentive plan would vest after five
years and be subject to so-called malus provisions under which
HSBC could withhold them. The shares cannot be sold until
Gulliver leaves HSBC or retires, other than to cover tax
liabilities.  Flint became chairman and Gulliver CEO following a
succession struggle last year, triggered when former Chairman
 Stephen Green  stepped down to join the British government.  Standard Life Plc Investment Director Jonathan Cobb said he
was “dismayed by the manner and timing,” of board changes.  In response to a question from a shareholder, Flint said
the bank’s acquisition of U.S. subprime lender  Household
International  in 2003, now known as HSBC Finance, is “a very
black mark on our history.”  “We wish we could change history, but we can’t,” said
Flint.  HSBC Finance has contributed to more than $60 billion of
provisions in the bank’s North American unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  