-- 
Scene Last Night: Winslet, Wintour, Miniter, Hartnett, El Museo

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/scene-last-night-winslet-wintour-miniter-hartnett-el-museo.html
Designer Angel Sanchez came up to
Gillian Miniter and gave her gold cocktail dress, which he
designed, a sharp tug.  “I’ve never seen a man put his hands on my wife like
that,” said her husband, Sylvester Miniter, president of  Durham
Capital  Corp.  Getting the dresses just right was a primary concern
Thursday night at a gala for  El Museo del Barrio , a museum on
upper Fifth Avenue in  Manhattan  focused on Latin American and
Caribbean art. The event, held at Cipriani 42nd Street, honored
Peruvian fashion photographer Mario Testino.  The waiters offered pisco sours to guests including Vogue
Editor in Chief Anna Wintour and Testino subjects such as Kate Winslet, Josh Hartnett and models Liya Kebede and Carolyn
Murphy.  At the lectern, Winslet, in a white-and-black gown with her
hair wavy and swept back, described what it is like to work with
Testino.  “He’ll say, ‘It’s beeuuutiful, but I think it would be
better naked, no?’ Quite frankly, how could one refuse?”  Testino credited his career to Wintour: “Long ago she
decided I was a good photographer.”  Speeches were brief, in part because the museum has no
director to speak on its behalf. Its last chief, Julian
Zugazagoitia, departed in the summer of 2010 to lead the Nelson-
Atkins Museum of Art in  Kansas City .  Before the medallion of veal was served, DJ Alexandra
Richards (daughter of rocker  Keith Richards ) began spinning
downtown club music.  Studs on Red Collar  Jeronimo Gaxiola, who designed the decor for the event,
stepped on the dance floor in Christian Louboutin shoes covered
in metal studs. Stylist Benjamin Le Hay also wore studs on a
detachable red collar by Eleven Objects.  Designer Fabiola Arias wore one of her own long gowns, the
color of cream on top and blue on the bottom.  “I wanted it to look like the woman has just emerged from
the water, and has all this ocean life stuck on her,” she said.  Arias, a graduate of Parsons the New School for Design, has
sold several of the dresses to  Neiman Marcus  for about $5,500
apiece.  Designers Cuca Diaz and Paola Wong showed off their
creations, which they make under the label Pink Magnolia. Wong’s
dress was nearly backless except for the bow over her bum.  The event raised more than $950,000, said the museum’s
director of external affairs and development, Susan R. Delvalle.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 