-- 
Senate Republicans Block Prospect of Warren’s Consumer Board Appointment

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-05-27T04:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/senate-republicans-block-prospect-of-warren-s-consumer-board-appointment.html
Republicans used the threat of a
procedural blockade to make sure President  Barack Obama  wouldn’t
be able to make recess appointments while the U.S. Senate is on
a break next week, including naming  Elizabeth Warren  to head the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  Instead of allowing all senators and their staffs to leave
Washington, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  scheduled “pro forma”
sessions, in which the chamber officially opens for the day,
then gavels to a close right away. That can be handled by two
lawmakers and aides.  Any time the Senate breaks for four days or more, the
president has the power to officially appoint a nominee for a
limited period without having to wait for a confirmation vote.
Republicans said they were worried that Obama might grant recess
appointments to  Craig Becker , who the president has nominated to
join the  National Labor Relations Board , and Warren, who Obama
picked to set up the bureau created by last year’s financial
regulation law.  Warren hasn’t been officially nominated by Obama to head
the bureau, and many Republicans have made clear they would
oppose her. The agency has an official start date of July 21.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, kept the Senate in pro forma
sessions during the final months of Republican President George W. Bush’s administration to block him from appointing nominees
that Democrats had refused to confirm.  If Reid hadn’t decided to quietly schedule pro forma
sessions, another procedure could have publicly forced him to do
so. The House is required to agree to Senate recesses, and
concurs as a matter of routine.  Twenty Republican senators had written to House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, asking him to deny that
routine approval for the scheduled week-long recess.  “I’m pleased we put this off for at least another week,
said Senator David Vitter, a Louisiana Republican who organized
the letter to Boehner with Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina
Republican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  