-- 
Smallest Canadian Stocks May Lose Edge After Doubling Return of S&P/TSX 60

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-27T20:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/smallest-canadian-stocks-may-lose-edge-after-doubling-return-of-s-p-tsx-60.html
Canada’s smallest companies will
trail the rest of the market after rallies in metals and fuel
prices pushed valuations close to a record high, according to
the country’s best-performing investors in so-called small caps.  Ralph Lindenblatt, co-manager of the Bissett Microcap Fund,
said the shares will return about 5 percent annually during the
next five to 10 years after more than doubling in 2009 and 2010.
Allan Jacobs of  Sprott Inc. (SII)  said he has let cash accumulate in
his  Sprott Small Cap Equity Fund (SSMCEQA)  as bargains became harder to
find. They beat all other Canadian mutual funds specializing in
small caps last year, returning 60 percent and 50 percent,
respectively, according to Bloomberg data.  The S&P/TSX Venture Composite Index and S&P/TSX SmallCap
Index have risen about twice as much as the S&P/TSX 60 index of
Canada’s largest stocks during the  bull market  that began in
2009 as the economic recovery spurred investment in riskier
assets, and oil, silver and copper more than doubled. The
SmallCap Index’s enterprise value, which measures the value of
equity and debt, rose to almost 13 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in April, within
0.3 percent of the post-2001 high reached on Dec. 30.  “We’re up 200 percent from market lows,” Lindenblatt
said, referring to the Venture Composite Index of companies on
 Canada ’s junior stock exchange. “It’s not surprising small caps
are going to pull back or at least give up leadership to large
caps. If you look at the valuation for small caps today, we’re
at the point where we have to expect much lower returns.”  More Commodities  Small caps have benefited from a greater concentration of
commodity producers. Energy and raw-materials companies make up
55 percent of the SmallCap index, compared with 47 percent of
the S&P/TSX 60, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Larger companies will do better, said Chris Conkey, chief
investment officer for global equities at Manulife Asset
Management. The S&P/TSX Composite Index, which adds the S&P/TSX
60 index of stocks with an average market capitalization of
C$21.4 billion ($21.9 billion) to the S&P/TSX Completion Index
of medium-sized companies, will return 7.5 percent to 8.5
percent a year for the next three to five years, said Conkey,
who oversees about $60 billion at the unit of Toronto-based
Manulife Financial Corp.  The Venture Composite Index, in which companies have an
average market value of C$100 million, has fallen 8.2 percent
since Dec. 31, and the SmallCap Index, with an average market
value of C$860 million, has advanced 0.4 percent. The S&P/TSX
60, which comprises 60 of Canada’s highest-valued and most-
heavily traded stocks, has gained 2.8 percent.  Size Limit  This month, the SmallCap Index, which is limited to
companies with market values from C$100 million to C$1.5 billion
at the time of S&P’s annual review, has declined more than twice
as much as the large-cap index, driven by losses in precious
metals.  “When people get risk averse, they don’t want to have
stocks that don’t trade millions of dollars every day, and they
go to the safety of cash or bigger-sized companies,” Jacobs
said. “Micro caps could easily underperform.”  Today, the SmallCap Index increased 0.8 percent and the
S&P/TSX 60 0.1 percent as the  U.S. dollar  declined and fuels and
metals rallied.  Cash Increase  Because stocks have risen so much, Jacobs has let cash in
the Sprott  fund  increase to about 13 percent from 3 percent on
Dec. 31. He has had to look beyond his usual focus in the
Canadian natural-resources industry to find stocks for his C$221
million fund.  Jacobs, 52, added Indianapolis-based shoe-store chain
 Finish Line Inc. (FINL)  The company’s net income increased 93 percent
in the fiscal year that ended in February, while cash rose 28
percent. Finish Line trades at 17.6 times profit from the past
year, 52 percent less than the ratio of the Russell 2000 Index
of smaller U.S. stocks.  The fund invested in Richmond, British Columbia-based
aerospace and defense contractor MacDonald, Dettwiler &
Associates Ltd. last month. It has a “very reasonable valuation
given its earnings, large cash position and superior historical
performance,” he said. The shares have gained 5.5 percent since
Jacobs bought them.  The C$169 million Bissett Microcap Fund has also avoided
the raw-materials industry. While materials companies make up 35
percent of the S&P/TSX SmallCap Index by market value, they
accounted for 3.5 percent of the fund on March 31.  Best Opportunities  “The easy money has been made there, and it’s time for us
to move on,” said Lindenblatt, 42, a Calgary-based  money
manager  for Franklin Templeton Investments. “The best
opportunities are often not in the hot sector, but in areas of
the market where others aren’t looking.”  Technology, consumer and industrial companies are bigger
bargains, according to Lindenblatt and the fund’s other co-
manager, Richard J. Fortin.  In March and April, the fund bought shares of  Glacier Media
Inc. (GVC) , which publishes 120 newspapers and trade publications in
Canada. The managers said the company’s establishment of a
semiannual dividend indicates  cash flow  will increase.
Lindenblatt and Fortin also invested in Woodstock, Ontario-based
trucking company  Contrans Group Inc. (CSS) , saying its share price
does not reflect its future earnings growth.  The Bissett fund, which has holdings with an average market
value of C$225 million, was led last year by  Fortress Paper
Ltd. (FTP) , which tripled after announcing plans in March 2010 to buy
a Quebec mill and convert it to the production of a raw material
used to make rayon.  Oilfield Services  Lindenblatt’s fund also gained on investments in oilfield-
services providers. Three of the fund’s four biggest holdings --
 Horizon North Logistics Inc. (HNL) ,  Pure Energy Services Ltd. (PSV)  and
 Technicoil Corp. (TEC)  -- all rallied at least 80 percent last year.  Jacobs’ fund, which he manages with the help of strategist
Peter Imhof, returned 50 percent last year largely because raw
material and energy companies accounted for 68 percent of its
value at year end.  Jacobs’ concentration in resources reflects a firm-wide
focus. Besides Sprott’s asset-management arm, which counts
stakes in dozens of small-cap materials and energy companies
among its about C$8.5 billion in assets, Sprott Inc. manages a
resources-industry private-equity firm, a lender to resources
companies and a wind-energy developer.  “We meet 30 companies a week and I see maybe 15 or 20 of
those,” Jacobs said in an interview at Sprott’s Toronto
headquarters. “If I see none to buy out of those 15 to 20 and
the other 10 that my colleagues see, I get pretty worried about
the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  