-- 
Solazyme Surges 15% in Nasdaq Debut on Alternative Fuels Bet

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-05-27T21:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/solazyme-surges-in-first-trading-day-bet-on-demand-for-renewable-fuels.html
Solazyme Inc., the developer of oil
products from genetically modified algae, jumped 15 percent in
its first day of trading on increasing demand for renewable
sources of fuel and specialty chemicals.  The company rose $2.71 to $20.17 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading, after being priced late last night at $18. South  San
Francisco , California-based Solazyme sold 10.975 million shares,
raising $197.6 million, according to a regulatory filing.  The demand validates the technology used to convert organic
material into biofuels and specialty chemicals, said Pavel
Molchanov, an analyst for Raymond James & Associates Inc.  “The science in their process works,” Molchanov said
today in a telephone interview.  A key question, he said, is whether Solazyme, or rivals
that are developing similar products such as Gevo Inc., and
 Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , can do so cost-effectively. “As we think about the
risk factors that investors in these companies have to confront,
it’s not a science risk. It’s how successfully can they scale up
to be a large production business.”  Gevo, of Englewood,  Colorado , has climbed 32 percent since
its February IPO, and Emeryville, California-based Amyris has
gained 83 percent since its September debut. Molchanov has
“outperform” ratings on Amyris and Gevo.  Biofuels Concern  John Benemann, founder of the biofuels consulting company
Benemann Associates, said the business case for producing
biofuels is less certain than for selling specialty chemicals.  “The jury is still out in terms of the scale-up of these
systems” for fuels production, he said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “I’m very supportive of Solazyme, but it’s a fair
question to ask from a fuels perspective, are we there yet? I
think for other products, yes, absolutely, I think that they
will do very well,” said Benemann, who studied the use of algae
for making  diesel fuel  from 1978 to 1995 under the U.S. Energy
Department’s  Aquatic Species Program .  Molchanov said prices for biofuels are typically about $3
to $4 a gallon, compared to specialty chemicals which generally
start at $5 and reach $20 or more for products used in cosmetics
and perfumes.  Production Plans  Solazyme genetically modifies algae capable of growing in
fermentation tanks without sunlight, so they will make specific
carbon compounds after consuming plant-based sugars or other
nutrients such as phosphorus. That differs from other companies
that are developing algae that relies on photosynthesis in ponds
or outdoor translucent containers.  Solazyme’s algae produce oils that can be extracted and
converted into skin-care products, food supplements, fuels and
chemicals. “We tailor the composition of our oils to address
specific customer requirements,” the company said in its
regulatory filing.  The company began producing the renewable oils in 2007 with
contract manufacturing partners in California and  Pennsylvania ,
and has begun to form partnerships and joint ventures with other
companies that will contribute all or some of the capital to
build manufacturing facilities.  Roquette Freres SA agreed to fully fund a venture with
Solazyme to create nutritional products, according to the
filing.  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , one of the largest sugar-cane processors in
 Brazil , agreed May 4 to use Solazyme’s technology at one of its
mills, and set a goal of producing 100,000 metric tons of the
oil a year beginning in 2013.  Solazyme said May 25 it purchased its first plant, a
biorefinery in Peoria,  Illinois , that will produce 2 million
liters (528,000 gallons) of oil a year. The project is funded in
part by a $22 million grant awarded by the Energy Department in
2009.  Solazyme is also working to expand production with  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , Unilever Plc, and  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) ,
Columbia’s largest oil company. Qantas Airlines Ltd. is
evaluating Solazyme’s jet fuel, and the U.S. military has tested
marine diesel and jet fuel derived from its algal oils.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  