-- 
Sony Says It May Know How Hacker Penetrated Online Networks, Accessed Data

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-27T17:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/sony-says-in-letter-it-may-know-how-hacker-penetrated-networks.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  believes it knows how a
hacker penetrated its online entertainment networks in an
incident that exposed 100 million customer accounts, the company
said in a letter to U.S. lawmakers released today.  Sony declined to publicly disclose how the hacker gained
access, saying the information might jeopardize an ongoing probe
of the attacks and put other networks at risk, according to the
May 26 letter to Representatives Mary Bono Mack, a California
Republican, and G.K. Butterfield, a North Carolina Democrat.  Sony still doesn’t know who was responsible for the
intrusion or precisely how much information was taken, the
company said in the letter responding to questions from Bono
Mack and Butterfield. The hacker took steps to cover tracks in
and out of the company’s servers and conceal what data was
taken, Sony said.  “These gaps in what we know are not for lack of trying by
experts, but rather an unfortunate testament to the skill of
those who perpetrated the attacks,”  Kazuo Hirai , Sony’s
executive deputy president in charge of consumer products,
wrote. “Some aspects of the intrusion may never be known.”  The incident at Tokyo-based Sony, which led the company to
temporarily shut down its PlayStation gaming network, has
sharpened U.S. government scrutiny of how companies protect
consumer data and notify the public about cyber attacks.  Credit-Card Data  The Obama administration on May 12 released a proposal to
shield banks, power grids and other critical infrastructure from
hackers and create uniform laws for data breaches. Bono Mack has
said she plans to introduce data protection legislation using
Sony’s experience as a guide.  Bono Mack and Butterfield asked Sony on May 17 for more
detail on the attack, including what customer information may
have been stolen. So far, there is no evidence that credit-card
data were taken during the attacks, Sony said in its letter.  “To date there have been no confirmed reports of credit
card misuse or reports of an increase in fraudulent transactions
resulting from this incident,” Sony said.  The company said it took “aggressive” action in
responding to the breach and continues to work with the U.S.
Federal Bureau of Investigation to catch the hacker responsible
for the attack.  Sony, which was told today by the Japanese government to do
more to prevent data breaches, said in the letter it has
enhanced network security with new intrusion detection methods,
firewall protections and application testing.  Sony to Testify  The Sony intrusion followed a March 30 breach at Alliance
Data System Corp.’s Epsilon Data Management LLC that resulted in
the theft of customer data from banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , as well as retailers Best Buy Co. and
 Walgreen Co. (WAG)   Sony and Epsilon have agreed to testify at a June 2 hearing
on data security chaired by Bono Mack, her spokesman Ken Johnson
said. Tim Schaaff, president of Sony Network Entertainment
International, and Jeanette Fitzgerald, Epsilon’s general
counsel, will appear as witnesses, Johnson said.  Both companies declined to take part in a May 4 data-theft
hearing chaired by Bono Mack.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  