-- 
Sony Chief Stringer Blindsided by Hackers Seeking Revenge

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s ,   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-05-27T18:43:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/sony-s-stringer-blindsided-by-hackers-who-probed-flaws-with-vow-to-attack.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , besieged by hackers since
April, considered its PlayStation Network an unlikely target
even after threats by the online collective Anonymous and three
separate security incidents in 2008.  The hacker group declared in April that it would wage a
cyber war against Sony for trying to stop people from tinkering
with the PlayStation 3. Three years earlier, the company faced
three breaches in Europe, including one in which Sony said some
PlayStation Network user data might have been stolen.  The repeated incidents should have warned Sony its online
network was vulnerable, said Eugene Spafford, a computer science
professor at Purdue University in  West Lafayette ,  Indiana . The
failure to enact safeguards such as appointing a single chief of
security may show Sony misunderstands the risks inherent in
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Howard Stringer’s networked
strategy, he said.  “The evidence we’ve seen so far speaks to a lack of a good
data management plan and a good security plan,” said Spafford,
who  specializes  in information security, computer crime
investigation and information ethics.  Japan ’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry  said  today
it told Sony to carry out preventive measures against data
breaches, instructed the company to ease customer concerns over
misuse of credit cards and share more information among
affiliates.  Spreading Attacks  Sony has struggled to keep up with the barrage that started
in mid-April. The Qriocity and PlayStation Network entertainment
services were knocked out for almost a month, compromising data
in more than 100 million accounts.  In the past week, the Tokyo-based company has been hit with
smaller intrusions -- a breach at online-service unit  So-net
Entertainment Corp. (3789)  led to the misuse of user names and
passwords of 128 customers. This week, Sony shut web pages that
were targeted in  Greece ,  Canada ,  Thailand  and  Indonesia .  The PlayStation Network will resume in Japan,  Taiwan ,
 Singapore ,  Malaysia , Indonesia and Thailand tomorrow, while
services in  South Korea  and  Hong Kong  will remain suspended
until further notice, Sony said today.  “Obviously our network security didn’t stop the attack and
we’re trying to understand why, and we’ve made big strides in
bolstering our security,” Stringer said in a May 17 interview,
before the most recent incidents.  Sony believed it had “good, robust security,” Stringer
said. He rejected suggestions that the company is paying for a
lack of vigilance and said he was unaware of the 2008 intrusion
on the PlayStation Network.  ‘New Experience’  Since most users of PSN don’t pay, and most threats focus
on stealing credit card information, the theft of passwords and
other personal data from those services appeared less likely,
Stringer said.  “We have a network that gave people services free,”
Stringer said. “It didn’t seem like the likeliest place for an
attack.”  When the April incursion first started, he didn’t know how
serious it was, Stringer said. “I really don’t think I could
apologize for not knowing,” he said. “It’s a whole new
experience for everybody at this scale.”  Anonymous Vow  There were warning signs. Sony was singled out for
retaliation by Anonymous, the hacker group that brought down the
websites of  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  in December, after the company sued
21-year-old George “GeoHot” Hotz for posting information on
how to modify the PlayStation game console. The case was settled
on March 31.  Anonymous announced its revenge campaign, “Operation
Payback,” on the website anonnews.org. In an early May
statement, the group denied involvement in the PlayStation and
Qriocity breaches, while saying some members of the loosely
organized collective may have been behind it.  Sony, Japan’s largest consumer-electronics exporter, must
connect its televisions, Blu-ray players, game consoles and
digital cameras via the Internet to music, movies and video
games, Stringer has said. Unconnected devices rapidly become
commodities as rivals compete for customers, he has said.  Sony’s investigation into the cause and search for suspects
in the mid-April attack is ongoing, the company said. In a
letter to U.S. lawmakers today, the company said it believes it
knows how the network was penetrated. The company said it
doesn’t know who was responsible or precisely how much
information was taken.  ‘Failure of Trust’  On May 23, Sony said it may spend more than $170 million
related to the hack. The company also said it discovered
personal data may have been stolen from 8,500 user accounts in a
music entertainment site in Greece.  The company erred in “thinking of these incidents in terms
of a breach of systems” and communicating with its customers
based on the severity of the failure, said Kevin Kosh, a partner
at Waltham, Massachusetts-based Chen PR, which represents
technology companies.  “When you’re a consumer-facing organization, that’s not
the way you should think,” Kosh said. “It’s first and foremost
a business failure and a failure of trust.”  In March 2008, Sony informed users in  Europe  that an
unauthorized person may have gained access to personal data on
PSN through personal computers. There is no evidence that
personal information or credit-card data was taken, and the
security flaw, which is unrelated to the recent attack, was
fixed, the company said in response to questions for this story.  2008 Probes  London Metropolitan Police questioned a teenager about a
separate, September 2008 hacking attack into Sony’s developer
network, according to three people familiar with the incident.  The network has no identifying information about customers
and isn’t attached to the PlayStation Network, Sony said in the
statement provided by Dan Race, a spokesman.  In December 2008, a user revealed a flaw in Sony’s
PlayStation Home virtual-world game for the PS3 that let him
manipulate pictures and videos on his own device. That person
never had access to Sony’s servers, the company said.  “The one incident that related to PlayStation Network,
once we identified what it was, they went in and fixed it,”
Race said. The April attacks were much more sophisticated than
2008 and appear to be unrelated, Sony said.  In the weeks leading up to the April 16 breach, Sony missed
key opportunities to plug holes in its system, said Bret
McDanel, a security expert who monitored publicly available
server logs.  Navy Server  The company’s network security should have seen a sustained
probing of its systems from a Navy medical computer in  Southern
California , which may have been used as a proxy server by
potential attackers, McDanel said.  The company hasn’t turned up evidence of such a probe of
its servers, said a person with knowledge of Sony’s efforts to
trace the cause of the security break.  “The truth is that people test for vulnerabilities on
network systems on a daily basis, and Sony is constantly
monitoring for unauthorized activity, conducting our own
vulnerability tests and making constant enhancements,” Race
said.  He declined to say whether Sony found evidence of a probe
from the  Department of Defense  server. Justin Cole, a spokesman
for the U.S. Navy, didn’t return a call requesting comment.  The attack in April was launched through a server rented
from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s cloud-computing service, a person with
knowledge of the matter said this month. The account was shut
and Amazon’s servers weren’t compromised, the person said.  Security Chief  Companies should consider carefully what data belongs on
open servers, put one person in charge of administrative rights
and keep track of how and when the network is accessed, said
Yuichi Uzawa, a Tokyo-based senior consultant in charge of
investigative response at Verizon Business. Nevertheless,
determined hackers can often find ways to break in, he said.  “In the end, it’s extremely difficult to defend a network
from an organized, targeted attack,” Uzawa said. “Early
discovery of signs of intrusion through monitoring of key assets
is the best defense.”  Sony said it takes network security and the protection of
personal information seriously. There are multiple layers of
protection and the company constantly monitors for unauthorized
activity, including testing for vulnerabilities, it said.  Even so, Sony’s chief information officer oversaw network
security as part of his duties until after the April attacks. A
chief information-security officer was then appointed, reporting
to the CIO, to provide an additional layer of security, the
company said.  Failing to take such a step earlier was a critical
shortcoming, according to Chen PR’s Kosh.  “Adding a CISO after the fact is like hiring a bodyguard
after you’ve been fatally wounded,” Kosh said. “It creates an
impression that there’s a lack of accountability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  