-- 
South Africa’s Inflation Better Than Peers; Risks Remains, Mminele Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-27T09:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/south-african-inflation-being-driven-by-cost-push-factors-mminele-says.html
South Africa ’s inflation picture is
“somewhat benign” compared with other emerging markets and the
central bank stands ready to step in should rising food and fuel
costs spread to other prices, Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele 
said.  The South African Reserve Bank kept its key interest rate
at 5.5 percent on May 12 because of “the large influence of
exogenous factors on the current inflation rate,” Mminele said
in a speech to the Association of Corporate Treasurers of South
Africa in Johannesburg today.  If high oil, food and electricity costs “build up to more
generalized price inflation,” the central bank “will not
hesitate to take timeous action to ensure that second-round
effects will not take hold,” Mminele said, echoing a central
bank report published on May 24.  The central bank forecast this month that inflation in
 Africa ’s largest economy will breach the 3 percent to 6 percent
target in the first quarter of 2012, peaking at 6.3 percent,
before returning into the band in the second quarter. Inflation
was 4.2 percent in April. Other emerging markets have struggled
to reduce their inflation rate, with  China  at 5.3 percent,
 Brazil  at 6.5 percent and  India  at 8.8 percent.  The rand pared early gains against the dollar and was
trading 0.4 percent up at 6.9514 at 10:52 a.m. in Johannesburg
trading.  Inflation Risks  The Bureau for Economic Research, which is based at the
University of Stellenbosch near Cape Town, today said the
central bank is likely to raise its key rate by 50 basis points
in September rather than November, as previously predicted,
because of rising inflation. The bank will increase the interest
rate by 2 percentage points next year, the BER said.  The BER increased its inflation forecast to 5 percent this
year, versus a previous estimate of 4.7, while it cut it
economic growth estimate to 3.7 percent from 3.8 percent,
according to a report issued in Johannesburg.  “We remain concerned about underlying inflationary
pressures that may start to build up next year,” BER analyst
Hugo Pienaar told reporters in Johannesburg today. “You can’t
wait until you start seeing these signs to act. It’s better to
be more aggressive and preempt these signs before they appear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 