-- 
South African Stocks Head for Biggest Weekly Gain in 8 on Growth, Metals

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-05-27T15:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/south-african-stocks-head-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-8-on-growth-metals.html
South African shares had the biggest
weekly gain in eight, led by Cie. Financiere Richemont SA as
Swiss watch exports rose. Mining companies such as  BHP Billiton
Plc (BIL)  rallied as metals prices advanced.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index rallied 1.3 percent to
32,384.41 at the 5 p.m. close of trading in Johannesburg, taking
its increase this week to 1.9 percent, the biggest since the
week through April 1.  Group of Eight leaders said a strengthening global economy
will pave the way to cuts in the debt built up during the
recession that followed the 2008 financial crisis. A Federal
Customs Office report yesterday showed Swiss watch exports
jumped an inflation-adjusted 37 percent in April from a year
earlier. Copper rose to a three-week high in  New York  as
increased premiums signaled stronger demand in  China  and
Standard Chartered Plc predicted price gains, joining banks
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Lead, nickel and zinc also
advanced on the London Metal Exchange.  “The All-Share looks set to end the week on a positive
note as sentiment returns to global bourses and the risk-on
trade appears to be back,” analysts at Johannesburg-based
Barnard Jacobs Mellet Private Client Services wrote in an e-
mailed note to clients today.  Richemont, the Switzerland-based world’s largest maker of
watches, climbed the most since March 22, climbing 3.8 percent
to 44.02 rand. The company expects to hire 1,900 people in
 Switzerland  by the end of 2012, Le Temps newspaper reported,
citing Deputy Chief Executive Officer Richard Lepeu.  BHP Billiton , the world’s biggest mining company, rose for
a fourth day, adding 0.8 percent to 271.88 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  