-- 
Spanish Cucumbers Blamed for German E.Coli Outbreak, Two Deaths

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-05-27T10:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/spanish-cucumbers-blamed-for-german-e-coli-outbreak-two-deaths.html
German health authorities traced a
national outbreak of E.coli that has killed two people and
infected 274 others to imports of Spanish cucumbers.  Hamburg’s  Institute for Hygiene and Health  detected the
bacterium in probes of cucumbers imported from  Spain , the
Hamburg government said on its website. Wholesalers and
retailers including  Metro AG (MEO)  and Rewe Group have taken Spanish
cucumbers off shelves, the companies said.  The European Commission said in a statement that two
batches of organic cucumbers from Spain have been identified as
sources of the outbreak, and a batch from the Netherlands is
also being investigated. It said a total of 18 cases of
infection have also occurred in  Sweden , Denmark, the U.K. and
the Netherlands.  The regional government of Andalusia, where the Spanish
producers are located, has taken measures to stop the sale of
products from the lots that were identified, Spain’s Health
Ministry said in an e-mailed statement. The ministry said the
information it received didn’t clarify if the origin of the
problem could be in the handling of the produce. It didn’t
identify the companies.  Spain is  Europe ’s biggest food exporter, selling 190,000
tons of cucumbers to  Germany  last year, the  Financial Times
Deutschland  reported today.  Germany’s  Robert Koch Institute  said today on its website
that 276 people have been infected, with two fatalities. There
have been no cases of the infection in Spain, and “the
consumption of this vegetable should continue as usual, with the
normal precautions,” the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 