-- 
Starfish Prefers Energy Efficiency Technologies Over Solar, Wave Power

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-05-27T01:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/starfish-prefers-energy-efficiency-technologies-over-solar-wave-power.html
Starfish Ventures ,  Australia ’s
biggest venture capital fund, plans to invest in businesses
focused on  energy efficiency  and avoid solar and wave power
until a carbon price makes the technologies more attractive.  “It’s a good sector because it’s not dependent on a carbon
price, so we don’t have to worry about the uncertainty that it
brings,” Ivor Frischknecht, investment director at Starfish
Ventures, said in an interview in Sydney. “Solar long-term is a
really good space. Wave power and geothermal too. All of those
depend dramatically on a carbon price, so you’re just not going
to get any movement from people like us.”  Starfish, which manages more than A$400 million ($426
million), aims to make four to six additional investments and is
evaluating companies developing initiatives to help businesses
and households use energy more efficiently, he said. The fund
will likely invest in solar, wind, geothermal or wave power if
Australia imposes a carbon price, making those technologies more
competitive with fossil fuels and giving investors increased
“clarity” on how profitable they may become, he said.  “We’ll be able to have a much better view on a company’s
return profile,” Frischknecht said yesterday after speaking at
the Eco Innovation Forum. “A fraction of the companies coming
in now that we are saying no to, we will probably say yes to.
Not all will meet that hurdle, but some will.”  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who pledged to
resume an effort to tackle  climate change  after replacing  Kevin
Rudd  last year, wants a price on  carbon emissions  in 2012 before
a trading system that may begin as early as 2015.  Growing Market  A cap-and-trade program in Australia, which burns coal to
generate more than 80 percent of its electricity, would give
power plants, factories and other polluters a “very strong”
incentive to curb emissions, Gillard said this year.  The Australian government in the annual budget increased
grants for “emerging” geothermal, wave, wind and solar
technologies to A$100 million from A$40 million and committed
A$100 million to a renewable energy venture capital fund,
Resources Minister Martin Ferguson said this month.  Starfish investments in the “clean-technology” industry
have included Ausra Inc., the U.S. maker of sun-driven steam
generators bought in 2010 by Areva SA, and Myriax Pty, a
Tasmanian research and development company, the firm’s website
shows. Starfish, based in  Melbourne , also invests in industries
including biotechnology, medical devices and software.  The fund has invested in Energy Response, an Australian
company that works with users to reduce demand during peak
seasons, and is likely to buy further stakes in developers of
energy efficiency technologies amid projections energy demand
and electricity prices will surge, Frischknecht said. He said he
likes companies such as U.S.-based  Opower , which helps consumers
gauge energy consumption compared with neighbors.  “It’s a market we think will grow pretty dramatically,”
he said. “They make money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 