-- 
Banks May Negotiate Menu of Payment Options in Foreclosure Deal

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-05-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/states-may-let-banks-pick-borrower-relief-in-foreclosure-accord.html
U.S. banks, seeking to avoid
$17 billion in court claims over faulty foreclosures, are
discussing a settlement framework with state attorneys general
that may let firms choose from a menu of options for helping
borrowers, two people briefed on the talks said.  Under the proposal,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial
Inc. would pay penalties and pledge billions of dollars in
relief to home buyers, one of the people said, asking not to be
named because the talks are private. Firms may fulfill
obligations to borrowers over time, choosing among options such
as reducing loan principal, cutting fees or paying moving costs,
the people said.  Stitching flexibility into settlements may help defuse
opposition from a group of Republican attorneys general, who
object to principal reductions sought by other states, one of
the people said. The pace of talks is accelerating, with parties
also nearing agreement on an industrywide overhaul of procedures
for handling mortgages, that person said.  State and federal officials have been meeting with the
largest U.S. loan servicers to resolve a nationwide probe into
documentation lapses during home seizures. Earlier this week,
 attorneys general  told the banks they will face an estimated
$17 billion in claims if the inquiries result in civil lawsuits,
according to a person with knowledge of the talks. The banks had
previously offered to pay $5 billion.  Consent Decrees  Under the proposal, banks would pay the penalties to the
states, which would determine how to use the funds, according to
the people briefed on the talks. The separate relief funds,
which lenders could decide how to provide, are expected to
account for a majority of the companies’ costs, one of the
people said.  The banks are reluctant to sign a deal with the states
without a global settlement from federal agencies as well, said
a person with direct knowledge of the banks’ position. U.S.
lenders want the agreement to also cover current and future
claims from Housing and Urban Development, which provides
government insurance on mortgages through the  Federal Housing
Administration , this person said.  Federal Claims  The  Department of Justice  and HUD are suing Germany’s
Deutsche Bank AG for more than $1 billion for allegedly lying
“repeatedly” to obtain FHA insurance on risky loans. Federal
prosecutors are suing under the  False Claims Act , which allows
the government to triple the amount of damages for fraudulent
FHA claims. HUD General Counsel Helen Kanovsky said the U.S. may
pursue similar cases against other banks.  “We go where the evidence takes us, and if it takes us to
the larger players on  Wall Street , so be it,” Kanovsky said in
a May 3 interview.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  is concerned
about a settlement that provides “broad amnesty” to servicers,
his spokesman Danny Kanner said in an earlier statement. Any
agreement should preserve the ability of attorneys general to
“follow the facts where they lead and not be precluded from
conducting comprehensive investigations,” Lauren Passalacqua, a
Schneiderman spokeswoman, said in April.  State Negotiations  State officials and banks are negotiating the liability
releases and haven’t yet reached an agreement, one of the people
said.  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America, and Sean Kevelighan, a spokesman for New York-
based Citigroup, declined to comment. Vickee Adams of San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo and Gina Proia of Detroit-based Ally
also declined to comment. A representative of New York-based
JPMorgan didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Agreements with states would follow consent decrees that
the 14 largest mortgage servicers reached last month with
federal regulators including the  Federal Reserve , the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. Firms pledged to pay back homeowners for losses
from foreclosures or loans that were mishandled.  Iowa Attorney General Thomas J. Miller, a Democrat who is
leading the talks on behalf of the states, said at the time that
the federal accords wouldn’t halt efforts to extract financial
penalties and overhaul procedures for home seizures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  