-- 
U.S. Stocks Rally as G-8 Says Global Economy Is Strengthening

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-27T21:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-linkedin-omnivision-shares-drop.html
U.S. stocks rose, trimming the
longest weekly drop in more than 15 months, as comments from the
Group of Eight about the global economy’s strength offset a
slump in home sales that was 12 times faster than projected.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  advanced 2.7 percent as
copper rallied after Standard Chartered Plc predicted price
gains.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  increased at
least 1.5 percent, pacing a rally in financial shares, as
 European Central Bank  governing council member Nout Wellink said
he expects  Greece  to get International Monetary Fund aid next
month.  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  surged 11 percent after
projecting higher sales than analysts estimated.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4 percent to
1,331.10 at 4 p.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
added 38.82 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,441.58. Both gauges
fell for a fourth straight week. Volume on U.S. exchanges was 19
percent lower than a week earlier at 5.47 billion shares before
the Memorial Day holiday.  “The resilience of riskier assets is linked to the fact
that we’re still going to have easy monetary policy,” said
Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist at Milwaukee-based
Robert W. Baird & Co., which oversees $85 billion. “The  Federal
Reserve ’s program of quantitative easing has helped bolster
stock prices, but has not helped the housing market.”  The  S&P 500  fell 2.4 percent from an almost three-year high
on April 29 on concern about Europe’s debt crisis and weaker-
than-forecast economic data. Still, the gauge rose 5.8 percent
from the end of 2010 amid government stimulus measures and
higher-than-forecast corporate profits.  Global Economy  Global stocks rose after the Group of Eight leaders said
that a strengthening global economy will pave the way to cuts in
the debt built up during the recession that followed the 2008
financial crisis. Europe vowed to fight its fiscal woes with
“determination,” while President  Barack Obama  promised a
“clear and credible” U.S. deficit-reduction strategy.  Japan 
was allowed to put off savings measures until its economy
rebounds from the March earthquake and tsunami.  “The global recovery is gaining strength and is becoming
more self-sustained,” according to a statement after a two-day
summit in Deauville,  France . Without mapping out binding
targets, the leaders pledged to “remain focused on the action
required to enhance the sustainability of public finances.”
U.S. consumers grew more confident in May than a month earlier
as declining gasoline prices helped lift Americans’ spirits.  Consumer Sentiment  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment increased to a three-month high of 74.3 from
69.8 in April. Economists forecast a reading of 72.4, the same
as the preliminary figure issued earlier this month, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The world is healing economically,” said  Philip Orlando ,
the New York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated
Investors Inc., which oversees $358.2 billion. “I’m delighted
to see the G-8 take a longer-term view of things, especially
because some investors have been focused on the near term.”  U.S. stocks rose and a gauge of homebuilders in the S&P
indexes rallied 1.9 percent even after a report showed that the
number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously owned
homes plunged more than forecast in April, a sign the industry
that triggered the recession continues to struggle.  A gauge of raw-material producers had the biggest gain in
the S&P 500 within 10 industries, rising 1 percent. Copper rose
in  New York  as increased premiums signaled stronger demand in
 China  and Standard Chartered Plc predicted price gains, joining
banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Freeport, the largest
publicly traded copper producer, advanced 2.7 percent to $51.73.  Banks Rally  Banks had the biggest gain in the S&P 500 within 24
industries, rallying 1.5 percent as a group. The KBW Bank Index
added 1.4 percent as 21 of its 24 stocks gained.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, advanced 1.6
percent to $28.14. Bank of America rose the most in the Dow,
rallying 2 percent to $11.69.  Marvell Technology surged 11 percent to $16.17. The maker
of the processor that runs BlackBerry smartphones forecast
second-quarter profit of 35 cents to 39 cents a share, excluding
some items. Analysts projected 33 cents, according to the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  climbed 5.4 percent to $36.52. The maker of
semiconductors for wireless headsets and television set-top
boxes was added to FBR Capital Markets’ Top Picks list. The
stock presented “an attractive and rare value opportunity” for
investors, given the company’s growth potential, analyst Craig
Berger wrote in a note.  Aflac Slumps  Aflac Inc. (AFL)  fell 3.2 percent to $48. The world’s largest
seller of supplemental health insurance was cut to “equal
weight” from “overweight” at Morgan Stanley, which said the
company may see a limit to its capital management opportunities.  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who predicted the global
financial crisis, said stock markets are at the “tipping
point” of a correction as economic growth may begin to slow.  Companies had ridden a worldwide recovery to boost sales
and profits, supporting equity price increases, Roubini told a
conference in Budapest today. Now, signs of a global economic
slowdown may drag down stock prices, he said.  “Until two weeks ago I’d say markets were shrugging off
all these concerns, saying they don’t matter because they were
believing the global economic recovery was on track,” Roubini
said. “But I think right now we’re on the tipping point of a
market correction. Data from the U.S., from  Europe , from Japan,
from China are suggesting an economic slowdown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  