-- 
Strauss-Kahn, Madoff, BofA, Morgan Stanley in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-27T11:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/strauss-kahn-madoff-knights-of-columbus-morgan-stanley-in-court-news.html
The hotel maid who accused Dominique
Strauss-Kahn, the ex-International Monetary Fund managing
director now charged with sexual assault and attempted rape,
hired additional legal counsel in anticipation of an attack on
her reputation and credibility, her lawyer said.  Attorney Norman Siegel, former director of the  New York 
Civil Liberties Union, and former Assistant U.S. Attorney
Kenneth P. Thompson, who prosecuted New York City police
officers for the beating and torture of Abner Louima, have begun
to work on behalf of the 32-year-old hotel maid from Guinea,
according to Jeffrey Shapiro, who has been representing her.  “We anticipate the defense in this case is going to mount
some sort of an assault on her,” Shapiro, a New York personal-
injury lawyer, said yesterday in a phone interview. “It
requires a team effort” to protect her, he said.  In a May 25 letter to the  Manhattan  district attorney
complaining about media leaks in the case, defense attorneys
Benjamin Brafman and William Taylor III said that if they wanted
to feed the media frenzy, they could release information that
would “gravely undermine the credibility” of the woman.  In a letter yesterday, the prosecutor’s office responded
that it also was concerned about the leaks -- and “troubled”
by the defense lawyers’ claims that they possessed information
that might negatively affect the case and the woman’s
credibility.  “We are aware of no such information,” Manhattan
Assistant District Attorney Joan Illuzzi-Orbon wrote. “If you
really do possess the kind of information that you suggest that
you do, we trust you will forward it immediately.”  Brafman and Taylor didn’t respond to calls or e-mails
seeking comment. Siegel and Thompson also didn’t return calls
seeking comment. Shapiro said a civil lawsuit had not been
discussed.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York. New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Litigation Departments  Madoff Trustee Picard Charges $5,803 Daily, Lawyer Says  A lawyer who said she represents 800 Bernard L. Madoff
investors told a Manhattan judge they objected to a $43.9
million fee request by trustee  Irving Picard  and his law firm
Baker & Hostetler LLP.  The charges for the period from Oct. 1 through Jan. 31 work
out to $5,803 daily for the trustee, who is liquidating the con
man’s investment firm, and $351,033 daily for his law firm,
including weekends and holidays, lawyer Helen Chaitman said in a
court filing. The latest fee request would bring total
compensation for the trustee and his firm to $179.8 million
since the Ponzi scheme operator’s 2008 arrest, she said in
yesterday’s filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Picard’s personal share of the $179.8 million would be $4.3
million, according to court filings. However, his contract with
Baker & Hostetler might entitle him to a third or more of the
total compensation from the Madoff case, Chaitman said.  “If I’m a lawyer and I originate business, I can get 35
percent of what I originate,” she said in a phone interview.
“If I have clout, I can get 50 percent of what I bring in.”  A Picard spokeswoman, Amanda Remus, said by e-mail, “Ms.
Chaitman’s filing contains numerous factual inaccuracies, which
the trustee’s counsel will address fully in court.” She didn’t
specify the errors.  A hearing on Picard’s sixth fee application is set for June
1.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  New Suits  Auditor BDO USA Sued by Stanford’s Investors for $10.7 Billion  BDO USA LLP and its parent, the ex-auditors of indicted
financier R. Allen Stanford’s former company, were sued for
$10.7 billion by investors claiming BDO ignored signs of
potential fraud.  “Despite the pervasive fraud that infected Stanford
Financial Group’s operations, BDO repeatedly issued unqualified
audit opinions on its Stanford client’s annual financial
statements,” Edward Snyder, a lawyer for Stanford investors,
said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Dallas.  Stanford’s companies “needed BDO’s unqualified audit
opinions to satisfy securities regulators and to continue
recommending” sales of the allegedly bogus certificates of
deposit at Stanford International Bank Ltd. in Antigua, the
investors said in the complaint.  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulators seized
Stanford’s operations in February 2009 on allegations they were
involved in a “massive Ponzi scheme” that defrauded investors
of more than $7 billion.  “We have yet to be served with the complaint and therefore
are unable to comment at this time,” Jerry Walsh, a spokesman
for BDO, said in an e-mail. “However, the fact that this
complaint was not filed until now -- years after the Stanford
fraud came to light and after many other investor complaints
were filed -- reflects a transparent understanding that the
allegations lack merit.”  Stanford, 61, has been incarcerated since June 2009 as a
flight risk after he was indicted on parallel criminal fraud
charges. He denies the charges and is scheduled for trial in
federal court in Houston in September.  The case is Wilkinson v. BDO USA LLP, 3:11-cv-1115, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Knights of Columbus Targets BofA Foreclosure Actions in Suit  Knights of Columbus , a charitable organization and an
investor in mortgage-backed securities, is seeking a court order
to learn more about foreclosure practices by  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank.  Bank of America, which services mortgage loans on behalf of
investors, may be acting for its own benefit, Knights of
Columbus said in a lawsuit filed yesterday in New York State
Supreme Court.  The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank may also be
damaging borrowers whose loans were pooled together and sold to
investors, and “undermining efforts to restore economic
prosperity to the country,” the group said.  Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for Bank of the America,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The bank isn’t named as a defendant in the lawsuit. It acts
as servicer for loans that were pooled and sold as mortgage-
backed securities, collecting payments from borrowers on behalf
of investors and foreclosing when borrowers default.  Knights of Columbus is suing  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
seeking an accounting of two trusts that hold mortgage loans.
Bank of New York is the trustee for the trusts.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the bank, declined to comment.  The case is Knights of Columbus v. Bank of New York Mellon,
651442-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Delaware Judge Delays Ruling in Massey Investor Lawsuit  A Delaware judge reserved ruling on a request by Massey
Energy Co. investors to block the coal producer’s $7 billion
takeover by  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  before a scheduled June
1 shareholder vote on the deal.  At a hearing yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington, Judge Leo Strine Jr. told lawyers for the investors
that he wasn’t likely to grant their request to bar the buyout
until they can pursue mismanagement claims against directors
over the April 2010 accident that killed 29 miners.  “I actually have to apply the law,” Strine said during
the hearing. “I can’t grant an affirmative injunction or
affirmative relief except on undisputed facts or after a
trial.”  Massey, the largest coal producer in central Appalachia,
was sued in Delaware last year by the New Jersey Building
Laborers Pension Fund alleging directors failed to adequately
address poor safety conditions that killed workers at the Upper
Big Branch mine in West Virginia.  The pension fund is seeking to hold Massey’s board liable
for the Richmond, Virginia-based company racking up more than
$25 million in assessed violations by the U.S. Mine Safety and
Health Administration from the disaster. The fund’s case was
filed as a so-called derivative suit, which would return any
recovery to the company. Individual shareholders wouldn’t
receive any direct payments as a result of the complaint.  Stuart Grant , an attorney for the fund, urged Strine to bar
the deal for at least 15 days, giving shareholders time to
assess the value of legal claims the buyout would transfer to
Alpha. Those claims would be lost, as Alpha would have no
incentive to pursue them, Grant said.  Kevin Abrams, an attorney for Massey, countered that it
wasn’t necessary for Strine to rule on Grant’s suggestion that
the claims be transferred to a litigation trust.  “There is no irreparable harm poised by the consummation
of the merger,” Abrams said. “There are multiple avenues for
the continued prosecution or recovery under the derivative
claims.”  The consolidated case is In Re  Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  Derivative
and Class Action Litigation, CA5430, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington)  For more, click here.  Facebook  Says Suit by Man Who Hired Zuckerberg Is a Fraud  Facebook Inc. and its co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  admitted
some factual allegations in a lawsuit by a western New York man
who says a 2003 contract entitles him to half of Zuckerberg’s
Facebook holdings, while calling the case as a whole “a fraud
on the court.”  In an answer filed yesterday in federal court in Buffalo,
Facebook and Zuckerberg admitted that the two men met in the
lobby of a Boston hotel in April 2003 and that Zuckerberg, then
a Harvard University student, signed a contract with Ceglia to
work on StreetFax.com, a company Ceglia was trying to start at
the time, after answering an online job posting.  Facebook and Zuckerberg yesterday denied the principal
allegations of the suit, claiming that Ceglia’s claims are based
on a doctored contract and fabricated e-mails. The contract
Zuckerberg signed had nothing to do with Facebook, they said.  In an amended complaint filed last month, Ceglia quoted
from e-mails he claimed he exchanged with Zuckerberg, which he
said support his claim that the two men formed a partnership
that gave Ceglia half-ownership of Facebook when it was launched
in 2004.  Ceglia claims Zuckerberg defrauded him by lying about the
early success of “The Face Book” at Harvard. Ceglia said he is
entitled to a multi-billion-dollar stake in Facebook, a closely
held company valued at as much as $55 billion, according to
Sharespost.com, an online marketplace for investment in
companies that aren’t publicly traded. Palo Alto, California-
based Facebook runs the world’s biggest social-networking site.  “The purported contract was signed in 2003, yet plaintiff
waited until 2010 to file this action -- a seven-year delay
during which plaintiff remained utterly silent while Facebook
grew into one of the world’s best-known companies,” the company
said in its answer yesterday.  Robert Brownlie, a lawyer for Ceglia, didn’t return a phone
message seeking comment.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  Mets Owners Seek to Move Picard Suit to District Court  Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, owners of the New York Mets
Major League Baseball team, asked a federal judge in New York to
consider whether Irving Picard, the trustee liquidating  Bernard
Madoff ’s firm, has a right to sue them for $1 billion on behalf
of Madoff’s clients.  Picard sued the Mets owners in bankruptcy court, demanding
return of $300 million in what he called “fictitious” profit
and $700 million in principal taken out of the Madoff firm by
Sterling Equities Inc. and its partners. His amended suit in
March, seeking to void so-called fraudulent transfers, was
“rife with false allegations,” and raises “significant
questions” about Picard’s interpretation of federal legislation
and laws, the Sterling partners said in a court filing.  As former customers of the con man, they withdrew funds in
conformity with securities laws, they said.  “The trustee’s complaint seeks to avoid transfers that do
not fit within the parameters of either the preference or the
fraudulent conveyance avoidance powers under the bankruptcy
code,” they said in a bankruptcy court filing yesterday.  The Mets owners’ move to take their case out of bankruptcy
court is another challenge to Picard, whose firm was paid $146
million through March for work since Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan said this
week she would decide whether the trustee has the right to sue
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $6.4 billion on behalf of Madoff
customers, as Picard claimed.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  has asked U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan to dismiss a $9 billion
lawsuit against it and so-called feeder funds, saying Picard
doesn’t have legal authority to bring such suits on behalf of
Madoff customers.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, didn’t respond to
an e-mail seeking comment.  Picard first sued the Mets owners in December. In March,
the Sterling partners asked a bankruptcy judge to dismiss the
trustee’s amended complaint. The trustee filed his opposition to
dismissal on May 19.  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. Katz, 1:10-ap-05287,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  BP Asks New Orleans Judge to Reject Some Spill Damage Claims  BP Plc (BP)  urged a U.S. judge to dismiss hundreds of lawsuits
from Gulf Coast residents and businesses seeking economic
damages from the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  A lawyer for BP argued yesterday in federal court in New
Orleans that spill victims can only sue for economic losses
under specific laws governing offshore spills and that lawsuits
filed under other statutes should be dismissed. The London-based
oil company also said spill victims are obligated to pursue
claims for resolution through a $20 billion trust fund BP
established for that purpose before they can sue.  “BP’s position is not that every single claim needs to be
dismissed,” Andrew Langan, BP’s lawyer, told U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  at yesterday’s hearing. Claims that have been
improperly filed or not yet presented to BP’s trust fund should
be dismissed, he said.  More than 4.1 million barrels of crude gushed into the  Gulf
of Mexico  after BP’s Macondo well blew out off the Louisiana
coast in April 2010. Thousands of coastal tourism businesses,
property owners, commercial fishing interests and seafood
processors have sued BP and its contractors in about 450
lawsuits, which are gathered for joint pretrial processing
before Barbier.  Earlier this year, BP and its contractors filed court
papers outlining positions they contend undercut the oil spill-
damages suits on legal grounds.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex- Nasdaq  Managing Director Johnson Admits to Insider Trading  Former Nasdaq Stock Market Managing Director Donald Johnson
pleaded guilty to using information gleaned from his position
with the exchange to engage in insider trading, the U.S. Justice
Department said.  Johnson, 56, pleaded guilty to one count of securities
fraud, according to papers filed in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia. He admitted he bought and sold shares of five Nasdaq-
listed companies based on inside information from 2006 to 2009.  He often made the trades from his work computer at Nasdaq,
according to a lawsuit filed at the same time in federal court
in Manhattan by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Mr. Johnson was a fox in a henhouse,” Assistant Attorney
General Lanny Breuer said yesterday in a statement. “Nasdaq-
listed companies entrusted him with their sensitive, nonpublic
information so that he could provide them with analyses about
their stock. He then used that very information to cheat the
system and make an illegal profit.”  Johnson, a former managing director at Nasdaq’s market
intelligence desk in New York, admitted making more than
$640,000 from the illegal trades. Among the shares he traded was
 United Therapeutics Corp. (UTHR)  based on inside information about test
results for the drug Viveta, now called Tyvaso, and about the
approval of the drug, prosecutors said.  “My client chose to accept responsibility today for his
actions,” Johnson’s lawyer, Jonathan Simms, said yesterday in a
phone interview. “Those who know Mr. Johnson will agree that
these charges are in no way indicative of his overall
character.”  Johnson faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison at
his sentencing, scheduled for Aug. 12. The plea deal didn’t
include an agreement on what sentence the government will ask
the judge to impose, Simms said.  “We’re fully cooperating with the authorities,” said
Frank De Maria, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, who declined to
comment further.  The case is U.S. v. Johnson, 11-254, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria.)  BofA,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Settle Claims on Military Foreclosures  Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley units will pay
$22.4 million to resolve U.S. allegations that they improperly
foreclosed on active-duty soldiers, including some who suffered
severe injuries, without first obtaining court orders.  The Bank of America unit will pay $20 million to settle a
lawsuit alleging improper foreclosure on about 160 members of
the military between 2006 and 2009, the Justice Department said
in a statement yesterday. Morgan Stanley’s Saxon Mortgage
Services Inc. unit will pay $2.35 million to resolve a lawsuit
alleging it improperly foreclosed on 17 service members from
2006 to 2009.  “The men and women who serve our nation in the armed
forces deserve, at the very least, to know that they will not
have their homes taken from them wrongfully while they are
bravely putting their lives on the line on behalf of their
country,” Thomas Perez, the assistant attorney general
overseeing the Justice Department’s civil rights division, said
in yesterday’s statement.  The foreclosures violated the Servicemembers Civil Relief
Act, which was enacted to shield deployed military personnel
from financial stress, according to the Justice Department.  “These errors are not acceptable, and we certainly regret
them,” Terry Laughlin, head of Bank of America’s unit managing
foreclosures and defaulted loans, said in an e-mail. “While
most cases involve loans originated by Countrywide and the
improper foreclosures were taken or started by Countrywide prior
to our acquisition, it is our responsibility to make things
right.”  Morgan Stanley apologizes to the military families affected
by the mistakes, Mark Lake, a spokesman for the New York-based
bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 