-- 
Sudan’s Seizure of Abyei Region Won’t Spark New War, Ex-U.S. Envoy Says

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-05-27T09:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/sudan-s-seizure-of-abyei-region-won-t-spark-new-war-ex-u-s-envoy-says.html
Sudan’s seizure of the disputed Abyei
region probably won’t spark a new civil war with the south and
was prompted by President Umar al-Bashir’s fears of a military
coup, analysts such as Andrew Natsios,  George W. Bush ’s former
envoy to Sudan, said.  “It is clear they are very worried about a coup,”
Natsios, who is a professor at  Georgetown University , said
yesterday in telephone interview from Washington. “They want
the guns of their own military pointing to somewhere else
besides Khartoum.”  Sudanese tanks entered  Abyei town  on May 21 after the
government said Southern Sudan’s forces attacked its troops two
days before while they were withdrawing from the region with a
United Nations convoy. The action sparked concern about a
resumption of a two-decade civil war that ended with a U.S.-
brokered peace accord in 2005.  Southern Sudanese President Salva Kiir said yesterday that
his government was committed to peace, as the oil-rich region
prepares for independence on July 9.  “We don’t really want to just accept the provocation and
then say that we are going to war,” Kiir said in Juba,  Southern
Sudan ’s capital. “No. You know we have fought enough.”  For al-Bashir, the Abyei action may help to shore up
support in his  National Congress Party  and the military, said
Fouad Hikmat, the special adviser on Sudan for the Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group .  Northern Divisions  “It could be a tactic to address the divisions in the north
where there is the possibility of a coup,” he said today by
phone from Nairobi,  Kenya ’s capital. “Maybe they want to create
a common enemy to consolidate national cohesion and mend the
cracks within the party.”  Al-Bashir fired his security adviser, Salah Gosh, last
month in a move that Hikmat said showed widening divisions in
Khartoum over the north’s future after Southern Sudan’s
independence, the  International Criminal Court ’s indictment of
al-Bashir for  war crimes  in the western region of Darfur and
whether to engage with opposition parties.  Abyei is contested between the region’s Ngok Dinka people,
who are settled in the area and consider themselves southerners,
and Misseriya nomads who herd their cattle south in the dry
season and are supported by the government in Khartoum.  The north’s troops will not withdraw until a new agreement
is reached with Southern Sudan that guarantees stability and
freedom of movement for all of Abyei’s citizens, Defense
Minister Abdelrahim Mohamed Hussein said May 23.  ‘Bargaining Tactic’  “Part of it is a bargaining tactic,”  Jon Temin , Sudan
program officer at the U.S. Institute of Peace, said yesterday
by phone from  Washington . “Part of it is a reflection of the
political situation in Khartoum and the pressures they are
under. Part of it is a need to please the Misseriya, which are a
very important group to the government in Khartoum.”  A referendum in Abyei scheduled for January on whether to
join the south or remain a special administrative region in the
north was canceled because of disagreements over who was
eligible to vote.  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in  The Hague , in a 2009
ruling, set Abyei’s borders to the area around Ngok Dinka
settlements. That largely excluded the Misseriya, who say that
as seasonal inhabitants of the area, they should also have the
right to vote.  Al-Bashir’s government feels it must support the Misseriya,
Hikmat said, because “they can’t afford now to be making new
enemies, when the NCP is very fragile. They have to stand by
them.”  Oil Fields  The court also set key oil fields run by the  Greater Nile
Petroleum Operating Co. , which is 40 percent owned by Beijing-
based  China National Petroleum Corp. , outside of the Abyei
region. Abyei produces less than 2,500 barrels a day, according
to Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  The occupation of Abyei town forced as many as 30,000
civilians to flee, the  UN Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs  said in a report yesterday.  Sudanese government forces are helping members of the
Misseriya ethnic group settle in the town, New York-based  Human
Rights Watch  said yesterday, citing unidentified UN officials.
Southern Sudan’s army spokesman, Philip Aguer, made the same
accusation in an interview two days ago. Sudan’s military
rejected the charge.  The UN Security Council has demanded an immediate
withdrawal of Sudan’s forces from Abyei. UN Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon has proposed the  establishment  of a 7,000-member
peacekeeping force in Southern Sudan after independence. The UN
currently has 10,000 blue helmets to monitor the peace accord.  Hardening Stance  Before Southern Sudanese voted for secession in a January
referendum, al-Bashir pledged to cooperate with the new state.
At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of about 75
percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels, the
third-biggest in sub-Saharan  Africa .  Since then, the fall of governments in  Egypt  and  Tunisia ,
disquiet within his own military and the fear that rising food
prices in northern  Sudan  will spark unrest have hardened al-
Bashir’s stance, Natsios said.  “They don’t want what happened in Egypt to happen in Sudan,
with the military seizing control,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 