-- 
Swiss Franc Rises to Record Amid Mounting European Debt Concern

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-27T15:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/swiss-franc-climbs-to-record-versus-euro-dollar-pound-on-debt-concern.html
The Swiss franc strengthened to an
all-time high against the euro and the dollar amid deepening
concern that the European sovereign-debt crisis will
deteriorate, spurring demand for a haven.  The franc, which also climbed to a record versus the pound,
stayed higher after a report showed the nation’s leading
economic indicator unexpectedly held at the highest level in
almost five years this month. Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said yesterday that the  International Monetary Fund 
may withhold aid for  Greece  next month as questions mount about
how the country can avoid default.  “The allure of the Swiss franc shines brightest,”  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed note today. “Uncertainty is still
high over whether Greece will acquire additional external
funding required.”  The franc strengthened 0.6 percent to 1.2165 per euro
before trading at 1.2176 as of 3:59 p.m. in London. It
appreciated as much as 1.4 percent to 85.33 centimes per dollar,
the strongest since at least 1971, and traded 0.8 percent higher
against the pound at 1.4088.  The Swiss currency rose 4.4 percent this year, making it
the best performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Parity with Euro  The franc may strengthen to parity with the euro in the
event that  Europe ’s debt crisis deepens, according to Standard
Bank Plc. It suggested the  Swiss National Bank  shouldn’t prevent
the currency’s appreciation because allowing it to advance will
have a similar effect to raising  interest rates ,  Steve Barrow ,
London-based head of research for Group-of-10 currencies, wrote
in a research note.  “Parity is certainly not out of the question if the euro-
zone debt crisis spirals out of control,” Barrow wrote. The SNB
“just has to accept that the franc is the first port of call
for investors escaping the turmoil of the euro-zone debt crisis.
To stand in the way of this is pretty futile.”  The KOF Swiss Economic Institute said today its leading
economic indicator was at 2.30, unchanged from April, which was
the highest since August 2006. Economists forecast a drop to
2.22, the median of nine estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed.
The gauge aims to predict the economy’s direction about six
months ahead.  Swiss Exports  Switzerland ’s economy is showing few signs of slowing down
as the lowest  unemployment rate  in more than two years bolsters
household demand and booming Asian markets fuel export growth.
 Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, last month forecast
profitability to improve in the second half and the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said on May 25 the
economy is showing a “strong recovery.”  The International Monetary Fund said yesterday that Swiss
gross domestic product may rise 2.4 percent this year and 1.8
percent in 2012, after increasing 2.6 percent in 2010. The Swiss
government will report first-quarter GDP on May 31.  The franc is considered a haven currency, along with the
dollar and the yen, even as their growth and fiscal outlooks
differ because Swiss, American and Japanese investors tend to
invest abroad and send money home during crises, according to
UBS AG.  The bank estimated that Swiss unit trusts have around 70
percent of their total assets in foreign investment, compared
with 45 percent among similar Japanese assets and around 25
percent for U.S. mutual funds. Financial funds in the euro
region have less than 20 percent of their assets in foreign
countries.  Swiss  government bonds  were little changed, with 10-year
note yield at 1.82 percent. Swiss securities handed investors a
1.7 percent gain this month, compared with a 1.6 percent return
from German debt and a loss of 1.7 percent from Greek bonds,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  