-- 
Syrian Forces Fire on Demonstrators at Anti-Government Rallies, Group Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-27T11:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/syrian-forces-fire-on-demonstrators-at-anti-government-rallies-group-says.html
Syrian security forces fired on anti-
government protesters in several cities, wounding several, as
they broke up rallies, a human rights group said.  Security forces shot at protesters in Deir-Al Azour, Homs
and the city of Zabadani, near the border with Lebanon, while
“violently” dispersing a rally in the Rukn al-Din neighborhood
of Damascus, said Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization
for Human Rights, in a phone interview from  Syria . At least five
people were injured in Zabadani and there were also casualties
in Deir Al-Zour, he said. Demonstrations were also under way in
Qamishli and the province of Idlib.  At least three protesters were killed late yesterday, as
opposition groups prepared for rallies that began today after
Friday prayers, according to Merhi. The protesters were killed
in the town of Dael, part of the Daraa governorate where
demonstrations against the government of President Bashar Al- Assad began in mid-March.  Syrian demonstrators called on the army to join the
protests after today’s prayers. Syria’s crackdown has killed at
least 1,100 people, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi, head of
Syria’s National Organization for Human Rights.  Syrian opposition groups and activists will hold a
conference in Turkey May 31 in support of the protesters
demanding political reform, Qurabi said in an interview
yesterday. The three-day event in the Mediterranean city of
Antalya will bring together more than 200 people, he said.  Communications Disrupted  Security forces continued to make arrests and checkpoints
were set up in the Damascus suburbs of Douma and Harasta and at
flashpoints such as Daraa and Homs, Merhi said. Land-line
telephone connections in Douma and Harasta were cut and mobile
communications disrupted, he said. Shibli al-Ayssami, a leading
Syrian opposition figure, and his wife went missing this week in
Lebanon, Qurabi said.  The European Union announced sanctions on Syria May 23
aimed at “the highest level of leadership,” as well as a
review of aid programs. The U.S. froze the assets of Assad and
top officials. President  Barack Obama  last week urged Assad to
stop the killing and lead a peaceful transition to democracy or
“get out of the way.”  The government has blamed the unrest on Islamic militants
and “terrorist elements” seeking to destabilize the country.
Assad initially promised reforms in response to the protests,
which followed popular uprisings that ousted rulers in Tunisia
and  Egypt , though those pledges haven’t been repeated in recent
weeks as security forces stepped up their crackdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 