-- 
U.K. Author Loses Singapore Appeal as Court Upholds Six-Week Jail Sentence

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-05-27T02:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/u-k-author-loses-singapore-appeal.html
British author Alan Shadrake, found
guilty of contempt of court for a book that criticized
 Singapore ’s justice system, had his six-week jail sentence
upheld by an appeals court.  It was the “worst” case of contempt to come before the
Singapore courts, Judge Andrew Phang said in delivering the
ruling today.  Shadrake wrote the book, “Once a Jolly Hangman:
Singapore’s Justice in the Dock,” which accused Singapore’s
courts of succumbing to political influence and favoring the
rich over the poor. The book contained “half-truths and
selective facts; sometimes even outright falsehoods,” Singapore
High Court Judge Quentin Loh said in his Nov. 3 verdict.  “I’m not sorry for myself or for writing the book at
all,” Shadrake, who turns 77 on Aug. 14, said after today’s
hearing.  Loh had also fined the writer S$20,000 ($16,000) and
ordered him to pay S$55,000 in costs to the prosecution, who had
sought a jail term of at least 12 weeks.  Shadrake said he can’t pay the fine and will serve an
additional two weeks in jail instead.  “If I’m a good boy, I’ll be in remission and out in five
weeks,” he said. Shadrake will begin serving the jail term June
1, the same day the second edition of his book is scheduled to
go on sale in the U.K.  The three judge appeal panel found two of the 11 statements
originally found to be contemptuous by Loh didn’t scandalize the
judiciary.  Shadrake, who was based in  Malaysia , was arrested in his
hotel room in Singapore after the July release of the book.  The appeal court ruling “is a major setback for free
expression in Singapore,” the group  Human Rights Watch  said in
a statement today.  The case is Alan Shadrake v Attorney-General CA212/2010 in
the Singapore Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  