-- 
U.K. Nationwide House Prices Rose in May as Economy Recovered

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-27T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/u-k-nationwide-house-prices-rose-in-may-as-economy-recovered.html
U.K.  house prices  rose in May as
economic growth resumed, according to  Nationwide Building
Society , which said further gains will be limited by a slow pace
of recovery.  The average cost of a home increased 0.3 percent to 167,208
pounds ($273,700) after a 0.2 percent drop the previous month.
Britain’s biggest customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed
report today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
eight economists was a 0.1 percent gain. Prices fell 1.2 percent
on the year.  Consumer confidence  jumped the most in 18 years in May, a
separate report today showed, after the economy expanded 0.5
percent in the first quarter. Still, the recovery in the
 property market  has struggled to gain momentum amid a squeeze on
household finances from accelerating inflation.  Consumer
spending  dropped 0.6 percent in the first three months of 2011,
the most in almost two years.  “While the outlook remains uncertain, sideways still
appears the most likely trajectory for house prices over the
remainder of the year,”  Robert Gardner , chief economist at
Swindon, England-based Nationwide, said in the report. The
deterioration in consumer spending “argues against a strong
bounce in property prices.”  A GfK NOP Ltd. index of sentiment rose 10 points from April
to minus 21, the highest in five months, the London-based
research group said in a report today. The jump may be partly
due to a “feel-good factor” following two consecutive four-day
holiday weekends at the end of April to mark Easter and the
wedding of  Prince William  and  Kate Middleton .  Britons are under pressure from an inflation rate that
reached 4.5 percent in April as energy costs soared and  sales
tax  rose. The  Bank of England  held its key interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month to support the recovery.  A squeeze on lending is also restraining a rebound in
property prices. Mortgage approvals fell to 29,355 in April from
31,205 in March, the London-based  British Bankers Association 
said May 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  