-- 
U.K. Stocks Rally for a Fourth Day as Mining, Bank Shares Climb

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-27T16:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/u-k-stocks-rally-for-a-fourth-day-as-mining-bank-shares-climb.html
U.K. stocks climbed for a fourth day,
led by a rally in mining companies and banks amid signs that
Chinese demand for copper is picking up and as Citigroup Inc.
upgraded European lenders.  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  and Rio Tinto Group all rose
at least 2 percent as copper premiums in  China , the world’s
largest user, rose to a seven-month high.  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  both rallied more than
2 percent. Burberry Plc gained 2.4 percent amid a report the
retailer is planning to list in  Hong Kong .  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 1 percent to 5,938.87 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London  for the longest stretch of gains since
March. Even so, the benchmark measure fell 0.2 percent this
week. The gauge has lost 2.2 percent so far this month amid a
commodity slump and concern Europe’s debt crisis will derail the
economic recovery. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  gained 1 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index increased 1.4 percent.  “There was more conviction about investors today and this
has pushed the FTSE 100 out to its best levels for the week,”
said Yusuf Heusen, senior sales trader at IG Index in London.
“Analyst upgrades for the banking sector have lifted the likes
of Lloyds and RBS.”  Xstrata, the world’s fourth-largest copper producer, gained
2 percent to 1,423.5 pence, Antofagasta, which owns copper mines
in Chile, increased 4.3 percent to 1,312 pence and Rio Tinto,
the world’s third-largest mining company, advanced 2.9 percent
to 4,267 pence.  Copper Rises  Copper rebounded in London, advancing as much as 2.4
percent to $9,238 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.
Premiums paid by Chinese importers over the London cash price
are being quoted as high as $120 a metric ton, said Zhang Yu, an
analyst at Yong’an Futures Co. The rise in premiums shows that
the market is tightening as demand improves.  Lloyds jumped 2.8 percent to 52.8 pence, RBS rallied 3.4
percent to 42.2 pence and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  climbed 1.5 percent to
275.3 pence.  Citigroup raised its recommendation for European banks to
“overweight,” citing the drop in share prices over the last
three months as an opportunity to increase holdings in
“stronger” firms. Analysts at Societe Generale SA said in a
report yesterday that U.K. banks were in “better shape than you
think.”  Basel III  Separately, the Financial Times reported that banks in the
European Union could avoid part of the globally agreed new Basel
III capital requirements under draft EU legislation implementing
the standards. The newspaper cited unnamed people who have seen
the draft.  Burberry advanced 2.4 percent to 1,290 pence, recouping
part of yesterday’s 4.6 percent selloff. The Hong Kong Economic
Journal today reported that the luxury retailer plans to list in
Hong Kong to increase its presence in Asia, without saying where
it got the information. A spokesperson for Burberry declined to
comment, the Chinese-language newspaper said, without
identifying them.  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  surged 5.3 percent to 451.3 pence after
analysts at Deutsche Bank AG reiterated their “buy”
recommendation saying they see 25 percent upside potential in
the stock.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  jumped 3.1 percent to 361 pence as Europe’s
second-biggest discount airline was raised to “buy” from
“hold” at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  rallied 3.4 percent to 253.3 pence after the
world’s largest publicly traded hedge fund manager was also
upgraded to “buy” from “hold” by the brokerage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  