-- 
China’s Progress on Letting Yuan Rise ‘Insufficient,’ U.S. Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-27T23:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/u-s-treasury-declines-to-name-china-a-currency-manipulator-in-report.html
The Obama administration declined to
brand  China  a currency manipulator while saying the world’s
fastest-growing economy is making “insufficient” progress on
letting the yuan rise.  The U.S. “believes that progress thus far is insufficient
and that more rapid progress is needed,” the Treasury
Department said yesterday in a report to Congress on foreign-
exchange markets. The yuan’s real exchange rate remains
“substantially undervalued” and the department “will continue
to closely monitor the pace” of appreciation.  The report, originally due in April, follows Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s push for a stronger yuan.
Lawmakers including Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat,
say the exchange rate gives China an unfair advantage in the
global marketplace. In talks this month between the world’s two
largest economies, China agreed on the upward direction of the
currency, while differing with the U.S. on the pace.  “We have differences on the degree of appreciation,”
Deputy Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said May 10 in Washington.
 China’s economy  will expand 9.6 percent in 2011 and 9.5 percent
next year, according to International Monetary Fund projections
released last month.  The Treasury Department backed away from the “nuclear
option” of calling China a currency manipulator, said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in New York. The Group of 20 nations are “going to
have something to say on the global imbalances later this year,
so it is better to decide these matters in a world forum rather
than for the U.S. to take unilateral action.”  Congressional Criticism  Rupkey said in e-mailed comments that the “late afternoon
release before Memorial Day weekend appears well-timed in order
to miss congressional criticism. Nice timing, as a war of words
helps no one.” The report was released at 4 p.m. yesterday.  The Treasury said “no major trading partner” of the U.S.
met the legal standard of improperly manipulating its currency.
“ Exchange-rate  flexibility must play an important role in
rebalancing China’s economy towards domestic demand-led
growth,” the department said.  China has allowed the yuan to appreciate by 5.1 percent
against the dollar from June 2010 through the end of April 2011,
or at a rate of about 6 percent per year in nominal terms, the
Treasury said. Since inflation in China is higher than it is in
the U.S., the yuan has been rising against the dollar at an
annual rate of about 9 percent on a real, inflation-adjusted
basis.  Yuan’s Increase  By acknowledging the yuan’s increase since last year while
criticizing the “limited progress,” the U.S. “once again
takes a calibrated approach to Chinese currency policy,”  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington  and a former IMF official, said in an e-mail.  The yuan completed its second consecutive weekly gain on
speculation that policy makers will tolerate appreciation to
tame inflation. The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s
reference rate 0.04 percent stronger at 6.4898 per dollar
yesterday, the highest level since July 2005.  The yuan strengthened 0.02 percent this week to 6.4917 per
dollar as of the 4:30 p.m. close in  Shanghai , according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It was little changed
yesterday and touched 6.4858 on May 26, the strongest level
since 1993. The yuan isn’t allowed to move more than 0.5 percent
either side of the central bank’s daily fixing.  Hampers Progress  “China’s consistent, large reserve accumulation prolongs a
substantial undervaluation and hampers progress toward global
rebalancing,” the Treasury said. “It is in China’s interest to
allow the nominal exchange rate to appreciate more rapidly, both
against the dollar and against the currencies of its other major
trading partners.”  China purchases foreign currencies to suppress the value of
the yuan. It accumulated $3.04 trillion of foreign-currency
reserves as of March, an increase of 24 percent over a year
earlier. Its reserves are the world’s largest, accounting for 31
percent of the total.  The Treasury “continues to make the right call on China’s
currency policy,” Erin Ennis, vice president of the U.S.-China
Business Council, said in a statement yesterday. The council
thinks the Obama administration “approach of employing
multilateral and bilateral engagement with China is the most
useful way to make progress on the exchange-rate issue.”  Stronger Yuan  The council’s members as of April 21 included  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ;
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ;  Citigroup Inc. (C) ;  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ; and
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, according to the
group’s website.  The Treasury reiterated its view that a stronger yuan would
help China contain inflation. Consumer prices in China rose a
more-than-estimated 5.3 percent in April from a year earlier.  If China fails to let its currency rise, it faces the risk
of higher inflation, an “excessively rapid expansion of
domestic credit, and upward pressure on property and equity
prices, all of which could threaten future economic growth,”
according to the report.  “China’s real effective exchange rate -- a measure of its
overall cost-competitiveness relative to its trading partners --
has appreciated only modestly over the past decade,” the
Treasury said.  The report was due on April 15. The previous report, due on
Oct. 15, 2010, was released on Feb. 4.  International Meetings  In delaying the April report, the Treasury on April 8 cited
a series of coming international meetings. In addition to the
U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue, the delay also
encompassed meetings of Group of 20 finance ministers, the  World
Bank  and the IMF.  In February, the Obama administration also declined to
brand China a currency manipulator while saying the No. 2 U.S.
trading partner made “insufficient” progress on allowing the
yuan to rise.  The Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers have said
China’s currency policy gives the nation’s exporters an unfair
competitive advantage. U.S. concerns have grown as China’s
rising economic power put the economic relationship off balance.  Schumer and Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat,
called May 6 for a “rebalancing” in the U.S.-China economic
relationship. The two lawmakers, who had just returned from a
trip to China, said the Chinese need to open their financial
sector, address “abnormally low deposit and lending rates” and
allow broader  market access  to foreign firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  