-- 
U.S. Doesn’t Name China a Currency Manipulator

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-27T21:26:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/u-s-treasury-doesn-t-name-china-a-currency-manipulator-as-yuan-rise-urged.html
The U.S. said  China  has made
“insufficient” progress on letting the yuan rise and urged
quicker appreciation, without branding the world’s fastest-
growing major economy a currency manipulator.  The U.S. “believes that progress thus far is insufficient
and that more rapid progress is needed,” the Treasury
Department said today in a report to Congress on foreign-
exchange markets. The yuan’s real exchange rate remains
“substantially undervalued” and the department “will continue
to closely monitor the pace” of appreciation.  The report, originally due in April, follows Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s push for a stronger yuan, which
lawmakers say would boost American competitiveness and job
growth. In two days of talks earlier this month between the
world’s two largest economies, Chinese officials agreed on the
upward direction of their currency, while differing with the
U.S. on the pace.  “We have differences on the degree of appreciation,”
Deputy Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said May 10 in  Washington .
China’s economy will expand 9.6 percent in 2011 and 9.5 percent
next year, according to  International Monetary Fund  projections
released last month.  The Treasury Department backed away from the “nuclear
option” of calling China a currency manipulator, said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in  New York . The Group of 20 nations “is going to have
something to say on the global imbalances later this year, so it
is better to decide these matters in a world forum rather than
for the U.S. to take unilateral action.”  Congressional Criticism  Rupkey said in e-mailed comments the “late afternoon
release before Memorial Day weekend appears well timed in order
to miss congressional criticism. Nice timing, as a war of words
helps no one.” The report was released at 4 p.m.  Today’s report said “no major trading partner” of the
U.S. met the legal standard of improperly manipulating its
currency. “Exchange-rate flexibility must play an important
role in rebalancing  China’s economy  towards domestic demand-led
growth,” the Treasury said.  China has allowed the yuan to appreciate by 5.1 percent
against the dollar from June 2010 through the end of April 2011,
or at a rate of about 6 percent per year in nominal terms, the
Treasury said in the report. Since inflation in China is higher
than it is in the U.S., the yuan has been rising against the
dollar at an annual rate of about 9 percent on a real,
inflation-adjusted basis.  Appreciation Speculation  The yuan completed its second consecutive weekly gain on
speculation policy makers will tolerate appreciation to tame
inflation. The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s
reference rate 0.04 percent stronger at 6.4898 per dollar today,
the highest level since July 2005.  The yuan strengthened 0.02 percent this week to 6.4917 per
dollar as of the 4:30 p.m. close in  Shanghai , according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It was little changed today
and touched 6.4858 yesterday, the strongest level since 1993.
The yuan isn’t allowed to move more than 0.5 percent either side
of the central bank’s daily fixing.  Hampers Progress  “China’s consistent, large reserve accumulation prolongs a
substantial undervaluation and hampers progress toward global
rebalancing,” the Treasury said. “It is in China’s interest to
allow the nominal  exchange rate  to appreciate more rapidly, both
against the dollar and against the currencies of its other major
trading partners.”  China purchases foreign currencies to suppress the value of
the yuan. It accumulated $3.04 trillion of foreign-currency
reserves as of March, an increase of 24 percent over a year
earlier. Its reserves are the world’s largest, accounting for 31
percent of the total.  If China fails to let its currency rise, it faces the risk
of higher inflation, an “excessively rapid expansion of
domestic credit, and upward pressure on property and equity
prices, all of which could threaten future economic growth,”
according to the report.  “China’s real effective exchange rate -- a measure of its
overall cost-competitiveness relative to its trading partners --
has appreciated only modestly over the past decade,” the
Treasury said.  The report was due on April 15. The previous report, due on
Oct. 15, 2010, was released on Feb. 4.  Delayed Report  In delaying the April report, the Treasury on April 8 cited
a series of coming international meetings. In addition to the
U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue, the delay also
encompassed meetings of Group of 20 finance ministers, the  World
Bank  and the International Monetary Fund.  In February, the Obama administration also declined to
brand China a currency manipulator while saying the No. 2 U.S.
trading partner made “insufficient” progress on allowing the
yuan to rise.  The Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers have said
China’s currency policy gives the nation’s exporters an unfair
competitive advantage. U.S. concerns have grown as China’s
rising economic power put the economic relationship off balance.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  