-- 
Treasuries Advance for Second Week on Europe’s Debt, Sluggish U.S. Growth

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-05-27T18:20:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/u-s-10-year-yields-rise-from-2011-lows-linked-to-europe-sluggish-growth.html
Treasuries gained for a second week
as the debt crisis in  Europe  and signs of slowing growth in the
world’s largest economy increased demand for the relative safety
of government debt.  U.S. 10-year notes pared earlier losses after the number of
Americans signing contracts to buy previously owned homes
plunged more than forecast in April, a sign the industry that
triggered the recession continues to struggle. The government’s
sale of seven-year notes yesterday attracted the strongest
demand on record, a day after the two-year auction drew the
highest investor interest in almost 17 years.  “The economy remains tepid, growth is tepid, which in the
mindset of the marketplace pushes the  Federal Reserve  on hold
probably longer,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury
trading in  New York  at Bank of Nova Scotia.  Ten-year yields rose two basis points to 3.07 percent as of
2:03 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 3.125 percent note due May 2021 traded at 100 14/32.  The yields, which fell eight basis points this week,
dropped to 3.04 percent earlier today, the lowest since Dec. 7.
The 10-year yield will advance to 3.84 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  Early Close  Trading  of Treasuries was scheduled to end at 2 p.m. in New
York today and stay closed on May 30 for Memorial Day.  Treasuries have returned 1.46 percent in May, heading for
the best month since August, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. They rose 1.15 percent in April and have
returned 2.49 percent so far this year.  “You can’t rule out a further leg down in yields, but
ultimately Treasuries are coming towards the end of their recent
rally,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA
Capital Ltd. in Edinburgh. “The soft patch in the  U.S. economy 
is going to be short-lived.”  The index of pending home resales declined 12 percent after
a revised 3.5 percent increase the prior month, the National
Association of Realtors said today in Washington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 1 percent
decline.  Sector Woes  “Pending homes sales is big problem,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  at Salem, Massachusetts-
based Cabot Money Management, which oversees $500 million. “If
you look at the economy and the structural unemployment, such a
large portion of it is related to housing markets.”  Consumer purchases rose 0.4 percent after a revised 0.5
percent gain the prior month that was smaller than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The increase compared with the 0.5 percent median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Incomes
climbed 0.4 percent, matching the median forecast.  The Fed’s target rate for overnight lending between banks
will rise to 0.5 percent by the first quarter of 2012, according
to median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
central bank has kept its target rate at zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  European confidence in the economic outlook weakened for a
third straight month in May as the region’s worsening debt
crisis and surging commodity costs clouded growth prospects. An
index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-member euro
region slipped to 105.5 from 106.1 in April, the European
Commission in Brussels said today.  Greek Efforts  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  failed to secure
support from the country’s main opposition parties for new
austerity measures, threatening his efforts to keep bailout
funds flowing and avoid default.  Group of Eight leaders said a strengthening global economy
will pave the way to cuts in the debt built up during the
recession that followed the 2008 financial crisis.  Europe vowed to fight its fiscal woes with
“determination,” while President  Barack Obama  promised a
“clear and credible” U.S. deficit-reduction strategy.  Japan 
was allowed to put off savings measures until its economy
rebounds from the March earthquake and tsunami.  “The global recovery is gaining strength and is becoming
more self-sustained,” according to a statement after a two-day
summit in Deauville,  France . Without mapping out binding
targets, the leaders pledged to “remain focused on the action
required to enhance the sustainability of public finances.”  At yesterday’s seven-year note auction, the securities drew
a yield of 2.429 percent, compared with the average forecast of
2.448 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of nine primary
dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with amount of securities offered, was
3.24, the highest level since February 2009, the beginning of
records on the data for this maturity.  The government’s $35 billion auction of five-year
securities May 25 drew the highest bid-to-cover ratio since
1994, while demand at the sale of the same amount of two-year
debt on May 24 was the strongest since January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  