-- 
U.S. Oil Demand to Lift Tanker Rates in June, Fearnley Says

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-05-27T15:23:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/u-s-oil-demand-to-lift-tanker-rates-in-june-fearnley-says-1-.html
Strengthening U.S. demand for Middle
East oil will buoy charter rates for supertankers next month as
it causes ships to sail on longer journeys than normal, Fearnley
Consultants A/S analyst Sverre Bjorn Svenning said.  Freight costs for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on
the industry’s benchmark trade route to  Japan  from  Saudi Arabia 
fell 0.2 percent today after gaining for a seventh straight day
yesterday, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London, the
longest run of gains since March. Extra cargo to the U.S. would
tie up ships for longer durations, limiting supply in the
 Persian Gulf , the world’s largest loading region.  “We understand the Americans have been much more active
buying oil in the Middle East Gulf,” Oslo-based Svenning said
by phone today, declining to forecast the scale of the gain in
shipping costs. Fearnley Consultants is part of Astrup Fearnley,
a shipbroking, investment banking and consultancy group. “The
number of vessels available for letting is declining.”  Shipping billionaire  John Fredriksen , chairman of Frontline
Ltd., the world’s largest supertanker operator, said May 25
tanker prices would “crash” within two years, at which point
he would start buying vessels. Tor Olav Troeim, an alternate
director at Frontline, said the slump could last five years.  U.S. demand for Middle East oil may be strengthening
because of reduced output from  Libya , according to Svenning.
That is prompting European refineries to buy up more Black Sea
oil that would normally go to the U.S., which in turn is forcing
U.S. refineries to buy from Middle East suppliers, he said.  19,700-Mile Voyage  Deliveries to the U.S. from Saudi Arabia entail a 19,700-
mile round voyage, 49 percent more than for cargoes to Japan,
according to data from the  e-ships.net  website. Shipping
analysts measure demand on a ton-mile basis, multiplying cargoes
by distance travelled to supply them.  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including from
Oman and Yemen, which aren’t members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, will be 2 percent higher at 17.79
million barrels a day in the four weeks to June 11, Halifax,
England-based consultancy Oil Movements said in a report
yesterday. Demand from the U.S. is strengthening, it said.  The global tanker fleet will expand 7.4 percent this year,
compared with 3.2 percent growth in demand, according to the
research unit of  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Returns from the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route have climbed
22 percent over the past week to $7,499 a day, according to the
Baltic Exchange. That’s less than the $12,777 that London-based
Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. estimates the ships need to pay
crew, insurance, repairs and other running costs.  Slower Sailing  Charter costs as measured in industry standard Worldscale
terms slid 0.2 percent to 52.21 points today, ending a seven-day
gain, according to the Baltic Exchange. Forward freight
agreements, contracts betting what that price will be in the
future, traded at 60.5 points for June, according to data from
Oslo-based derivatives broker  Imarex ASA. (IMAREX)   Strengthening demand and slower sailing speeds have
combined to reduce vessel supply, said Ben Goggin, a freight
derivatives broker at SSY Futures Ltd.  “In the past when it’s been tight like this, the market
has really gone for it,” he said. “If owners really make the
most of it, I believe it could go toward Worldscale 70.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  