-- 
Uribe ‘Very Satisfied´ With Effect of Colombia Dollar Buying

-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-05-27T18:52:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/uribe-very-satisfied-with-effect-of-colombia-dollar-purchases-on-peso.html
Colombia’s central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said he´s “very satisfied´´ with the effect of the
bank´s dollar-buying program and that  capital controls  aren´t
needed now to ease gains by the country’s currency.  The peso surged 1 percent against the dollar today, its
biggest one-day gain in eight weeks to close at 1807.64 per
dollar from 1826.10 yesterday.  Uribe, who spoke in an interview at an International
Monetary Fund-sponsored event in  Rio de Janeiro , said the bank
plans to buy “at least” $20 million daily through June 17. He
declined to say whether policy makers will extend the program at
its board meeting next week.  “Our view is totally pragmatic,” said Uribe, 52. “It´s
not ideological.” Since the bank began its dollar purchases on
Sept. 15, the peso has weakened less than 0.1 percent from
1807.28 per dollar.  While seeking to keep consumer prices in check, Uribe and
his six colleagues on the bank’s  board  have sought to rein in a
currency that has gained 22 percent in the last two years,
hurting exporters and job growth. The costs of imposing controls
on investment inflows outweigh the benefits for  Colombia  at the
moment, though conditions may change in the future, Uribe said.  Higher dollar inflows from rising foreign direct investment
have contributed to the stronger peso, as well as Colombia’s
higher interest rates than those available in developed markets
such as the U.S. or  Japan .  ‘Increasingly Attractive’  Helping moderate the impact on the peso of about $2 billion
a year in portfolio inflows is the fact that Colombians are
increasingly investing abroad, Uribe said.      Local pension funds
have room to boost investment abroad before running into caps on
overseas buying of securities, he said.  While foreign investment  inflows  will remain strong in
coming years, most of it is helping to stimulate long-term
growth, Uribe said. For every dollar of portfolio investment,
the country receives between $4 and $5 of foreign direct
investment, he said.  Foreign direct  investment  rose to $3.23 billion in the year
through March, with 86 percent going into oil and mining,
according to trade balance figures from the central bank. That
compares to $2.17 billion in the first three months of 2010.  “Colombia is an increasingly attractive investment
destination for both foreigners and Colombia and is going to
remain attractive for several reasons,” Uribe said. “But that
doesn´t mean these capital flows are a reason for concern.´´  Controls, Measures  In 2007, the bank implemented controls as a complementary
tool to stem a boom in credit that saw lending to consumers
increase as much as 50 percent. Right now,  consumer credit  is
growing around 18 percent, Uribe said, adding that the bank
doesn´t target a specific rate of growth.  Capital controls like ones implemented in  Brazil  aren´t
needed now, though policy makers may consider using them if
conditions change, he said.  One potential cost of capital controls, as evidenced in the
case of  Chile  in the 1990s, is a crowding out of small and
medium-size businesses as larger borrowers who can access credit
overseas are forced to turn to domestic sources of financing, he
said.  Among other government measures aimed at weakening the
peso, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry reduced incentives
to take overseas loans and delayed bringing in dividends held
overseas from state oil company Ecopetrol SA.  Last month, Echeverry announced the creation of an overseas
fund with as much as $1.2 billion from dollars bought in the
local  spot market  through the end of 2011. The government would
forgo repatriating funds from abroad for the rest of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  