-- 
Vietnam Restricting Imports Amid Trade Imbalance, AmCham Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-27T09:41:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/vietnam-restricting-imports-amid-trade-imbalance-amcham-says.html
     May 27 (Bloomberg) - Vietnamese import controls on alcohol,
cosmetics and mobile phones are aimed at restricting trade
rather than stopping unlawful commerce, the  American Chamber of
Commerce in Vietnam  said.  The steps are “thinly disguised measures to restrict
trade, rather than a crackdown of illegal trade,” it said in a
statement today. “A balance of trade issue is not a valid reason
for import controls.”  The government acted “because those ports have the
facilities for quality checks,” Nguyen Cam Tu, deputy minister
of industry and trade, told delegates in response to the
comments from AmCham and other business groups at a forum in
Hanoi. “With time, we will try to expand to meet demand for the
imports of those goods.”  Vietnam  said this month it will restrict imports of the
product groups to three sea ports beginning June 1 to prevent
counterfeit and low-quality goods coming into the country. The
nation’s trade deficit widened to $1.7 billion in May, compared
with a revised $1.49 billion in April, adding pressure to curb
purchases from abroad.  Vietnam devalued the dong for the fourth time in 15 months
on Feb. 11, by about 7 percent, to try and curb the trade
deficit. The VN Index on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange has
tumbled about 15 percent this year, the biggest fall in  Asia , as
the central bank raised  interest rates  to curb accelerating
inflation.  --Nick Heath and Diep Ngoc Pham. With assistance from Jason
Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Sunil Jagtiani, Cherian Thomas  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Nicholas Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net . 