-- 
What Does Mladic’s Capture Say About Qaddafi’s Fate?: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-05-27T00:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/what-does-mladic-s-capture-say-about-qaddafi-s-fate-view.html
The story of the capture outside
Belgrade yesterday of General Ratko Mladic, the Serbian military
commander responsible for the 1995 mass murder of 8,000 men and
boys near the Bosnian town of Srebrenica, holds lessons for the
world as it grapples with how to bring peace and justice to
Libya.  Announcing the arrest, Serb officials said Mladic will soon
be extradited to the  International Criminal Tribunal  for the
former  Yugoslavia  in The Hague. The  United Nations  has referred
the case of Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  to the  International
Criminal Court , also in The Hague, on charges of killing
civilians.  The U.S. supported the criminal referral on Qaddafi. The
potential downside of this action is that by threatening to make
Qaddafi an international outlaw -- prosecutors in The Hague have
yet to indict him --  Washington  has likely rendered a diplomatic
solution to the war in Libya impossible.  Why would Qaddafi give up power and seek exile abroad if he
thinks he would be sent to the International Criminal Court?
This conundrum has left diplomats in the absurd situation of
scouring  Africa  for a country that might take the Libyan leader
but not send him to The Hague.  In the case of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia,
Mladic and other Bosnian Serb strongmen were similarly referred
to the International War Crimes Tribunal while the conflict was
still going on. Arguably, that gave them additional cause to
keep fighting rather than negotiate. In the end, peace was
achieved only because the NATO allies used sufficient force to
induce Belgrade to accept peace terms.  Justice Through Diplomacy  Justice came more slowly, but subsequent diplomacy has
delivered it, too. Mladic was the last of those wanted for war
crimes in Bosnia. His patron,  Slobodan Milosevic , former
president of  Serbia , was sent to the tribunal in 2001 and died
in jail five years later. Mladic’s civilian counterpart, former
Bosnian Serb President Radovan Karadzic, is now at The Hague
facing charges of genocide,  war crimes  and crimes against
humanity for his role in the campaign of ethnic cleansing
against Bosnian Muslims from 1992 to 1995.  In the mid-1990s, few thought these war crimes trials would
ever happen. But American and European leaders remained
committed not only to achieving peace in Bosnia, but to
upholding international humanitarian law.  It was Western pressure on Serbia’s government, especially
the consistent message from the European Union that the capture
of Mladic was a necessary condition for Serbia to join the EU,
that persuaded Belgrade to finally move against the general.
After allowing him to live sometimes openly in Serbia for the
past 15 years, the Belgrade government has at last put its
people’s future prosperity first.  Libya ’s story may not end so well. Putting Qaddafi on
notice that he may be prosecuted in an international tribunal
may turn out to be self-defeating unless the U.S. and NATO are
truly determined to remove him from power. So far, they have
shown no such resolve. Thus, the possibility remains that
Libyans seeking change in their country may find neither peace
nor justice.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net  