-- 
Why Obama Should Fight Hard for Elizabeth Warren: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-05-27T00:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/why-obama-should-fight-hard-for-elizabeth-warren-jonathan-alter.html
I went to Room 2247 of the Rayburn
House Office Building on May 24 expecting aggressive Republican
questioning of  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard Law professor now
at work establishing the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. I
didn’t expect an attempted mugging.  The occasion was a House committee hearing called to
establish Warren’s fitness for leading the bureau.  When Warren, no shrinking violet, had the temerity to
remind the chairman, Representative Patrick McHenry, that she
and the committee had agreed beforehand that she would leave at
2:30 p.m. for another appointment, McHenry replied: "You’re
making this up."  The audience gasped. It was the second time that day that
McHenry had called Warren a liar.  The Republican strategy, it seems, is to pile the dung heap
so high on Warren that it forces President  Barack Obama  to
conclude that she’s too polarizing a figure to run the bureau
she’s creating.  For the president to succumb to such character
assassination would both harm the agency he hopes to make part
of his legacy and send a terrible message of political weakness.
Instead, "No Drama Obama" needs to embrace this Elizabethan
drama, and use it to his advantage.  Re-election Chances  Getting in touch with his inner  Theodore Roosevelt  -- the
impulse that in 2009 led him to push for comprehensive health-
care reform over the objections of most of his senior advisers -
- would be good for average Americans, good for his conception
of the proper role of government and, not incidentally, good for
his re-election chances.  I know Elizabeth Warren and think she’s an exceptionally
able public servant in the old-fashioned meaning of that term.
(Full disclosure: My family was involved in inviting her to
 Chicago  to speak earlier this year for no fee.) But the stakes
here go far beyond her personally.  Most Republican lawmakers don’t seem to believe the
government has a role to play in protecting the middle class
against what Warren calls the "tricks and traps" used for years
by big banks and credit-card companies to hornswoggle consumers.  As Warren points out, well-functioning markets and fair
competition depend on transparency. Otherwise big banks with big
marketing budgets have an unfair advantage over community banks.
That’s why many of the latter have no problem with Warren once
they hear her out.  Her new draft rules on mortgages, approved by everyone from
the  American Enterprise Institute  to the  American Bankers
Association , would make it cheaper and less complicated for
small banks to do business. Roger M. Beverage, the chief
executive officer of the Oklahoma Bankers Association, says he
originally thought Warren was "a vision of the Antichrist." But
this week he joined Democrats in urging her appointment.  An Old Fight  This is an old fight about how far the government should go
in protecting Americans from the excesses of capitalism. Can
anyone doubt that if Warren’s critics had been alive a century
ago, they would have opposed the creation of the  Food and Drug
Administration ? The same folks who thought that David Kessler
(President George H. W. Bush’s FDA chief) was out of line in
mandating content labels on food believe Warren is overreaching
in requiring that the terms of mortgages, credit cards and bank
accounts be written in plain English instead of buried in fine
print that even experts cannot decipher.  Fortunately for Warren, Republicans are now overreaching in
trying to kill the consumer bureau, just as they did on
Medicare. On May 5, 44 Senate Republicans sent a letter to the
president saying that neither Warren nor anyone else would be
confirmed to run the agency unless the president rewrote the
Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law that he fought so hard to
enact last year.  The Republicans’ proposed "reform" of the Dodd-Frank Act
includes shifting the funding of the consumer bureau from the
 Federal Reserve  to congressional appropriators who can be
counted on to starve the agency out of existence.  Recess Appointment  This attempted legislative blackmail -- no Senate
confirmation of any director unless the bureau is gutted --
might impress the financial services industry, which spends $1.4
million a day on lobbying, but it effectively gives Obama no
option other than a recess appointment.  That’s a dodgy constitutional prerogative under which,
during a Congressional recess, presidents can unilaterally fill
executive-branch vacancies. I hear that at first the president
figured he might as well use the Fourth of July recess to
appoint Warren, as Republicans had said they would block anyone
he named anyway.  Red Flags  Then cautious advisers started raising red flags. Many
would prefer that Warren, a Massachusetts resident, run for the
Senate seat held by  Scott Brown ; her popularity would give her
the best chance of any potential candidate to win back the seat
for the Democrats. But Warren’s preference is to lead the bureau
that Obama asked her to set up.  The skittishness among administration aides is also a
reflection of a larger discomfort with big egos they can’t
control. It’s why the late  Richard Holbrooke , the most talented
diplomat of his generation, almost got fired for having too high
a profile. That’s a major weakness of this White House. If
 Richard Nixon  could handle  Henry Kissinger , Obama should be able
to handle an outsize personality like Warren.  Some Democrats are also nervous that Warren threatens the
very financial interests that Obama needs to fund his campaign
in 2012. And some feel that although Warren is a great
communicator she doesn’t cheer-lead enough for the White House.
These are unworthy considerations to use against her.  Constant Controversy  The most substantive objection from insiders is that the
constant controversy over Warren will make it harder to
establish the bureau in the long term. The agency’s survival
will be too closely tied to her own. If she flames out, a
signature Obama achievement will, too.  If Obama rejects her, though, the result would be even
worse -- a sign that he’s not fully committed to his bureau. The
more visible it is, the less vulnerable it will be, especially
after Warren spends the second half of the year selling it
around the country.  When Americans learn more about the consumer agency, it’s
bound to be popular, in part because voters so dislike  Wall
Street . In a recent internal Democratic National Committee
survey that surprised those briefed on it, Wall Street firms
ranked even below  oil companies  in credibility, with approval
ratings below 20 percent.  Finally, there’s the electoral calculation. Once Warren’s
bureau starts delivering for the public later this year, and
helping consumers understand their own financial lives, it will
offer another way for the president to show in 2012 that he’s
fighting for the hard-hit middle class, including independent
swing voters. That’s critical to his success next year.  ( Jonathan Alter , author of "The Promise: President Obama,
Year One," is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: 
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 