-- 
Yemeni Tribesmen Sign Cease-fire With Government to End Sana’a Gun Battle

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-27T15:07:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/yemeni-tribesmen-sign-cease-fire-with-government-to-end-sana-a-gun-battle.html
Sadiq al-Ahmar, leader of Yemen’s
most influential Hasid tribe, said he reached a cease-fire
agreement with the government to end a gun battle in a suburb of
the capital that left dozens dead.  Al-Ahmar told thousands of people gathered today in Sana’a
that the cease-fire was brokered through tribal mediation. He
didn’t give further details.  “It seems the agreement is working,” Mohammed al-
Mutawakil, a leader in the opposition coalition known as Joint
Meeting Parties, said in a telephone interview. He said that
under the truce, both the government and al-Ahmar will pull
their armed forces out of Hasaba, a district in northern Sana’a,
where the worst of the fighting has taken place since May 23.  The announcement came as hundreds of thousands demonstrated
in response to a call by opposition leaders for peaceful rallies
today that will underscore their opposition to the kind of
violence that has gripped the capital this week. In the southern
city of Taiz, demonstrators -- including thousands of women --
chanted: “No to civil war. The people want the regime to fall.
Our revolution is peaceful.”  Sporadic shooting yesterday followed gun battles that
pitted security forces against members of the Hashid tribe.
Abdulkawi al-Qaisi, al-Ahmar’s office manager, said the tribal
leader had been defending himself from government attack and was
willing to stop fighting provided that security forces and other
pro-government gunmen withdraw from around his house.  GCC Peace Plan  The clashes, the most sustained violence since protests
against President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s regime began in January,
followed the president’s refusal to sign a Gulf Cooperation
Council-brokered accord that provides for him to step down
within 30 days. The opposition and Saleh’s supporters have
accused each other of attempting to ignite a civil war.  Fifteen members of the Nihm tribe were killed in clashes
with Republican Guards led by a son of Saleh, as they tried to
prevent an army regiment from reaching Sana’a, according to the
opposition website al-Sahwa.  Community groups should back a “peaceful revolution,
thwarting attempts to trap Yemenis into fighting with each
other,” the Joint Meeting Parties said late yesterday.  In a May 25 briefing with reporters, Saleh called the
protests a rebellion against his rule. The president, whose term
ends in 2013, has said he’s willing to hold early elections, a
call the opposition has so far rejected. The Joint Meeting
Parties, the official opposition, initially accepted the GCC
plan, though activists who have been leading the street protests
dismissed it, saying Saleh must quit immediately.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday that
the GCC plan “offers the chance for peaceful progress in
Yemen” and urged Saleh to sign it. The U.S. and the U.K. have
cut back staff at their embassies in Yemen amid the latest
fighting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Sana’a at
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .
Mohammed Hatem in Taiz at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 