-- 
Yemen Opposition Calls for Peaceful Protests

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-27T06:40:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/yemen-opposition-calls-for-peaceful-protests.html
Yemen’s opposition leaders called for
peaceful anti-government rallies today that will underscore
their opposition to the kind of violence that has gripped the
capital this week.  Sporadic gunfire yesterday followed gun battles in the
north of Sana’a that began on May 23, pitting the security
forces of President Ali Abdullah Saleh against members of the
Hashid tribe, whose leader Sadiq al-Ahmar has joined the
demonstrators. The main Joint Meeting Parties opposition and the
protest leaders say such violence hurts their cause.  The clashes, the most sustained violence since anti-Saleh
protests began in January, followed the president’s refusal to
sign a Gulf Cooperation Council-brokered accord that provides
for him to step down within 30 days. The opposition and Saleh’s
supporters have accused each other of attempting to ignite a
civil war.  Community groups should back a “peaceful revolution,
thwarting attempts to trap Yemenis into fighting with each
other,” the Joint Meeting Parties said in a statement late
yesterday.  The government called for an “order and law” rally today
that will highlight loyalty to Saleh, state-run Saba news agency
said yesterday.  In a May 25 briefing with reporters, Saleh called the
protests a rebellion against his rule. The president, whose term
ends in 2013, has said he’s willing to hold early elections, a
call the opposition has so far rejected. The Joint Meeting
Parties initially accepted the GCC plan, though leaders of the
street protests dismissed it and said Saleh must quit
immediately.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday that
the GCC plan “offers the chance for peaceful progress in
Yemen” and urged Saleh to sign it. The U.S. and the U.K. have
cut back staff at their embassies in Yemen amid the latest
fighting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Sana’a at
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .
Mohammed Hatem in Taiz at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 