-- 
Typhoon Strengthens, May Hit Fukushima Nuke Plant

-- B y   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-05-27T06:56:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/typhoon-strengthens-may-hit-fukushima-nuke-plant.html
Typhoon Songda strengthened to a
supertyphoon after battering the  Philippines  and headed for
 Japan  on a track that may pass over the crippled Fukushima
nuclear plant by May 30, a U.S. monitoring center said.  Songda’s winds increased to 241 kilometers (150 miles) per
hour from 213 kph yesterday, the U.S. Navy  Joint Typhoon Warning
Center  said on its website. The storm’s eye was about 240
kilometers east of Aparri in the Philippines at 8 a.m. today,
the center said. Songda was moving northwest at 19 kph and is
 forecast  to turn to the northeast and cross the island of
Okinawa by 9 p.m. local time tomorrow before heading for Honshu.  The center’s forecast graphic includes a possible path over
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which has been spewing radiation since
March 11 when an earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling
systems. Three of six reactor buildings have no roof after
explosions blew them off, exposing spent fuel pools and
containment chambers that are leaking.  “We are still considering typhoon measures and can’t
announce detailed plans yet,” Takeo Iwamoto, a spokesman at
Tokyo Electric Power Co., said by phone when asked about the
storm. The utility known as Tepco plans to complete the
installation of covers for the buildings by October, he said.  Japan is regularly buffeted by typhoons and tropical storms
during the northwestern Pacific cyclone season. In 2004, eight
cyclones passed over or skirted the country’s Tohoku region,
where the Fukushima station is located, according to the  Japan
Meteorological Agency . The earliest was in May that year. The
eyes of two storms passed within 300 kilometers of Tohoku last
year, the agency’s data show.  Fourth Storm  Songda, the name of a branch of the Red River in  Vietnam ,
is the fourth storm to form over northwest Pacific this year.
The storm lashed the Philippines as it passed the eastern
seaboard, leaving one person dead, according to the country’s
disaster council. Songda prompted evacuations of coastal areas
and caused flooding that jammed traffic and stranded travelers.  Damage to crops was “very minimal” as most had been
harvested before the storm passed, Philippine Agriculture
Secretary Proceso Alcala told reporters today.  The U.S. Navy  Joint Typhoon Warning Center  classifies
storms as  supertyphoons  when their maximum sustain winds reach
at least 150 miles per hour, according to the Atlantic
Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 