-- 
Zambian Copper Miners Railway Link May Miss Cargo Target on Work Stoppages

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-05-27T09:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/zambian-copper-miners-railway-link-may-miss-cargo-target-on-work-stoppages.html
Tanzania  Zambia  Railway Authority,
manager of the link that connects Tanzania’s port of Dar es
Salaam to Zambia’s copper mines, said cargo volumes may be 14
percent below target this year because of work stoppages.  The strikes may also curb expansion plans, amid pledges
by companies including  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ’s Konkola Copper
Mines to triple shipments on the line if capacity is
increased, Conrad Simuchile, spokesman for the Dar es Salaam-
based authority, said in an interview on May 25. The stoppages
were triggered by disputes over the nationality of employees
as well as delays in paying wages, he said.  “We have had illegal work stoppages every month for the
past 10 months,” Simuchile said. “We have lost not less than
$4 million over the past 10 months due to work stoppages.”  Zambia is  Africa ’s biggest copper producer. Shipments of
the metal rose 0.9 percent in the first quarter to 200,037
tons, according to data on the Bank of Zambia’s website. The
southern African nation is targeting production of 900,000
tons this year, up from 819,000 tons in 2010, according to the
central bank.  Tazara, as the company is know, manages the 1,860-
kilometer (1,156-mile) railroad that links  Dar es Salaam  to
New Kapiri Mposhi outside Lusaka, the Zambian capital.
Tanzanian employees of Tazara, as the authority is known, have
complained that the company prefers to hire Zambian workers
and that their salaries aren’t paid on time.  Salaries Paid  Tazara, jointly controlled by the Zambian and Tanzanian
governments, employs 2,800 people and the staff complement in
both countries is “almost equal”, Simuchile said. Yesterday,
the company said it had paid workers’ salaries for April and
that payments for May will be made on time.  “The delay in payment was due to interruption of cash
flows caused by work stoppages,” he said.  Tazara was built with Chinese aid during the 1970s. The
line has 22 tunnels and 320 bridges, according to the
authority’s website. In 2009, Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and
his Tanzanian counterpart, Jakaya Kikwete, held talks about
Chinese investors possibly restructuring and refinancing the
railway.  As part of its current expansion plan, Tazara will add
six locomotives from the Chinese government to its fleet of 12
in December to increase traffic, Simuchile said. The
authority’s expansion plans may be jeopardized if the work
stoppages continue, Simuchile said.  Konkola Copper has said it will increase the amount of
copper Tazara hauls to Dar es Salaam to 30,000 tons a month
from 10,000 tons if the authority boosts capacity, according
to Simuchile. Jacqueline Kabeta, spokeswoman for Konkola
Copper, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for
comment.  Other copper miners in Zambia include  Australia ’s  Equinox
Minerals Ltd. (EQN)  and  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , based in
 Vancouver .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 