-- 
Zapatero Names Spanish Successor, Strengthens Party Reins for Debt Crisis

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-05-28T13:39:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/zapatero-names-spanish-successor-strengthens-party-reins-for-debt-crisis.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero backed Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba as Socialist
candidate in the next general election and clung on as leader of
the ruling Socialist Party, entrenching his role in staving off
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Zapatero, who said last month he wouldn’t seek a third term
in elections scheduled for 2012, endorsed Rubalcaba, the deputy
prime minister, as the Socialist candidate and thanked Carme
Chacon, who he made Spain’s first female Defense Minister in
2008, for pulling out of the contest to bolster party unity.  Rubalcaba “is the person who our colleagues and our voters
want,” Zapatero said at a party meeting in Madrid today. “He
is loved and appreciated by our own, respected by his opponents
and feared by the terrorists of ETA.”  The decision to back Rubalcaba, which comes a week after
the Socialists suffered their worst local election defeat in
three decades, strengthens Zapatero’s hand and may reduce the
possibility of early elections. Zapatero will remain head of the
party until the elections boosting his efforts to cut spending
and overhaul legislation to shield the economy from the
sovereign debt crisis, Jose Blanco, the party’s deputy leader,
said yesterday.  “From today we’re going to think about the future and talk
about the future,” Rubalcaba told the meeting of party leaders
today. “We’re going to draw up a new project with one concern
at its heart: jobs.”  Extra Yield  The extra yields investors demand to hold  Spain ’s 10-year
bonds instead of German bunds reached 261 points this week,
after the Socialists’ electoral defeat prompted some regional
leaders to call for Zapatero’s ouster as party chief.  “If we maintain Spain’s capacity to raise finance for
itself, make changes and achieve stability, the recovery will
come a lot sooner,” Zapatero said. “The problems haven’t
disappeared from the financial and economic outlook. They
haven’t disappeared because of the problems in  Greece  so we have
to be very much on our guard.”  The party will formally open the process of primary
elections today, and Blanco said he knew of no other candidates
planning to take part in the race. Defense MinisterChacon said
this week that she wouldn’t run in the primaries, saying the
succession debate had “put at risk the unity of the party, the
authority of the prime minister and secretary general, our
collective image and the stability of the government.”  Polls had previously shown Rubalcaba, 59, who as interior
minister has led the fight against Basque terror group ETA, as
the favorite to succeed Zapatero. Forty-two percent of Spanish
voters think Rubalcaba would be the strongest candidate, with
support rising to 52 percent among Socialist voters, according
to a poll in El Pais newspaper on April 3.  “A sprinter who was capable of running 100 meters in a
little over 10 seconds is capable of winning an election in 10
months,” Zapatero said of Rubalcaba.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  