-- 
Zillow With a Z Will Break NYSE’s Grip on Single-Letter Tickers

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-05-27T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/zillow-with-a-z-will-break-nyse-s-grip-on-single-letter-tickers.html
Zillow Inc. wants to end the  New York 
Stock Exchange’s monopoly on companies trading under a single
letter.  Zillow, a real-estate website that filed last month to
raise as much as $51.8 million by going public, disclosed this
week that it applied for a Nasdaq Stock Market listing under the
ticker Z. Assuming the application is approved, Zillow would be
the first Nasdaq stock with a one-letter symbol.  “They’re doing it to attract attention, obviously,” said
Bob Stovall, a managing director and global strategist at Wood
Asset Management Inc. who has worked on  Wall Street  since 1953.
“I wouldn’t even notice it or look it up,” he said, if Zillow
used the traditional four letters for a symbol.  Nasdaq-listed companies have been able to trade under a
single letter since July 2007, when the Securities and Exchange
Commission changed the regulations that governed ticker symbols.
Before then, stocks could only have one to three letters on the
NYSE or the former American Stock Exchange, now NYSE Amex.  Another company preparing for an initial public offering,
Pandora Media Inc., plans to list its shares on the NYSE under
the letter P. The Internet-music service would become the first
company to use that ticker since September 2002, when Phillips
Petroleum Co. combined with Conoco Inc. to form  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   Only Five Left  The Z ticker has been available since March 2003, when  Foot
Locker Inc. (FL)  adopted FL as its symbol. Z had previously been used
by Foot Locker and three predecessor companies -- Venator Group
Inc., Woolworth Corp. and F.W. Woolworth Co. -- since 1925.  “We couldn’t be more excited” about Zillow’s plan to
adopt the letter, said Robert H. McCooey Jr., senior vice
president of new listings and capital markets at  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  in New York. Using Z “will allow them to brand
themselves well.”  A Zillow spokeswoman, Charlynn Duecy, declined to comment
on the decision. The Seattle-based company provides property-
value estimates and displays real-estate listings on its site.
Rich Adamonis, an  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  spokesman, declined to comment
as well.  Zillow has yet to determine the price or number of shares
for its IPO. Neither has Pandora, based in Oakland, California,
which plans to go public with a $100 million stock sale.  After the two companies complete their IPOs, only five
letters will be available for ticker symbols: I, J, Q, U and W.
I has been available since First Interstate Bancorp was bought
by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in 1996. J, U and W have gone unused since
2002. Q opened up last month after  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)  completed a
takeover of Qwest Communications International Inc., the only
company ever to use that letter for its ticker.  Following Hyatt  The most recent company to adopt a single-letter symbol was
 Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , which began trading under the ticker H after
its IPO in November 2009. Chicago-based Hyatt succeeded Realogy
Corp., which was taken private by Apollo Management LP in an
April 2007 buyout.  NYSE companies have been able to select tickers with four
letters since the SEC’s rules changed. LinkedIn Corp., the first
social-media company to go public in the U.S., took advantage of
this provision. Shares of the  Mountain View , California-based
company started trading under the symbol LNKD last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  