-- 
Zloty’s Weekly Drop Shows Halted Euro Sales, Citigroup Says

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-05-27T15:04:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-27/zloty-s-worst-week-in-10-shows-halted-euro-sales-citigroup-says.html
The zloty’s steepest weekly decline
in 10 may signal the  Finance Ministry  has temporarily given up
attempts to stabilize the currency through the sale of euros it
gets from the European Union, Citigroup Inc. said today.  The zloty has weakened 1.2 percent against the euro in the
last five days and headed for the biggest decline since the week
ended March 18. It traded 0.4 percent higher at 3.9697 per euro
as of 4:30 p.m. in Warsaw, near the weakest level in more than a
month reached yesterday at 3.9898.  The Polish currency has erased the rally sparked by the
government’s April 21 announcement it will exchange as much as
14 billion euros ($20 billion) on the market this year, acting
through state-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego SA. The ministry
has been selling the region’s common currency “regularly” and
will continue doing so “consistently,” Deputy Finance Minister
 Dominik Radziwill  said on May 16.  “It looks like the ministry is ready to accept a weaker
zloty and despite the earlier announcement, isn’t selling euros
as regularly as the market would expect,”  Piotr Kalisz , chief
economist at Citigroup’s Polish unit, Bank Handlowy SA, wrote in
a note to customers. “Since Poland’s economic fundamentals have
worsened in the past quarters, the absence of the ministry” on
the market “may lead to a further zloty weakening,” he said.  The zloty has weakened against all of the more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg except  Turkey ’s
lira this week. Poland’s current-account deficit swelled to 1.38
billion euros in March from 806 million euros a month earlier,
central bank data showed on May 16.  Revised Expectations  “The weakening of the zloty against the other currencies
in the region shows that some investors have revised their
positive expectations about the zloty’s strengthening,” Kalisz
said.  The currency’s depreciation may prompt the central bank to
lift interest rates next month for the fourth time this year,
according to the New York-based bank. The main interest rate in
 Poland  currently stands at 4.25 percent, the highest since
January 2009.  “We do not agree that the outlook for the currency has
improved materially,” BNP Paribas SA strategists wrote in a
note to customers. Investors should “trade the range” between
3.9 per euro and 4 per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  