-- L’Oreal First-Quarter Sales Beat Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-04-19T07:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/l-oreal-first-quarter-sales-exceed-estimates-on-luxury-brands.html
L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, rose in Paris trading as stronger first-quarter
revenue in  Asia  eased concern over emerging-market demand.  The  shares  gained as much as 3 percent and were up 2.6
percent at 124.35 euros as of 9:03 a.m., the steepest advance in
France’s benchmark  CAC 40 Index. (CAC)   Like-for-like sales in so-called new markets surged 9.4
percent, Paris-based L’Oreal said yesterday after markets
closed, the fastest rate since the first three months of 2012.
Earlier in the day, Swiss foodmaker  Nestle SA (NESN)  and U.K. distiller
Diageo Plc reported slowing growth in  emerging markets . L’Oreal
defines new markets as the Asia-Pacific region, Latin America,
eastern Europe,  Africa  and the Middle East.  The quarterly performance, “bodes well for full-year
growth,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote
in a report. The analyst, who has an underperform rating on the
shares, expects comparable sales to expand 5.5 percent in 2013.  Total first-quarter revenue  climbed  5.1 percent to 5.93
billion euros ($7.8 billion), the maker of Maybelline mascara
said. Analysts projected 5.85 billion euros, the average of six
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 5.5 percent,
excluding acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts.  L’Oreal reiterated its guidance of outperforming the wider
beauty market, which it sees expanding “nearer 4 percent than
4.5 percent” this year, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon
said yesterday on a conference call. The market’s growth is “a
bit lower” than last year’s average level, though that
“doesn’t mean a slowdown for us,” the CEO said.  L’Oreal Luxe  Sales growth was boosted by an 8.1 percent increase at the
L’Oreal Luxe division as the unit revamped products such as Eau
pour Homme and shoppers bought more Rouge Pur Couture lipstick
and Maestro foundation.  The luxury business in  China  “is doing really well,” Agon
said. The unit’s growth in the country was more than 20 percent
in the first quarter, he said. In the U.S., the luxury market is
still “quite positive” and the only “big problem” for the
division worldwide is South Korea, the executive said.  Revenue at the professional-products division fell 0.4
percent because of a “difficult situation” in southern Europe,
L’Oreal said. The quarter was “tougher than expected,”
especially in the second half, Agon said.  Sales in Asia-Pacific gained 5.7 percent in the first
quarter. Revenue gained 8.2 percent in eastern Europe and rose
1.9 percent in western Europe amid “good growth” in Germany
and France. The company is gaining market share in western
Europe, the CEO said. Sales in  Latin America  gained 5.8 percent
as L’Oreal added market share in hair care in Brazil.  Active Cosmetics  “We’re pretty happy with the growth acceleration in
Brazil,” Agon told analysts. “We are back to growth that’s
probably a little bit over the market.”  L’Oreal’s  active cosmetics unit , which sells the Vichy and
La Roche-Posay brands, posted revenue growth of 6.2 percent,
while sales at the consumer-products unit gained 5.5 percent.
Revenue at Body Shop rose 0.8 percent.  “The key question is: With the most difficult comparative
of the year out of the way, particularly in Asia, can growth
accelerate in the rest of the year?” Eamonn Ferry, an analyst
at Exane BNP Paribas in  London , said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  