-- A Delicate Move Forward on Immigration
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-18T22:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/a-delicate-move-forward-on-immigration.html
It’s no wonder it took so long. The
bipartisan immigration bill introduced this week in the  U.S.
Senate  is a hefty, voluminous achievement. It weighs in at
almost 900 pages; given its complex political calibrations, it
will need a strong binding to withstand the onslaught to come.  The bill lays out a rough, but realistic, road to
citizenship for the approximately 11 million undocumented
immigrants in the U.S. They will have to pay a series of phased-
in fines adding up to $2,000, demonstrate a knowledge of U.S.
civics and English, and meet other requirements before obtaining
Lawful Permanent Resident Status after 10 years. Citizenship
will then be three more years away. The good news, however, is
that if the law is enacted, these immigrants would soon be able
to obtain a provisional status allowing them to work legally in
the U.S. while they begin their long wait. Meanwhile, the bill
promises to eliminate the lengthy backlog of immigrants awaiting
entry on employment or family-based visas.  The anti-reform caucus, in which Republican politicians
from one of the nation’s most Hispanic states,  Texas , play an
especially robust role, is already labeling the proposal
“amnesty.” This is something of a head-scratcher: It’s hard to
recognize the legislation’s arduous, 13-year path to citizenship
as anything other than a gantlet. Fortunately, young immigrants
who were brought to the U.S. as children would be eligible for
citizenship after five years.  Like much of the bill, the long wait for citizenship was a
necessary compromise forged by the bipartisan “Gang of 8”
senators. The legislation is a delicate balance of trade-offs,
supplying more visas for high-skill workers and restricting
visas based on family relationships. It promises to reduce the
backlog of visa seekers in general while eliminating “diversity
visas,” which help seekers from nations that typically haven’t
produced large numbers of immigrants to the U.S. It mandates
investment in border security to keep unskilled immigrants out,
and a new “W-Visa” program designed specifically to welcome them
in.  The legislation lives up to its billing as “comprehensive.”
It would reach into every corner of U.S. immigration policy,
including a requirement that employers use the E-Verify system
to check the status of prospective employees and the creation of
a “biometric green card” for authorized noncitizen workers.  It also contains initiatives we aren’t entirely sure about.
Of particular concern are the proposed border security
 benchmarks , which have to be met before undocumented immigrants
already in the U.S. can advance on the path to legal status and
citizenship. The benchmarks, including specific “effectiveness”
metrics for rebuffing attempted border entries, make sense as
security  goals . However, the aspirations of an undocumented
immigrant in, say, Atlanta shouldn’t be tied to benchmarks 1,500
miles away -- and utterly outside her control -- along the
Mexican border.  The comprehensive, balanced and, yes, compromised nature of
the bill is both its chief strength and its greatest
vulnerability. Opposition to immigration reform is real.
Although Republican leaders appear to understand that reform is
in their political interest, more Republican voters  oppose  a
path to citizenship than support it. (A majority of Democrats
and independents, by contrast, support it.)  To keep the bill on track will require fortitude from
Senator Marco Rubio, the Florida Republican who has linked his
political fortunes to immigration reform. Rubio has courageously
appeared on conservative radio shows to dispel myths and fears
over immigration. He must do more of that in the weeks ahead. To
be successful, he will also need the tacit approval of Senate
Republican leader Mitch McConnell and House Speaker  John Boehner , who will have to engineer a winning vote in both houses
of Congress with less than full support from Republican members.  Immigration reform promises to be a messy process, and not
everything will go according to plan. But the legislation
introduced this week moves the nation in the right direction. It
deserves support.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 