-- Labor Nominee Clashes With Senate Republicans
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-04-18T18:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/labor-nominee-vows-to-be-bipartisan.html
Thomas Perez , nominated by
President  Barack Obama  to be U.S. Labor secretary, clashed with
Senate Republicans at his confirmation hearing over decisions he
made as the  Justice Department ’s top civil rights lawyer.  Republicans on the Senate Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions Committee criticized Perez’s role in persuading the
city of  St. Paul , Minnesota, to drop a  Supreme Court  case that
lawmakers said would have undermined a government enforcement
tool in housing discrimination cases.  Senator  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee, the panel’s top
Republican, said Perez engaged in “an enormous amount of
wheeling and dealing” by agreeing to keep the Justice
Department out of two unrelated cases against St. Paul that
might have reaped as much as $200 million for the  U.S. Treasury .  When Perez said the  Department of Justice  was acting as a
guardian of civil rights in negotiating the deal, Alexander
retorted: “The DOJ is a guardian of the taxpayers as well, is
it not?”  Republicans focused their criticism of Perez, a child of
Dominican immigrants who would be the only Hispanic in Obama’s
second-term Cabinet so far, on what they say are ideological
decisions he made as head of the civil rights division. A
committee vote on the confirmation will be April 25, Chairman
 Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat, said when the hearing ended.  Republican Charges  Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, has vowed to
block the nomination over separate questions related to the
nominee’s work enforcing voter-registration laws, meaning Perez
probably will need at least 60 votes to overcome a filibuster.
Democrats control 55 Senate seats.  Senator  Jeff Sessions , an Alabama Republican, has raised
concerns about Perez’s role as former board president of CASA de
Maryland, a group that aids immigrants, regardless of legal
status.  Republicans including Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa this
week released a report that said the St. Paul deal that Perez
struck also hindered two other cases that could have generated
cash for the Treasury, the report said.  Harkin defended Perez’s record and said the critics’
attacks are “unfounded.”  “I can assure this committee that Tom Perez has the
strongest possible record of professional integrity, and that
any allegations to the contrary are unfounded,” he said.  Minimum Wage  If confirmed to replace Hilda Solis, who quit in January,
Perez would play a prominent part in pushing Obama’s agenda on
issues including an immigration overhaul and raising the  minimum
wage  to $9 an hour from $7.25. Perez, 51, was Maryland’s labor
secretary from 2007 to 2009.  In testimony today, Perez stressed the perspective he’s
gained as a first-generation Dominican American. His father,
Rafael, was a doctor who earned U.S. citizenship after enlisting
in the Army. His mother arrived after her father was named the
Dominican Republic’s ambassador to the U.S.  He said his top goal as Labor Secretary would be to focus
creating U.S. jobs, and pledged tough enforcement of wage and
hour laws. He also sought to reach out to Republicans by
stressing his work in previous administrations.  “While I am currently a political appointee in the civil
rights division of the Justice Department, I spent the bulk of
my 13-year tenure there as a career criminal prosecutor,” he
said. “I have had the privilege of working under four
presidents --  Ronald Reagan , George Herbert Walker Bush,  Bill Clinton  and now President Obama.”  Whistle-Blower Cases  Republicans today focused on the St. Paul case. The city’s
appeal to the Supreme Court risked striking down the legal
support for Justice Department enforcement actions in lending
discrimination cases against financial institutions. The
approach used the “disparate impact” analysis, in which
statistical evidence can prove bias even if there isn’t provable
intent.  The city agreed to drop the appeal in return for the
department declining to join two whistle-blower lawsuits that
alleged St. Paul misused federal housing dollars.  In the Republicans’ report, lawmakers said the  whistle-
blower cases might have produced as much as $200 million had
they succeeded. The Republicans didn’t specifically accuse Perez
of breaking any laws, but called into question the intent of his
actions and suggested he may run afoul of Justice Department
ethics rules.  House Letter  In addition to Grassley, the report’s authors also included
House Government Reform and Oversight Committee Chairman  Darrell Issa , a California Republican.  Other House Republicans weighed in today. In a letter, 43
members of the small-government House Republican Study Committee
called on their Senate colleagues to oppose Perez, citing an
“abusive and alarming record” on  voting rights  and other
cases. The letter’s signatories included the group’s chairman,
Representative  Steve Scalise  of Louisiana.  Perez told lawmakers that St. Paul first raised the
possibility of linking the cases. He said he conferred with
Justice Department ethics officials and followed their advice
before continuing talks. He said officials in the civil division
told him the whistle-blower case was weak.  “The value to the U.S. of losing a case is zero,” Perez
said.  Dena Iverson, a Justice Department spokeswoman, has said
the department negotiated the deal based on “appropriate
considerations.”  The Senate is working its way through Obama’s nominees to
fill jobs in his second term. Last week, the Senate confirmed
Sally Jewell, an outdoor-equipment executive, to become U.S.
Interior Secretary. The Senate is considering his nomination of
Gina McCarthy, a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency assistant
administrator, to lead that agency, and he is expected soon to
name his pick for Commerce Secretary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  