-- Macy’s Denied Restraining Order on Some J.C. Penney Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-04-18T16:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/macy-s-lawyer-says-appeals-court-denies-restraining-order.html
Macy’s Inc. (M)  was denied a temporary
restraining order halting  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  from selling some
goods designed by  Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia Inc. that
don’t bear the Stewart brand name.  An appeals court judge in Manhattan refused to halt the
sales of the goods, which are labeled under the brand “JCP
Everyday,” on the condition that J.C. Penney not associate the
products with the Martha Stewart name in promotions or
marketing.  Richard Andrias, an associate justice with the  New York 
State Supreme Court’s Appellate Division, granted an expedited
schedule for briefing and arguing Macy’s challenge to a lower-
court judge’s refusal to grant a similar order blocking the
sales.  “Pending an expedited determination of the motion by a
full bench of the court, J.C. Penney may continue to sell the
unbranded goods in the exclusive product categories,” provided
it doesn’t promote, advertise or associate the goods with the
name Martha Stewart, Andrias wrote in the ruling.  Eric Seiler, a lawyer for Martha Stewart Living, declined
to comment immediately, saying he hadn’t seen the decision. Joey Thomas, a spokesman for J.C. Penney, declined to comment on the
ruling in an e-mail.  “While we are disappointed that the appeals court declined
to issue a temporary restraining order, it is appropriate that
the court made it clear that the JCP Everyday product cannot be
associated with the Martha Stewart name in any way,”  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for Macy’s, said in an e-mail. “We look
forward to the full appeals court decision on our request for an
expansion of the preliminary injunction that remains in place.”  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v.  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) , 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at  djeffrey1@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 