-- Advisers’ Senior Credentials Rules Urged by U.S. Consumer Bureau
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-04-18T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/advisers-senior-credentials-rules-urged-by-u-s-consumer-bureau.html
State and federal regulators should
require financial advisers to give clients information to verify
their credentials for advising senior citizens, the U.S.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said today.  Many financial advisers market their services to older
Americans by touting one of more than 50 different “senior
designations” that they obtained through some sort of training,
the agency said in a new  report .  “The designations can be earned from places as varied as a
three-hour online course offered by a for-profit company to a
two-year graduate degree from an esteemed university,”  Richard Cordray , the agency’s director, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Our research found that the training and standards required to
attain these credentials varies enormously.”  In the report, the CFPB suggested that the Securities and
Exchange Commission establish a “centralized tool” that would
let people verify an adviser’s designation. It also said
Congress and the SEC could require advisers to disclose
information that would let clients verify their credentials.  State regulators may want to establish minimum standards
for acquiring a senior designation and codes of conduct for
those who hold them, the CFPB said in the report.  Such rules are important for senior investors, according to
the report, because they are less able than others to absorb
losses to their retirement savings.  “The vast majority of older consumers cannot afford to
suffer the financial losses that can result from inappropriate
products or services, or worse, fraud or exploitation,” the the
CFPB said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  