-- African Leaders Meet to Discuss Central African Republic Crisis
-- B y   R o b e r t   M b a k o u o   a n d   D a n i e l   N ' D o h   N a d j i t a n
-- 2013-04-18T11:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/african-leaders-meet-to-discuss-central-african-republic-crisis.html
Regional leaders gathered for talks
in the Chadian capital, N’Djamena, to discuss progress on a
peace plan for the  Central African Republic , where at least 119
people have died in violence after a coup last month.  The meeting is being attended by CAR Prime Minister Nicolas
Tiangaye and other members of the Seleka rebel group that seized
the country on March 24. South African President  Jacob Zuma ,
Congo Republic President Denis Sassou-Nguesso and Gabonese
leader Ali-Ben Bongo Ondimba will also be present at the summit
organized by the Economic Community of Central African States,
or Eccas.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said on April
15 he’s alarmed by the deteriorating security situation in CAR
and “strongly condemned” acts of violence by members of Seleka
against civilians. He also urged Eccas and the  African Union  to
take “immediate and urgent measures to address the gravity of
the security situation.”  President Francois Bozize’s government was removed from
office on March 24 by Seleka forces who began an uprising in
December. The country has been plagued by violence since
independence from France in 1960, with at least four battles for
the capital, Bangui, taking place from 1996 until 2003.  Last weekend, more than 20 people were killed in clashes in
Bangui, including four who died when a church they were in was
struck by an artillery shell. At least 37,000 people have fled
the fighting, with “tens of thousands” more forced to abandon
their homes, according to the UN.  Progress  Today’s meeting will assess the progress that’s been made
on implementing an agreement reached by Eccas heads of state in
N’Djamena on April 3, according to a statement e-mailed by the
Congo Republic’s presidency. The leaders have condemned the coup
and urged the country’s new president, Michel Djotodia, to hold
elections within 18 months.  The meeting is also expected to decide on sending more
troops from the regional Multinational Force of Central  Africa 
to help stabilize the country, according to the statement.  Seleka began its rebellion after accusing Bozize of failing
to honor a 2008 peace accord. An agreement signed in Libreville
in January ended the fighting and created a unity government.
The insurgents resumed combat in March, saying Bozize had failed
to meet a new set of demands.  Central African Republic has a gross domestic product of
about $3.6 billion and earns most of its foreign currency from
timber and diamond exports, according to the CIA World Factbook.  Pangea Diamondfields Inc., an Isle of Man-based exploration
company, owns a concession that is currently on care and
maintenance, according to its website.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,
Africa’s biggest lender, ended talks with  Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian
gold explorer, over a $100 million loan to help finance a gold
mine there, the Johannesburg-based Financial Mail magazine
reported on April 10.  Eccas members include  Angola , Burundi, Cameroon, Central
African Republic, Congo, the  Democratic Republic  of Congo,
Gabon,  Equatorial Guinea , Sao Tome and Principe and  Chad .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Mbakouo in Brazzaville Via Nairobi at 
 rmbakouo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  