-- Akzo First-Quarter Profit Drops on European Paint Volume
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-04-18T12:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/akzo-nobel-first-quarter-profit-drops-on-weak-demand-in-europe.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the maker of
specialty chemicals and Dulux paint, will look to make more
cutbacks to offset a slump in  Europe  that’s left an existing 500
million-euro ($653 million) savings target outdated.  Markets continue to be weak and Chief Executive Officer Ton Buechner today pledged to respond by tweaking efficiency
measures to reflect the current market reality.  Shares of Akzo fell the most in almost two months today
after reporting a drop in first-quarter profit. The prolonged
economic slowdown in Europe is leading decorators and homeowners
to switch to cheaper paints and private labels sold by home-
improvement stores, Chief Financial Officer Keith Nichols said.
While recovering, margins are still short of paintmaking peers
such as Sherwin Williams Co., analysts said.  “There is definitely room for more improvement,
particularly when you compare Akzo’s cost base to its peers,”
said Micha Tiekink, an analyst at Rabo International.  Akzo shares dropped as much as 5.3 percent in the Dutch
capital, the most since Feb. 21. They traded 3.7 percent lower
at 45.28 euros as of 1:31 p.m.  Buechner, now one year at the helm, is accelerating an
 efficiency drive  initiated by his predecessor in 2011. The plan
-- which involves improving software systems, grouping together
marketing activities and cutting back on raw materials -- is
one year ahead of originally scheduled.  The weaker demand seen in 2012 is continuing and Akzo isn’t
budgeting for a quick rebound, Nichols said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. The onus is on management to unearth
additional cutbacks to salvage profit, analysts said.  Promotion Campaigns  Akzo’s paint operation includes key brands including Dulux
and Sikkens that attract a price premium now at odds with wider
market as decorators look to make savings. Nichols said
marketing and promotion campaigns are being employed to bolster
sales and capture customers who traded down to cheaper products.  First-quarter operating profit fell 8 percent to 217
million euros as plant closures and jobcuts helped bolster
margins. Analysts predicted 212 million euros. Sales dropped 6.5
percent to 3.47 million euros, compared with an estimated 3.67
billion euros.  Buechner set new targets in February, including a 9 percent
operating margin and a 14 percent return on investment by the
end of 2015. He dropped a goal to increase revenue to 20 billion
euros by 2015 in a much awaited strategy plan after he took four
months of sick leave for exhaustion.  ‘Living Program’  “It is a living program, it’s not static,” said Buechner,
who contributed to the call remotely from a performance coatings
management meeting.  While opting to sell Akzo’s struggling 137-year-old Glidden
brand to  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG) , the CEO has yet to make an impact
on the share price. Since unveiling his vision for the company,
the shares have dropped 9.7 percent, excluding today’s decline.
The Dutch benchmark  AEX Index (AEX)  is down 2 percent.  The first effects from the restructuring program are
already visible with an operating-profit increase at the
company’s decorative paints division in Europe,  Tom Muller , an
analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers with a hold recommendation
on Akzo, said by phone.  “Slowly but surely, you’ll see some effects from the cost
initiatives,” Muller said. “Still, they have to deal with the
reality of tough conditions in Europe,” Muller added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  