-- Alabama Wooed Airbus as Executives Were Skeptical of Deep South
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2013-04-18T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/alabama-wooed-airbus-as-executives-were-skeptical-of-deep-south.html
In June 2011, Alabama Governor
Robert Bentley traveled to the  Paris Air Show ,  Europe ’s largest
aerospace industry gathering, in hopes of luring foreign
investment to his state.  Of the dozen meetings he lined up, the most important was
with  Tom Enders , then chief executive officer of the giant
European aircraft maker Airbus SAS. The two had never met,
though they were familiar with each other.  Six months earlier, Airbus’s parent company,  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , had lost a bid for a $35
billion contract with the U.S. Department of Defense to build
military tankers at the Brookley Aeroplex, an 1,800-acre site in
Alabama’s port city of Mobile. Airbus had spent years lobbying
the Pentagon and was narrowly beaten by its rival  Boeing Co. (BA)   In Paris, Enders told the Republican governor that he was
still eager to build Airbus’s first U.S. factory, possibly in
Alabama, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 22 issue.
So began a secret, yearlong negotiation that culminated in this
month’s groundbreaking for Airbus’s Brookley Aeroplex plant,
which will assemble the company’s best-selling jetliner, the
A320.  The extensive back and forth, as recounted by  Alabama 
officials and a top Airbus executive, shows how eager the
company was to gain a foothold in the U.S. and how much Alabama
was willing to promise to bring an estimated $600 million in
investment and 4,000 jobs to the state.  Seeking Incentives  During their first meeting, Enders, now CEO of EADS, asked
Bentley if Alabama would be willing to offer Airbus millions of
dollars in tax breaks and other incentives, similar to those
that would have been part of the lost Pentagon contract.  Bentley was ready to deal. He said he’d keep the
incentives, “to give them time to look into the possibility of
building commercial aircraft in the U.S., especially if they
would be interested in coming to Alabama.”  The governor had reason to agree to sweeteners upfront.
Airbus was looking at several other states, including  North
Carolina  and  Texas . “We saw just about every site that had an
industrial capacity,” says Airbus Americas Chairman Allan
McArtor.  In December 2011, Enders and Bentley, along with McArtor
and Alabama’s Commerce Director Greg Canfield, met in a
conference room at Montgomery Regional Airport to start talking
details. Airbus insisted that Bentley keep the negotiations out
of the press. According to McArtor, the company was concerned
any news of a possible deal would provoke opposition from unions
in Europe, where the offshoring of jobs was an issue in the
French presidential election.  Keeping Secret  “We tried to keep it as secretive as we possibly could,”
says Bentley.  Enders told Bentley that Airbus’s market share in the U.S.,
where Boeing dominates, was below 30 percent, a sore point for a
company that closely competes with Boeing elsewhere in the
world.  U.S. sales of commercial airliners are rising, in part
because high  oil prices  give airlines an incentive to modernize
their aging fleets. In pitching the A320, Airbus stressed that
the jetliner is 15 percent more fuel-efficient than the previous
model. Bentley says Enders told him the big lesson he’d learned
from the failed tanker bid was that geographical proximity to a
potential customer can mean the difference between making the
sale or losing it.  Some Airbus executives were skeptical of building a plant
in the Deep South.  Alabama Image  “The image of Alabama in the minds of many Europeans who
haven’t traveled extensively was what they’d seen in movies,”
McArtor says. “They didn’t actually believe you could build
airplanes there.”  So the state arranged for executives of Alabama
construction companies to travel to Airbus headquarters in
Toulouse,  France , to assure officials that construction
deadlines would be met. Faculty from the aerospace departments
of colleges in the state briefed Airbus about the training the
schools would provide to the plant’s American employees.  More important, Bentley came through on incentives totaling
$158 million. According to the Alabama Department of Commerce,
they include $82 million in funds for capital investments in the
plant and other expenses; and $51.9 million for a 40,000-square-
foot on-site training center where workers will be prepared, at
state expense, for their new jobs. The deal also includes tax
breaks on manufacturing equipment and a state corporate income
tax credit.  Creating Jobs  In exchange, Bentley demanded that Airbus create no fewer
than 1,000 permanent jobs. The agreement allows the state to
withhold cash if Airbus doesn’t meet the target. Construction
will temporarily employ about 3,000 workers, and the plant,
expected to start production in late 2015, will eventually turn
out four planes a month. Bentley says Alabama taxpayers will
recoup the investment more than twofold within three years.  Settling in Alabama, a right-to-work state, will mean lower
labor costs for Airbus since plant employees won’t be unionized.
Yet opening up shop in Alabama isn’t about saving Airbus money.
The Mobile facility won’t make entire airplanes.
It will assemble pieces made overseas.  Partially completed sections, from cockpit to tail, will be
transported by barge from the company’s European factories to
Alabama, where they’ll be put together. The cost of transporting
the pieces means that even with lower labor costs, planes
completed in the U.S. will cost more to manufacture than those
made start to finish in Europe, says Zafar Khan, an aerospace
analyst with  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   Selling Planes  McArtor says having a presence in the U.S. is worth the
cost and complications if it helps the company to sell more
planes. “Being close to the customer always works—in any
industry,” he says. “We believe, similar to other industries,
including the  auto industry , that if we create an industrial
presence in the U.S. our market share will go up.”  The company may have another, more ambitious reason for
setting down roots in the U.S.: increasing its chances of
landing the kind of multibillion-dollar military contract it
lost to Boeing.  “They want to be seen as an American company,” says Scott
Hamilton, an aerospace analyst at Leeham Co. “The larger
strategy is how this positions EADS long term. In 10 or more
years, they’ll be able to go back to the Pentagon and say, we
have a good solid U.S. footprint.”  McArtor won’t say whether the company has any current plans
to compete for such contracts. Yet he’s mindful that putting
Americans to work can open doors in  Washington .  “When you create jobs, create foreign investment,” he
says, “you’re just received differently on  Capitol Hill .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  