-- AMD Forecasts Revenue That May Top Some Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-04-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/amd-forecasts-revenue-that-may-exceed-some-analysts-estimates.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
No. 2 maker of personal-computer processors, forecast second-
quarter sales that may surpass some analysts’ estimates as it
generates more revenue from outside the slumping PC market.  Revenue in the current period will rise 2 percent, plus or
minus 3 percent, from the first quarter’s $1.09 billion, the
Sunnyvale, California-based company said yesterday in a
statement. That indicates a range of $1.08 billion to $1.14
billion. Analysts on average had  estimated  sales of $1.07
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Rory Read aims to get 20 percent of
sales from outside the PC industry by the fourth quarter. Chip
orders for game consoles from Sony Corp. and Microsoft Corp. may
be helping him make progress on that goal and compensating for
some of the slowdown in his main businesses, said  Daniel Berenbaum , an analyst at MKM Partners LLC.  “PCs are bad, we know that -- AMD has been losing market
share,” Berenbaum said. He has a neutral rating on the
company’s stock. “The place where there could be upside is on
consoles.”  Console Chips  Microsoft will use an AMD processor in its next Xbox game
machine, people with knowledge of the matter said earlier this
month. That followed an announcement by Sony that the
PlayStation 4 will also use AMD parts.  AMD is counting on that new business to help it weather
record declines in demand for desktop and laptop computers as
consumers defect to smartphones and tablets for getting online.
Global PC shipments fell 14 percent in the three months that
ended in March -- the steepest quarterly drop on record -- as
Microsoft’s newest operating system failed to ignite demand, IDC
said last week. That was worse than the 7.7 percent decrease the
researcher had forecast.  At the end of 2012, AMD had 15 percent of the market for PC
processors, compared with 85 percent for Intel, according to
Mercury Research.  Before the report, AMD  shares  gained 4.6 percent to $2.51
at yesterday’s close in New York, rallying in the last half-hour
of trading from an earlier  decline . The shares traded as high as
$2.58 and as low as $2.33 after the release.  “In this environment, with these expectations, it’s a
pretty good report,” said Stacy Rasgon, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. “Expectations were really low.”  First Quarter  For the first quarter, AMD’s net loss narrowed to $146
million, or 19 cents a share, from a loss of $590 million, or 80
cents, a year earlier. Sales fell 31 percent to $1.09 billion,
while analysts had forecast $1.05 billion.  Sales in AMD’s computer-chip unit fell 9 percent from the
prior period to $751 million. While server-chip sales at that
unit were up, following the same trend Intel reported earlier
this week, total sales were dragged down by lower shipments of
desktop and notebook chips.  AMD’s graphics division recorded a 3 percent increase in
revenue from the fourth quarter to $337 million. That unit was
bolstered by higher royalties for game consoles, AMD said in a
statement.  AMD has fired workers and sold assets, seeking to generate
enough cash to overhaul its product line in an attempt to break
into new markets. Some analysts have expressed concern that
continued losses risk diminishing the company’s cash reserves to
the point where it might not be able to repay debts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  