-- America Movil Falls as Smartphone Discounts Crimp Profits
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-04-19T20:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/america-movil-profit-falls-as-smartphone-discounts-trim-margins.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the mobile-phone
company controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , dropped in  Mexico 
trading after smartphone discounts contributed to a 17 percent
decline in first-quarter profit.  The shares fell 0.4 percent to 12.44 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. They have slid 17 percent this year, compared with
a 2.1 percent decrease for the benchmark IPC  index .  America Movil, which offers service in 17 Latin American
 countries  and the U.S., is cutting prices for devices that can
access the Web to encourage more users to sign up for long-term
contracts with data plans. The company added 1.4 million
wireless subscribers in the quarter for a total of 263 million.  “Smartphones are reducing prices, but on the other side,
new, good smartphones are in the high level of prices,” Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Hajj said today on a conference call.
“You are going to see a lot more smartphones.”  Net income fell to 26.9 billion pesos ($2.2 billion), or 36
centavos a share, from 32.5 billion pesos a year earlier, Mexico
City-based  America Movil  said yesterday in a statement. Sales
were little changed at 193 billion pesos, compared with the 194
billion-peso average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “AMX reported an uninspiring quarter,” Andre Baggio, an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said today in a note to
clients, referring to the company by its ticker symbol. He said
he continues to rate America Movil neutral, in part because of
“unappealing growth rates” and concerns that regulations will
tighten.  Colombia Disconnections  The increase in customers came even after America Movil
disconnected 2.7 million mobile-phone customers in  Colombia  as
part of a change in its reporting policy. It added 1.1 million
wireless clients in  Brazil  and 854,000 in Mexico.  Those new subscribers were costly. The company said its
profit margin in Brazil fell to 24.6 percent from 26.1 percent a
year earlier, with half of the decline related to expenses to
attract new users -- including discounts on smartphones.  In the U.S., where America Movil is the  biggest  prepaid
wireless company, those expenses reduced profit margins to 4.5
percent from 12.9 percent a year earlier. The promotional prices
did result in a sharp jump in sales in the U.S., up 40 percent
to $1.5 billion.  Subscriptions across Latin America for cable and satellite
television services, another business the company is tapping for
growth, increased by 753,000 to 17.2 million.  The Mexican peso’s gains in the quarter hurt results, since
most of America Movil’s revenue comes from outside its home
country and must be translated to its local currency. The peso
gained 4.2 percent against the dollar last quarter, the best
among  Latin America ’s most important economies.  Currency Effects  Leaving out currency fluctuations, revenue would have
increased 6.1 percent from a year earlier, and profit would have
fallen 1.4 percent, leaving out interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, America Movil said.  Including currency changes, the profit measure, known as
Ebitda, fell 6.8 percent to 63.8 billion pesos. That missed the
64.4 billion pesos estimated by analysts.  In Mexico, America Movil’s biggest market, the company is
facing tougher regulation under a bill working its way through
Congress. The proposal would force the company to share parts of
its network with competitors; undergo more scrutiny of its
prices; and sell assets if it is deemed too large. The Senate
approved a version of the bill today and sent it back to the
lower house of Congress for review.  Secondary Rules  America Movil is waiting to see how regulators interpret
the law, since “secondary” rules such as definitions of market
share will ultimately determine how the company is affected.  “It looks like we’re going to be a dominant player” under
the new law, Hajj said today. “Lots of companies in the world
are dominant, so let’s see what are going to be those secondary
laws.”  America Movil has 70 percent of Mexico’s mobile-phone lines
and about 80 percent of its landlines.  Average monthly wireless revenue per user in Mexico fell
6.3 percent to 166 pesos. The company has been offering
promotions with extra minutes and free calling as competition
increases. While the revenue figure dropped, sales growth in
Mexico improved in March, a trend that will probably continue in
the second quarter, Hajj said.  He also said he was “much more comfortable” with the
performance of the Brazil unit, which has reduced customer
turnover and added more users on long-term contracts after
losing market share in Latin America’s largest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  