-- AMR Rules Out ‘External Threats’ in Software Failure
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-18T16:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/amr-rules-out-external-threats-in-software-failure.html
American Airlines  has eliminated
outside interference as the cause of the software malfunction
that grounded its U.S. fleet and forced the cancellation of more
than 1,000 flights, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said.  “We understand the cause for the failure,” he said in an
interview today. “We’ve ruled out any external threats. We’re
continuing the investigation, doing some further testing. We
have a high degree of confidence the situation will not recur.”  Horton declined to comment on a specific cause of the
April 16 disruptions in the reservations and flight operations
systems.  Fort Worth , Texas-based American and its American Eagle
regional partner, which are units of  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , both had flights
scrubbed because of the shutdown.  The incident shouldn’t affect any decision to adopt
American’s operating systems when the carrier exits bankruptcy
protection and merges with US Airways Group Inc. this year,
Horton said.  US Airways  CEO Doug Parker has said he’s inclined
to use systems at the larger American for the combined airline,
unless there is a compelling reason not to.  Questions about an outside cause arose because the
grounding came a day after two bombs exploded near the finish
line of the Boston Marathon, Horton said.  Parker will take over as American’s CEO after the merger
with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways. The new airline will be
the world’s biggest by passenger traffic.  American is seeing “a bit of softness” in  travel demand 
this month, following a slowing across the industry in close-in
bookings last month, Horton said. Bookings for May and June are
slightly ahead of the same period in 2012, he said.  Quarterly Profit  AMR today reported first-quarter profit of $8 million,
excluding $349 million in bankruptcy costs and one-time items,
compared with a loss of $248 million on the same basis a year
earlier. Revenue rose 1 percent to $6.1 billion.  American is the first major U.S. carrier to report earnings
for the quarter.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , Delta Air Lines Inc. and
Southwest Airlines Co. all are expected by analysts to post
profits next week. United Continental Holdings Inc. is estimated
to have a loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  