-- Manchin Blames Gun-Vote Loss on Opposition Twisting Facts
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-04-18T14:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/manchin-blames-gun-vote-loss-on-opposition-twisting-facts.html
U.S. Senator  Joe Manchin  blamed the
vote yesterday to reject expanded background checks of gun
purchasers on the  National Rifle Association ’s “twist” of
facts.  Manchin, a West  Virginia  Democrat, said the NRA’s campaign
against his compromise plan didn’t represent law-abiding gun
owners’ willingness to accept reasonable controls to help keep
guns from mentally ill people and criminals. Yesterday,
Manchin’s proposal fell six votes short of the 60 needed for
adoption by the 100-member Senate.  “Law-abiding gun owners, when you give them the facts,
they will make the right decision,” Manchin said today at a
Wall Street Journal breakfast in Washington. NRA leaders would
know that “if they truly polled their members,” he said.  Manchin said the measure would have been adopted with 70
votes without “the twist that was put on everything” by the
NRA and its warning that senators would be rated on how they
voted.  “I just never knew how hard it was to get the facts out,”
he said. “Now we’ve got to sell the bill more” by urging his
colleagues to read the legislation and act on “what the facts
prove.”  NRA officials didn’t immediately respond to a phone call
seeking comment.  Federal law requires a background check to buy a gun from a
licensed dealer. Manchin’s amendment, a compromise with
Republican Senator  Pat Toomey  of  Pennsylvania , would require
background checks for gun sales over the Internet and between
private parties at gun shows.  ‘Willfully Lied’  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that the gun lobby
“willfully lied” about the background-check measure, telling
lawmakers it would start a gun registry although the plan
specifically banned a roster of gun owners.  After yesterday’s vote, the NRA’s chief lobbyist, Chris Cox, said in a statement that Manchin’s amendment “would have
criminalized certain private transfers of firearms between
honest citizens,” including “lifelong friends, neighbors and
some family members.” The NRA, based in Fairfax, Virginia, is
the nation’s biggest gun lobby and claims 4 million members.  Manchin called the characterization about private transfers
“ludicrous.” Criminal penalties would apply only if a buyer
failed to get a background check before purchasing a gun on the
Internet from a relative, he said.  “If you have a loving relationship with a family member”
and “you have to sell your gun on the Internet” to that
person, “you better check that relationship,” Manchin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  