-- AngloGold CFO Favored by Analysts as ‘Seamless’ CEO Pick
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-04-18T10:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/anglogold-cfo-favored-by-analysts-as-seamless-ceo-pick.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  would make a
“seamless” transition if it chose Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan,
its finance head and joint interim chief executive officer, to
lead the third-biggest producer of the metal after gold prices
plummeted, according to two analysts.  Mark Cutifani  stepped down as CEO of AngloGold to lead
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  on April 3, leaving Venkatakrishnan, known as
Venkat, and Executive Director Tony O’Neill as joint interim
CEOs of AngloGold.  “Venkat has been with AngloGold a long time and is very
familiar with its workings, David Davis, a mining analyst at SBG
Securities Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by e-mail. ‘‘He is on the
ball with financials and has been intimately involved with all
the strategic decisions, and the strategy going forward.’’  The South African shares of the Johannesburg-based gold
miner have dropped 38 percent this year as gold has fallen to a
more than two-year low.  ‘‘Our board sub-committee, headed by our chairman, is
working through a thorough process of evaluating both internal
and external candidates to select the best possible CEO to lead
the company,’’ Stewart Bailey, a New York-based spokesman for
AngloGold, said in an e-mail late yesterday. Venkatakrishnan was
not available for comment, the company said.  Peter Kukielski,  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s head of mining, is being
considered for the spot, according to a report in the
Johannesburg-based Sunday Times newspaper, without saying where
it got the information. AngloGold is considering seven
candidates from 15 initial applicants, the report said.  Proposal Rebuffed  The company had a proposal to split its South African
assets from mines elsewhere rebuffed by the country’s
government, three people familiar with the matter said earlier
this month. Shareholders including John Paulson, the billionaire
whose hedge fund is the largest investor in AngloGold, have said
a reorganization would boost the value of its stock.  ‘‘The government is essentially insisting on a South
African-based CEO and there are few people with appropriate
experience” willing to move to Johannesburg, John Meyer, an
analyst with London-based SP Angel Corporate Finance LLP, said
in an e-mail. “The new CEO will be faced with some tough
decisions on shutting shafts and laying off staff as gold prices
render higher cost production units untenable.”  Venkatakrishnan joined the miner in 2005 after the company
took over  Ghana ’s Ashanti Goldfields Ltd. Joint interim CEO
O’Neill started with the company in 2008.  “Venkatakrishnan is known in the industry, he is well
respected and is seen as a good guy by his colleagues,” Meyer
said. “He is seen as immensely practical and a good appointment
if he is chosen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  