-- ANZ Seen Bolstered by Unwinding $2 Billion Asian Bet
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-04-19T06:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/anz-seen-bolstered-by-unwinding-2-billion-asian-bet.html
After spending more money on
acquisitions across Asia than any domestic rival,  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  would do better for its
shareholders by unraveling some of that wager.  ANZ has spent at least $1.95 billion since 1999 on Asian
deals, landing minority stakes in banks and brokers from  China 
to Indonesia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
holdings -- now valued by ANZ at $3.64 billion -- have proven
less  lucrative  than ANZ’s own operations there and selling them
would reverse a strategy that has defined the bank since 2007.  With little chance ANZ will ever have management control to
improve the performance of some of the Asian assets, the
Melbourne-based bank’s stock has trailed Australian peers in the
past year, said BBY Ltd. New rules requiring the bank to set
aside more capital against the foreign stakes are making them
even less appealing, said Morningstar Inc. ANZ’s return on
equity is projected to slip below all three of its major
domestic rivals by 2015, analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “They should just sell them,” Brett Le Mesurier, an
analyst at Sydney-based stockbroker BBY, said in a phone
interview, referring to the minority stakes. “It makes no
sense. It’s alright if it’s a road to somewhere, but we’re not
seeing much evidence of that. Shareholders are running out of
patience.”  ANZ  fell  2 percent to A$28.41 at the close in Sydney.  Smith’s Ambition  Minority stakes “should involve a pathway to control over
the medium to longer term or strong strategic rationale,” ANZ
spokesman Paul Edwards said in e-mail, declining to comment on
specific units. While the bank’s approach to such investments is
creating value for shareholders, the strategy in Asia is mainly
focused on ANZ-branded assets, he said.  ANZ opened for business as the Bank of Australasia in 1835,
when the country operated as a British penal colony. A local
merger in 1951 created ANZ Bank and since 1971, the company has
opened offices and branches in China,  Malaysia , Thailand,
 Singapore , the  Philippines  and  Vietnam , according to a history
of the bank on its  website .  Michael Smith, the former head of HSBC Holdings Plc’s Asian
operations, took over at ANZ in 2007 and pledged to generate
more income from the region’s faster-growing markets,
distinguishing it from bigger rivals at home.  Australia ’s banking market is dominated by four lenders,
led by  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
which compete in a market where credit demand has languished
since the financial crisis.  Lacking Control  Smith plans to increase the proportion of income from
outside Australia and New Zealand to  30 percent  by 2017 from
about 21 percent last fiscal year and 8 percent when he arrived,
according to the company’s full-year earnings presentation. His
largest purchase toward that goal was in August 2009, when he
agreed to pay Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc about $550
million for retail and commercial businesses across Asia, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  It’s with a clutch of smaller investments in companies
where returns are lagging and ANZ has no control that Smith
faces a potential dilemma.  “You have to be clear there’s a route to advance those
investments, to gain control, otherwise you’re better off
deploying the capital elsewhere,” Ross Curran, an analyst at
Commonwealth Bank in Sydney, said in a phone interview.  Limited Options  The most valuable of ANZ’s minority stakes is a 24 percent
share of Kuala Lumpur-based  AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM) , Malaysia’s
sixth-biggest bank. Acquired in 2006 for A$833 million, ANZ now
values the holding at A$1.14 billion ($1.17 billion), according
to the bank’s 2012 annual report. The stake would fetch the
equivalent of A$1.5 billion, based on AMMB’s stock price
yesterday.  In Malaysia, while foreign ownership of banks is capped at
30 percent, the central bank has said it may waive that
restriction in certain cases.  In Indonesia, ANZ owns 39 percent of PT Bank Pan Indonesia,
which it values at A$668 million. That stake is now valued on
the stock market at the equivalent of about A$790 million.  Indonesia’s Mu’min Gunawan family considered selling its 46
percent stake in the bank in 2010, an official at the bank said
at the time. Although Reuters reported that ANZ was a leading
candidate to buy the shares, no deal was struck.  “If the other parties are not willing sellers, then it
does limit ANZ’s options,” said David Ellis, an analyst at
Morningstar in Sydney. “If they want to establish 100 percent-
owned businesses in  Indonesia (PNBN)  and Malaysia, they’re caught.
Perhaps the other option is to get out.”  Lagging Behind  Like AMMB, the Indonesian stake was purchased before
Smith’s tenure as CEO began. He said this month that he would
consider selling the stake at the right price, the  Australian
Financial Review  reported April 4.  ANZ also owns 20 percent of Shanghai Rural Commercial Bank,
and an 18 percent stake in both Bank of Tianjin Co. and Ho Chi
Minh City-based stockbroker Saigon Securities Inc.  The investments are lagging behind ANZ’s own businesses at
home and abroad. In isolation, profit from the Asian minority
investments rose only 3.8 percent to A$330 million in the year
ended September 2012, filings show. As a whole, ANZ’s net income
from the Asia Pacific region,  Europe  and the Americas climbed 22
percent to A$908 million.  ‘Do It Yourself’  The success of ANZ-branded businesses in Asia is another
reason to exit the investments, said John Buonaccorsi, an
analyst at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. in Sydney. ANZ has branches
even in countries where it owns the minority stakes. In
 Indonesia , the bank has 28 of its own ANZ-branded branches, for
example.  “They’ve built up massively under the ANZ banner,”
Buonaccorsi said. If ANZ had to do it all again, they’d probably
build their own branch network, he said. “Do it all yourself,
get a banking license and build it up slowly.”  In the 12 months through yesterday, ANZ  shares  climbed less
than peers. The 25 percent gain by ANZ trailed a  36 percent 
climb by Commonwealth Bank, a  44 percent  jump at Westpac and a
27 percent advance by National Australia Bank Ltd.  New banking rules require ANZ to deduct the entire value of
the overseas investments from Tier 1 capital, funds to protect a
bank against potential losses. Formerly, only half of the value
of the investment was deducted.  Falling ROE  “That’s potentially a trigger” for asset sales, said
Buonaccorsi. “Selling one or two of these stakes would keep the
regulators here happy and also give them a little bit extra just
in case something comes up.”  Deutsche Bank AG analysts last year estimated the return on
equity -- a measure of how well shareholder money is reinvested
-- from ANZ’s minority stakes would fall to 10 percent from 15
percent under the new capital rules. In the last fiscal year,
ANZ’s return on equity across the whole group was  14.6 percent ,
according to data by Bloomberg.  ANZ’s ROE will remain unchanged through 2015, meaning the
bank will fall behind its three main Australian rivals in two
years, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If you can’t solve the ROE puzzle, pack up,” said Le
Mesurier at BBY. “It’s very easy to throw capital at it. It’s
another thing to get a decent return.”  Other Buyers  Any sale would take place as other large banks seek to
expand into Asia.  Japan ’s Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.
and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. have both discussed a
potential purchase of TPG Capital’s $1.8 billion stake in
Indonesia’s PT Bank Tabungan Pensiunan Nasional, people with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  Mitsubishi UFJ is also interested in buying a stake in
 Thailand ’s  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl  from General Electric Co., it
said, while South Korea’s Hana Financial Group Inc. is seeking
to buy a bank in Indonesia, the Korea Economic Daily newspaper
reported last year.  To be sure, some of ANZ’s stakes hold strategic value for
the company, providing local expertise in a developing market.
For instance, ANZ must have a presence in China, said Curran,
the analyst at Commonwealth Bank.  “You’re operating under certain ownership restrictions,
but a bank of ANZ’s size has to be there,” he said.  There are signs ANZ is backing away from some investments.
The bank last year sold its stake in Vietnam’s Saigon Thuong Tin
Commercial Joint-Stock Bank to develop its own business. The
bank also opted out of a rights issue at China’s  Bank of
Tianjin , diluting its stake from 20 percent to 18 percent.  In a December presentation about its “super regional
strategy” the bank acknowledged that “partnership investments
are something that will be kept under active review” because of
the new capital requirements.  “The tougher rules make these sorts of investments less
attractive,” said Ellis, the Morningstar analyst. “If they
persist with them, their return on equity won’t grow as fast. In
this world of intense focus on capital efficiency, it wouldn’t
surprise me if someone like ANZ was looking to exit some of
these.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  