-- ArcelorMittal, Bayer, OxyContin: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-04-18T11:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/arcelormittal-bayer-oxycontin-intellectual-property.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)  USA LLC, part of the
world’s biggest steelmaker, sued units of  OAO Severstal (CHMF) ,
Russia’s second-largest steelmaker, and  Nisshin Steel Holdings
Co. (5413)  for allegedly infringing a patent for metal used in auto
parts.  Michigan-based Severstal Dearborn and West Virginia-based
Wheeling-Nisshin Inc. misappropriated technology for the high-
strength, aluminum-coated metal, the U.S. arm of Luxembourg-
based ArcelorMittal said in a complaint filed April 16 in
federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  ArcelorMittal “has the sole and exclusive right and
license” under the patent, and Severstal and Nisshin should pay
damages after a  jury trial , the company said in the complaint.  Nisshin President Toshinori Miki didn’t answer the phone at
the company’s offices in Tokyo before regular business hours.  “For the past three years, Severstal has successfully
defended itself” against ArcelorMittal claims, and “it will
continue to successfully defend itself against this most recent
complaint,” Katya Pruett, a Severstal spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed message.  The lawsuit joins a similar action also filed yesterday in
the same court by ArcelorMittal against  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS) 
over the same patent.  Barry L. Racey, an AK spokesman, didn’t return calls and e-
mails seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is ArcelorMittal USA LLC v. Severstal Dearborn
LLC, 13-cv-00686, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington). The case against AK is ArcelorMittal v.  AK Steel ,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patent in the lawsuit, click: RE44,153.  Bayer Claims Syngenta’s Appear Fungicide Infringes Its Patent  Bayer AG’s (BAYN)  CropScience unit, maker of the Chipco Signature
fungicide, filed a lawsuit claiming  Syngenta AG’s (SYNN)  Appear product
uses its patented technology and falsely claims to be a superior
product.  Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer, in a complaint filed April
16, asked a federal court in North Carolina to order the
infringement and marketing pitch stopped, as well as cash
compensation for any loss of sales or reputation.  The dispute is over a fungicide that includes the compound
phthalocyanine, used on citrus plants, golf courses, park lawns
and roses.  The patent, called “fungicidal compositions for the
enhancement of turf quality,” was first issued in 1997. Bayer
last week said it was beefing up its turf and ornamentals
management, including appointing a product manager for
fungicides.  Syngenta, based in Basel, Switzerland, is the world’s
largest maker of crop chemicals. Fungicides accounted for $3
billion in sales last year, or 23 percent of Syngenta’s  revenue ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company is
scheduled to announce first-quarter earnings today.  Syngenta doesn’t comment on pending litigation, Paul
Minehart, a company spokesman, said.  The case is Bayer CropScience Inc. v. Syngenta Crop
Protection LLC, 13-cv-00316, U.S. District Court, Middle
District of North Carolina.  FDA Bans Generic Copies of Purdue Pharma’s Older OxyContin  Generic-drug companies will be barred from making copies of
older versions of OxyContin that don’t have tamper-resistant
qualities, U.S. regulators said.  The  Food and Drug Administration  determined April 16 that
closely held Purdue Pharma LP, maker of a reformulated
OxyContin, pulled previous versions of the popular painkiller
without abuse-deterrent measures from the market for safety or
effectiveness reasons. The determination will keep generic
drugmakers such as  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Impax
Laboratories Inc. (IPXL)  from making copies of the older version.  Generic drugmakers had been waiting for the expiration this
week of a patent on the original OxyContin.  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based Purdue Pharma pulled that version from U.S.
pharmacy shelves and replaced it with a tamper-resistant
formulation in August 2010 after reports of widespread abuse.
The newer drug is still under patent protection.  Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP)  is seeking a similar
determination from the FDA regarding its old painkiller Opana,
which the  Chadds Ford , Pennsylvania-based company had pulled and
reformulated with abuse-deterrent features. Impax currently
sells a generic version of the original Opana.  Defamation  Trump School Must Show Malice to Prove Defamation, Court Rules  Trump University must show that an ex-student knew she
falsely accused the school of deceptive practices before the
school can sue for defamation, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San
Francisco held yesterday.  The school, which promises to teach developer  Donald Trump ’s “insider success secrets,” must show that the ex-
student acted with malice when she alleged in letters to the
Better Business Bureau and other entities that it engaged in
high-pressure sales tactics, trickery and “a gargantuan amount
of misleading, fraudulent, and predatory behavior,” the judges
said.  “Trump University is not a public figure because Donald
Trump is famous and controversial,” the court said. “Trump
University is a limited public figure because a public debate
existed regarding its aggressively advertised educational
practices.”  The ex-student, Tarla Makaeff, who paid $34,000 in
enrollment fees, sued the school in 2010 on behalf of herself
and other students alleging deceptive business practices. The
school countersued, alleging defamation.  Makaeff sought dismissal of the school’s claims under a law
that protects people from frivolous lawsuits meant to quell free
speech over public issues. A federal judge denied her request,
saying Trump University wasn’t a public figure and had a
reasonable chance of success on its defamation claim.  The appeals court said that as a public figure the school
must be held to a heightened standard of proof and show Makaeff
acted with malice when she criticized Trump University.  The panel sent the case back to the trial judge and said
that if Trump can’t make such a showing, “it has no possibility
of success on the merits” and the defamation claim should be
thrown out.  Jill Martin, an attorney for Trump, said the company will
ask for a rehearing by the full appeals court and that Makaeff
“must be held accountable for her defamatory statements.” Eric
Issacson, a lawyer for Makaeff, didn’t immediately reply to e-
mail and voice-mail messages seeking comment on the ruling.  Trump University, founded as an online school for business
professionals, later became the Trump Entrepreneur Initiative.  The appeal is Makaeff v. Trump University, 11-55016, U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).
The original case is Makaeff v. Trump University LLC, 3:10-
cv-00940, U.S. District Court, Southern District of California
(San Diego).  Art World  Kravis Resolves Claims Against Bryant Over Johns Works  Henry Kravis , the co-chairman of KKR & Co., and art
collector Donald L. Bryant Jr. agreed to resolve claims that
Bryant reneged on an agreement to donate paintings by  Jasper Johns  to the Museum of  Modern Art  in New York.  Kravis sued Bryant in New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan in January, claiming he went back on an agreement to
donate the paintings they jointly owned to MoMA after the two
collectors took turns displaying the works in their homes.  Kravis, his wife Marie-Josee, MoMA and Bryant, in a court
filing dated April 16, asked a judge in Manhattan to approve a
proposed consent order and final judgment resolving Kravis’s
claims and counterclaims filed by Bryant.  The proposed order would amend an agreement among the three
parties to allow the Kravises to possess the artworks until Feb.
16, 2014, when they would be given to Bryant. The two parties
would then have alternating rights of possession every 12
months. The works are to be donated to MoMA after the death of
the owners.  Bryant in a court filing last month said he “never
impliedly or expressly repudiated the promised gift of his
interest” in the art to MoMA and that he confirmed to Johns his
intent to donate the works to the museum. Bryant said he was
preparing to transfer possession of the works to Kravis in
January when the lawsuit was filed, and that the art was
delivered on Jan. 30.  The case is Kravis v. Bryant, 150705/2012, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  Law Firm Moves  Goodwin Procter Expands Technology Companies Group  David W. Van Horne Jr. has joined Goodwin Procter LLP in
its  San Francisco  office as a partner in its technology
companies group.  According to a statement from the firm, Van Horne will
focus on emerging growth companies as well as venture capital
funds. He has experience in corporate formation and governance
issues, in addition to mergers and acquisitions. Van Horne joins
Goodwin from Gunderson Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin &
Hachigan LLP, where he was a partner as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  