-- Argentine Soccer Fans Rob Pope’s Rival Team in Locker Room
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-04-18T20:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/argentine-soccer-fans-rob-pope-s-rival-team-in-locker-room.html
Supporters of Argentine soccer  club
Huracan , the sixth largest in terms of fans in the country,
entered the team’s locker room today after practice and beat up
and robbed some players and destroyed a few of their cars.  An estimated 150 Huracan fans, some of them hooded, entered
the locker at the team’s stadium south of Buenos Aires, known
for being the site of a chase scene in “The Secret in Their
Eyes,”  an Argentine movie  that won an Oscar in 2010 for best
foreign picture. They stole watches, mobile telephones and money
from the players, the club’s president told C5N, a local
television channel.  Buenos Aires-based Huracan, which was eliminated from an
Argentine soccer tournament yesterday after losing on penalties
against Mendoza-based Godoy Cruz, is the only one of the
country’s largest teams playing in the lower-level second
division. Huracan’s top crosstown rival is San Lorenzo, among
the country’s largest teams, whose most famous supporter is Pope Francis.  “This is outrageous,” former club director Lucio Di
Matteo said in a telephone interview from  Buenos Aires . “This
incident intensifies the crisis that began in 1986 when the team
was sent to the second division for the very first time.”  Of the remaining four large teams, Boca, Independiente,
Racing and River, only Boca and Independiente haven’t been
relegated to play in the second division.  Alejandro Nadur, president of Huracan, said the players
will report the incident to the police in an interview
broadcasted by C5N. TN said on its website Huracan’s coach and
several players are considering whether to continue with the
team.  Huracan hasn’t won a championship since 1973.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  