-- Arkansas Senate Passes Medicaid-Private Insurance Proposal
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-04-18T02:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/arkansas-senate-passes-medicaid-private-insurance-proposal.html
An  Arkansas  proposal to use
Medicaid money to buy private insurance for poor residents was
passed by the state Senate, aiding efforts to implement the
Obama administration’s health-care overhaul in states with
Republican-led legislatures.  Twenty-seven lawmakers voted for the legislation today,
while eight opposed it, according to Senate spokesman  John Reed .
The bill now goes to Governor Mike Beebe, a Democrat who
received informal approval Feb. 18 from the federal government
to use money for Medicaid expansion under President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act to instead buy private coverage.  “You can expect the governor to sign this bill very
soon,” Beebe’s spokesman Matt DeCample said. “This is what
we’ve been working on for months.”  Republican-led states have resisted signing on to the
Medicaid expansion since the U.S. Supreme Court last year gave
them leeway to opt out. Arkansas is poised to be a template for
other states considering a similar approach, said Sara Rosenbaum, a professor of health law and policy at the George
Washington University School of  Public Health . Republicans hold
majorities in the Arkansas House and Senate.  Lawmakers in  Texas , the second-most populous state, are
mulling a bill similar to the Arkansas plan by using federal
money to help poor Texans buy private insurance. While Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  opposes expansion of Medicaid, state
Representative John Zerwas and other Republican legislators are
pushing for action before the legislature adjourns in late May.  Texas Coverage  Twenty-four percent of Texas residents don’t have health
insurance, the highest percentage in the U.S., according to data
compiled by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, a  Menlo Park ,
California-based health research group. The uninsured rate in
Arkansas is 18 percent.  “Texas is the ‘big fish’ and the problematic one,”  Sheryl Skolnick  of CRT Capital Group LLC said today in a note.  Shares of insurers that offer Medicaid plans for states,
including  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , gained April 16 after the Arkansas
House passed the measure. Adding more customers should boost
profit for insurers in 2014 and beyond, Skolnick said.  The Obama administration is likely to be as accommodating
as the law allows out of fear that states won’t expand at all,
Rosenbaum said.  Flexibility Sought  “It is very important at this juncture for the
administration to be as flexible as the law permits it to be
because of the far worse specter of having January 1, 2014, come
along and finding out that the poorest citizens of the  United
States  have no coverage,” she said.  The federal government is building part or all of the
health-insurance exchanges in 34 states where governors or
legislatures declined to do it themselves. The exchanges, market
places where consumers can shop for health plans, are supposed
to open on Oct. 1.  Medicaid is the joint-federal health program for the poor.
An expansion of the program is a key component of the
administration’s effort using the Affordable Care Act to provide
coverage by 2017 for about 27 million Americans now without
insurance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  