-- U.S. Stocks Drop as European Shares Erase Early Gains
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-04-18T21:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/asian-stocks-drop-on-corporate-earnings-concern-yen-advances.html
U.S. stocks fell for a second day
amid disappointing  earnings  reports and data on leading economic
indicators and Philadelphia-area manufacturing that trailed
estimates. European shares  erased  earlier gains while gold rose
and oil rebounded from a four-month low.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.7 percent to
1,541.61 at 4 p.m. in  New York , its lowest closing level since
March 6. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index reversed a 0.7 percent rally
to close unchanged. The euro strengthened 0.1 percent to
$1.3049. Gold for immediate delivery rebounded for a third day
from its worst drop in three decades, climbing 0.8 percent to
$1,388.02 an ounce. Oil rallied amid a weaker dollar, while 10-
year  U.S. Treasury  yields fell one basis point to 1.69 percent.  More than  $1 trillion  has been erased from the value of
equities worldwide this week as concern deepened the global
recovery was weakening and companies from Bank of America Corp.
to Textron Inc. reported disappointing results. Finance
ministers from around the world prepared to gather in  Washington 
to discuss policies to support the economy and strengthen
financial systems.  “The market was more ripe for hiccups and we’re seeing
it,”  David Sowerby , who helps oversee about $185 billion at
Loomis Sayles & Co. in  Bloomfield Hills ,  Michigan , said by
phone. “We had a long run. Sentiment got more bearish and the
earnings season has been a series of C plus.”  Market Movers  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  has retreated more than 3.2 percent from a
record close on April 11, spurring concern over what UBS AG
strategist  Jonathan Golub  called a “spring break” in equities.
U.S. stocks began short-term declines in April during each of
the last three years. The  S&P 500  fell 9.9 percent between April
2 and June 1 of last year and peaked on April 29, 2011, before a
19 percent slide ending that October. The index tumbled 16
percent from a high in April 2010 to July 2 of that year.  Losses in the S&P 500 today were led by technology, health-
care and consumer-discretionary companies, with each group
losing more than 1 percent collectively. The Nasdaq 100 Index
dropped 1.4 percent to extend its two-day slump to 3.4 percent,
the biggest slide in five months. The VIX, as the Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, rose 6.4 percent to
17.56. The benchmark gauge of options prices jumped as much as
10 percent to 18.20 and briefly erased its 2013 loss amid
growing demand for protection against declines in stocks.  EBay, UnitedHealth  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  sank 5.9 percent, the most since September 2011,
as the operator of the largest Internet marketplace reported
first-quarter sales that missed some analysts’ estimates.
UnitedHealth Group Inc. slid 3.8 percent as earnings were hurt
by rising medical costs and lower government reimbursements.
Morgan Stanley lost 5.4 percent after the firm reported the
biggest drop in trading revenue among the largest U.S. banks.  Verizon Communications Inc. advanced 2.8 percent as growth
in wireless customers helped profit beat estimates, while
PepsiCo Inc. rose 3 percent to a record on better-than-estimated
earnings.  After financial markets closed, quarterly results were
released from International Business Machines Corp., Microsoft
Corp. and Google Inc. IBM slid 3.6 percent in extended trading
at 4:57 p.m. in New York after first-quarter profit missed
estimates amid a slowdown in hardware sales. Microsoft climbed
2.4 percent after hours as cost controls helped boost earnings
above projections. Google rose 1.4 percent as increased spending
from advertisers on mobile devices helped earnings beat
estimates.  ‘Important Earnings Season’  Earnings beat estimates at 75 percent of the 85 companies
in the S&P 500 that posted results so far this season, while 51
percent topped revenue projections, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  “It’s an important earnings season, with market
participants trying to see if corporate earnings and forecasts
are going to be in-line with the weakening global macro data,”
Serge Berger, a Zurich-based trader at Blue Oak Advisors LLC,
said in a phone interview.  The index of U.S. leading indicators unexpectedly declined
in March for the first time in seven months, a sign the world’s
largest economy will cool. The Conference Board’s gauge of the
outlook for the next three to six months fell 0.1 percent in
March after climbing 0.5 percent in the prior two months. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
0.1 percent increase.  Philadelphia Manufacturing  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index fell to 1.3 in April from 2 the prior month. Readings
greater than zero signal expansion in the area covering eastern
Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware . The median
forecast of economists surveyed called for a reading of 3. The
Labor Department reported applications for jobless insurance
payments increased by 4,000 to 352,000 in the week ended April
13, in line with the median forecast.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  ended unchanged today after closing yesterday
at the lowest level of the year. The index tumbled 3.8 percent
in four days, the most since a 4.4 percent slump in July.  Debenhams Plc rallied the most in more than five months
after the U.K.’s second-biggest department-store chain gained
market share in the first half. Syngenta AG advanced 3 percent
as the chemical company’s Brazilian operations boosted revenue.
Nokia Oyj tumbled 8.3 percent after the mobile-phone maker
posted results that disappointed investors.  Glaxo Jumps  GlaxoSmithKline Plc climbed 3.2 percent to the highest in
11 years after advisers to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
recommended that experimental treatment Breo Ellipta be approved
to treat a lung disorder.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield dropped one basis point to 4.67
percent, paring a drop of as much as eight points, and Italy’s
added one point to 4.26 percent.  Spain sold 2023 bonds at an average yield of 4.612 percent,
the least since September 2010.  France  raised 7.91 billion euros
in a debt sale, with the yield on five-year notes falling to a
record low auction rate of 0.73 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined 0.4 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi index sank 1.2 percent as LG Display Co. tumbled
4.8 percent, the most in four months, after audio-chip maker
Cirrus Logic Inc. reported an inventory glut that suggests
iPhone sales may fall short of estimates. Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co., which assembles Apple Inc.’s iPhone, dropped 1.3
percent in Taipei to the lowest level since Aug. 3.  Russia’s Micex Index was little changed while Brazil’s
Bovespa rallied 0.5 percent Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA
jumped almost 11 percent.  Oil, Gold  Oil for May delivery rose 1.2 percent to $87.73 a barrel in
New York amid a weaker dollar and signals that recent declines
were exaggerated. The 14-day relative-strength index for oil
slid to 29.9 yesterday, a sign prices may have fallen too far.  Gold for immediate delivery advanced for a third day after
the biggest plunge in three decades. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24
commodities climbed 0.8 percent as natural gas, coffee and
heating oil also added more than 2 percent. European Union
emission permits rebounded 12 percent after tumbling 42 percent
the previous two days.  The gain in gold came amid signs that demand is rebounding
among consumers and investors. The China Gold Association said
that retail sales soared on April 15 and April 16, and the All
India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation said that demand climbed
to the highest this year.  Gold’s price peak in 2011 probably signals the end of
China, emerging economies and commodities leading the financial
markets, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The precious metal, which rose to an all-time high of
$1,921.15 an ounce in London trading on Sept. 6, 2011, has
slumped 17 percent this year. In 1980, a peak in  gold prices 
preceded by several quarters the end to a  bear market  for bonds
and a peak in inflation and  oil prices , the bank’s investment
strategists led by  Michael Hartnett  wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  