-- Aspen Buys Nestle Infant-Nutrition in Australia, Africa
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-04-18T15:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/aspen-buys-nestle-infant-nutrition-licenses-in-australia-africa.html
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN) , the
largest maker of generic medicines in the southern Hemisphere,
agreed to buy licenses to sell  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s  infant formula  in
Australia and southern African countries for $215 million.  Aspen will get the right to intellectual property licenses
and assets that have been owned by a  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  unit that
Nestle is acquiring, Aspen said in a statement today. Australian
competition authorities have approved the acquisition, while
South African and Namibian approval is pending, Aspen said.  The drugmaker, which supplies medicines in more than 150
countries, is acquiring product lines to expand in Australia,
Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa. The Asia-Pacific business
is expected to replace  South Africa  as the group’s largest
revenue generator by the end of the 2013 financial year, Aspen
said March 7.  “This is a good fit,” said Wayne McCurrie, a portfolio
manager at Momentum Asset Management in Johannesburg. “Aspen’s
business model has been to buy the rights to use established
trade names and to distribute these in fast growing-regions and
 emerging markets . The pharmaceutical space is hugely
competitive, so Aspen has to keep delivering such deals.”  Nestle is selling assets after its $11.9 billion purchase
of Pfizer’s infant nutrition business to comply with antitrust
regulators.  Aspen previously had an agreement with Pfizer to sell
infant formula. That partnership, which had contributed sales of
about 250 million rand ($27 million) a year, ended in April
2011. To replace the loss of the business, Aspen introduced its
own brand of infant milk, Infacare Gold.  The stock, which has rallied 63 percent in the past year,
was little changed at the close in Johannesburg, adding less
than 0.1 percent to 191 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  