-- Australian Bonds Rise as Growth Concern Boosts RBA Easing Bets
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-04-18T06:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/aussie-n-z-dollars-hold-drops-on-growth-concern-bonds-rise.html
Australia ’s government bonds rose,
sending the 10-year yield to the lowest in more than four
months, as investors added to bets the central bank will cut
borrowing costs.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 40 percent chance the  Reserve Bank of Australia  will lower
its benchmark to record 2.75 percent at the next meeting on May
7, compared with 22 percent probability indicated a week ago.
Australia’s dollar reached a one-month low as stocks and
commodity prices retreated. The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its global growth forecast this week, citing a lagging recovery
in Europe.  “A big drop in consumer prices or lackluster global growth
could boost easing expectations,” said Takuya Kawabata, an
analyst at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s largest currency margin company. “The Aussie and kiwi
are hit as stocks and commodity prices declined.”  Three-year yields in Australia touched 2.68 percent, the
lowest since Jan. 24. Ten-year yields fell as much as nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.17 percent, a four-month
low.  Australia’s dollar fetched $1.0318 as of 4:39 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0297 yesterday, after earlier touching $1.0269,
the lowest since March 12. The so-called Aussie was little
changed at 101.07 yen.  The  New Zealand  dollar rose 0.3 percent to 84.68 U.S. cents
from yesterday, when it declined 0.6 percent. The currency
bought 82.95 yen from 82.82.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  dropped 1.1 percent. Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB  index  of raw materials lost 0.8 percent
yesterday.  RBA Policy  In March, the RBA sold A$71 million ($73 million) more in
local currency than it bought through the so-called other
outright transaction category and sold a net A$577 million in
the  spot market .  The central bank reiterated in the minutes released this
week of its April 2 meeting that the Australian dollar
“remained high” and the inflation outlook gives it room to cut
borrowing costs.  Australia’s consumer prices probably rose 2.8 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the
Bureau of Statistics releases the data on April 24.  Global Growth  The Washington-based IMF trimmed its global growth forecast
this week to 3.3 percent for 2013 from the January estimate of
3.5 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  erased earlier losses after
 China ’s new home prices rose. The gauge gained 0.2 percent,
after falling as much as much as 0.8 percent. Property prices
increased in all but two cities, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in a statement today. China is the biggest
trading partner for both Australia and New Zealand.  “Chinese home sales in March were quite good,” said Bill Diviney, a Tokyo-based currency strategist at Barclays Plc.
“This seems to be what’s driven Shanghai stocks to recover a
bit. I don’t think it’s a huge positive for the Aussie, but you
could say it’s a factor that’s supporting it.”  In New Zealand, job advertisements rose for a second month
in March. The  number  of postings in newspapers and the Internet
increased 0.7 percent last month from a revised 1.8 percent in
February, ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. said in Wellington today.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive a floating rate, fell two basis points to 2.85 percent.
The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand will meet on April 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  