-- Australia Mining Town Vacancy Jump Shows Investor Risk, SQM Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-04-18T01:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/australia-mining-town-vacancy-jump-shows-investor-risk-sqm-says.html
Rental vacancies in Australian
mining towns are climbing faster than the national average,
highlighting the risk of a “severe correction” as the
resources industry slows, according to  SQM Research Pty.   The vacancy rate in Gladstone, Queensland, more than
tripled to 5.6 percent in March from 1.7 percent a year ago, and
 Port Hedland  in  Western Australia  had 4.6 percent of rental
properties vacant, compared with 1.6 percent a year earlier,
according to the Sydney-based researcher. That compared with an
average vacancy rate of 1.9 percent across  Australia ’s eight
state and territory capitals.  “Property investors over the past 10 years have done
extraordinarily well if they held real estate in mining towns,”
SQM Managing Director Louis Christopher said in the e-mailed
release. “However, there is always a risk that when a downturn
arrives these markets could have a very rapid and severe
correction.”  Australia is nearing the peak of what the nation’s central
bank has said is a “once-in-a-century” mining investment boom,
with resources companies holding off on expansion as growth in
 China , the biggest buyer of metals, slows. The median weekly
rent in Karratha, 1,200 kilometers (746 miles) north of Western
Australia state capital Perth, fell to A$1,250 ($1,287) in the
three months to Dec. 31, from A$1,750 a year earlier, according
to the  Real Estate Institute of Western Australia .  Port Hedland house prices gained 20 percent annually in the
past 10 years, while in nearby Karratha, prices have climbed an
average of 13.4 percent a year, REIWA data shows.  The vacancy rate in Karratha was 3.7 percent in March,
compared with 0.2 percent two years ago, SQM said.  The national vacancy rate was up from 1.7 percent a year
earlier, SQM said today. Canberra had the biggest increase,
jumping to 1.4 percent in March from 0.6 percent a year earlier,
followed by Perth and Darwin, which doubled to 1 percent and 1.2
percent respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  