-- Australia Litigation Funders Spur Record 2012 Settlements
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-04-18T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/australia-litigation-funders-spur-record-2012-settlements.html
The value of securities class
action settlements in  Australia  in 2012 was a record A$480
million ($495 million), almost as much as the total since group
lawsuits were introduced,  law firm  King & Wood Mallesons said.  Total settlements since the country allowed class actions
20 years ago now stand at just over A$1 billion, the firm said
in a report today, citing a growth in litigation funders as a
key reason.  Although the U.S. is seen as the birth place of class
actions, Australia has taken the lead in a number of areas. That
includes the first class action lawsuit examining the conduct of
an investment bank in relation to the sale of collateralized
debt obligations when a Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. unit was
found liable for losses incurred by three towns from buying
failed securities, King & Wood Mallesons said.  Australia was also the first jurisdiction in which
proceedings were successfully brought against a rating company,
when  Standard & Poor’s  was found liable in November for
misleading Australian towns with its investment ratings, the law
firm said.  “After 20 years, the risk profile for Australian companies
has been permanently altered,” King & Wood Mallesons said.
“Class actions pose a significant threat to any listed company
and its directors and officers.”  Last year also saw more settlements than any other year in
Australia, with 13 class actions settled, the firm said. King &
Wood Mallesons, with 2,200 legal professionals, was formed last 
year by the merger of Sydney-based and Beijing-based firms.  Centro, Argentum  The record settlement value was led by the highest ever
reached in the Australia in May when Centro Retail Australia and
PricewaterhouseCoopers agreed to pay A$200 million to
shareholders who claimed they were misled by company statements
in 2007 that failed to disclose its debt levels.  U.K.-based Argentum Investment Management Ltd. entered the
country last year, bringing the number of active litigation
funders to at least eight, King & Wood Mallesons said.  “More funders will inevitably drive more class action
litigation as they compete for market share,” it said.  Litigation funding has proven to be a good business model,
the law firm said, with  IMF (Australia) Ltd. (IMF)  generating A$1.2
billion since listing in January 2000 and making a gross return
on investment of 304 percent, King & Wood Mallesons said.  Litigation funders say they can get as much as half the
compensation awarded to the group members, according to the law
firm.  “With the potential profits involved, it is unsurprising
that new players, including both lawyers and funders, are
looking for opportunities to capitalize on this lucrative form
of litigation,” King & Wood Mallesons said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  