-- AutoNation Profits on Housing-to-Energy U.S. Bright Spots
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-04-18T20:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/autonation-profits-on-housing-to-energy-u-s-bright-spots.html
AutoNation Inc. (SAH) , the largest U.S.
retailer of new cars and trucks, jumped after reporting
quarterly profit that beat analysts’ estimates as the housing
and energy industries boosted vehicle demand.  AutoNation climbed 1.9 percent to $43.30 at the close in
 New York . The shares surged as much as 12 percent earlier, the
biggest intraday jump since February 2011. AutoNation has
increased 28 percent in the past 12 months, outpacing the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) ’s 11 percent rise.  AutoNation is benefiting from stabilization and recovery in
the housing market, particularly in states such as  California ,
 Nevada ,  Arizona  and  Florida , Chief Executive Officer  Mike Jackson  said in an interview. The retailer also is getting a
boost from growth in the energy sector in  Texas , as well as a
broader U.S. auto market that Jackson forecasts will increase by
about 1 million new-vehicle sales this year.  “Those three bright spots in the economy -- energy,
housing and automotive -- all work for us,” Jackson said by
telephone. “For the automotive recovery, we still think we’re
in the early innings.”  First-quarter net income rose to $83 million from $73
million a year earlier, the Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based
company said today in a statement. Profit from continuing
operations climbed 21 percent to 68 cents a share, topping the
64-cent average  estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Sales increased 12 percent to $4.1 billion.  “The housing recovery has given consumers a sense of worth
and stability around their biggest asset: their home,” Jackson,
64, said in a separate interview on Bloomberg Television.  Renaming Stores  AutoNation began to rename all of its mass-market brand
franchises in the first quarter of this year after posting
record profit for 2012. The dealership group’s non-luxury
domestic and import franchises will use the AutoNation moniker.  The company has shifted about 30 percent of those
franchises to names such as AutoNation Chevrolet of Pembroke
Pines, a store between Miami and AutoNation’s headquarters in
 Fort Lauderdale . The franchise was previously Maroone Chevrolet
of Pembroke Pines.  AutoNation is boosting marketing spending by about 20
percent in the first half to inform customers about dealership
name changes. The switch will be completed by the end of the
second quarter, Jackson said.  The rebranding effort boosted the company’s selling,
general and administrative expenses by an incremental $6.5
million in the quarter, or about 3 cents a share, Mike Maroone,
AutoNation’s chief operating officer, said in an interview.  Digital Interests  “Being unified under a coast-to-coast brand gives us a
huge advantage in digital,” Maroone said by telephone. “We’re
making some very significant investments. A big chunk of that ad
spend is in digital, as well as in broadcast.”  AutoNation also disclosed in a regulatory filing today that
it may begin posting material information to the company’s
Twitter feed and Facebook page, or on the Twitter and Facebook
accounts of CEO Jackson. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission issued guidance earlier this month permitting
companies to use social media sites to communicate
announcements.  “It’s just accepting the new reality of the marketplace
today,” Jackson said on Bloomberg Television. “These are
wonderful communication tools that are instantaneous with the
broadest reach that you could possibly want.”  The company is forecasting industrywide U.S. vehicle sales
to climb to the mid-15 million-unit range in 2013 from 14.5
million last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  