-- Newspaper Says Taxi Driver’s Tale of Xi Jinping Ride Was False
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-18T11:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/taxi-driver-s-tale-of-incognito-ride-by-xi-causes-stir-in-china.html
Hong Kong’s Ta Kung Pao newspaper
apologized for publishing what it called a fake account of
President Xi Jinping’s ride in a Beijing taxi, after the report
became one of the most popular topics on  China ’s Internet today.  The story in the pro-Beijing newspaper had been posted on
the  official website  of the Beijing government and China.org.cn,
published under the State Council Information Office. The
account was dubbed on the Chinese Internet a tale of “weifu
sifang,” or “traveling incognito,” a phrase that describes
emperors’ secret forays in China’s dynastic period.  “We deeply regret it,” the newspaper said of publishing
the account. “We should not have allowed an error in our work
to lead to such incorrect news. We sincerely apologize to our
readers.”  The article said that Guo Lixin, the driver, claimed two
men hailed his taxi around 7 p.m. in downtown Beijing on March 1
and asked him to go to the Diaoyutai Hotel. As they chatted
along the way, Guo thought one of the passengers looked
familiar.  “Has anyone ever told you that you look like General
Secretary Xi?” Guo said he told his fare, according to the
story. “You are the first taxi driver to recognize me,” the
passenger was quoted as replying.  Guo complained about the city’s pollution and was told that
smog is easy to produce but hard to clean up, Ta Kung Pao said.
According to the story, Xi paid 30  yuan  ($4.85) for a 27-yuan
ride and told the driver to keep the change.  “Best wishes,” Guo’s passenger wrote on the back of a
fuel-surcharge receipt, the newspaper said. Searches for the
phrase in Chinese were later banned on Weibo.  Comment Request  The State Council Information Office didn’t immediately
respond to a faxed request for comment about the article. Asked
about the report at a briefing today, Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Hua Chunying said she had no information about the
matter.  Chinese state media have highlighted Xi’s populist bona
fides since he became Communist Party general secretary in
November. The Xinhua News Agency published a profile of him in
December under the headline “Xi Jinping: Man of the People,
Statesman of Vision.”  “Media reports remarked that Xi is a leader who brings a
fresh breeze to the country’s political life,” the Xinhua
profile said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  