-- May Raises Possibility of Prosecuting Abu Qatada in U.K.
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-18T10:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/may-raises-possibility-of-prosecuting-abu-qatada-in-u-k-.html
Home Secretary Theresa May raised
the possibility of prosecuting  Abu Qatada , an Islamic cleric
accused of links to al-Qaeda, in the U.K. after multiple efforts
to deport him for trial in his home country of  Jordan  stalled.  Britain’s Crown Prosecution Service “have looked and
continue to look at what evidence is available,” she told
lawmakers at a meeting of Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee in
London today.  Abu Qatada, who denies links to al-Qaeda, was granted a
reprieve from deportation in November and later released on bail
after a special immigration judge ruled he shouldn’t be
extradited to face terrorism charges because it wasn’t clear if
Jordanian authorities had obtained evidence through torture. He
was re-arrested in March and is being held in Belmarsh prison in
southeast London.  Police are looking at material discovered in the cleric’s
house in London to see whether it provides evidence that could
lead to a prosecution, May told lawmakers. She said yesterday
she’s seeking to have the  Supreme Court  review the ruling
blocking deportation.  The battle to remove the 52-year-old from the U.K. to
Jordan has seen Abu Qatada in jail for much of the last seven
years. May said she is “continuing to work” with the
authorities in Jordan to examine “other avenues that could be
pursued” leading to his deportation.  Asked to say when the cleric might be deported, she
replied, “I can’t put a date on it, and it would be silly for
me to try.”  Government lawyers failed to convince the appeals court in
March to deport the cleric, whose real name is Mohammed Othman,
when a three-judge panel ruled it couldn’t guarantee he would
receive a fair trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  