-- Baker & McKenzie, Ogletree Deakins: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-18T11:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/baker-mckenzie-ogletree-deakins-business-of-law.html
Baker & McKenzie  LLP will merge
with United Arab Emirates 40-lawyer  law firm  Habib Al Mulla on
July 1, to create Baker & McKenzie Habib Al Mulla. The firm will
advise clients on local and international law in its Dubai
offices and, with regulatory approval, in Abu Dhabi.  This is Baker & McKenzie’s eighth office in the Persian
Gulf, the Middle East and North Africa region, where the firm
has been active for more than 30 years. The firm opened an
associated office in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, in 1979, one in Cairo
in 1986, Bahrain in 1998, Abu Dhabi in 2009, Istanbul in 2011,
Doha, Qatar, in 2011 and Casablanca, Morocco, in 2012. With this
merger, Baker & McKenzie LLP now has more than 30 partners and
130 associates in the MENA region, the firm said in a statement.  Habib Al Mulla, who is known for being the architect of the
Financial Free Zones legal framework which led to the
establishment of the Dubai International Financial Centre,
established the firm bearing his name. It has been operating in
the UAE since 1984 with offices in Dubai and  Abu Dhabi . The firm
has strong practices in dispute resolution, corporate and
commercial law, banking, real estate and construction, Baker &
McKenzie said.  The merged office will be jointly led by Al Mulla as
chairman and co-managing partner and Borys Dackiw, managing
partner in Baker’s Gulf region.  “The combination with Habib Al Mulla cements our presence
in the UAE as it once again experiences strong economic
growth,” Eduardo Leite, chairman of Baker & McKenzie’s
executive committee, said in a statement. “The merger is
emblematic of our commitment to all our offices having deep
local roots, allowing us to offer clients the benefits of a
global platform while helping them navigate the most complex
local legal issues.”  Baker & McKenzie has more than 4,000 lawyers and more than
5,800 professional staff in 73 offices in 45 countries.  Litigators Form New York Boutique Firm Binder & Schwartz  Former Richards Kibbe & Orbe LLP partner Neil S. Binder and
former Reed Smith LLP partner Wendy H. Schwartz founded a new
litigation boutique, Binder & Schwartz LLP in  New York .  The firm focuses on representing companies and individuals
in complex business,  capital markets  and financial services
litigation, and in regulatory and internal investigations, they
said in a statement.  “The legal and business worlds are evolving, and we
identified a need for sophisticated legal services in a small-
firm setting where clients work directly with the seasoned
attorneys they retain,” Binder said in a statement.  The founding partners worked together as assistant U.S.
attorneys in the Southern District of New York until 2003. In
that role, Binder was lead counsel for the U.S. in Enron Corp.’s
bankruptcy proceedings, the firm said in a statement. At
Richards Kibbe, he specialized in complex financial litigation.  At the Southern District, Schwartz rose to deputy and
acting chief of the civil division, where she handled the
“yield-burning” False Claims Act cases, which concluded in
multi-agency settlements with 17 investment banks, the firm
said. She also tried NextWave Personal Communications Inc. v.
FCC, a fraudulent conveyance case worth $4 billion and
represented the U.S. in the WorldCom Inc.’s bankruptcy
proceedings.  “Neil and I offer decades of combined experience helping
clients through some of the most challenging civil lawsuits and
internal investigations in and out of the news,” Schwartz said
in a statement. “At our new firm we will provide our clients
the same counsel and support they are accustomed to receiving in
a direct hands-on setting.”  Ogletree Deakins’s 44th Office Opens in Richmond, Virginia  Labor and employment law firm Ogletree Deakins Nash Smoak
& Stewart PC opens a Richmond,  Virginia , office today. Jimmy F.
Robinson Jr., who joins Ogletree Deakins from Troutman Sanders
LLP, will be the office’s managing shareholder. Elizabeth
Ebanks, formerly a partner at LeClairRyan, joins as shareholder,
and another Troutman Sanders lawyer joins as of counsel.  Richmond is the second office the firm has opened in 2013
and the fifth to open in the past year. The firm opened its San
Diego office in January and opened an office in New York, Berlin
and  Stamford , Connecticut in 2012.  Kim Ebert, Ogletree Deakins’ managing shareholder said in
an interview that many of the firm’s existing clients have work
in Virginia the firm wasn’t previously able to handle because it
didn’t have an office there.  “We are confident that we have found the right team of
attorneys to guide our entry into the market,” he said in a
statement.  Robinson has traditional labor law experience. He
represents employers in litigating labor arbitration cases,
conducting election campaigns, and handling proceedings before
the  National Labor Relations Board  including unfair labor
practice charges, the firm said. He also represents non-
unionized employers in the development of strategies to help
those employers remain non-union.  Ebanks focuses her practice in on employment litigation
and counseling, including litigating discrimination, harassment
and retaliation claims in federal and state courts and before
administrative agencies in Virginia and the  District of Columbia 
metropolitan area.  Ebert said in the telephone interview that the firm expects
to open an office in  London  in the next month. The firm is also
looking at opportunities in  China .  Ogletree Deakins has more than 650 lawyers located in 44
offices across the U.S. and in Europe.  Kim Koopersmith’s Winning Legal Strategy at Akin Gump  Kim Koopersmith is as surprised as anyone by the path her
career has taken, Dimitra Kessenides of Bloomberg Law reports.
On April 1, Koopersmith, 53, assumed the chairmanship of  Akin
Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, an 850-lawyer global law firm
with strong roots in Washington and Dallas. Koopersmith, a
litigator, is the fourth chair in the firm’s 68-year history and
the first woman to hold that position. It’s not exactly what she
had in mind back in law school: “I assumed I would be working
in some public interest capacity,” she says. “It was a
surprise to me that I was at a law firm at all.”  After joining Akin Gump in 1994 on a four-day-a-week
schedule so she could spend more time raising her daughters,
then 7 and 2, Koopersmith worked her way up to the leadership
table. Before her election as chairwoman last October, she spent
five years as the firm’s U.S. managing partner. Now, she’s one
of fewer than two dozen women leading the 100 biggest, most
profitable firms in the U.S. We asked Koopersmith about her new
role.  To read the Q & A, click here.  Moves  Pioneering General Counsel Hynes Joins Dentons in Chicago  Mary Ann Hynes, the first woman to serve as general counsel
of a Fortune 500 company, has joined  Dentons  as senior counsel
in Chicago. She was formerly senior vice president, counsel to
the chairman and chief compliance officer of  Ingredion Inc. (INGR)   Hynes will work with Dentons lawyers to advise public and
private corporations on governance, risk management, mergers &
acquisitions and international ventures, the firm said. She has
experience in the mining and minerals, aerospace, food and
industrial products, natural resources, commodity and
media/software industries, the firm said.  Hynes joined the legal department of CCH Inc., of
Riverwoods, Illinois, in 1971, established the law department in
1978 and served as vice president and general counsel from
1979-95, becoming the first woman to serve as general counsel of
a major corporation, the firm said.  She has also worked as senior vice president, general
counsel and chief legal officer for IMC Global Inc., senior vice
president, general counsel and secretary for Sundstrand Corp. of
Rockford, Illinois, and general counsel/chief legal officer for
Wolters Kluwer U.S. Corp.  “We are thrilled and honored to welcome one of the leaders
of the legal profession to Dentons,” Mary Wilson, head of the
Chicago office said in a statement. “The standard Mary Ann has
set as a general counsel, businessperson and advocate for
women’s empowerment has raised the bar for all of us.”  Dentons was formed in March 2013 by the combination of
Salans LLP, Fraser Milner Casgrain LLP and SNR Denton. Dentons
has more than 2,500 lawyers and professionals in 79 locations in
52 countries across Africa, Asia Pacific, Canada, Central Asia,
Europe, the  Middle East , Russia and the CIS, the U.K. and the
U.S.  Vivero Joins Haynes & Boone New York’s Corporate Practice  Haynes & Boone LLP added Frank Vivero as a partner in the
firm’s corporate practice group focusing on international
transactions. He joined the firm from Milbank Tweed Hadley &
McCloy LLP.  “Frank’s in-depth experience with corporate securities
transactions is an advantage for our Latin American and other
clients in need of cross-border transaction support,” Ken Bezozo, New York managing partner said in a statement. “His
exceptional understanding of the international capital markets,
especially in Latin America, will greatly enhance our
capabilities.”  The firm’s New York office now has more than 60 lawyers.
Haynes & Boone has more than 525 attorneys at 12 offices in the
Americas.  Shearman & Sterling Adds Structured Finance Partner Bjerke  Shearman & Sterling LLP added to its structured finance
capabilities with the addition of Bjorn Bjerke, formerly of
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, who will join the firm as a partner
in New York.  Bjerke has experience advising clients on secured
financing, financial products, and derivatives across a broad
range of asset classes, including receivables, securities, fund
interests, airline miles, subscription commitments, whole loans,
collateralized debt obligations and collateralized loan
obligations, the firm said. He also advises on Dodd-Frank
implementation and other regulatory matters.  Shearman & Sterling has about 900 lawyers in 20 offices in
12 countries around the world.  Former Nationwide Deputy General Counsel Joins Nelson Levine  Insurance law firm  Nelson Levine de Luca & Hamilton LLC 
announced that Thomas W. Dietrich has joined the firm’s
insurance regulation practice in its Columbus, Ohio, office as
of counsel.  Most recently, Dietrich spent nine years as senior vice
president-deputy general counsel at the Nationwide Insurance
Cos., where he managed legal services for Nationwide Cos. and
almost 1,000 associates. He oversaw property and casualty to
life and financial services matters as well as regulatory,
litigation and legislation, the firm said in a statement  Nelson Levine has offices in the U.S. and London.  Carter Ledyard Hires Squire Sanders Partner in New York  Carter Ledyard & Milburn LLP announced that Avinash V.
Ganatra, formerly a partner at Squire Sanders LLP, joined the
firm as partner in its corporate department in New York.  Ganatra’s practice concentrates on U.S. and international
capital markets, securities and domestic and cross-border
leveraged finance transactions.  Carter Ledyard has about 100 attorneys and is based on
 Wall Street .  News  Chevron’s Lawyers at Gibson Dunn Get Tough in Ecuador Case  Bit by bit, the largest environmental verdict in history--a
$19 billion judgment pending against Chevron for polluting the
rainforest in Ecuador--is disintegrating. The collapse threatens
to cause collateral damage to a major Washington law firm and a
Colorado scientific consultancy that counts state and federal
agencies among its clients, Bloomberg BusinessWeek’s Paul M.
Barrett writes.  On April 17, the hedge fund Burford Capital, which had
invested millions of dollars to bankroll the long-running
litigation on behalf of poor farmers and indigenous villagers,
leveled accusations of fraud against the lead plaintiffs’
lawyer, Steven Donziger, and his allies at the large Washington-
based law firm Patton Boggs LLP. Burford renounced any potential
profit from the case because of what its chief executive,
Christopher Bogart, described in a sworn declaration as
“mounting evidence of fraud and misconduct” by Donziger and
Patton Boggs. Bogart said his $300 million litigation-finance
outfit had been misled about dubious lobbying of Ecuadorean
judges and the ghostwriting of expert findings.  Six days earlier, on April 11, Stratus Consulting of
Boulder, Colorado, disavowed and apologized for its role in the
case. The firm, a frequent litigation adviser to public-sector
agencies, earlier had provided scientific analysis damaging to
Chevron’s defense. Now it says that it, too, was misled by
Donziger. The New York-based activist had won what he portrayed
as a David-vs.-Goliath battle to compensate those living near
oil operations in the rainforest in northeastern  Ecuador .  Chevron’s campaign to obliterate the pollution
judgment has been engineered by Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, a
law firm in Los Angeles that the company retained in 2009 when
it appeared to face defeat in Ecuador. Fueled by Chevron’s
copious legal fees,  Gibson Dunn  shifted the field of legal
battle from Ecuador to the U.S. and the focus from contamination
to attorney ethics.  Donziger and Patton Boggs have repeatedly denied any
wrongdoing. They vow to continue fighting Chevron and Gibson
Dunn. “Patton Boggs is fully confident that it has acted
appropriately and ethically,” said partner James Tyrrell. Bill
Hamilton, a spokesman for the plaintiffs, condemned “Chevron’s
nonstop big-money attempt to intimidate and malign” his clients
and their lawyers. “It has no bearing on what happened in
Ecuador.” Stratus said it “deeply regrets its involvement in
the Ecuador litigation.”  Chevron hired Gibson Dunn after the law firm rescued
Dole Food Co. from billions of dollars in judgments based on
allegations that pesticide used in the 1970s caused harm to
banana workers in Nicaragua. Gibson Dunn revealed that some of
the plaintiffs never worked for Dole and others were coached to
lie. American judges refused to enforce the verdicts. On its
website, Gibson Dunn marketed its skill in defending
corporations “with more than a series of defensive tactics, but
rather an affirmative strategy to ultimately end the
litigation.”  For more, click here.  Bank Frey Official, Swiss Lawyer Charged in Tax Conspiracy  The head of private banking at Bank Frey & Co. in
Switzerland and a Swiss lawyer were charged with conspiring to
help U.S. clients use offshore accounts to hide millions of
dollars from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Stefan Buck, the banker, and Edgar Paltzer, the lawyer,
opened and managed undeclared accounts on behalf of U.S.
taxpayers at Swiss banks, according to an indictment released
April 16 in federal court in New York. While the indictment and
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara didn’t identify either
man’s employer, the bank confirmed yesterday that Buck is the
head of private banking and an executive board member.  Bank Frey “is currently reviewing the legal situation that
derives from the indictment brought against a member of its
executive board and will comment further in this matter in due
course,” the Zurich-based bank said in a statement.  Bank Frey also confirmed that it was referred to in the
indictment as Bank No. 1. The bank hadn’t previously been
implicated in a U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax evasion  that led
prosecutors to charge at least 88 people since 2008, including
more than two dozen bankers, lawyers and advisers.  UBS AG, the largest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution in 2009
by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion and
handing over data on thousands of clients. Wegelin & Co., the
oldest Swiss private bank, pleaded guilty in Manhattan in
January to conspiring to help hide more than $1.2 billion in
assets from the IRS while opening undeclared accounts for at
least 70 U.S. taxpayers who were former UBS clients.  Paltzer, 56, a dual U.S.-Swiss citizen, and Buck, 32, a
Swiss citizen, both reside in Switzerland. Neither defendant has
been arrested, Bharara said in a statement. Each faces a maximum
sentence of five years in prison if convicted.  “I am unfortunately not allowed to comment,” Paltzer
wrote in an e-mail. “All I can say at this point in time is
that I have always tried to do my best. I take the opportunity
to thank all of those who support me in these difficult times.”  The case is U.S. v Paltzer, 13-cr-00282, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Texas Prosecutor Shooting Suspect Charged With Murder  Texas police said they have arrested a woman in connection
with the slayings of Kaufman County District Attorney Mike McLelland, his wife, and Assistant District Attorney Mark Hasse.  Kim Williams was arrested yesterday and charged with
capital murder in connection with the killings, Justin Lewis, a
spokesman for the Kaufman County Sheriff’s Office, said
yesterday at a televised press conference. She’s being held on
$10 million bond, he said.  Kaufman County Jail records show that her husband, Eric
Lyle Williams, 46, was arrested and jailed April 13 on a charge
of making a terroristic threat and is being held on a $1 million
bond. He isn’t charged in connection with the three killings.  McLelland, who promised to catch Hasse’s killer in January,
was found shot and killed along with his wife, Cynthia, at the
couple’s home near Forney, Texas, on March 30. Hasse was shot
and killed in his car near the county courthouse.  Deutsche Bank Appoints Weber-Rey as Chief Governance Officer  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental Europe’s biggest bank by
assets, hired Daniela Weber-Rey from law firm  Clifford Chance 
LLP to be chief governance officer and deputy global head of
compliance.  Weber-Rey, 55, who focused on financial institutions at
Clifford Chance, will join the bank in Frankfurt on June 1, the
lender said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. She will report
to Deutsche Bank management board member Stephan Leithner in her
governance role and serve as deputy to compliance chief Andrew Procter, according to the statement.  Deutsche Bank recently lost at least three female bankers,
potentially setting back its effort to boost the representation
of women in management. The firm, which has no women on either
of its two highest executive committees, intends to increase the
number of female senior executives it employs to 25 percent by
the end of 2018 from 18 percent in 2012, company filings show.  Deputy finance chief Charlotte Jones is leaving this month,
Deutsche Bank said April 3.  KKR & Co. (KKR)  said April 8 that it hired
the firm’s Sydney-based head of leveraged finance, Diane Raposio. Sofia Sool, head of markets coverage and origination at
the German bank’s unit in Moscow, will join UBS AG as co-chief
of  investment banking  for Russia, two people familiar with the
matter said this month.  Bafin, the German banking regulator, has criticized
Deutsche Bank’s general counsel,  Richard Walker , for not
speaking German and being based in New York,  Der Spiegel 
reported on April 14, without citing anyone.  Trials  Intuitive Lawyer Says Warnings in Robot Surgery Were Ignored  A lawyer for  Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG)  told jurors that a
doctor who used the company’s robot in surgery on a morbidly
obese patient who later died ignored warnings that the operation
shouldn’t be performed.  Allen Ruby, a partner at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom
LLP, defended Intuitive against a lawsuit claiming that the
company’s robotic  da Vinci surgical system  training was
compromised by aggressive marketing, and led to errors in
removing a patient’s prostate gland, and eventually caused his
death four years later in his opening statement yesterday to
jurors in state court in Port Orchard, Washington.  Fred Taylor was 5 feet 11 inches tall, and weighed 280
pounds, giving him a body mass index of 39 -- a measurement that
should have precluded robotic surgery, according to the training
Intuitive provided to Scott Bildsten, the doctor, Ruby said.  “Morbid obesity is not a criticism, it is a medical
fact,” Ruby told jurors. Bildsten was asked in a deposition
what Intuitive taught him “in regards to the physical size of
the patient relative to using the da Vinci.”  “Yes, there were suggestions not to do overly obese
patients in your initial procedures,” Bildsten said, according
to Ruby.  Bildsten, who is expected to testify as a witness at trial,
was warned by Intuitive that for his early procedures with the
da Vinci -- at least the first four to six surgeries -- he
should choose simple cases and patients with a low body-mass
index, Ruby said. “He was taught not to do this in his early
cases,” Ruby said.  The case, brought by Taylor’s widow, Josette Taylor, is the
first to go to trial of at least a dozen lawsuits filed against
Sunnyvale, California-based Intuitive since 2011 alleging
injuries tied to its  da Vinci surgical system . The robots were
used in more than 300,000 U.S. operations last year.  Richard Friedman, a lawyer for Josette Taylor who finished
his opening arguments April 16, claimed Taylor was a victim of
training Intuitive provided for the robotic surgery. After
Intuitive won regulatory approval for its da Vinci robot the
training was diluted in an aggressive marketing campaign to
increase sales, Friedman claimed.  Intuitive designed a training program to get U.S. Food and
Drug Administration approval for its robot that, starting in
2000, was simplified and “watered down so much that nobody’s
ever failed -- ever,” Friedman said April 16.  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v. Intuitive Surgical
Inc., 09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of Washington, Kitsap
County (Port Orchard).  For more, click here.  Settlements  BofA’s Countrywide Agrees to $500 Million MBS Settlement  Bank of America Corp .’s Countrywide unit agreed to pay $500
million to settle a lawsuit over billions of dollars in
residential mortgage-backed securities that were downgraded to
junk.  The accord will end a class action, or group lawsuit, led
by the Iowa Public Retirement System, lead plaintiffs’ attorney
Steven Toll of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC said yesterday
in a statement. The settlement, which couldn’t immediately be
verified in court records, requires a judge’s approval,
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America said in a  filing 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “This settlement will bring closure to investors who were
misled about the quality of the mortgages that Countrywide
securitized,” Toll said.  The consolidated lawsuit filed in 2010 sought damages over
$351 billion in downgraded Countrywide mortgage-backed
securities after the 2007 subprime collapse. The lawsuit was the
largest in terms of securities at stake among dozens of cases
brought against lenders and underwriters.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles
narrowed the case to $2.6 billion in bonds and dropped Bank of
America as a defendant.  The case isn’t covered by the $8.5 billion settlement
between Bank of America and 22 institutional investors in
Countrywide mortgage-backed securities. Investors’ rights to
receive trust distributions upon final approval of that accord
won’t be affected by the Los Angeles settlement, the bank said.  “After five years of hard-fought litigation, this record-
breaking recovery is a tremendous result for MBS investors
misled by Countrywide,” Spencer Burkholz, a partner at Robbins
Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP who represents the Maine State
Retirement System, said in an e-mail.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s.  After the market for the securities evaporated, bankers and
underwriters being sued argued that offering documents for those
bonds adequately warned of risks. They claimed the securities
performed as intended and investors were paid what they were
owed from underlying mortgages.  The settlement announced yesterday is expected to resolve
about 80 percent of the unpaid principal balance of Countrywide-
issued mortgage-backed securities over which claims have been
filed or threatened, Bank of America said. It will resolve about
70 percent of the unpaid principal balance of all such
securities over which claims have been filed or threatened
against all Bank of America-related entities, the company said
in its filing.  Goodwin Procter LLP’s Brian Pastuszenski led for
Countrywide. The firm declined to comment on the settlement.  The Los Angeles case is Maine State Retirement System v.
Countrywide Financial Corp., 10-cv-00302, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 