-- Banco BAI of Angola Targets Home-Grown Expansion on Oil
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-04-18T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/banco-bai-of-angola-targets-home-grown-expansion-on-oil.html
Banco Angolano de Investimentos SA ,
 Angola ’s largest bank by assets, is forecasting 10 percent
revenue growth this year as  Africa ’s second-biggest oil and gas-
producing nation expands.  The company wants a slice of the $1 billion that a new
petroleum-industry banking law may add to the economy this year,
Head of Corporate and Investment Banking Luis Filipe Rodrigues Lelis said. It also plans to add 15 branches for a total of 116
in the country, he said. The bank’s profits fell 15 percent to
$180 million in 2012, while revenue rose 10 percent to $581
million.  Angola plans to start a $10 billion liquefied natural gas
plant this year and has passed a law that requires foreign  oil
companies  to start using kwanzas, the local currency, to pay
taxes beginning next month. After July 1, the foreign companies
must pay all domestic suppliers in kwanzas, and after Oct. 1,
they have to pay foreign suppliers via Angolan bank accounts in
either local or international currency.  “The law is going to be a positive event because it will
increase the flow of dollars and kwanzas in the system and boost
its capacity to do business,” Lelis, 44, said in an interview
April 17 in Luanda, the capital. “The demand on banks and other
companies to improve their efficiency is another good result.”  Producers including  Total SA (FP) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  BP Plc (BP/) 
contributed to Angola’s March crude oil output of 1.78 million
barrels a day, second only to  Nigeria  in Africa.  Angolan Expansion  New BAI branches this year will be located in Luanda, where
more than 70 percent of the bank’s business is conducted, as
well as oil-rich Cabinda, and the cities of Benguela, Namibe,
Lubango and Huambo, he said. The number depends on how many new
managers can be trained at the bank’s $60 million academy, he
said.  “We want to consolidate our position and market share
within Angola,” Lelis said. “We want to be the reference bank
here before we go abroad.”  BAI has five branches in  Cape Verde , two in  Portugal  and a
20 percent share in Banco Internacional de Sao Tome and
Principe. Plans to open offices in  London  and  Asia  and to expand
in  South Africa  beyond a representative office have been put on
hold, he said. BAI is not looking at acquiring any of Angola’s
22 other banks, Lelis said.  The bank also wants to help finance some of Angola’s
infrastructure projects, such as the $3.5 billion Lauca
hydroelectric dam scheduled for construction by 2017 on the
Kwanza River in Kwanza North province, Lelis said.  Sonangol Stake  State oil company Sonangol EP is the largest shareholder in
BAI with an 8.5 percent stake, according to company documents.
The chairman is Jose Carlos Paiva, managing director of Sonangol
UK Ltd. One of the bank’s two vice-chairmen is Francisco de Lemos Jose Maria, chief executive officer of Sonangol.  BAI had 22.1 percent of Angola’s 5.11 trillion kwanzas
($53.3 billion) in banking assets, according to an  annual
analysis  by Deloitte & Touche Auditores Lda., a unit of Deloitte
LLP. Banco Espirito Santo Angola SA followed with 16.5 percent,
Banco de Poupanca e Credito SA at 14.7 percent, Banco de Fomento
Angola SA with 13.2 percent and Banco BIC SA at 10.3 percent.  A 2010  U.S. Senate report  on foreign corruption in the U.S.
cited BAI for having a hidden list of shareholders and not
supplying its anti-money laundering procedures (TO WHO?). Angola
ranks 157th out of 176 countries on Transparency International’s
2012 Corruption Perceptions Index.  The bank is following Angola’s new anti-money laundering
laws and BAI has a code of conduct, Lelis said.  “We’re making sure BAI is not used for any transaction
that will put the Angolan financial system at risk,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  