-- Banker Groups Sue Treasury, IRS Over Account Reporting Rule
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-18T23:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/banker-groups-sue-treasury-irs-over-account-reporting-rule-1-.html
Two banker groups sued the U.S.
challenging rules that require financial institutions to report
information on accounts held by nonresident aliens that may be
shared with 72 foreign governments.  The  Texas Bankers Association  and the  Florida Bankers
Association , in a lawsuit filed today against the Treasury
Department and the  Internal Revenue Service  in federal court in
 Washington , said the rules are discouraging investment in the
U.S. by nonresidents who fear their information may be shared
with the governments of countries including  Egypt , Pakistan and
 Venezuela .  “Security concerns over the potential leakage and abuse of
personal asset information from this sweeping international
exchange with many countries that have unstable governments and
porous law enforcement systems has led many non-resident aliens
to withdraw money or transfer money held in interest bearing
bank accounts in the  United States ,” James Butera, a lawyer for
the groups, said in the complaint.  The regulations, which took effect in January, are part of
the government’s efforts to work with other countries on  tax
evasion . Treasury and the IRS say the U.S. should ask its banks
to report information just as it is requiring overseas banks to
provide information on U.S. account holders.  Tax Purposes  In the regulations, the IRS wrote that it will exchange
information only with countries that protect confidentiality and
use the data solely for tax purposes.  Under the rules, financial institutions must provide the
IRS with information on nonresident account holders who earn $10
or more a year in interest. The first annual reports are due
March 2014, according to the complaint.  The banking groups, in the lawsuit, said the Treasury and
the IRS failed to properly assess the costs and economic impact
of the rule on non-resident deposits held in the U.S. banking
system, which they claim is estimated to be $400 billion.  The group’s members have reported “substantial deposit
outflows and shifting of accounts” to non-interest bearing ones
since the rule was adopted last year, according to the
complaint. One member reported a loss of deposits of $50
million, according to the complaint.  Sabrina Siddiqui, a Treasury Department spokeswoman,
declined to immediately comment on the lawsuit.  Dean Patterson ,
an IRS spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
message seeking comment.  The case is Florida Bankers Association v. U.S. Department
of Treasury, 13-cv-00529, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 