-- Barclays’s Ricci, Kalaris Stepping Down After Diamond Exit
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-04-18T16:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/barclays-head-of-investment-banking-rich-ricci-to-retire-in-june.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investment-banking
chief  Rich Ricci  and wealth-management head Tom Kalaris, two of
the last remaining members of former Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond ’s management team, will step down.  Ricci, 49, will be replaced by Eric Bommensath and Tom King, 52, as co-CEOs of corporate and investment banking in May,
the London-based bank said in a statement today. Peter Horrell,
who joined the bank in 1990, will become interim head of the
wealth unit.  Chairman  David Walker  and CEO Antony Jenkins, who took over
after the lender was fined an unprecedented 290 million pounds
($442 million) in June for rigging the  London  interbank offered
rate, are trying to cut costs by stripping out layers of
management and boost regulators’ confidence in the company. An
internal report this month criticized pay at the investment bank
and urged the company to boost transparency.  “Jenkins has been trying to distance the bank from some of
the excesses of the previous regime,” said  Chris Wheeler , a
financials analyst at Mediobanca SpA in London. “Ricci was
closely associated with the previous management team, having
worked very closely with Diamond.”  The stock fell 2.3 percent to 283.75 pence in London
trading, for a market value of about 36.5 billion pounds.  ‘Strengthening Control’  “A major area of focus for me has been to streamline and
improve how the bank is managed, while strengthening control,”
Jenkins said in today’s statement. “I want to de-layer the
organization, creating a closer day-to-day relationship and
clearer line of sight for myself into the business.”  Ricci, a 19-year veteran of the bank, won’t receive a
severance payment, and will instead get as much as a year’s
salary of 700,000 pounds. He received 5.7 million shares valued
at 17.6 million pounds when they vested in March. He didn’t
reply to an e-mailed request for comment. Diamond, Chairman
Marcus Agius and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier all
stepped down in the wake of the Libor fine.  “This as an inevitable and appropriate piece of
transitioning,” said  Ian Gordon , a banking analyst at  Investec
Plc (INVP)  in London. “Few tears will be shed and the reshuffle will
be broadly welcomed.”  Barclays said in the statement that it plans to refocus the
securities unit on the U.S., the firm’s largest source of income
after Britain. Skip McGee, who joined Barclays when it acquired
Lehman Brother Holdings Inc.’s U.S. operation out of bankruptcy
in 2008, will become head of Barclays’s Americas business, the
bank said today.  “There is a clear need for even more effective execution
of Barclays’s operations in the region,” the bank said. “We
want to have the strongest possible relationships with our U.S.
regulators.”  Better Conditions  The firm  is seeking to take advantage of better investment
banking conditions in the U.S. compared with  Europe . Fees for
arranging mergers, equity, bond and syndicated loan sales
climbed 16 percent in the U.S. to $8.9 billion in the year to
March 18, according to data compiled by New York-based research
firm Freeman & Co. By contrast, fees dropped 15 percent to $3.4
billion in Western Europe in the same period, the data show.  Barclays hired King, a U.S. national, from Citigroup Inc.
in 2009. After serving as global co-head of corporate finance in
London, he was appointed deputy head of the investment-banking
division in October 2012 and relocated to  New York . He has an
MBA in Finance from the Wharton School of the  University of
Pennsylvania .  Bommensath, who joined in 1997 from  Bankers Trust  as head
of derivatives in Europe, will continue as global head of
markets, Barclays said. He is a former head of the investment
bank’s fixed-income, currencies and commodities business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  