-- Bayer, Amgen Face Price Cuts as German Panel Expands Drug Review
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-04-18T13:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/bayer-amgen-face-price-cuts-as-german-panel-expands-drug-review.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  are among
drugmakers who may face price cuts as a German agency begins a
broader review of the costs and benefits of medicines already on
the market.  Bayer’s blood thinner Xarelto, Amgen’s Prolia for
osteoporosis and painkillers like Nucynta from Gruenenthal
Pharma GmbH and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  are among the targeted
products, the  Federal Joint Committee  decided in a meeting
today. The review encompasses other treatments in the same
category as each of those medicines, meaning that Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH’s blood thinner Pradaxa will also be assessed.  The analysis is the first step down a path that may end in
price cuts. The results of each cost-benefit assessment will
form a basis for price negotiations between drugmakers and
 Germany ’s statutory insurers, part of a law passed in November
2010 as  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government sought to save
more than 2.2 billion euros ($2.87 billion) in spending on
medicines.  Though price talks on newly introduced drugs started in
2011, this is the first time the agency has laid out broad plans
to target medicines that were on the market before then, Kai
Fortelka, an agency spokesman, said in a telephone interview
before the meeting.  Bayer had expected Xarelto to be called up for a cost-
benefit analysis, and had prepared, the Leverkusen, Germany-
based drugmaker said in an e-mailed statement. Bayer declined to
comment in more detail until the analysis is finished.  Boehringer spokesman Reinhard Malin said that the
Ingelheim, Germany-based company had expected the review, and
that it was confident that Pradaxa’s benefits would be shown.  Spokespeople for Amgen, Gruenenthal and J&J weren’t
immediately available for comment.  The Federal Joint Committee is scheduled to hold a press
conference about the price review today at 4 p.m. in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  