-- Berkshire’s Munger Pledges Record $110 Million to U. Michigan
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-04-18T23:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/berkshire-s-munger-gives-record-110-million-to-u-michigan-1-.html
Charles Munger, vice chairman at
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , pledged $110 million
of securities to the University of Michigan to fund fellowships
and a graduate-student residence.  The gift is the largest single donation in the school’s
196-year history, the Ann Arbor-based university said yesterday
in a  statement  on its website. The proposed building will have
room for more than 600 occupants and contain apartments with as
many as seven bedrooms and private bathrooms that share cooking,
dining and living areas.  Munger, 89, studied mathematics at the university in the
1940s and has previously contributed $20 million for renovations
at a housing complex. The latest pledge includes $10 million for
fellowships. Recipients would live in the residence and be
chosen from among the university’s 19 schools and colleges to
spur interaction among students from multiple disciplines.  “This project envisions an approach that makes graduate
study less isolated,” university President Mary Sue Coleman
said in the statement. “Charlie Munger is passionate about
improving graduate student housing, and believes that educating
one’s self, in the right setting, is very powerful.”  Munger, who lives in Southern California, helped design
plans for the new building after funding a graduate-student
complex at Stanford University, according to the statement. The
Michigan residence will include a floor featuring gathering
spaces, a commissary, a fitness center and views of the campus
and downtown Ann Arbor.  Building’s Cost  The university is planning to open the eight-story building
in 2015. Munger’s donation will cover $100 million of the total
$185 million cost, with the remainder coming from lease revenue.  “I particularly want to avoid any perception that I claim
large donative merit,” Munger said in the statement. “After
all, I waited until my 90th year before making the gift, then
gained friendship and creative joy in working with the
university in a very interesting design effort likely to have a
good outcome, while I parted with assets I soon won’t need.”  Munger, a graduate of Harvard Law School, helped build
Berkshire from a failing textile maker into a  $254 billion
company  that insures against car crashes and earthquakes,
operates trains and planes, generates electricity and sells
products from diamonds to running shoes. He’s among the Omaha,
Nebraska-based company’s  largest investors  with more than 6,224
Class A shares as of Dec. 31. That stake would be worth about
$962 million at yesterday’s closing price.  Through an assistant, Munger declined to comment further on
the gift or on which securities he pledged. He has lectured at
the school and advised it on investments, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  