-- Bersani Party Splinters on Presidential Deal With Berlusconi
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-18T11:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/bersani-party-splinters-over-presidential-deal-with-berlusconi.html
A deal on a compromise presidential
candidate in Italy sparked dissent in Pier Luigi Bersani’s
 Democratic Party , casting doubt on the result.  The first round of voting by the 1,007 presidential
electors ended in failure today after defections from Bersani’s
block prevented ex-Senate Speaker Franco Marini from gaining the
necessary two-thirds majority. Bersani and  Silvio Berlusconi 
came together late yesterday to back Marini in a deal that was
contested by Democratic Party members and its allies.  “They’re going to vote for Marini, but not me,” Giuseppe
Civati, a Democratic Party parliamentarian, said in an
interview. “It’s all wrong. There’s no popular support.”  The next head of state, succeeding President Giorgio Napolitano, will become the key figure in the effort to resolve
the political impasse. The head of state appoints the prime
minister and, when stalemates prove intractable, dissolves
parliament and calls new elections.  The president is chosen by secret ballot in an electoral
college comprising all national lawmakers and some regional
representatives. Votes are cast one at a time and then counted
one by one in a process that typically allows time for two
ballots a day. The first vote starts at 10 a.m.  Bersani turned to Berlusconi, the billionaire and three-
time prime minister, to break a deadlock that has left the
country with a caretaker government since an inconclusive
election Feb. 24-25. The move alienates members of his
delegation who have criticized Berlusconi’s policies, his record
in office and his criminal convictions.  Grillo’s Emergence  The Democratic Party, known in  Italy  as the PD, and
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty, or PDL, were thrown together by
the emergence of Beppe Grillo, whose Five Star Movement won a
blocking minority in the February elections. Five Star, which
refused to support Bersani’s bid for the premiership last month,
campaigned against corruption in politics and says its aim is to
sweep established lawmakers from power.  Grillo is gaining support from Bersani’s group. Five Star’s
nominee, Stefano Rodota, a professor and former lawmaker with a
forerunner of the PD, will get the votes of Bersani ally Nichi
Vendola and some dissenting PD members including Civati.  Rodota was second in the initial vote today with more than
700 ballots counted.  “The outcome of this morning’s vote is thus far from
guaranteed,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European economist at
Mizuho International Plc., said in a research report. “Beppe
Grillo outmaneuvered Bersani.”  Berlusconi is appealing convictions in wire-tapping and tax
fraud cases. He is standing trial accused of paying a minor for
sex and abusing the powers of his office. He has denied the
charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  