-- Biggest Cinemas Delay ‘Iron Man’ Ticket Sales in Dispute
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-19T00:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/biggest-cinemas-delay-iron-man-ticket-sales-in-dispute.html
Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  and AMC
Entertainment, the largest U.S. theater chains, halted advance
sales for Walt Disney Co.’s “ Iron Man  3” in a revenue-sharing
dispute that threatens the start of the summer movie season.  Regal, the biggest cinema operator, stopped selling tickets
this week to the superhero sequel from Disney’s Marvel unit, a
person with knowledge of the situation said yesterday. AMC,
based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , said this week it wasn’t
offering advance sales for the May 3 opening because it hadn’t
reached terms with Disney. Studios and exhibitors in the U.S.
split the revenue from theatrical ticket sales.  The biggest chains’ united front makes it tougher for
Disney, owner of Marvel, Pixar and Lucasfilm, to obtain better
terms for “Iron Man,” the summer’s first likely blockbuster,
and future films. Regal and AMC account for about 30 percent of
U.S. screens, according to the  National Association of Theatre
Owners . A negotiation this close to a big opening is unusual,
said Dale “Bud” Mayo, chairman of exhibitor  Digital Cinema
Destinations Corp. (DCIN)   “I’ve never heard of it,” Mayo, whose Westfield, New
Jersey-based company isn’t involved in the dispute, said in an
interview.  Tickets weren’t for sale today on the website of  Cinemark
Holdings Inc. (CNK) , the third-largest U.S. chain. Cinemark spokesman
James Meredith didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Revenue Split  “Iron Man 3,” which stars Robert Downey Jr. and  Gwyneth Paltrow , is projected to gross $151 million domestically in its
first weekend, the estimate of researcher Boxoffice.com. That
would be the biggest opening weekend so far in 2013. The first
two “Iron Man” movies, made for a combined $340 million,
generated $630.8 million in the U.S. and Canada, according to
Box Office Mojo, which tracks ticket sales.  “We hope to reach agreement and get tickets on sale as
soon as possible so it doesn’t affect opening weekend,” Ryan
Noonan, an AMC spokesman, said in an April 16 e-mail.  Through its Pixar, Lucasfilm and Marvel units, Disney
controls many of Hollywood’s most popular movie properties,
including “ Star Wars ” and “The Avengers.” The studio is
trying to use its box-office muscle to win better terms on
future releases, said  Eric Wold , a cinema-industry analyst at B.
Riley & Co. in  San Francisco .  “They’re realizing they’ve got a very valuable set of
properties and they want to get paid more for it,” Wold said in
an interview.  Studios typically get about 52 percent of ticket revenue
after cinema operators deduct a small percentage for overhead,
Wold said. Bigger movies may command more.  Revenue Split  Studios and theater owners usually agree on a general
revenue split well in advance and then refine after the
theatrical run based on outperformance or underperformance, said
Mayo, 71, who is founder and chief executive officer of Digital
Cinema.  Burbank, California-based Disney, the world’s largest
entertainment company, didn’t respond to requests for comment.
The company has reduced its movie output over the past several
years to focus on franchise material.  Wold, who estimates the cost of “Iron Man 3” at $200
million before marketing costs, said any loss of ticket sales
from the delay would hurt  Disney (DIS)  more than theater owners.
Cinema operators don’t have any costs to recoup, he said.  “The exhibitors don’t want to lose this movie, but for a
Regal or AMC, it’s just one movie out of the year and they don’t
have a lot of sunk cost,” he said.  Chinese Version  Domestic box office receipts are down 11 percent this year
to $2.62 billion, according to Hollywood.com. Marvel had the
top-grossing film last year with “The Avengers,” based on
comic-book characters including Iron Man.  The U.S. flap follows a decision by Disney to release a
separate version of “Iron Man 3” in  China . The company said on
March 30 that it won’t seek official Chinese co-production
status. Co-productions aren’t counted against foreign-movie
quotas and can provide studios with a larger share of revenue.  “Iron Man 3” was partly made in China with Disney’s
Beijing-based partner,  DMG Entertainment . A release date for the
Chinese version wasn’t announced.  Disney slipped 1.1 percent to $59.99 today in New York. The
shares have advanced 20 percent this year, closing at an  all-
time  high earlier this week, compared with an 8.1 percent gain
for the S&P 500 Stock Index.  Regal, based in Knoxville,  Tennessee , has 6,777 screens,
while AMC, which was acquired by China’s Dalian Wanda Group in
September 2012, has 5,336, according to the theater association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  