-- Blackstone Power Cable From Quebec to New York Approved
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-04-18T16:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/blackstone-power-cable-from-quebec-to-new-york-approved.html
Blackstone Group LP, the world’s
largest private-equity firm, won approval from state regulators
for a $2.2 billion power line that would bring electricity to
 New York City  from Quebec.  The New York Public Service Commission unanimously approved
the 333-mile (531-kilometer)  Champlain Hudson Power Express  at a
meeting in Albany today. The line, which would stretch from the
Canadian border to Astoria, Queens, would be able to deliver
1,000 megawatts of electricity, about 10 percent of the city’s
needs. The project would send mostly hydropower from Quebec, the
commission said.  Hydro-Quebec, the provincial-owned utility, may buy 75
percent of the line’s capacity for as many as 40 years,
according to a commission  document . Average  power prices  for
residential customers in Montreal were 6.76 Canadian cents (7
U.S. cents) a kilowatt-hour last year, less than a third of   New
York ’s 22.57-cent average, according to Hydro-Quebec. Exported
power accounted for 15 percent of the utility’s net income in
2011.  The project, expected to begin operating in 2017, consists
of two 5-inch (13-centimeter) diameter cables that will be
buried underground and underwater, according to the  project
website .  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , owner of New York’s electric
utility, supports the project after initial opposition,
according to the commission document.  Entergy Corp. (ETR) , owner of
the Indian Point nuclear station, is among some New York power
producers that oppose the proposal, saying it isn’t needed.  The project still requires a presidential permit, similar
to the one needed for TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline,
since it crosses an international border. Blackstone also needs
permission from the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers to lay the
cable, according to the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  