-- Blackstone’s GSO Said to Plan Its First Europe CLO Since ’08
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-04-18T15:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/blackstone-s-gso-said-to-plan-its-first-europe-clo-since-08-1-.html
GSO Capital Partners LP, the credit
unit of  Blackstone Group LP, (BX)  plans to issue a 403.7 million-euro
($527 million) collateralized loan obligation for its first
European deal since 2008, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter.  The Grand Harbour I BV will include a 240 million-euro AAA
rated portion and a 48.7 million-euro so-called equity piece,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the deal
is private.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is arranging the transaction which
would be the largest in Europe this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  GSO’s deal comes after almost 1 billion euros of new CLOs
were sold in less than four months amid growing demand from
investors for structured-debt investments as the yield for other
types of fixed-income assets fell to a record low. Other pending
deals in  Europe  include Carlye Group LP’s new CLO arranged by
Barclays Plc, and Alcentra Ltd.’s transaction through JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Apollo Global Management LLC last week priced an increased
334 million-euro CLO with tighter spreads than expected a month
earlier, according to Bloomberg data. The top-ranked notes were
sold at 130 basis points more than the euro interbank offered
rate, the data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The spread on AAA rated portions of new European CLOs may
fall to 120 basis points by the end of the year, according to a
JPMorgan research report citing a client survey.  Gathering Assets  The yield for corporate bonds fell to a record low of 2.5
percent yesterday from 2.6 percent at the end of last year,
according to  Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Corporate
Index .  GSO has gathered more than 80 percent of the assets to be
used to back the new CLO, as it sources part of the collaterals
from the Harbourmaster Pro-Rata CLO 1, which was called late
last year after delivering about 15 percent annual return for
the equity holders, said the people.  Grand Harbour I will have a three-year reinvestment period
and 2-year non-call, with legal final maturity in 2026, the
people said. Currently, only the AAA notes are offered, as
investors have been lined up for the other portions, the people
said.  Andrew Dowler , a spokesman in London for Blackstone
declined to comment. Simon Boughey, a spokesman in London for
Citigroup, didn’t return an e-mail and a phone call seeking
comment.  Harbourmaster Buy  Blackstone bought Dublin-based Harbourmaster Capital
Management Ltd. in 2011, tripling its European loans under
management to 11.5 billion euros.  GSO manages more than $36 billion of leveraged loans and
currently has 52 CLOs under management, including 20 European
deals.  CLOs pool high-yield loans and slice them into debt
securities of varying risk and return, typically from AAA
ratings down to B. The lowest portion, known as the so-called
equity tranche, offers the highest potential returns and the
greatest risk because investors are the first to see their
interest payouts reduced when the loans backing the CLOs
default.  Details of the CLO are as follows:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  