-- BlackRock Bullish as MUFJ Doubts Forecasts of Yield Jump
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-04-18T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/blackrock-bullish-as-mufj-doubts-forecasts-of-yield-jump.html
Strategists predict Australian
bonds will fall in 2013 for the first time in four years.
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co. disagree.  Ten-year yields will rise to 3.8 percent from 3.19 percent
yesterday, based on a Bloomberg survey of 19 banks and
securities companies conducted April 11 to April 16. The
increase would deliver a 2.2 percent loss, as yields and prices
move in the opposite direction, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We favor Aussie bonds over those of other core developed
markets,” said Stephen Miller, a Sydney-based investor for
BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager overseeing $3.9
trillion. “We don’t think the economy is doing as well as
perhaps the consensus out there, and I certainly don’t think
that the Reserve Bank has finished the process of cutting
interest rates.”  A global slump in commodities and the Australian jobless
rate’s climb to a three-year high is prompting BlackRock,
Mitsubishi UFJ and  BT Investment Management Ltd. (BTT)  to suggest the
Reserve Bank of Australia will resume cutting interest rates
after pausing since December. The nation’s government debt
market returned 46 percent since the end of 2009 in U.S. dollar
terms, the best of any developed market outside of New Zealand,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Ten-year  yields  will drop to 3 percent by year-end,
narrowing the gap to U.S. rates to about one percentage point
from 1.5 now, Miller said. That would deliver a 5.4 percent
annual gain, Bloomberg data show.  If strategists’ forecasts are proved correct, holders of
the notes will lose 0.4 percent in 2013 after interest payments.  China Slowing  The outlook for  Australia ’s economy took a blow this week
when  China , the biggest customer for the South Pacific nation’s
commodity exports, reported April 15 that  gross domestic product 
grew 7.7 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
slowing from a 7.9 percent pace in the fourth quarter.  Gold, Australia’s third-biggest export, tumbled this week
to the lowest level since January 2011. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Index of commodities has dropped 12 percent from this
year’s high set in February.  Iron ore , Australia’s biggest export, will probably fall to
$115 a ton by year-end from $139.30 now, based on a Bloomberg
survey of analysts. The decline would result in a 21 percent
tumble for 2013, data from The Steel Index Ltd. show.  “I’m quite bullish” on Australian bonds, said Hideo Shimomura, the chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ in  Tokyo ,
which oversees the equivalent of $60.3 billion and is a unit of
 Japan ’s largest publicly-traded bank. “The Australian economy
is not recovering. There’s no momentum in the Chinese economy.”  Ten-year yields will be less than 3 percent by year-end,
Shimomura said. The rate hit a record-low 2.698 percent in June.  RBA Outlook  Traders are pricing in a 67 percent chance the RBA will
lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to a record
2.75 percent by its July 2 meeting, according to  interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg. The odds were 52 percent at
the end of March.  The Reserve Bank said waning growth in mining investment, a
strong exchange rate and fiscal consolidation are weighing on
the economy, the  minutes  of the April 2 meeting showed this
week.  The Australian dollar changed hands at $1.0318 as of 5 p.m.
yesterday in Sydney, extending its record nine-month run above
$1.  Inflation Contained  The Reserve Bank said in its statement that inflation will
probably hold close to its target of 2 percent to 3 percent,
giving it scope to cut interest rates. The unemployment rate
climbed to 5.6 percent in March, the highest since November
2009, government data released April 11 showed.  Deutsche Bank AG is forecasting 10-year yields will jump to
3.75 percent by year-end, after reducing the prediction from the
4.25 percent given in a Bloomberg survey published last month.  Australian yields will follow U.S. Treasury rates, said
David Plank, Sydney-based head of research at the bank.  “The U.S. recovery, certainly by the later part of this
year, will be well in train and will push U.S. yields up,”
Plank said. Deutsche Bank changed its Australian forecast
because of softer recent U.S. data, he said.  U.S. economic growth will quicken to 2.6 percent in the
fourth quarter from 0.4 percent in the last three months of
2012, the Bloomberg surveys of economists show.  Australian yields are poised to fall, said Vimal Gor, who
oversees the equivalent of $13.4 billion as the Sydney-based
head of income and fixed interest at BT Investment Management,
which is part of Australia’s second-biggest bank.  “The RBA will likely cut a couple more times this year, he
said. ‘‘Growth is anemic and the fiscal situation is
deteriorating.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  