-- Texas Factory Blast Leaves at Least One Dead, 35 Missing
-- B y   M i k e   L e e ,   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-04-19T01:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/blast-hits-texas-plant-destroying-nearby-buildings.html
One person was confirmed killed and
another 35 people were missing after an explosion at a  Texas 
fertilizer plant that injured 160, flattened houses and
devastated the center of the town of West.  The missing included five volunteer firefighters, four
emergency medical personnel, an off-duty Dallas firefighter and
two local people who stopped to help at the scene of a fire
April 17 at Adair Grain Inc.’s fertilizer plant, West Mayor
Tommy Muska said in an interview. Other officials previously
estimated five to 15 fatalities.  Search-and-rescue crews that had combed the ruins of the
World Trade Center after the 2001 attacks were dispatched to the
scene, about 80 miles (130 kilometers) south of Dallas, said
Waco Police Sergeant William Patrick Swanton at a news briefing
yesterday.  “A lot of lives have been lost and some of them are
firefighters,” Lisa Muska, the mayor’s wife, said in an
interview. “We all know each other and care about each other
deeply.”  The potential death toll could make the Texas explosion the
worst U.S industrial catastrophe since April 2010, when 29 coal
miners perished in Massey Energy Co.’s Upper Big Branch mine in
 West Virginia . With the demolished fertilizer facility and some
of the surrounding rubble yet to be fully searched yesterday,
Swanton said the number of dead might climb.  Explosive Fertilizer  Adair Grain’s West Fertilizer Co. handled  anhydrous
ammonia , a volatile combination of nitrogen and hydrogen that
North American farmers inject in liquid form into the soil as a
crop nutrient. Adair stored as much as 110,000 pounds (50,000
kilograms) of the chemical, according to the Texas Department of
State Health Services.  State environmental records showed that as of Dec. 31, the
plant also held in storage as much as 270 tons (245,000
kilograms) of an ammonia derivative known as ammonium nitrate, a
solid fertilizer. The same chemical was used by Timothy McVeigh
in 1995 to destroy Oklahoma City’s Alfred P. Murrah Federal
Building and kill 168 people. It was also used in the  Irish
Republican Army ’s 1996 Canary Wharf attack in  London .  Ammonium nitrate was responsible for some of the deadliest
industrial accidents in the last century, including a 1947
explosion in  Texas City , Texas, that killed more than 570, said
John Verkade, a chemistry professor at  Iowa State University  in
Ames.  In Cinders  “The ammonium nitrate going off, that certainly could have
contributed to the earthshaking,”  Verkade said. “They must
have had a whole cache of that go off if the place is now
cinders.”  A 2011 inspection of the plant by the U.S. Pipeline and
Hazardous Materials Safety Administration revealed violations of
material-handling rules, according to an agency document. The
inspector said the company planned to ship anhydrous ammonia in
unauthorized cargo tanks, and had failed to develop  a security
plan for the transportation.  The agency initially proposed a fine of $10,100. It was
reduced to $5,250 last year, which the company paid. The agency
said in its final order in the matter that the company had
addressed the violations and “no further corrective actions are
required.’  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency inspected the West
plant’s risk management plan in March 2006 and found
deficiencies. The EPA fined the facility $2,300 in August of
that year and directed Adair Grain to correct the shortcomings,
Alisha Johnson, an agency spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  ‘Complete Devastation’  Firefighters in West were already battling a blaze at the
plant, and had begun evacuating nearby residents, when it
exploded about 7:53 p.m. local time. A nursing home, hospital
and two schools are situated within a mile of the facility on
the northeast edge of town. Waco, the seat of McClennan County,
is about 20 miles south of West.  ‘‘I never thought of anything like that happening,” said
Jenene Picha, who runs the Czech-American Restaurant.
Firefighters showed great courage in battling the blaze, she
said, and “they knew it was very dangerous out there.”  Swanton said the damage to houses ranged “from broken
windows to complete devastation.” A house-to-house search was
still in progress yesterday. A 50-unit apartment complex
suffered severe damage, with the interiors of some apartments
visible from the street.  “There are homes that are no longer homes,” Swanton said
yesterday. “There are homes that have been completely
flattened.”  Crime Scene  While the site was being treated as a crime scene, there
were no indications that the fire was intentionally set, Swanton
said. Teams of urban search-and-rescue experts known as Texas
Task Forces 1 and 2 were deployed, as was a contingent of
forensic chemists and explosive specialists from the U.S. Bureau
of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.  The federal agents were responsible for determining whether
the blast was accidental or criminal, according to a federal
official.  The U.S. Chemical Safety Board, which looks into industrial
chemical accidents, said on its  website  that a “large
investigation team” had been sent to West.  The facility exploded with the force of a small earthquake.
Amy Vaughan, a geophysicist at the  U.S Geological Survey  in
Golden,  Colorado , said a magnitude 2.1 seismic event had been
registered when the blast occurred.  Nursing Home  West’s worst-hit areas appeared to be the nursing home and
apartment building, Swanton said. After the explosion, images
broadcast by KWTX, a Waco television station, showed fires in
the ruined plant and in surrounding buildings, and people being
treated on a floodlit sports field.  Trooper D.L. Wilson, a spokesman for the Texas Department
of Public Safety, likened the scene at West to the  Iraq war  and
said the apartment complex resembled a “skeleton.” A nearby
school also was badly damaged, and 133 residents of the West
Rest Haven Nursing Home were evacuated, some in wheelchairs.  Wesley Adcock, 29, said he was delivering concrete to a
construction site when he saw a mushroom cloud in his rearview
mirror. He said he volunteered to ferry victims to hospitals in
Waco and helped three people, all from the nursing home.  “The last lady was 95,” Adcock said. “She said she was
buried in the bathroom when the ceiling collapsed on her.”  In Waco, 28 people were admitted to Hillcrest Baptist
Medical Center, Chief Executive Officer Glenn Robinson said.
Five were in the intensive care unit, two of them in critical
condition, he said.  Puncture Wounds  “We’re seeing a lot of lacerations, some puncture
wounds,” Robinson said. Some patients had broken legs and hips
and a handful had head injuries. Nine people with burns were
transferred to Parkland Memorial Hospital in  Dallas .  The Texas Secretary of State’s office lists Donald R. Adair
and Wanda L. Adair as owners and co-directors of Adair Grain,
with Donald serving as president and Wanda as vice president. A
man who answered a reporter’s telephone call to the company
declined to identify himself or comment.  Elizabeth Marquez-Perea, who lives a mile north of the
plant, said about 50 families occupied Tucker Apartments, the
damaged complex close to the facility. She and her three
daughters fled after the blast shattered windows in their
apartment, she said. “It smelled like gas, a real terrible
smell,” she said.  About a month ago, a school close to the plant had sent
parents a note explaining that children had been moved for the
day to a different location because of odors coming from the
fertilizer plant, Marquez-Perea said.  Indescribable Sound  Crystal Webb said she was preparing to drive her 7-year-old
son from her home near the plant to her mother’s place in
another part of town when the explosion hit.  “It’s an indescribable sound and feeling,” said Webb, who
spoke to reporters at a makeshift media center outside a cattle-
auction barn. “Every window in my home, every door in my home
is completely busted.”  The blast tore bricks off the outside of her house, Webb
said. She and her son were uninjured.  “I’m anxious to get home,” Webb said.  The disaster was reminiscent of a 2001 fertilizer-factory
explosion in Toulouse, France, that killed at least 30, injured
more than 2,000 and caused more than $3 billion in property
damage. The plant, owned by a subsidiary of oil producer  Total
SA (FP) , wasn’t rebuilt. Two years after the incident, French
authorities imposed stricter regulations for ammonia production.  Flight Restriction  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  issued a temporary
flight restriction over West,  Homeland Security  Secretary  Janet Napolitano  said yesterday when she appeared before the House
Committee on Homeland Security. She said local utilities had
turned off service in the area and the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency  had been activated.  President  Barack Obama  telephoned Texas Governor  Rick Perry 
from Air Force One while on his way to  Boston , to offer federal
resources that might be needed, said  Josh Earnest , a White House
spokesman. Obama also told Perry “that his prayers are with the
people of West,” Earnest said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Lee  in West, Texas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in West, Texas at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  