-- Bosch Targets Sales Growth of 4% on Markets Beyond Europe
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-18T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/bosch-targets-sales-growth-of-4-on-markets-beyond-europe.html
Robert Bosch GmbH , Europe’s biggest
car-parts maker, is forecasting 2013 sales will increase as much
as 4 percent as growth outside the region makes up for a
recession in its home market.  First-quarter sales were “subdued,” mainly because of the
deteriorating economy in Europe, Bosch said in a statement
released at a press conference at its headquarters in Stuttgart,
 Germany . Earnings will probably rise “significantly,” though
the company won’t yet reach its long-term margin target of
earnings before interest and taxes at 8 percent of revenue.  “We will seize our opportunities for growth, both in
established areas of work and in setting up new areas of
business,” Chief Executive Officer Volkmar Denner said in the
statement.  The European car market is contracting for a sixth
consecutive year, heading for a two-decade low as the economy of
the 17 nations using the euro shrinks. Bosch is basing its
forecast on global economic growth of 2.7 percent, even with
government austerity measures in  Europe  and the U.S. Further
growth in sales and profits will be possible next year, the
company said in its annual report.  Ebit last year dropped 52 percent to 1.31 billion euros
($1.71 billion) amid weak demand in Europe, Bosch said. Net
income rose 29 percent to 2.26 billion euros on a book gain of
1.1 billion euros from selling a 5.4 percent stake in  Japan ’s
auto parts maker  Denso Corp. (6902)  in November.  Sales increased 1.9 percent to 52.5 billion euros helped by
currency gains. Ebit amounted to 2.5 percent of sales.  Bosch said it will scale back investments this year to
preserve profit and is abandoning a near $2.6 billion venture
into solar-power equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Stuttgart via 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  