-- Boston Bruins Fans Keep Dutiful Silence, Sing Anthem Defiantly
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-18T04:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/boston-bruins-fans-keep-dutiful-silence-sing-anthem-defiantly.html
After respectfully observing a
pregame moment of silence to honor the victims of the  Boston
Marathon bombings , Bruins fans last night showed their defiance
by loudly singing the national anthem before chanting “U-S-A”
as sports returned to the city.  Last night’s  National Hockey League  game against the
 Buffalo Sabres  at TD Garden in  Boston  was preceded by a
slideshow of images from the marathon, where three people died
and more than 175 were injured by two explosions near the finish
line. Players from both teams banged their sticks on the ice as
the slideshow concluded with the words: “We Are Boston. We Are
Strong.”  “There’s no secret it’s been pretty sad the last few
days,” said Bruins captain Zdeno Chara, whose helmet was
adorned with a decal in the colors of the Boston Athletic
Association, which hosts the marathon. “We want to show
support, and the best way to show is to play well.”  The Bruins lost 3-2 in a shootout, earning the point they
needed to lock in a playoff berth. Boston (26-11-5) moved up to
second in the Eastern Conference with 57 points after the
Montreal Canadiens (26-12-5), also with 57 points, lost 6-4 to
the  Pittsburgh Penguins .  After the bombing on April 15, that night’s Bruins game was
postponed and the  Boston Celtics ’ National Basketball
Association contest the following night at TD Garden was
canceled.  Bruins owner Jeremy Jacobs pledged $100,000 to The One Fund
Boston, established to help families affected by the bombings,
while TD Garden, the league and the NHL Players’ Association
each added $50,000.  ‘Unimaginable Tragedy’  “Our family has been touched by the heroic moments of so
many individuals and the strength and resiliency of this
community to stand together in solidarity in support of those
who were injured and those who lost their lives in this
unimaginable tragedy,” Jacobs said on the team’s website.  Extra police ringed the arena as fans entered TD Garden,
about 1 1/2 miles (2.5 kilometers) from the blast area. Fans
walked past a statue of Bobby Orr that was adorned with a Bruins
T-shirt bearing a No. 8 below the name Martin Richard, the 8-
year-old Bruins fan killed in the attacks.  Bruins center  Brad Marchand  raffled his suite for the
team’s first home playoff game to benefit the Richard family.  “Our whole team saw the photos of Martin at our game from
last Thursday and learned that he and his family are big fans of
ours,” said Marchand. “What they are going through is
unimaginable and we will try to assist them in any way we can.”  ‘Boston Strong’  Among those attending last night’s game were 80 police,
firefighters and emergency medical personnel who responded to
the disaster. Their tickets were donated by the team and staff.  “I am very proud of our entire organization for the
compassion and support they have all showed, although not
surprised,” said Bruins President Cam Neely. “We are all
‘Boston Strong.’”  In Toronto, the Boston Celtics returned to the court for
their regular season-ending game as  Neil Diamond ’s “Sweet
Caroline,” a tradition at Boston Red Sox games, played over the
loudspeakers at Air Canada Centre, home of the Raptors.  The Celtics, wearing black stripes, and the Raptors
gathered at midcourt for a moment of silence before the game.  Boston (41-40) lost 114-90 to the Raptors (34-48).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  