-- Boston Bombing Puts Short-Term Losses on Salons to Circus
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2013-04-18T20:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/boston-bombing-puts-short-term-losses-on-salons-to-circus.html
From the restaurants and salons on
trendy Newbury Street to the circus at City Hall Plaza,
businesses are being squeezed in the aftermath of the  Boston 
Marathon terror attack.  Tourism may see a short-term falloff, and the costs of
increased security may be felt throughout the city’s economy.
The damage isn’t expected to be long-lasting.  “We went from robust ticket sales to trickling ticket
sales,” said Lynn Stirrup, executive director of the  Big Apple
Circus Ltd ., which is running March 26 to May 12 next to City
Hall. “We are expecting a significant impact overall.”  Two explosions near the finish line of the April 15 race
killed three spectators and left more than 170 injured in what
officials said was an act of terror. A 12-block area sealed off
by police encompassed 4,000 hotel rooms and about 50
restaurants, Patrick Moscaritolo, chief executive officer of the
Greater Boston Convention and Visitors Bureau. The zone was
narrowed to four blocks yesterday.  Boston may see a dip in tourist dollars over the next few
months as prospective visitors shaken by the news delay trips to
the city, Moscaritolo said.  “It’s so difficult to get good data at this point,” he
said. “But you always worry after a major incident because
we’re dealing with human emotions.”  “It’s been difficult for all the business owners down
here,” said Nestor Real, owner of Diego’s hair salon on Newbury
Street, which is now open. “I was talking to a priest around
the corner, and he can’t even get into his church.”  Lost Productivity  For small businesses, especially for those in the service
industry, when a day’s productivity is gone it can’t be
replaced, Real said.  “It’s not like we sell widgets and can make it up
tomorrow,” he said. “A hair salon can’t give three times as
many haircuts tomorrow to make it up, and that’s true for
doctors and dentists and restaurants.”  The immediate costs are just part of the equation, said
David Turk, professor and chairman of the economics department
at  Suffolk University  in Boston.  “I think there are two kinds of costs to consider -- one
will be the immediate and obvious costs, mostly measurable by
the devastation to people’s lives, damage to stores, lost
trade,” he said. “But I think the bigger cost of this will be
in terms of losses that follow the enhancements to security in
order to have another Boston Marathon.”  Business Interruption  In addition to the expense of extra security, there are
productivity costs associated with having to negotiate those
measures, Turk said. He pointed to the time lost by business
travelers as they stand in lines to pass through airport
security.  Claims for business interruption will probably drive
insurance costs tied to the bombings, according to catastrophe
modeler Risk Management Solutions Inc.  Business-interruption payouts to companies shuttered by the
blasts will probably exceed insured property damage costs, which
may be less than $1 million, RMS said yesterday in a statement.
RMS’s appraisal doesn’t include costs of treating the injured.  “There will be business interruption, due to the fact that
several blocks were cordoned off,” Gordon Woo, a London-based
catastrophe expert at RMS, said by phone. “There doesn’t appear
to be much in the way of structural damage to buildings.”  Some businesses don’t buy coverage for terrorism, “so
exactly how much would actually be at risk for this particular
event, I’m not sure,” Woo said.  “This economy is driven by innovators and entrepreneurs,
and they are not going to pick up and move because they are
here, because other innovators and entrepreneurs are here,”
said Rosabeth Moss Kanter, a professor of business
administration at Harvard Business School in Boston.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  