-- Boston Retraces Oklahoma City’s Painful Path After Bombs
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-04-18T22:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/boston-retraces-oklahoma-city-s-painful-path-after-bombs.html
Claudia Denny said she heard the
screams and saw the horror of 18 years ago when she learned
about the  Boston Marathon bombings .  Denny, 55, lives in Oklahoma City. Her two children were
among the survivors of the 1995 bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah
Federal Building. Of 168 killed in the blast, 19 were infants
and toddlers under the age of 6. Most of the youngsters attended
day care inside the building with Denny’s 2-year-old daughter
and 3-year-old son.  “It took me back to the day,” Denny said yesterday,
sitting in her gray-carpeted living room where dozens of VHS
tapes of Disney and other kids’ movies -- watched repeatedly as
her babies recovered -- still line bookcase shelves. “I was in
that place where all of the sudden I felt it, I heard it and not
knowing where the kids were, just the total chaos.”  The twin bomb blasts April 15 near the  Boston  Marathon
finish line shook Oklahoma City residents, who gather tomorrow
at the site of their attack to remember the 18th anniversary of
the deadliest act of domestic terrorism in the U.S.  Since the Massachusetts explosions, residents of Oklahoma’s
capital have cried, lowered flags and prayed that Bostonians
find comfort, as they did, in the kindness of others.  “The lump in your throat never goes away and it will be
the same for the wonderful people of Boston,” said Polly
Nichols, 69, who was among more the 800 people injured in the
1995 Oklahoma City blast that killed her cousin, Adele
Higgenbottom. Nichols spent a week in a hospital as doctors
removed glass lodged in her neck.  Memorial Marathon  The city started its own marathon 13 years ago as fund-
raiser for the  Oklahoma City National Memorial & Museum , located
at the site of the bombing. The marathon, expected to raise
about $1 million, is to proceed as planned April 28 with
additional security, said Kari Watkins, executive director of
the institution.  Boston runners unable to finish their race are invited to
run in Oklahoma City, Watkins said.  “We have spent 18 years trying to defy the act of
terrorism against to make sure the terrorists didn’t win,” said
Watkins, 47, leaning back in a chair near the window of her
fifth-floor office inside the museum. “What you see here,
compared to what you would have seen in 1995, is a completely
different city -- a different mindset and a different can-do
attitude that there isn’t anything that’s going to defeat us.”  Not Fading  If the  Oklahoma  City bombing has faded at all from the
nation’s collective consciousness, it remains a focus of life in
this metro area of 1.2 million people. For those who lived
through it, reminders -- like pictures of the Denny family
visiting then-President Bill Clinton and First Lady Hillary
Clinton in the White House -- hang on the walls in their home.  For others, the central location of the museum and
memorial, which includes two freestanding bronze block walls
that represent life before and after the bombing, is part of the
daily commute for workers in the downtown business district or
for Oklahoma Thunder fans on their way to see a basketball game
at Chesapeake Energy Arena.  “Most people here knew someone who died or was seriously
injured,” said attorney Barry Stafford, a 62-year-old Oklahoma
City native, before a lunch of chopped brisket sandwich and
french fries. “You realize, having gone through that, that
you’re going to see a lot of good. The good in people is going
to come through all that evil.”  Relieving Pressure  A few miles southwest of the memorial, Paul Heath sits at
his dining-room table, where four books about the Oklahoma
bombing lie open, pointing to different passages and pictures.
Heath, 77, worked in the federal building as head of the
Veterans Affairs Department office. He was buried chest deep in
debris after the explosion.  A psychologist, Heath’s response to the bombing is
clinical. He talks about helping organize rescue events on the
scene, starting nonprofits to help survivors and victims’
families deal with their grief and meeting Timothy McVeigh,
executed in 2001 for the bombings, when he visited Heath’s
office days before the bombing.  During a two-hour interview, the only time he became
emotional is when he talked about the Boston bombings.  “I wished it didn’t happen, probably more they could
know,” Heath said, the U.S. flag in his front yard rippling at
half-mast outside the window behind him. “You know what you
know and what they don’t know yet.”  Helping Others  Like Heath, the Denny family urged Bostonians to cope with
tragedy by helping others.  Jim Denny, said he and his wife reminisce about the days
when their two children ran through the house naked after a
bath, in the days before Rebecca’s chubby legs and tummy were
stripped red with cuts and Brandon’s head was wrapped in gauze,
tubes extending in all directions.  Today, 21-year-old Brandon struggles to talk, walks with a
limp and works two day a week at a thrift store. Rebecca, 20, is
studying psychology as a sophomore at Oklahoma State University.
Her high-school essay in which she forgave McVeigh hangs in her
family’s home.  “The terror you could see in people running on TV reminded
me of the terror we saw down at the Murrah building,” said Jim
Denny, 68, who quit his job assembling oil-drilling tools to
take care of his children while his wife worked as a tax
advocate for the Internal Revenue Service.  Denny phoned his wife as soon as he learned about the
Boston bombing. The couple made sure their kids heard the news.  “It’s hard to explain to the people of Boston how their
whole life will revolve around this day,” Denny said, his blue
eyes squinting. “You can get over some of the pain, but it’s
like losing a piece of your heart. There’s an empty feeling that
just doesn’t go away.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Oklahoma City at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  