-- Boston and the Terrible Theater of Terrorism
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-04-18T18:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/boston-and-the-terrible-theater-of-terrorism.html
The attack on the  Boston  Marathon
is a reminder of the adage that terror is theater. Yes, terror
is horror. Yes, terror is murder. Yes, terror is reprehensible.
But it is theater, too, played out on a grand stage before an
audience of tens of millions. We sit riveted in front of the
television or computer screen, demanding the latest updates.  We don’t need to know who did it to understand the
malevolent brilliance of the staging: an attack on the audience
at a sporting event where the crowd is uncontrollable. Suddenly
everyone is worried about which “soft” target will be next. (In
 Israel , everyone understands that shopping malls and night clubs
are natural attractions for terrorism.)  The response to terror is also theater. This probably
explains why so many  observers  criticized President  Barack Obama 
when his initial statement, just hours after the attacks,
omitted the word “terrorism.” The president was displaying an
understandable legalistic caution, but he missed the sense of
occasion: Act 1, Scene 2, the leader of free world and the de
facto commander in chief of the War on Terror takes the stage
alone. His performance must be equal to the anxieties of his
worried people. On Monday  it wasn’t ; on Tuesday  it was .  Spreading Propaganda  The notion that terror is theater was popularized by the
British novelist John le Carre in  his masterpiece  “The Little
Drummer Girl,” published in 1983. Years later, le Carre traced
the genesis of the phrase to a conversation with a “Palestinian
firebrand” in  Beirut : “He was talking about the murder of
Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics, but he might as well
have been talking about the twin towers and the Pentagon. The
late Michael Bakunin, evangelist of anarchism, liked to speak of
the Propaganda of the Act. It’s hard to imagine more theatrical,
more potent acts of propaganda than these.”  Thus terror is also theater because it is intended to send
a message. Contrary to common understanding, the message isn’t
in the first instance political or ideological. It is
psychological. Terrorism, writes Leo Braudy in his  fascinating
book  “From Chivalry to Terrorism,” is “primarily symbolic and
propagandistic,” signaling “that all the high technology in the
world cannot stop a determined enemy, even one armed only with
primitive weapons.”  The Obama administration, like its predecessor, has tried
to address the demand side of terror. The supply side is
difficult to reach. There will always be disaffected fanatics,
at home and abroad, willing to give their lives for a moment of
murderous theater. The U.S. response has therefore been to
attack the logistics, the networks and the leaders who plan and
carry out attacks.  This approach doesn’t make terror impossible or even less
likely; it does make terror smaller. To put the matter starkly,
there is a world of difference between blowing up two pressure-
cooker bombs at the Boston Marathon and crashing a plane into a
city. The first can be accomplished by the lone wolf, difficult
to prevent entirely in a free society. The second is what U.S.
policy means to eliminate.  Nobody in authority can say this explicitly. But no serious
follower of national security debates doubts that the choice has
been made. We are trying to deny to the terror actor the larger
stage.  The U.S. still presumes a right to be free from the attacks
and disasters that plague the rest of the world.  New York  Times
columnist  Thomas Friedman  has taken some hits  for suggesting 
that we return as quickly as possible to business as usual after
the Boston Marathon attack, but I think he has been
misunderstood. His point is about theater: He is counseling that
we follow the Israelis in treating terror as happening on the
small stage rather than the large.  Seeking Revenge  This advice poses a considerable challenge. When attacked,
we want not simply justice but revenge. In this sense much of
the drama of terrorism and response had become highly stylized.
This isn’t the 1960s, the era of hand-wringing and excuses. If
you blow up, by design, innocent civilians, no one will ask why
or be interested in your cause. The conversation will be about
bringing justice to the enemy. And if you invent an ideology in
which nobody is innocent, the West will turn against you in
fury, and make no protest as American drones rain missiles upon
wherever the president of the  United States  thinks you might
possibly be hiding.  Experts say that for the committed terrorist, killing
itself becomes a way of life, surpassing even the political or
religious claim that might have once provided the motivation.
The U.S. government has plainly come to agree with  Michael Ignatieff ’s  contention that  when this point is reached, “the
only rational response ... must be to eliminate the enemy one by
one.”  This is why it matters whether one believes that the West
is engaged in a War on Terror. Many thoughtful people deny that
such a conception makes sense, because terror is a tactic not an
entity. But the notion of a War on Terror makes perfect sense
within the conventions of drama. If terror is theater, then so
is the War on Terror.  And the performance matters. In le Carre’s novel, the
Israeli spymaster Kurtz warns his agent, the British actress
Charlie, about the differences between stage and reality, and he
might as well be speaking of Boston: “When the actors laugh they
will be happy, and when they weep they will very likely be
bereaved and broken-hearted. And if they get hurt -- and they
will, Charlie -- they will surely not be in a position, when the
curtain falls, to jump up and run for the last bus home.”  Terror may be theater, but it matters a great deal who
gives the better performance.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 