-- Bovespa Futures Climb in Sign Stocks May Rally From 9-Month Low
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-04-18T12:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/bovespa-futures-climb-in-sign-stocks-may-rally-from-9-month-low.html
Bovespa (IBOV)  stock-index futures rose, a
sign that Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge may rebound from its
lowest level in nine months.  Steel manufacturer Gerdau SA may be active as Citigroup
Inc. raised its recommendation on the stock to buy.  Vale SA (VALE5) , the
world’s third-largest mining company, may move after posting
iron-ore production that missed analysts’ estimates for the
first time in four quarters.  Bovespa-index  futures contracts  expiring in June added 0.6
percent to 53,400 at 9:05 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real weakened
0.4 percent to 2.0093 per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of 24 raw materials jumped 0.8 percent. The Bovespa stock
index yesterday plunged 2.1 percent to the lowest level since
July 25 after commodity prices pushed Brazilian producers lower
and the International Monetary Fund cut its forecast for global
growth.  Brazil ’s central bank yesterday raised its benchmark
interest rate for the first time since July 2011, seeking to
slow inflation levels jeopardizing an economic recovery. The
bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted 6-to-2
to increase the Selic rate 25 basis points to 7.50 percent from
a record low, matching the median forecast from 58 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  BRIC Index  The Bovespa has retreated 17 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and China
has lost 10 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.3 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.5 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo jumped to 22.9
billion reais ($11.5 billion) yesterday as Bovespa-index futures
contracts expired. That compares with a daily average of 7.7
billion reais this year, according to data compiled by the
 exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  