-- Brazil Furnishes $1.2 Billion of Funds for Clean-Energy Research
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-04-18T16:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/brazil-furnishes-1-2-billion-of-funds-for-clean-energy-research.html
Brazil  will provide 2.4 billion
reais ($1.19 billion) of cheap loans and grants for renewable-
energy research projects through 2016 as part of a government
effort to spur investment in innovation.  Companies have until the end of July to submit proposals
for projects that may include efficient  power lines  connecting
remote hydroelectric dams in the Amazon or factories that make
silicon for use in solar panels, said Ricardo Rivera, a manager
at national development lender BNDES’s department for
information technology and communication.  The Inova Energia program is intended to create a culture
of innovation in Brazil’s energy industry, Rivera said in a
telephone interview today. Many companies are wary of spending
years developing new technologies in a country where hyper-
inflation periodically wiped out profits in the 1980s and 1990s,
he said.  “We’ve had big macroeconomic problems in Brazil, which
have tended to take the spirit out of companies” seeking to
innovate, he said. “We need companies to take risks on
innovation.”  Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social, as
the  development bank  is officially known, and state innovation
agency Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos will provide about 400
million reais of grants for projects, Rivera said. The remaining
2 billion reais will be loans with  interest rates  as low as 2.5
percent, or less than half Brazil’s benchmark interest rate
known as Selic.  Electronics, Microchips  Companies that research technology in partnerships or focus
on creating electronic hardware like microchips for  wind
turbines  will more likely to receive grants instead of loans, he
said.  BNDES and Finep will select the winning projects in
November, he said. Both agencies will then conduct a credit
analysis of the companies selected for loans that may take two
months.  Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica, the power regulator,
expects utilities to channel 600 million reais of funds they’re
obligated to spend on research and development toward projects
in the program, he said.  Projects that will be considered for funding will have to
focus on one of three themes: Ultra-high-voltage electricity
transmission and smart grids, wind and solar energy or energy-
efficiency in vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  