-- BT, BAE Poised for U.K. $12.1 Billion-Pound Smart-Meter Program
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-04-18T14:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/bt-bae-poised-for-u-k-12-1-billion-pound-smart-meter-program.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) ,  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  are poised to submit final bids in a 12.1
billion-pound ($18.5 billion) U.K. program to install smart
meters in every home.  The SmartReach group, which comprises BT,  BAE Systems
Detica , Arqiva Ltd. and Sensus, is vying with a proposal from
Vodafone and  Silver Spring Networks Inc. (SSNI)  to build the
communications systems that will connect every smart meter to
U.K. energy suppliers, executives at the companies said.  Britain plans to install 53 million smart meters by 2019 to
help homes and businesses monitor and curb their energy use. The
units, which replace traditional power and gas meters, display
how much energy is being consumed and at what cost. They relay
data back to the suppliers, avoiding the need for meter readings
while helping energy companies to smooth peaks in demand.  “We’re trying to help drive the economy and eliminate the
need for continued reliance on building new generation,”  Silver
Spring  Chief Executive Officer Scott Lang said in London.
“Given all the uncertainty of generation and intermittent
technologies like solar and wind, having a smart grid deployed
helps bring those intermittent supplies on to the grid.”  Silver Spring, which is proposing its so-called wireless
mesh technology to access hard-to-reach meters, connected
devices at about 16 million homes and businesses at the end of
last year, mainly in North America, Lang said. The  Redwood City ,
California-based company listed in the U.S. in March.  Technology Trials  The SmartReach group will bid to supply its long-range
radio-based technology, said  David Green , smart-metering sales
director for Arqiva. Trials showed the technology reached 99
percent of meters, even in basements, he said. In North America,
more than 12 million smart-meter and grid devices use long-range
radio networks from its partner Sensus, according to SmartReach.  “When this starts rolling out properly, which is going to
be towards the end of 2014, it will be really big news because
every household in the country will be affected,” Green said in
an interview. “It’s been proven time and time again that giving
people that information will reduce their consumption by a
moderate amount.”  The Department of Energy and  Climate Change , or DECC,
expects to announce the winning bid in July after shortlisting
four groups, a spokeswoman said by e-mail. The remaining two
bids are from Airwave Solutions Ltd. and  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   The program will cost 12.1 billion pounds and provide 18.6
billion pounds in “benefits,” resulting in a 6.7 billion-pound
net benefit to the U.K over the next 20 years, according to
DECC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  