-- Bupa Sells Hybrid Bonds to Fund Acquisitions, Boost Capital
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-04-18T15:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/bupa-sells-hybrid-bonds-to-fund-acquisitions-boost-capital-1-.html
Bupa Insurance Ltd., the private
U.K. insurer and health-care provider, sold 500 million pounds
($764 million) of hybrid bonds to help fund acquisitions.  The 10-year subordinated notes, which combine features of
debt and equity, were priced to yield 355 basis points more than
gilts, according to people familiar with the sale, who asked not
to be identified because the details are private. The company’s
Bupa Finance Plc unit issued the securities, adding to a record
$21.7 billion of hybrid debt sold in euros and pounds this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bupa completed its acquisition of Lux Med Group,  Poland ’s
largest private health-care provider, from private equity firm
Mid Europa Partners for 400 million euros ($522 million), the
London-based company  announced  April 11. Bupa is planning to buy
Dental Corporation, the largest dental group in  Australia  and
New Zealand, it said in a Dec. 17  statement .  “Some of the proceeds will be used to support, in part,
our Lux Med and Dental Corporation acquisitions,” Bupa Group
Treasurer Gareth Evans said in an emailed response to questions.
“Still, the rationale for the bond issue is to enable Bupa to
further enhance its prudent liquidity and solvency capital
positions and provide a further buffer for growth
opportunities.”  Hybrid notes allow companies to borrow while reducing the
risk of a credit downgrade because ratings firms typically count
50 percent of the bonds as equity, reducing their assessment of
an issuer’s indebtedness.  Moody’s Investors Service assigned a Baa3 rating, the
lowest investment grade, to Bupa’s hybrid bonds in an April 15
report. Fitch Ratings gave a preliminary rating of BBB, the
equivalent of one step higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  