-- Canada February Employment Insurance Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-04-18T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/canada-february-employment-insurance-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s employment insurance report for Feb. released
by  Statistics Canada .  Following three consecutive months of decline, the number
of people receiving regular Employment Insurance (EI) benefits
was virtually unchanged in February, at 528,900. Compared with a
year earlier, the number of beneficiaries was down 7.4%.  A number of provinces had fewer beneficiaries in February,
with the largest percentage decreases in Prince Edward Island,
Manitoba and Saskatchewan.  British Columbia, Newfoundland and Labrador, and New
Brunswick all saw smaller declines. There was little change in
the other provinces.  Provincial focus  The number of EI regular beneficiaries in Prince Edward
Island declined 2.8% in February. This was the fourth
consecutive monthly decrease for the province.  In Manitoba, the number of people receiving benefits fell
2.4% in February, the fourth monthly decrease in a row. In
Winnipeg, the number of beneficiaries was down 2.2% from the
previous month.  In Saskatchewan, the number of beneficiaries decreased for
the third consecutive month, down 1.7% in February. In Regina
and Saskatoon, there was little change from the previous month.  The number of people receiving benefits in British Columbia
declined 1.4% in February, continuing a six-month downward trend.
Both Kelowna (-1.5%) and Abbotsford-Mission (-1.3%) had fewer
beneficiaries than the previous month, while there was little
change in Vancouver and Victoria.  There were 1.3% fewer beneficiaries in Newfoundland and
Labrador, the third consecutive monthly decline in the province.
In  St. John’s , the number was down 1.7%.  In  New Brunswick , the number of beneficiaries fell for the
fourth month in a row, down 1.0% in February. Both Moncton
(-2.1%) and Saint John (-1.3%) posted declines from the previous
month.  The number of beneficiaries in  Quebec  was little changed in
February, after three months of decline. Montréal also saw
little change, following three consecutive monthly declines.  The number of beneficiaries in Ontario was little changed
in February, after three months of decline. In Toronto, 62,800
people received benefits in February, up 1.5% from January.  Employment Insurance beneficiaries by occupation  Among all major occupation groups, two posted notable
declines in the number of beneficiaries in February compared
with the previous month: occupations in social science,
education, government service and religion (-2.6%) and
occupations unique to primary industry (-1.3%). For both of
these occupation groups, the decline in February was the fourth
in a row. There was little or no change in the other occupation
groups.  Compared with February 2012, the number of beneficiaries
fell markedly in all but one of the major occupation groups. The
largest decline occurred in occupations unique to processing,
manufacturing and utilities (-12.2%), followed by business,
finance and administrative occupations. There was little change
in occupations in art, culture, recreation and sport.  Employment Insurance beneficiaries in major demographic groups  The number of EI regular beneficiaries among young men aged
15 to 24 declined 2.0% in February. This was the fourth
consecutive monthly decrease for this group, and brought their
year-over-year rate of decline to 12.8%, the largest of all
demographic groups.  For all the other groups, the number of beneficiaries was
little changed in February. On a year-over-year basis, the
slowest rate of decline was among people aged 55 and over
(-1.6%).  Claims decline markedly in February  To receive EI benefits, individuals must first submit a
claim. The number of claims provides an indication of the number
of people who could become beneficiaries.  The number of initial and renewal claims fell by 15,200
(-6.3%) to 223,900 in February, more than offsetting the
increase recorded the previous month. Quebec (-7.9%) showed the
largest percentage decline in claims in February, followed by
Ontario (-7.4%) and New Brunswick (-6.8%).  Smaller declines occurred in  Alberta  (-5.5%), British
Columbia (-4.2%) and Saskatchewan (-3.2%). At the same time,
claims fell slightly in  Nova Scotia  (-2.8%) and Manitoba (-1.8%),
while there was little or no change in Newfoundland and Labrador
and Prince  Edward Island .  Note to readers  Employment Insurance (EI) regular benefits are available to
eligible individuals who lose their jobs and who are available
for and able to work, but can’t find a job. The change in the
number of regular beneficiaries reflects various situations,
including people becoming beneficiaries, people going back to
work, and people exhausting their regular benefits.  There is always a certain proportion of unemployed people
who do not qualify for benefits. Some unemployed people have not
contributed to the program because they have not worked in the
past 12 months or their employment is not insured. Other
unemployed people have contributed to the program but do not
meet the eligibility criteria, such as workers who left their
job voluntarily or those who did not accumulate enough hours of
work to receive benefits.  New content and historical revision (released in March 2013)  Data on people who receive regular EI benefits are now
available by detailed age and for 140 occupation groups. New
seasonally adjusted data by sex, age, census metropolitan area,
census agglomeration and occupation are also available. The
definition of regular beneficiaries has been expanded to include
those receiving regular benefits while participating in
employment benefit programs, such as training. Furthermore,
self-employed people receiving special benefits are now included
in the special benefits category.  Geography boundaries have been updated from the 2001 to the
2006 Standard Geographical Classification, which mainly affects
boundaries of census metropolitan areas and census
agglomerations.  To preserve consistencies across time despite all of the
above changes, all EI data series have been the subject of an
historical revision going back to January 1997.  All data are available on CANSIM.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted. For more
information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and
identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  EI statistics are produced from administrative data sources
provided by Service  Canada  and Human Resources and Skills
Development Canada. These statistics may, from time to time, be
affected by changes to the Employment Insurance Act or
administrative procedures. Recent examples are the pilot project
entitled “Working While on Claim,” introduced on August 5, 2012,
and the regulation on search for suitable employment, that came
into effect on January 6, 2013.  The number of regular beneficiaries and the number of
claims received for the current and previous month are subject
to revision.  The number of beneficiaries is a measure of all people who
received EI benefits from February 10 to 16. This period
coincides with the reference week of the Labour Force Survey
(LFS).  EI statistics indicate the number of people who received EI
benefits, and should not be confused with LFS data, which
provide information on the total number of unemployed people. 