-- Canadian Dollar Trades at Almost 1-Month Low Before G-20 Meeting
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-04-18T21:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/canadian-dollar-advances-as-u-s-earnings-gains-signal-recovery.html
The Canadian dollar traded at
almost a one-month low before a Group of 20 meeting that may
offer clues about measures by central banks to jump-start
economic growth.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, was little
changed against its U.S. counterpart after paring gains earlier
today. The G-20 finance ministers and central bankers meet for
two days in  Washington  beginning today, before weekend talks at
the  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank . A draft
statement prepared for the group’s meeting maintains a February
pledge to “move more rapidly toward more market-determined
exchange rate systems and exchange-rate flexibility,” Bloomberg
BNA reported.  “The market certainly wants to see what the G-20 brings
and how aggressive the tone will be to foreign-exchange rates,”
 Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the online-currency-
trading company Oanda Corp., said in a phone interview.
“Central banks are looking for positive growth and sustainable
growth. At the moment, there’s not a global conviction in the
trend.”  The Canadian dollar was little changed at C$1.0264 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after rising earlier to C$1.0230.
It reached C$1.0294 yesterday, the lowest level since March 13.
One loonie buys 97.43 U.S. cents.  Technical Levels  George Davis , chief technical analyst in Toronto at Royal
 Bank of Canada ’s RBC Capital Markets unit, advised clients to
sell the Canadian dollar at levels weaker than C$1.0285.  “An hourly close above this level would pave the way for
further gains toward C$1.0315, with a further rally exposing
resistance in the C$1.0340 area,” Davis said in a research
note. “Place a tight stop below C$1.0192 on an hourly closing
basis.” A stop is an order set to be executed when an asset
reaches a predetermined price.  Trading in the loonie suggests it won’t reach parity with
its U.S. counterpart in the near-term, last attained on Feb. 7,
Oanda’s Popplewell said.  “The Canadian dollar will struggle to make its way towards
parity,” he said. “Commodities are still under pressure --that
will always be a worry for the Canadian dollar.”  Crude oil, the nation’s largest export, rose 1.9 percent to
$88.34 a barrel in  New York , paring a 10 percent loss this
month. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent while
the S&P/TSX Composite Index, the benchmark Canadian equity
gauge, added 0.4 percent.  Bonds Rise  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, with
yields falling one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
1.70 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
added 7 cents to C$98.13.  The Bank of Canada announced plans to sell C$3.3 billion
($3.2 billion) of two-year notes on April 24. The 1.5 percent
securities will mature in August 2015.  Ten-year  yields  dropped yesterday to as low as 1.69
percent, the least since December, after Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  also reduced his growth forecast for the year.  Derivatives point to four basis points of easing by the
central bank’s final meeting of the year, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on trading in overnight-index swaps. As
recently as January, the median forecast by economists called
for a quarter-percentage point increase at the end of the year.  One day after the Bank of Canada held its policy interest
rate at 1 percent, Carney said the nation’s housing market is
moving in the right direction. The central bank’s policy report
yesterday forecast household debt levels would stabilize.  Carney Policy  “We have conducted monetary policy in, we think, a pretty
transparent way,” Carney said in Washington, where he is
meeting with G-20 leaders.  Interest rates  “could be higher
sooner if this isn’t addressed or this isn’t adjusted in a more
timely way.”  The Bank yesterday reduced its outlook for growth this year
to 1.5 percent from 2 percent because of lower business
investment and  government spending , and projected excess
capacity in the economy at least into 2015.  The Canadian dollar has fallen 0.8 percent this year
against nine other developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar rose 3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  