-- Carney Says U.K. a Crisis Economy as Lagarde Seeks Easing
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-04-18T21:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/carney-says-u-k-a-crisis-economy-as-lagarde-seeks-easing.html
Bank of England  Governor-designate
 Mark Carney  said Britain is one of the world’s crisis economies,
following calls on the government by Managing Director of the
International Monetary Fund Christine Lagarde to relax fiscal
policy.  While Carney was echoing analysis from IMF, the comments
give a sense of his view on the British economy just two months
before arriving in  London  to run the U.K.’s central bank. He
added to concern expressed by the IMF that both fiscal and
monetary policy are too tight for the deteriorating economy.  “There’s three classes of economies in the global
economy,” Carney said in Washington today. “The crisis
economies, they are well known including the U.S., and I think
the insights from  Christine Lagarde  at the IMF is that the U.S.
is breaking out of that pack,” he said. The economies still in
crisis “include obviously the  euro zone  at the center, the U.K.
and Japan,” he said.  Carney has already won greater flexibility from Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to allow inflation to overshoot
its target while the economy remains weak. The IMF said the
economy had deteriorated sufficiently to warrant looser fiscal
policy from Osborne, jarring with the government’s deficit-
fighting rhetoric.  “The growth numbers are certainly not particularly good,”
Lagarde told reporters today in Washington. “What has changed
clearly is the quality of the numbers.”  U.K. Economy  The IMF said this week the U.K. economy will grow by 0.7
percent this year, slower than a 1 percent forecast made in
January. “Consideration should be given if growth weakens,” to
loosen policy, Lagarde said today.  Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  said that there’s
a risk the U.K. fell into another recession in the first
quarter, and signaled easing inflation pressures may reduce the
barrier to more stimulus.  “The inflation position, at least from my perspective, has
improved somewhat,” Weale said in an interview in London today.
There has been a “favorable signal from wages and the other
favorable signal very recently has been the news on commodity
prices. They certainly make me feel there’s more room for
maneuver than there would have been if they hadn’t happened.”  Carney’s view of the U.K. suggests he may push for policy
change when he arrives in the U.K. in July. Today, he defended
Osborne’s changes to the central bank’s remit after they were
criticized by  Mervyn King , the institution’s current governor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Washington at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Washington at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  