-- Carney Defends Policy Guidance After King is Skeptical
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-04-18T18:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/carney-defends-policy-guidance-after-king-is-skeptical.html
The Bank of England’s next
governor, Mark Carney, defended the usefulness of forward
guidance in monetary policy, days after Mervyn King, the
incumbent head of the central bank, questioned it.  Carney said he doesn’t agree that the U.S. Federal Reserve
put itself in a trap by saying last year that it wouldn’t
tighten policy while unemployment stayed above 6.5 percent and
the outlook for inflation remained subdued. Earlier this week,
King said he is a “little bit cautious” about giving such
long-term guidance on policy.  “There is also a recognition that if one-year forward
inflation is 2.5 percentage points, or above -- that’s the
expectation -- then the threshold comes off,” Carney said in
Washington today. “So how are you trapped? How are you trapped?
Where is the trap there? There is not a trap. There’s a sensible
out.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne last month
introduced the first shake-up of the central bank’s remit in
over a decade, formalizing powers that would give Carney greater
flexibility on setting interest rates when he comes to  London  in
July. Carney, who was at pains not to comment on U.K. policy
during the hour-long appearance in Washington, was told that the
comments on the Fed had been made by King after he had answered
the question.  “Very, very, very sneaky,” Carney said, when he realized
that he had inadvertently been commenting on King’s words.  Minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee’s April meeting
published yesterday showed that officials are downplaying the
impact of the overhaul on their policy thinking as they debate
inflation and economic risks.  Reaction Function  “There’s a judgment that’s provided by the central bank
which makes it clearer, to individuals most importantly, but
also market participants, that this is an element of the
reaction function of the central bank at a time of otherwise
fairly high uncertainty,” Carney said today.  King said in  Washington  this week that he’s “a little bit
cautious” about guidance because of difficulties in specifying
the triggers for action. What was important for officials was to
tackle “the real factors that have occurred in the crisis and
the shocks we’ve experienced,” he said.  The chancellor’s March 20 budget statement clarified the
BOE’s right to use unconventional tools to stoke growth and said
it should examine the case for forward guidance on the future
path of policy.  Others at the central bank have added to King’s skepticism.
Martin Weale, an external member of the MPC, said in an
interview today that forward guidance may be difficult to
implement in practice.  “Forward guidance, particularly if it’s associated with
thresholds, in the British context, does have problems,” Weale
said, noting that it could back the MPC into a corner. Policy
makers may “find ourselves either saying we’ve changed our
mind, which would be a problem, or we’d have to tighten policy
at a time when, as it turns out, no one on the committee has
been voting for that,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Washington at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Washington at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  