-- Celltrion Drops Late-Stage Trial of Roche Rituxan Drug Copy
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-04-18T08:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/celltrion-drops-late-stage-trial-of-roche-rituxan-drug-copy.html
Celltrion Inc. (068270)  dropped a late-stage
trial of a biosimilar version of  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s best-selling
Rituxan drug, potentially benefiting competitors such as
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and  Novartis (NOVN)  AG.  Celltrion had planned to take its drug, CT-P10, into phase-
III trials later this year, Asthika Goonewardene, a London-based
analyst for Bloomberg Industries, wrote in a note today.  The trial in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma is listed
as terminated, according to the European Medicine Agency’s
clinical trials  register . It’s not clear what prompted the
change, Goonewardene said, and if the South Korea-based company
will resume the trial later. Companies such as Boehringer and
Novartis’ Sandoz unit are racing to bring a biosimilar version
of the drug, also known as rituximab, to the market.  “In the grand scheme of things every additional entrant to
the market will chip away at the pie, so this is good news to
other competitors,” Goonewardene said in a telephone interview.  The original compound, sold by Roche and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ,
had about $7 billion in sales last year.  Because Rituxan is a biological drug, made out of living
cells, putting out a copy isn’t as simple as making a generic of
a chemically based pill like  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor or Viagra.
Under European Union regulations and draft U.S. guidelines,
companies that want to sell a copy of a biotechnology drug, a
so-called biosimilar, will need to show that their version of
Rituxan does the same thing as Roche’s.  Roche’s patents on the medicine expire in 2018 in the U.S.
and earlier in  Europe . Biogen helps market the drug in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  