-- Venezuela Agrees to Audit Vote Ahead of Maduro Inauguration
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-04-18T20:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/chavez-heir-agrees-to-audit-venezuela-vote-ahead-of-inauguration.html
Venezuela’s President-elect Nicolas Maduro, who will be sworn in tomorrow, agreed to a full audit of
the votes cast in the country’s closest election in 45 years as
the opposition contests the results.  Maduro’s campaign chief,  Jorge Rodriguez , made the
announcement yesterday after opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski called off a march to protest the results of the April
14 presidential election. Capriles, who requested a manual
recount of the 15 million votes, acted after Maduro said he
would come down with a “firm hand” on opposition supporters
and political violence led to eight deaths.  “That there be new technical audits, we agree 100 percent
with that,” Rodriguez said, without providing more information.  Tensions escalated in Venezuela after the snap election
following the death of President Hugo Chavez March 5. Maduro
today said on state television he will join regional leaders in
 Lima  to participate in an emergency meeting called by the 12-
member Union of South American Nations, or Unasur, to discuss
the contested election.  Capriles is evaluating whether to attend the meeting as
well, he wrote on his Twitter account. Foreign Affairs Minister
Elias Jaua also wrote on Twitter that he is traveling to Lima.  First Step  Maduro has taken a first step to resolving the impasse even
if his offer to audit the votes electronically doesn’t go as far
as the manual recount demanded by Capriles, said  Michael Shifter , president of the  Inter-American Dialogue  in  Washington .  “At least they’ll begin to have some communication that
could help overcome this crisis,” Shifter said in a phone
interview. “It has to be interpreted as an encouraging
development and I think Capriles will see it that way.”  Maduro, who today confirmed his swearing-in ceremony will
be tomorrow, was declared the winner by the national electoral
council after taking 50.8 percent of the vote to 49 percent for
Capriles. Caracas was flooded with music, fireworks and the
sound of pots and pans being banged the two past nights as
supporters from both sides showed loyalty to their leaders.  The  Carter Center , which sent a delegation to monitor the
election, is calling on both sides to discuss ways to resolve
their differences, the Atlanta-based nongovernmental
organization said in an e-mailed statement today. Losing
candidates in  Venezuela  have the right to expect legal
challenges of elections to be given consideration, it said.  Bonds, Inflation  The country’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2027 rose 2.4
cents on the dollar to 96.02 cents at 3:39 p.m. in Caracas. The
yield fell 33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, to 9.77
percent.  Venezuela’s dollar-denominated bonds fell the most in
almost 15 years on April 16 as after Maduro said he was ready to
“radicalize the revolution” and traders anticipated political
instability will undermine the economy. The price on the
benchmark 2027 bond dropped 6.89 cents to 91.22 cents on the
dollar, the biggest decline since August 1998.  Inflation accelerated to 25 percent in March, the fastest
official rate in the region. The central bank’s scarcity index,
which measures the amount of goods that are out of stock in the
market, rose to a record high of 20.4 percent in January.  The opposition insists irregularities affected about
300,000 votes, enough to overturn the result. Capriles said he
believed he had won the election and is ready to concede defeat
if a recount confirms Maduro’s victory.  ‘Get Out’  The U.S. supports a recount and has no plans to send an
envoy to the inauguration, Secretary of State  John Kerry  said in
a Congressional hearing yesterday.  “Take your eyes off Venezuela, John Kerry,” Maduro said.
“Get out of here. Enough with intervention.”  Nationwide protests also left 61 injured and led to the
arrest of 135 people this week, Public Prosecutor Luisa Ortega Diaz said. Opposition protesters have attacked health centers
and local offices of the ruling socialist party, Maduro said.  In 2002, Chavez was overthrown for two days after
opposition street protests in Caracas turned violent. A decade
earlier, Chavez became a national figure by leading military
rebels in a failed coup against President Carlos Andres Perez.  Chavez, who tapped the world’s biggest oil reserves to
reduce poverty, left the country polarized as he nationalized
more than 1,000 companies or their assets and implemented
currency and price controls that created food shortages and
fueled inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 