-- China’s Yi Says Conditions Ripe to Open Capital Account
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-18T21:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/china-s-yi-says-conditions-ripe-to-open-capital-account.html
China  will push ahead with opening
its capital account because current economic conditions are
favorable, said  Yi Gang , deputy governor of the nation’s central
bank.  “I see lot of favorable conditions that are suitable for
further liberalization in capital account,” Yi said during
International Monetary Fund meetings in  Washington  yesterday.
“In running an open economy you really need the capital account
to be pretty much convertible.”  Yi said on April 17 that China will widen the trading band
for the  yuan  “in the near future,” as the world’s second-
largest economy looks to reform its foreign-exchange regime. The
nation, which has the world’s largest foreign-currency reserves,
is seeking to shift its growth model away from one reliant on
exports by allowing more flexibility in the  exchange-rate  and
the convertibility of its currency.  About 80 percent of capital account items listed by the IMF
are convertible or partially convertible in China, Yi said.
Conditions for the opening up of the capital account include
“relatively good” economic fundamentals, sound public finance
and banks and a flexible exchange rate, he said.  The capital account measures public and private investment
flowing in and out of a country.  “We’ll steadily push the capital-account convertibility
further,” he told reporters in Washington April 17. “You’ll
see maybe in the next couple of years China step-by-step will go
along that direction.”  Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang , who took office a month ago,
said he would deepen exchange-rate reform and further open the
economy to market forces.  Trading Range  Yuan positions  at Chinese financial institutions stemming
from foreign-exchange transactions, a gauge of cross-border
capital flows, climbed 295 billion yuan ($48 billion) in
February, according to central bank data. Increases are a sign
of inflows and January’s 684 billion yuan gain was a record, the
data show.  The People’s Bank of China doubled the yuan’s trading  band 
a year ago to 1 percent either side of its daily  reference rate ,
which was fixed at 6.2416 per dollar yesterday, after being set
at a record 6.2342 on April 17. China may expand the trading
range of the yuan during the Group of 20 nations meeting in
Washington this week, UBS analysts Manik Narain and  Geoffrey Yu 
wrote in a note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  