-- China’s Foreign Investment Rises for Second Straight Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-18T02:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/china-s-foreign-investment-rises-for-second-straight-month-1-.html
China ’s foreign direct investment
rose for a second month in March, a sign of confidence in the
world’s second-biggest economy amid last quarter’s unexpected
growth slowdown.  Inbound investment gained 5.7 percent from a year earlier
to $12.4 billion, the  Ministry of Commerce  said in a statement
today in Beijing. Non-financial outbound investment in the first
quarter increased 44 percent to $23.8 billion.  The higher spending by foreign companies follows an eight-
month slump, an indication of rising optimism that China will
provide them with revenue and profits even as expansion lags the
pace of the previous decade. New Premier Li Keqiang said last
month that the nation needs 7.5 percent annual growth to meet
its goals for the rest of the decade.  “The government may speed up the approval of foreign-
funded projects,” Steve Wang, Hong Kong-based head of China
research at Reorient Financial Markets Ltd., a China government-
backed investment bank, said before the release. “As Beijing’s
new leaders push for reform and emphasize quality in growth,
China will be relying increasingly on foreign investors” to
bring technology for production, energy efficiency and pollution
control, Wang said.  China’s  economic growth  decelerated in the first three
months of 2013 as industrial output and investment slowed, after
expansion accelerated in the previous period for the first time
in two years. Gross domestic product rose 7.7 percent, marking
the fourth straight quarter of below-8 percent expansion, the
longest streak in two decades.  Quarter’s Investment  First-quarter inbound investment rose 1.4 percent to $29.9
billion, the ministry said.  The  National Development and Reform Commission , the
nation’s top economic planning agency, said March 5 that foreign
direct investment may rise about 1.2 percent to $113 billion
this year. Outbound investment was projected to increase 15
percent to $88.7 billion, the agency said in its annual report
to the legislature.  Chinese President Xi Jinping said at a meeting this month
with executives from companies including  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  that the nation will improve
conditions for foreign businesses, according to a government
statement.  EcoMotors International, the fuel-efficient engine maker
based in Allen Park, Michigan, and backed by billionaires Bill Gates and Vinod Khosla, said April 9 that it will choose China
as the location for its first factory, which will be built with
more than $200 million from the automotive-parts conglomerate
Anhui Zhongding Holding Group Co.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nicholas Wadhams  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  