-- China Plans to Complete Climate Change Draft Law in Two Years
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/china-to-complete-climate-change-law-draft-in-two-years.html
China  plans to draw on the
experience of seven regional carbon markets as it drafts new
national legislation in one or two years, according to the
country’s lead climate negotiator.  The nation, the biggest emitter of  greenhouse gases  linked
to global warming, will “actively promote” the legislation,
Xie Zhenhua, vice chairman at the National Development and
Reform Commission, said yesterday in Beijing. “Shanghai and
Shenzhen are trying to set rules for carbon trading,” providing
expertise for the nation, he said.  China, which surpassed Japan in 2010 to become the world’s
second-biggest economy, plans to cut carbon emissions per unit
of economic output by 40 percent to 45 percent before 2020 and
learn from carbon-pricing efforts in  South Korea , Australia and
the European Union, Xie said.  “The carbon price depends on emission-cutting efforts,”
Xie said. The EU price is “very low,” probably because they
allocated too many emission quotas when designing their market.
“We are learning lessons.”  The  Shanghai  carbon exchange plans to take back allowances
when carbon prices are low and sell more when they are high “to
maintain relatively stable levels,” Xie said.  China’s national climate legislation will have a binding
effect, Charlie Cao, a Beijing-based analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, said by phone yesterday. “This will bring
stable expectations to investors on a carbon market. Otherwise
they don’t have confidence.”  China asked seven cities and provinces last year to set
regional caps and pilot programs for trading emission rights.
The country set targets to cut carbon intensity reduction and
energy consumption by 2015 for each city and province, Xie said.
The total amounts of carbon emissions can be estimated with
planned economic growth, he said.  China will then set quotas for  carbon emissions  and
allocate them into key enterprises, Xie said. Shenzhen,
scheduled to start June 18, will be the first to begin  emissions
trading , and Shanghai will probably follow this year, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  