-- China’s Poultry Feed Demand to Slump 20% on Bird-Flu Outbreak
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-18T04:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/china-s-poultry-feed-demand-to-slump-20-on-bird-flu-outbreak.html
Feed demand from  China ’s poultry
industry may slump 20 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier after an outbreak of bird flu, research firm  Shanghai  JC
Intelligence Co. said.  The H7N9 virus, which has killed at least 17 people in
China since the beginning of March, has caused more than 16.7
billion ($2.7 billion) of losses to the nation’s poultry
industry as consumers avoid chicken, the official Xinhua News
Agency said April 16, citing the China Animal Husbandry
Association. Poultry feed is mostly made of corn and soymeal.  Poultry-product sales have dropped almost 70 percent since
the end of March as government asked its citizens to avoid
contact with live animals, Shanghai JC said in a report dated
yesterday. Farms are reducing flocks and selling off broilers,
birds under 13 weeks old that constitute almost all commercial
chicken production, according to the report.  “The industry has been dealt a blow so severe that it
won’t be able to shake off the impact at least until late May or
June,”  Li Qiang , managing director at the Shanghai JC
Intelligence Co., said by phone from Shanghai today.  An average Chinese urban resident gets 28 percent of annual
protein from pork, 14 percent from poultry and 13 percent from
eggs, according to analyst Alice Xuan of Shanghai JC. In rural
areas the figures are 39 percent, 12 percent and 15 percent,
respectively, Xuan’s analysis showed. About 51 percent of
Chinese lived in cities as of 2011, statistics show.  Interest in raising poultry has “drastically declined,”
the China National Grain & Oils Information Center said in an e-
mailed report yesterday. Feed demand may decrease by 4.4 million
tons, including 2 million tons of corn, if the outbreak lasts to
May, while impact on June and after may be small, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  