-- China’s Home Prices Gain as Guangzhou Rises Most in 2 Yrs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-18T08:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/china-home-prices-rise-in-almost-all-cities-on-mild-local-curbs.html
China ’s property rebound gathered
pace in March as new  home prices  in the southern city of
Guangzhou jumped the most in more than two years, underscoring
concerns that a bubble may be building.  Guangzhou prices rose 11.1 percent from a year earlier
while those in Beijing climbed 8.6 percent and  Shanghai  posted a
6.4 percent increase, the National Bureau of Statistics said in
a statement today, all showing the biggest gains since January
2011 when the government changed its methodology for the data.
Prices rose in 68 of 70 cities tracked by the government, the
most since September 2011.  “Today’s data shows demand is still strong, especially in
major cities; the government’s measures in the past didn’t
work,” Shen Jian-guang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., said in a phone interview today. “Home
prices will continue to rise because local governments are
refraining from fully implementing the measures.”  Thirty-five provincial-level cities have issued details of
property curbs by an April 1 deadline, “far more benign than
the market’s expectations,” according to a BNP Paribas SA
report. Former Premier  Wen Jiabao , in his final endeavor to make
housing affordable, ordered higher down payments and  interest
rates  for second-home loans in cities with “excessively fast”
price gains and urged stricter enforcement of taxes on sales.  Wenzhou Drops  Most cities, including Hangzhou and Nanjing in the east,
and the southern business hub of Shenzhen, pegged home-price
gains at a rate less than the growth in per-capita disposable
incomes. That will allow home prices to increase 7.5 percent to
13 percent this year, Centaline Group, parent of China’s biggest
real estate agency, said in a report this month.  March home prices declined in Ningbo and Wenzhou, both in
the eastern Zhejiang province, from a year earlier. Wenzhou had
the biggest drop, tumbling 9.2 percent from a year earlier.  The  Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index (SHPROP) , which tracks 24
developers, was little changed at the close after rising as much
as 1.4 percent. The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.2
percent.  Major cities also led gains in existing home prices. They
rose 9.1 percent in Beijing last month from a year ago, the most
among the 70 cities. Existing prices increased 7.2 percent in
Shanghai, 7.5 percent in Guangzhou and 6.2 percent in Shenzhen.  “The Chinese property sector is a bubble,” Tao Dong, head
of Asia economics excluding  Japan  at Credit Suisse Group AG,
told Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong  today. “We do have a
problem. But a bubble today doesn’t mean that the bubble has to
go down tomorrow. It might last for a while.”  Cash Cow  Slowing economic expansion is alleviating concerns that the
government may impose more property curbs because too stringent
tightening will impact growth, according to Citigroup Inc.
analysts led by Oscar Choi. The economy grew 7.7 percent in the
first quarter, less than the 8 percent median forecast in a
survey of 41 economists.  Private data also showed increases in prices. Home values
last month climbed the most in more than two years from
February, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s
biggest real estate website owner.  “There are actually people who rushed into the market to
finish transactions before the local government details,”  Wang Tao , chief China economist at UBS AG, told Bloomberg Television
in Hong Kong today, saying that many of the measures have been
“watered down.” “Local governments rely a lot on property for
revenue, so they don’t have incentives to kill their cash cow.”  Land Revenue  China’s cities, especially smaller ones, got at least 21
percent of their revenue, and in some cases as much as half,
from selling land last year, according to UBS.  Home sales rose 69 percent in the first quarter to 1.2
trillion  yuan  ($194 billion) from a year earlier, the biggest
first-quarter gain in three years, the statistics bureau
reported April 15.  “The residential  property market  in China is still under
strict controls, but you can see the overall demand is still
there,” Freddy Lee, chief executive officer of  Shui On Land
Ltd. (272) , a Shanghai-based developer, said at a conference in the
city on April 16.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  