-- China May Widen Yuan Trading Band Within 72 Hours: UBS
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-04-18T21:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/china-may-widen-yuan-trading-band-within-72-hours-ubs.html
China will probably widen the
 yuan ’s trading band within the next three days after central
bank Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  signaled policy makers will loosen
control over the currency, according to  UBS AG. (UBSN)   China may expand the range that the yuan is allowed to
trade within during the Group of 20 nations meetings in
Washington this week, UBS analysts Manik Narain and  Geoffrey Yu 
wrote in a note.  Yi said during the International Monetary Fund meeting
April 17 that the yuan’s trading band will be widened “in the
near future.” The currency is currently allowed to trade 1
percent on either side of an official fixing. The People’s Bank
of China doubled the band from 0.5 percent a year ago, the first
widening since 2007.  “Signs are pretty clear that the PBOC is preparing a band
widening very soon,” wrote the analysts. “As for timing, there
is a risk that it happens over the course of the next 72 hours,
to coincide with the G-20 meetings being held in  Washington  D.C.
and the first anniversary of the previous widening to plus or
minus 1 percent.”  The yuan has traded close to the 1 percent upper limit of
the official rate for most of the time since October as China’s
growing economy attracted foreign capital. The yuan closed at a
19-year high of 6.1723 per dollar April 17 before falling 0.2
percent to 6.1813 yesterday, based on China Foreign Exchange
Trade System prices.  Twelve-month non-deliverable  forwards on the yuan climbed
0.1 percent to 6.248 per dollar, suggesting traders expect the
yuan to be little changed in a year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The median forecast of 35 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for the yuan to end the year at 6.13 per dollar.  Under Pressure  “The  exchange rate  is going to be more market-oriented,”
Yi said at the IMF conference April 17. “I think in the near
future they’re going to increase the floating band even
further.”  China may come under pressure to quicken appreciation of
the yuan from members of the G-20 nations. A U.S. Treasury
Department report last week called the currency “significantly
undervalued” and asked Japan to refrain from devaluing the yen.  “ China’s economy  must be operating to the government’s
satisfaction for them to allow band widening to happen,” the
UBS analysts wrote. They advised their clients buy Chinese yuan
against the Malaysian ringgit and Indian rupee.  Of 20 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  in November, 12
forecast that the yuan’s trading band would be widened in 2013,
while eight predicted that the decision would take place in
2014. Seventeen said the next change would lead to the yuan
being allowed to diverge 1.5 percent to 2 percent from the
reference rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  