-- China Mobile Ends Pact to Buy 12% Stake in Far EasTone
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-04-19T09:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/china-mobile-ends-pact-to-buy-12-stake-in-far-eastone.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) ’s plan to buy
part of  Far EasTone Telecommunications Co. (4904) , the first investment
by a Chinese state-owned company in Taiwan in six decades,
collapsed after the island wouldn’t ease ownership curbs.  The agreement for the world’s biggest phone company by
users to spend NT$17.8 billion ($596 million) for 12 percent of
Far EasTone was terminated and replaced by a framework for
business cooperation, the companies said in a statement to the
 Taiwan Stock Exchange  yesterday. The carriers may resume talks
if the island’s ownership rules ease, they said.  Restrictions on Chinese companies owning stakes in
telecommunications operators with networks scuttled the deal,
which was unveiled in April 2009 when Far EasTone’s  shares  were
about half their current value. The first investment by a
mainland bank in a Taiwanese lender was announced this month
after restrictions were eased for the finance industry.  “Things are more complicated in the telecom industry,”
said Parker Wu, a  fund manager  at Agriculture Bank of Taiwan.
“The government is a bit more cagey about Chinese influence in
those companies as they possess personal information and that
becomes a matter of national security. Taiwan and China’s
relationship isn’t that close yet.”  Far EasTone rose 1 percent to NT$71.10 as of the close of
Taipei trading and has lost 4.1 percent this year, compared with
a 3 percent advance for the Taiex Index. China Mobile rose 1.3
percent to HK$82.15 in Hong Kong trading.  The 2009 proposal would have seen China Mobile pay NT$40 a
share for the stake, 14 percent higher than the price of Far
EasTone’s stock at the time.  Spying Potential  Douglas Hsu, the billionaire chairman of Far EasTone, last
week said  China  Mobile was still keen on the stake. The Taipei-
based company is Taiwan’s third-largest wireless carrier.  Zhang Xuan, a Beijing-based spokesman for China Mobile,
wasn’t immediately available to comment.  “Category one telecommunication business involves security
issues and is more sensitive, that’s the reason why we are not
considering open it to Chinese investment,” said Emile Chang,
deputy executive secretary of the Investment Commission at
Taiwan’s Ministry of Economic Affairs.  The planned stake would have been the first direct
investment by a Chinese state-owned company in Taiwan since the
civil war as cross-strait relations warmed after the island’s
president, Ma Ying-jeou, took office in 2008. All 692 members of
Taiwan’s benchmark  index  rose after the deal was first announced
on speculation more mainland Chinese companies would invest.  3G Advantage  “Telecoms is going to be off limits for a long time,”
said Doug Young, author of the book “The Party Line: How the
Media Dictates Public Opinion in Modern China.” The
telecommunications sector “is a sensitive area with the
potential for spying,” he said.  The collapse of the deal comes after a U.S. congressional
committee in October said China-based Huawei Technologies Co.
and  ZTE Corp. (763)  provide opportunities for Chinese intelligence
services to tamper with telecommunications networks for spying.
Huawei’s founder, Ren Zhengfei, served in the Chinese military.  Shenzhen-based Huawei, the world’s second-largest maker of
equipment for phone networks, has defended itself against those
concerns.  Taiwan’s Technology  China Mobile said when announcing the deal that it would
benefit from Taiwan’s “more advanced” third-generation
wireless technology. China Mobile would have gotten a seat on
Far EasTone’s  board  and become its second-largest shareholder,
the Taipei-based company said at the time.  China Mobile’s share of the nation’s total 1.12 billion
wireless users was 64 percent in January, according to data
released in February. The carrier had 714.7 million mobile-phone
subscribers at the end of January, including 95 million 3G
users, it said.  Relations between China and  Taiwan  have improved since Ma
took office in 2008 and dropped the pro-independence stance of
predecessor Chen Shui-bian. While China says Taiwan is part of
its territory, the two have been administered separately since
Chiang Kai-shek’s Nationalists fled the mainland in 1949 after
losing to Mao Zedong’s Communists in a civil war.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  