-- China’s Anti-Carrier Missile Now Opposite Taiwan, Flynn Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-04-18T20:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/china-s-anti-carrier-missile-now-opposite-taiwan-flynn-says.html
The Chinese military has deployed
its new anti-ship ballistic missile along its southern coast
facing  Taiwan , the Pentagon’s top military intelligence officer
said today.  The missile, designated the DF-21D, is one of a “growing
number of conventionally armed” new weapons China is deploying
to the region, adding to more than 1,200 short-range missiles
opposite the island democracy, U.S. Army Lieutenant General
Michael Flynn, the Defense Intelligence Agency director, said in
a  statement  to the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Flynn’s reference to the DF-21D follows one made by U.S.
Navy Admiral Samuel Locklear, head of the U.S. Pacific Command,
in congressional testimony on April 9. He highlighted the
“initial deployment of a new anti-ship missile that we believe
is designed to target U.S. aircraft carriers.”  Flynn’s brief reference to the DF-21D today is significant
because it advances the DIA’s assessment last year, when U.S.
Army Lieutenant General Ronald Burgess, then the agency’s
director, said China’s military is “probably preparing to
deploy” the weapon.  The disclosure may spark increased scrutiny in Congress
this year about the vulnerability of the Navy’s aircraft
carriers, including the new Gerald R. Ford class being built by
Newport News, Virginia-based  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.. (HII)   The Navy estimates that the first new carrier will cost at
least $12.3 billion, and the service’s budget request for the
fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 includes $1.68 billion for new
aircraft carriers, more than double this year’s $781.7 million
request. Of that, $945 million would pay for continued design
and construction of the second Ford-class carrier, the USS John
F. Kennedy.  ‘Immediate Need’  Michael Gilmore, the Pentagon’s director of operational
testing, warned in his January 2012 annual report that the Navy
lacked a target needed to check its defenses against the DF-21D.
The Navy had an “immediate need” for a test missile able to
replicate the DF-21D’s trajectory, Gilmore said.  Last July, Gilmore told Navy Secretary Ray Mabus in a memo
that testing to evaluate the new carriers’ “ability to
withstand shock and survive in combat” would be postponed until
after the Kennedy is built, and may not be completed for seven
years.  The DF-21D is intended to give  China  “the capability to
attack large ships, particularly aircraft carriers, in the
western Pacific,” the Pentagon’s 2012 China report said. The
report cites estimates that the missile’s range exceeds 930
miles (1,500 kilometers).  Carrier Hunters  The missiles are designed be be launched to a general
location, where their guidance systems take over and spot
carriers to attack with warheads intended to destroy the ships’
flight decks, launch catapults and control towers.  U.S. Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Jonathan Greenert
told defense reporters in March 2012 that the Navy is evaluating
how to defeat the missile during all phases of flight, using
methods such as jamming the missiles’ sensors, reducing the
electronic emissions from U.S. ships, and intercepting the
missile.  “Some call that links of a chain,” Greenert said. “You
want to break as many links as possible.”  In its fiscal 2014 Budget Highlights book, the Navy said
it’s working a “kill chain” against an unspecified weapon.  The Navy, the book says, wants to integrate the
capabilities of the Falls Church, Virginia-based  Northrop
Grumman Corp.’s (NOC)  E-2D Advanced Hawkeye surveillance aircraft;
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp.’s (LMT)  Aegis
surveillance and missile defense system; and Waltham,
Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co.’s (RTN)  Cooperative Engagement
Capability sensor network linking ships and Standard Missile-6
interceptors “to keep pace with the evolving threat.”  Analysts including Mark Gunzinger, a senior fellow with the
Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, and some naval
officers worry that the new carriers, while formidable warships,
may not be able to get close enough for their planes to attack
enemies, such as China and  Iran , that are armed with precision-
guided anti-ship cruise and ballistic missiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  