-- China Construction Buys NJ Office Building in U.S. Expansion
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-04-18T01:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/china-construction-buys-nj-office-building-in-u-s-expansion.html
China Construction America Inc. (601688) , a
unit of a Beijing-based developer, bought a suburban  New Jersey 
office building for $71 million as it expands in U.S. real
estate investment and development.  The building at 445 South St. in  Morris Township , New
Jersey, is the company’s first property purchase in the state.
It’s close to the U.S. unit’s headquarters in  Jersey City  as
well as its construction projects in and around New York, said
Phillip Gesue, who joined  China  Construction last year to lead
its U.S. real estate operations. Gesue previously oversaw real
estate for  Orient-Express Hotels Ltd. (OEH) , based in Bermuda.  China Construction might occupy part of the building, which
is leased mainly to insurance-company tenants, Gesue said.  “This is really a strategic investment that has uses to us
both from an operating standpoint and also as an investment for
our firm,” Gesue said in a telephone interview.  China Construction focuses on development in and around
Manhattan, primarily  residential  projects, said Gesue. “It’s an
asset class that has a lot of demand right now. It’s also a
business we’re very active in in China and very knowledgeable
about as a company.”  He said the company is working on some “very large” new
residential developments in New York, declining to provide
details. The city “is a phenomenal global marketplace,” he
said.  The company is a unit of  China State Construction
Engineering Corp. (601668) , which is building the country’s tallest tower
in the southern city of Shenzhen.  No. 1 Market  The Morris Township deal reflects an influx of interest in
U.S. real estate from foreign investors, said Andrew Merin, the
Cushman & Wakefield Inc. broker who represented the seller, a
group led by Bedminster, New Jersey-based Advance Realty, an
owner and manager of property in the Northeast U.S.  “The U.S. has become the No. 1 market they all want to be
in because of its political stability and economy,” he said in
a telephone interview, adding that real estate also offers
potentially higher  interest rates  than bond investments.  “We are seeing a lot more interest” from Asian as well as
Middle Eastern and European investors, he said. “We mainly see
it in the big cities like  New York  and  Washington , but
occasionally we are seeing the investments out here.”  The sale was done at a capitalization rate, a measure of
investment yield, of less than 7 percent, Merin said. Cap rates
are calculated by dividing net operating income by purchase
price.  The 320,274 square-foot (29,800 square meters), four-story
property is located in Southgate Corporate Park. It was built in
1982 and renovated in 2008. It contains a cafeteria, a full-size
basketball court and fitness center, according to Cushman &
Wakefield. The purchase price works out to more than $221 per
square foot, the broker said in a statement.  The Advance Realty group bought the building vacant in 2005,
renovated it and increased occupancy before selling, Merin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  