-- Christopher Flowers Prefers Spain, Ireland for Investment
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-04-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/christopher-flowers-prefers-spain-ireland-for-investment.html
J.  Christopher Flowers , chairman
and chief executive officer of U.S. private-equity firm J.C.
Flowers & Co., said Spain and Ireland are his preferred
countries for investment in Europe as companies sell units.  Flowers, 55, whose firm focuses on financial services, is
interested in investing in firms with about 50 billion euros
($65.4 billion) of assets, he said in an interview with Manus
Cranny on Bloomberg Television.  “The most interesting for us is maybe Spain followed by
Ireland,” he said. Spain has a “lot going on there and part of
the European Union and that’s appealing as an investor.”  Flowers moved to London from the U.S. last year to examine
investment opportunities in Europe. The private-equity firm is a
bidder for the branches of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , and
agreed to buy insurance broker Fidea NV from KBC Groep NV for
243.6 million euros in 2011. It has also invested in the U.K.’s
 Kent Reliance Building Society  in 2010.  “Europe is a source of lot of opportunities at the moment
as there are many companies changing and restructuring in our
business of financial services,” Flowers said.  The condition of the euro is also “absolutely critical to
the survival of the financial-services industry,” Flowers said.
“The euro will survive but it’s not a certainty and it’s a bit
like Russian roulette.”  Flowers, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker, in 2000
took over near-bankrupt Long-Term Credit  Bank of Japan (8301)  with
Ripplewood Holdings LLC founder Tim Collins. They renamed the
Tokyo-based bank Shinsei before taking it public in February
2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  