-- Sugar Futures Fall to 33-Month Low on Brazil Crop Outlook
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-04-18T19:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/cocoa-erases-drop-in-new-york-on-ivory-coast-crop-coffee-climbs.html
Sugar futures fell to the lowest in
almost 33 months on speculation that rain will boost crops in
 Brazil , the world’s top producer. Cotton and orange juice
dropped, while coffee and cocoa rose.  Recent precipitation probably will favor sugar yields for a
record Brazilian crop, Omar al-Dahhan, a senior trader at Louis
Dreyfus Commodities, said at a conference in Geneva. The Center
South, the biggest cane-producing region, will get drier weather
this week, allowing fieldwork to advance, MDA Information
Systems LLC said on April 16.  “Traders remain bearish longer term on ideas that big
production will be available to the market as the Brazil harvest
is processed and comes to market,”  Jack Scoville , a vice
president at Price Futures Group in  Chicago , said in a report.  Raw sugar for July delivery declined 1 percent to settle at
17.61 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. Earlier, the
price touched 17.43 cents, the lowest for a most-active contract
since July 21, 2010.  Cotton futures for July delivery dropped 1.4 percent to
85.48 cents a pound, the third decline this week.  The China Cotton Association said today that it plans to
sell fiber from reserves by the end of July. The country is the
world’s top consumer and importer.  The China news “put a cap to yesterday’s technical
rally,”  Keith Brown , the president of Keith Brown & Co. in
Moultrie,  Georgia , said in a telephone interview. A slump in
equities also drove prices lower, he said.  Orange-juice futures for May delivery tumbled 1.6 percent
to $1.461 a pound, the biggest decline in a week.  Arabica-coffee futures for July delivery jumped 2.9 percent
to $1.408 a pound, the biggest gain since Jan. 2.  Cocoa futures for July delivery gained 0.1 percent to
$2,319 a metric ton, the third straight increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  