-- Coffee Arrivals in Indonesia Drop as Growing Region Hit by Rain
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-04-18T08:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/coffee-arrivals-in-indonesia-drop-as-growing-region-hit-by-rain.html
Coffee arrivals from  Indonesia ’s
southern Sumatra, the main growing region of the world’s third-
largest robusta producer, slowed this month because of heavy
rain, widening the premium to the price in London.  Deliveries to warehouses in Lampung province have dropped
to between 250 metric tons to 300 tons per day from about 500
tons last year, said Moelyono Soesilo, marketing and purchasing
manager at exporter  PT Taman Delta Indonesia . Buyers are paying
premiums of between $30 and $40 a ton over the May-delivery
contract on NYSE Liffe, Soesilo said by phone. That compares
with $10 to $20 at the end of March, he said.  Reduced supplies from Indonesia may extend this year’s 7.8
percent advance in prices of the bitter-tasting robusta variety
used by Nestle SA in instant drinks. Farmers have picked about
12,000 tons of beans on the lowlands in Sumatra and stockpiles
were seen at about 2,000 tons at the end of last month,
according to Amsterdam-based trader Nedcoffee BV. The harvest in
the country usually runs from April to July, with a smaller crop
through September.  “Supplies are really tight,” said Mochtar Luthfie, head
of research and development at the Lampung chapter of the
Association of Indonesian Coffee Exporters and Industries. “The
main harvesting may be delayed to June or July from May because
of the rains.”  Parts of Lampung and Northern Sumatra may receive as much
as 100 millimeters per day, with lightning and strong winds in
the week to April 22, the Meteorology, Climatology and
Geophysics Agency said yesterday. The provinces of Lampung,
Bengkulu and South Sumatra on the southern tip of Sumatra island
account for about 75 percent of Indonesia’s coffee output.  Robusta for July delivery, the most-active contract, rose
0.1 percent to close at $2,074 a ton in  London  yesterday. The
contract for delivery in May gained 0.2 percent to end at $2,034.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  