-- Colombia Peso Trades at 15-Month Low on Intervention Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-04-18T15:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/colombia-peso-trades-at-15-month-low-on-intervention-outlook.html
Colombia ’s peso traded at a 15-
month low on speculation the central bank will extend its plan
to buy dollars as it seeks to ease gains in the local currency.  The peso depreciated less than 0.1 percent to 1,849.79 per
 U.S. dollar  at 10:04 a.m. in Bogota, the weakest level on a
closing basis since January 2012.  Banco de la Republica said Jan. 28 it will buy at least $30
million a day, bringing purchases in the foreign-exchange market
to $3 billion from February to May. Policy makers will probably
announce an extension to the dollar purchase program at their
April 26 monetary policy meeting, according to Lucia Duarte, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Bancolombia SA, the nation’s
biggest bank.  “Next week’s Banrep meeting has the market nervous,”
Duarte said in a telephone interview from Bogota. “Yesterday
the  exchange rate  broke significant resistance levels, and given
the global environment, lower foreign direct investment and the
government’s verbal intervention,” the trend is for a weaker
peso, she said.  The peso, which strengthened 9.7 percent in 2012, has
slumped 4.5 percent this year. Resistance is a level where sell
orders are clustered.  Declining prices of Colombia’s commodity exports will
probably weaken the peso, central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe
said in an interview on Caracol Radio yesterday. Finance
Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  has said he expects the currency to
weaken to 1,900 and wants to “get there quickly.”  Pension Rules  Colombia announced on April 15 as part of an economic
stimulus that it will adjust rules on risk and profitability
governing pension funds to weaken the peso by encouraging them
to invest more abroad. It also said a royalties fund controlled
by the government known as Fonpet will buy $500 million this
year to invest in assets abroad and keep another $500 million
overseas rather than bringing the money back into Colombia.  Yields on Colombia’s peso bonds maturing in 2024 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.92 percent,
according to the stock exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  