-- Commerzbank Investors Vent Anger at CEO After Worst Performance
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-04-18T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/commerzbank-investors-vent-anger-at-ceo-after-worst-performance.html
Shareholders of  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,
Germany’s second-biggest bank, may be the most furious in  Europe 
after the stock tumbled more than any other bank outside crisis-
hit Ireland and  Greece .  Investors are planning to protest against the way Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  is running the firm at an
annual general meeting in  Frankfurt  today after the share
plunged 20 percent in the last six weeks, extending a slump
since 2008 to 93 percent. Behind the latest price decline was
Blessing’s announcement of a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3 billion)
capital increase last month, the fifth in four years, that
threatens to dilute shareholders’ investments further.  “The orgy of capital increases is destroying shareholder
wealth and the management is not at all credible anymore after
all the U-turns of the past,” Klaus Nieding, vice president of
 DSW , a proxy voting agent representing the interests of smaller
shareholders of German firms, said by phone from Frankfurt. “I
am even more critical of the management than I was.”  Commerzbank, which grants more loans to Germany’s mid-sized
companies than any other lender, got an 18.2 billion-euro
government bailout four years ago as investments in property and
shipping turned sour after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers 
Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  Germany’s economy, in contrast, is perceived by investors
as a safe haven. Yields on benchmark 10-year bonds have fallen
to record lows and economic growth is among the highest in the
euro-area.  Record Low  Commerzbank shares rose 1 percent to 1.17 euros yesterday,
valuing the firm at 6.8 billion euros. They hit a record low of
1.11 euros last month. In June 2007 they set a record high of
30.6 euros.  Since the financial crisis erupted losses for the stock are
almost double the 48 percent decline of the benchmark  Bloomberg
500 European Bank Index. (BEBANKS)   Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
rescued by the U.K. government, fell 88 percent in the period.
 Spain ’s Bankia, which got a record European bailout, dropped 92
percent since its July 2011 initial public offering.  Blessing, 49, is asking shareholders to approve the capital
increase today partly to pay Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government a remaining 1.6 billion euros from the bailout. The
government will take part, lowering its stake to below 20
percent from 25 percent, Commerzbank said when it announced the
plan on March 13.  Shareholders will be asked to approve a reverse share split
that will reduce the number of shares to 583 million from 5.83
billion. Deutsche Bank AG,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
have agreed to underwrite the capital increase and to buy shares
at a minimum 1.1 euros apiece should Commerzbank fail to sell
the whole amount planned.  Trust Issue  Existing shares will probably be diluted by about 60
percent,  Dirk Becker , an analyst with Frankfurt-based broker
Kepler  Capital Markets , who recommends investors sell Commerzbank
stock, said by telephone.  “Shareholders just cannot be satisfied with the
management,”  Robert Greil , an analyst at fund management
company Merck Finck & Co. in Munich, said by phone. “The
capital increase is weighing on the share price and the earliest
the bank may pay a dividend will likely be in 2015.”  Investors are growing increasingly distrustful of
Frankfurt-based Commerzbank’s board after it failed to live up
to pledges made since the 2009 government rescue, Nieding said.  In May 2009, and with the bailout secured, Blessing sought
to attract investors to the company by announcing “Roadmap
2012,” a plan to turn Commerzbank into a profit-making business
and increase shareholder returns. Among the targets was an
operating profit of 4 billion euros by 2012 and an after-tax
return on equity of 12 percent.  Operating profit was 1.2 billion euros last year. After-tax
return on equity was zero.  New Strategy  Facing heckling from disgruntled shareholders at an annual
general meeting last May, Blessing said he would create a
special unit to merge profitable commercial real estate
businesses in  Germany , U.K.,  France  and  Poland  with loss-making
ship financing units in an effort to restructure the
enterprises. A month later he decided to close them all down.  In November, Blessing announced a new strategy. He said
Commerzbank will boost after-tax return on equity to more than
10 percent by 2016 by cutting costs, laying off staff and
investing 2 billion euros in consumer and corporate banking.  “There was a roadmap 2012, now we have a roadmap 2016,
where does this end?” Nieding said. “There are constantly new
targets, which then are not met.”  Blaming Crisis  Commerzbank has blamed its failure to achieve the profit
goals laid down in 2009 on the financial crisis. The 2012
targets, it said, were conditional on markets remaining stable.  Risk-aversion among retail clients and writedowns due to a
crisis in shipping were also to blame, Commerzbank spokesman
Nils Happich said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  The German economy has rebounded in the past three years.
After shrinking 5.1 percent in 2009, the deepest contraction
since World War Two, it grew 4.1 percent in 2010, 3.1 percent in
2011 and 0.9 percent last year.  “If Commerzbank had been in Spain, the bank probably would
have ended up like Bankia with people taking their money out
over a weekend,” Becker said.  Bankia, which took about 18 billion euros in bailout aid,
posted a record 21.2 billion-euro loss last year as it cleansed
soured assets. A 15.5 billion-euro re-capitalization approved
last month has almost wiped out existing shareholders.  ‘Worst Decision’  Investors pushed yields on German Bunds to a record low of
1.21 percent earlier this month from 4.5 percent in July 2008,
two months before Lehman Brothers collapsed. They’re demanding
an annual return of 6.42 percent to buy the 10-year debt of
Commerzbank.  Commerzbank became Europe’s biggest real estate lender and
public financier after buying Eurohypo in 2005 for an estimated
5.9 billion euros. Blessing is winding down the unit, which made
a loss of 3.5 billion euros in 2011. The debt crisis also forced
Commerzbank to book 2.2 billion euros of writedowns on its Greek
debt holdings.  “That was the worst decision ever, with that massively
overpriced acquisition of Eurohypo, the bank laid the ground for
the mess they are in now,” said Martin Wirth, the founder of
fund manager Frankfurt Performance Management, who holds
Commerzbank shares and helps to manage 500 million euros of
equities. It was former CEO Klaus-Peter Mueller, currently the
supervisory board chairman, “who pushed it, but Blessing was
already on the board,” Wirth said.  Profit Center  Commerzbank was founded in Hamburg in 1870, the same year
that Deutsche Bank AG, continental Europe’s biggest bank by
assets, was established. The bank was privatized during the
financial crisis of the 1930s, according to its website. By
2008, Commerzbank had grown its consumer banking network to
1,646 branches from 108 in the 1950s. At the end 2012, it had
about 1,200 branches and more than 15 million clients.  The bank’s main source of profit is the Mittelstandsbank, a
business specializing in lending to Germany’s small and medium-
sized businesses. The unit’s operating profit of 1.65 billion
euros last year meant Commerzbank posted an operating profit of
1.2 billion euros rather than a loss. The operating profit at
its consumer banking unit slumped 48 percent to 245 million
euros compared with a goal set in 2009 of 1 billion euros.  Credit Rating  In February, concerns about Commerzbank’s business model
prompted  Standard & Poor’s  to place its credit rating of A on
review for a possible downgrade. Commerzbank’s debt is rated A3
at Moody’s, which cut it one level last June, warning of the
impact of the  European debt crisis  on the firm’s operations.  Blessing and the rest of his board earned a total of 12.9
million euros in 2012, more than double Commerzbank’s 6 million
euro profit for the year. Blessing joined Commerzbank in 2001.
He was formerly CEO of Advance Bank AG of Munich, which was shut
down by owners Allianz in 2003. He gained an MBA at the
 University of Chicago  in 1988.  “I do not care what bank managers are paid really, what I
want to see is that they are personally liable for damages they
are responsible for,” Wirth said. “They would have never been
able to shoulder the losses they incurred.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  