-- Consumer ‘Big Data,’ Philippine Currency: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-18T11:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/consumer-big-data-philippine-currency-compliance.html
The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau is demanding records from U.S. banks and is buying
anonymous information about at least 10 million consumers from
companies including  Experian Plc. (EXPN)   The consumer bureau is gearing up to monitor how millions
of Americans use credit cards, take out mortgages and overdraw
their checking accounts. Banks are not pleased at the
development. While the goal is to sharpen enforcement and rule-
making, banking executives have questioned why the bureau is
collecting so much without being more specific about the
benefits.  CFPB Director  Richard Cordray  has said that the consumer
bureau needs raw material to make “data-driven” decisions
based on how financial products and services are used or abused.
Research will improve regulation as well as the marketplace, he
said.  The agency’s approach dovetails with a trend toward data
analytics, often dubbed “Big Data,” by firms such as
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  Those companies are mining
massive pools of information for insight into areas including
consumer behavior, manufacturing, dairy farming and genetics.  The consumer bureau, created by the Dodd-Frank law of 2010,
consolidates and expands U.S. oversight of consumer finance. It
supervises banks with assets over $10 billion, including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  as well as payday
lenders, mortgage originators, debt collectors and credit
bureaus.  Dodd-Frank bars the agency from collecting data “for
purposes of gathering or analyzing the personally identifiable
financial information of consumers.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  FCA Publishes Its Approach to Regulatory Failure  The Financial Conduct Authority published its approach to
investigating and reporting on regulatory failure.  “A regulatory system that removed all risk would be
prohibitively expensive and could stifle innovation and
competition,” the agency’s Chief Executive Officer Martin Wheatley said in a  statement  on its website. “The instances
where we investigate and report to Treasury will be significant
events and serious failures, when things have gone badly wrong,
and this paper sets out how we will identify and deal with these
exceptional cases.”  German Concerns Won’t Delay Bank Union, Austrian Regulator Says  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble’s concerns about
the legal basis for a common European authority and fund for
bank failures won’t delay the creation of the system, Austria’s
financial watchdog said.  The schedule for introducing all elements of a planned
European Union banking union hasn’t changed, Helmut Ettl, co-
chairman of the Finanzmarktaufsicht regulator, or FMA, told
journalists in Vienna late yesterday.  The European Central Bank and  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, have called for a European Resolution
Authority to intervene at crisis-hit banks, saying the step is
essential to untangle the fates of lenders and sovereigns.
Barnier said he will present draft legislation in June.  Schaeuble told his EU counterparts at a meeting in Dublin
last week that setting up a central authority to deal with
failing banks requires treaty changes. The German minister has
also argued that revising the bloc’s rules would benefit the
ECB’s bank supervision arm by ensuring independence from
monetary policy.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter has backed
Schaeuble’s view.  Ministers in Dublin endorsed plans to hand supervision
powers to the ECB, a step billed by Barnier as a cornerstone of
the banking union.  Philippines Relaxes Curbs on Dollar Buying to Stem Peso Gains  The Philippine central bank doubled the amount of dollars
residents can freely buy and broadened the range of approved
outward investments in a bid to spur capital outflows and slow
peso gains.  Residents can now purchase as much as $120,000 from banks
without documentation, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Deputy
Governor Nestor Espenilla said today at a press briefing in
Manila. Investments in overseas property as well as foreign-
currency mutual funds and debt are now allowed using greenback
bought locally, he said. Companies can also obtain U.S. currency
in the domestic market this year to meet payments on foreign-
currency loans that are not registered with the central bank, a
move that may boost dollar demand by as much as $1 billion,
Director Patria Angeles said.  “This is meant to signal that they want to increase demand
for U.S. dollars so their intervention in the foreign-exchange
market will be lessened,” said Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps
manage the equivalent of $18.4 bilion at BPI Asset Management in
Manila. “But the problem is, you cannot fight the inflows.
We’re one of the hottest emerging markets right now.”  The Philippines, which won its first investment-grade
credit ranking from Fitch Ratings last month, is seeking to slow
a surge in capital inflows that made the peso the second-best
performer in the region and drove local shares to a record high.
Foreign portfolio inflows into the $225 billion economy jumped
79 percent from a year earlier to $7.3 billion in the first
quarter, after rising to a decade-high in 2012.  Compliance Action  Commodities Traders Brace for Transparency and Stay Private  Commodity traders expect the industry to become more
transparent amid the rising need for financing and regulatory
pressure, even as some merchants remain closely held, company
executives said.  Physical commodity traders raised $19.9 billion in equity
and debt last year, up from $10.6 billion in 2010 and $1 billion
in 2002, according to First Reserve Corp., a private equity
energy firm. Senior executives at Cargill Inc., the largest
closely held U.S. company, and Trafigura Beheer BV, which buys
and sells oil and other commodities, said trading companies’
characteristic secrecy will probably diminish over time as they
tap capital markets to grow their businesses.  Switzerland rejected calls for tougher regulation of
commodity traders last month, in favor of a voluntary industry
code. The government will study the impact of introducing
transparency requirements similar to those in the U.S. and the
European Union before deciding how to proceed, Economy Minister
Johann Schneider-Ammann said. The alpine nation started
investigating the industry in May saying the country was
“exposed to risks to its reputation” by being an oil, grain
and coffee trading hub.  Vitol Group, Trafigura and Litasco are among privately-held
trading companies that operate from offices in Switzerland.
Commodity trading, concentrated in Geneva and Zug, boosted its
share of the Swiss economy 10-fold over the past decade,
according to Zurich’s KOF research institute.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  went through a $10 billion IPO
that ended more than three decades of operating as a closely
held company. In contrast to Glencore, several traders said they
would stay closely held.  Ian Taylor , chief executive officer of Vitol Group, the
world’s largest independent oil trader, told the conference that
the “long-term” interest of the firm is to remain private. The
company, which competes in the oil market with traders such as
Trafigura and Glencore as well as international companies such
as BP Plc, said its revenue increased 2 percent to $303 billion
last year.  Marco Dunand, chief executive officer of Geneva-based
Mercuria Energy Trading SA, didn’t expect more large commodity
merchants to carry out IPOs.  For more, click here.  Samsung Ends Anonymous Reviews Amid Taiwan Regulatory Probe  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  ended an online campaign in Taiwan
amid a local regulator’s probe into whether the company broke
the law by paying for positive reviews of its products and
negative comments about rivals.  Taiwan’s Fair Trade Commission is gathering information
after receiving e-mails earlier this month alleging posts to
online forums were suspicious, Sun Lih-Chyun, a commissioner at
the regulator, said in a telephone interview yesterday. Samsung
said in a statement the situation was “unfortunate” and it
ceased using anonymous comments in online marketing last year.  Samsung, which has overtaken  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  to
lead the $294 billion smartphone market, last month unveiled its
new Galaxy S4 handset during an event in New York’s Radio City
Music Hall. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  HTC Corp. (2498) , which released its
flagship HTC One for sale last month, has lost market share amid
competition and delays in shipments of own products.  Posts to online forums are alleged to have included
criticism of rival smartphones, including those made by HTC, and
praise of Samsung’s products, Sun said. HTC has been asked to
provide information, while Samsung has yet to be contacted by
the commission, he said.  The situation “occurred due to insufficient understanding
of these fundamental principles” of transparent and honest
communications with consumers, Samsung said yesterday.  Courts  Bloomberg LP Sues U.S. Regulator Over Swap Collateral Rules  Bloomberg LP sued the top U.S. derivatives regulator over
rules setting higher collateral standards for swaps than
comparable futures, arguing the requirements are arbitrary.  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , which by law is
required to evaluate the costs and benefits of proposed
regulations “offered only a fleeting, bare-bones discussion of
economic effects that contained no financial or quantitative
estimates,” Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
said in a  complaint filed April 16 in federal court in
Washington.  The current regulation harms plans by Bloomberg and others
to operate swap-execution facilities, according to a news
release and letter to the CFTC dated March 11 from the company’s
outside counsel, Eugene Scalia, a partner at Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP.  The regulation “will drive liquidity away from
standardized swaps to ‘swap futures’ that lack the post-trade
transparency and regulatory requirements” that Congress
determined “would best further the public interest,” Bloomberg
said.  Steven Adamske , a spokesman for the CFTC, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Bloomberg LP v. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, 13-cv-00523, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  Interviews/Speeches  CFTC Is Looking at Gold, Silver Moves, Chilton Says  Bart Chilton, a commissioner at the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, talked about commodities trades and market
regulations.  He spoke with Erik Schatzker and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Fed’s Stein Backs Using Surcharges to Reduce Bank Risks  Federal Reserve Governor Jeremy Stein, Jean Tirole, a
professor at the Toulouse School of Economics, and John Vickers,
a professor at the University of Oxford, spoke about global
financial regulation.  Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
moderated the panel at the International Monetary Fund in
Washington.  For the video, click here.  Rosengren Says Banks With Broker-Dealer Units Need More Capital  Boston Federal Reserve President  Eric Rosengren  said banks
should hold more capital if they own a broker-dealer unit
because such businesses pose greater risks during periods of
financial stress.  Rosengren’s comments were part of prepared remarks for a
speech yesterday in New York.  He made his call as members of Congress and regulators try
to reduce the risk that a large bank failure might result in a
taxpayer-funded bailout. Senate Republicans and Democrats are
discussing legislation that would boost capital standards. Fed
officials are considering ways to curb balance-sheet expansion
at the largest banks and toughen capital requirements for the
largest firms.  “Despite the central role that broker-dealers played in
exacerbating the crisis, too little has changed to avoid a
repeat of the problem,” Rosengren said at the 22nd Annual Hyman
P. Minsky Conference in New York, referring to the economic
crisis of 2008. “I firmly believe that a reexamination of the
solvency risks of large broker-dealers is warranted.”  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Former Consumer Bureau Deputy Date Starts Consulting Firm  Raj Date, the former deputy director of the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, has formed a consulting firm to
focus on the industry his agency regulated.  Fenway Summer LLC, Date’s new Washington-based firm, will
advise clients on business strategy, work on mergers and
acquisitions, and help new firms, Date said in an interview. In
his new role he won’t lobby for clients or advise them on
government relations, he said.  Date, 42, was the first deputy director of the bureau,
which was created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that overhauled
U.S. financial regulation. He helped Democratic Senator
 Elizabeth Warren  of Massachusetts, then an adviser to President
Barack Obama, set up the agency 2010 and 2011. He briefly led
the bureau before Obama named Richard Cordray director in
January 2012.  Date is also an external adviser to McKinsey & Co., one of
his former employers, according to a person briefed on his work.
He declined to speak about that engagement.  McKinsey spokeswoman Yolande Daeninck did not respond to a
request for comment.  Deutsche Bank Appoints Weber-Rey as Chief Governance Officer  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental Europe’s biggest bank by
assets, hired Daniela Weber-Rey from law firm Clifford Chance
LLP to be chief governance officer and deputy global head of
compliance.  Weber-Rey, 55, who focused on financial institutions at
Clifford Chance, will join the bank in Frankfurt on June 1, the
lender said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Deutsche Bank recently lost at least three female bankers,
potentially setting back its effort to boost the representation
of women in management. The firm, which has no women on either
of its two highest executive committees, intends to increase the
number of female senior executives it employs to 25 percent by
the end of 2018 from 18 percent in 2012, company filings show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  