-- Corn Drops for First Time in Three Days as U.S. Rains Aid Sowing
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-04-18T01:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/corn-drops-for-first-time-in-three-days-as-u-s-rains-aid-sowing.html
Corn declined for the first time in
three days after heavy rains in the Midwest boosted soil
moisture needed for planting in the main growing region of the
U.S., the world’s largest producer. Wheat gained.  Corn for delivery in July lost as much as 0.6 percent to
$6.375 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Futures were at
$6.3825 by 9:49 a.m. in  Singapore  on volume that was 42 percent
less than the 100-day average for that time of day.  Soil moisture in the Midwest is now mostly adequate to
surplus, reversing the conditions last year when the U.S.
suffered a drought, DTN said in a report yesterday. The drought,
the nation’s worst since the 1930s, cut corn production in the
U.S. to the  least  in six years.  “Improving conditions in those corn-growing areas will
certainly pressure prices lower,” Graydon Chong, a grains and
oilseed analyst at Rabobank International, said by phone from
Sydney. “We’re trading a weather market where we’re waiting how
the spring crop will develop. The volatility in the market will
very much be driven by updates in the weather forecast.”  Showers and thunderstorms predicted for the central and
south plains in the U.S. will again miss the west  Kansas  region,
southeast  Colorado  and parts of  Oklahoma  and  Texas , DTN said.
Kansas, Texas, Oklahoma and Colorado are the biggest growers of
winter wheat in the U.S., the Department of Agriculture says.  Wheat for July delivery gained as much as 0.5 percent to
$7.105 a bushel before trading at $7.0775. Soybeans declined 0.2
percent to $13.7725 a bushel.  “Obviously, the winter-wheat areas at the moment are still
quite dry and cold,” Chong said. “We’ve yet to see what sort
of damage was done to those crops.”  About 31 percent of the U.S. winter-wheat crop was rated
poor-to-very poor as of April 14, up from 30 percent a week
earlier, the USDA said April 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  