-- Costliest Detroit Debt Shows Junk Appeal Undimmed: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-04-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/costliest-detroit-debt-shows-junk-appeal-undimmed-muni-credit.html
Detroit ’s emergency manager says
“everything’s on the table” to avoid bankruptcy, including
bond payments. That hasn’t deterred investors from pushing the
city’s relative borrowing costs to the lowest since January.  Investors demanded as little as 7.2 percentage points of
extra yield above top-rated municipal borrowings this week for
Detroit general obligations due in April 2016, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That was the smallest spread since Jan. 25 for
the tax-exempt securities, which have been graded junk for four
years.  High-yield munis have beaten the $3.7 trillion local-debt
market for five straight quarters. A month after Michigan
Governor Rick Snyder named Kevyn Orr to handle Detroit’s
finances, the debt gains shows that even with the risk, buyers
are still seeking higher yields, said Michael Schroeder,
president of Wasmer Schroeder & Co. in Naples,  Florida . The
state emergency-manager law dictates that investors must agree
to changes in the amount and timing of repayment, he said.  “The city’s general-obligation bonds have speculative-
grade credit ratings, but the risk-reward comparison is pretty
interesting,” said John Miller, co-head of fixed income in
 Chicago  at Nuveen Asset Management. The firm oversees about $95
billion of munis, including some Detroit bonds.  Lights, Police  In the hometown of  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s second-
biggest automaker, officials struggle to provide public safety
and street lights for a population that has shrunk about 26
percent since 2000, to 707,000. The city has a B general-
obligation rank from Standard & Poor’s, five steps below
investment grade.  The municipality faces a $380 million spending gap by June
as it strains to limit cuts to basic services such as police and
fire protection, Mayor Dave Bing said this month. If Orr, a
lawyer who specializes in restructuring, can negotiate reduced
interest rates on long-term debt, that would free up money for
services and shrink the deficit, Bing said.  Improving public safety and reducing the deficit are Orr’s
priorities, said his spokesman, Bill Nowling.  Detroit has about $8.6 billion of long-term bonds. That
includes $963.4 million of general obligations, $1.5 billion to
fund pension liabilities and $6.1 billion of non-general-
obligation bonds, such as water and sewer utility debt,
according to a February report on the city’s finances. Counting
other pension and retiree health-care obligations, the burden
approaches $15 billion.  Full Payment  The emergency-manager  law , designed to put an outside
official in charge of financial restructuring and avoiding
bankruptcy, says scheduled debt service should be paid “in
full” under any plan. That may conflict with Orr’s stated
intent to reduce some debt through negotiation.  His plan could mean all investors in Detroit securities,
even water and sewer bondholders who considered themselves
insulated from the financial pressure, will be asked to take
reductions or delays in repayment, according to Orr. The water
and sewer debt is backed by utility revenue rather than the
city’s credit.  In a March 14 press conference with Snyder, he said he’d
negotiate in good faith with creditors, unions, pension funds
and other interested parties.  “Everything’s on the table” when it comes to bond
obligations, Orr said in a March 27 phone interview. “We’ll
have to look at what bondholders and insurers want.”  Investor Challenge  To reduce or delay payments, Orr would have to overcome the
challenge of getting all bondholders to agree, said Nuveen’s
Miller. Just the general-obligation bonds probably involve
thousands of investors, he said.  “You either need 100 percent agreement, a tender offer or
a bankruptcy to negotiate a haircut,” said Miller. “It’s a
stretch to expect you’re going to get to 100 percent
agreement.”  The threat of Chapter 9, in which bondholders would lose
control, bankruptcy costs would eat into available revenue and
city services could become a higher priority, may be an
incentive for bondholders to work with the manager.  Under Chapter 9 of U.S. bankruptcy law, which allows
municipalities to restructure, cities have an advantage because
they need enough money to provide adequate services, according
to Orr.  “Don’t make me go to bankruptcy court,” he warned during
the March press briefing.  Power Limit  The emergency-manager act “limits his ability to
unilaterally impose haircuts,” said Schroeder, whose firm
manages $4.6 billion and holds some Detroit debt. Yet there are
limits to “what you can expect from a city with limited
resources. At the end of the day someone is going to have to
give in and compromise.”  It’s unlikely bondholders would take permanent reductions
in how much they would be repaid, in part because the state
created the emergency-manager law to protect access to the
market for other  Michigan  localities, said Matt Fabian, managing
director with Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market
Advisors. He expects to see deferrals of full payment.  “Any attempt to force a cram-down would be bad for all
debt in Michigan,” said Fabian. “It would be viewed as a
failure of the state.”  Meantime, in muni trading, local debt is lagging behind
gains in Treasuries. At  1.76 percent , 10-year benchmark muni
yields compare with  1.7 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  As issuers nationwide offer almost $22 billion of bonds
between last week and this week, the busiest  span  since June,
the muni interest rate has been above its federal counterpart on
all but one day in the past month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  