-- Credit Suisse Moves Polish Stock Trading to London
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-04-18T17:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/credit-suisse-moves-polish-stock-trading-to-london.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  will move
its Polish equity trading to London from Warsaw after turnover
on the country’s stock exchange slumped last year.  The bank, which moved its stock-dealing business to the
Polish capital in 2010, was the third-largest brokerage on the
 Warsaw Stock Exchange (GPW)  in the first quarter after  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and Warsaw-based  Ipopema Securities SA (IPE) , according to data on the
bourse’s website. Stock trading volumes declined 24 percent to
202.9 billion zloty ($64.3 billion) in Warsaw last year amid
Europe’s financial crisis and slowing economic growth in  Poland .  “We have decided to refocus our business and move it to
London,” Marek Gul, head of Credit Suisse’s operations in
Warsaw, said by phone today. “It’s to early to talk about staff
changes” and Credit Suisse will continue its investment banking
services from Warsaw, Gul said.  While Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank,
scales down its Polish business, some foreign competitors are
strengthening operations in the European Union’s largest eastern
economy.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s largest lender, made Poland its
new hub for the equity capital market segment in central and
eastern Europe last year, after it closed equity brokerage in
western Europe, cut jobs in London and Milan and shut its
securities unit in Russia.  Cost Cutting  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  is adding jobs and plans to
“significantly boost” activity on Polish equity markets,
Krzysztof Walenczak, head of the French bank’s Polish unit, said
in an interview in Warsaw on March 20.  Warsaw’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  of the country’s biggest and most
liquid stocks has lost 12 percent this year after a 20 percent
advance in 2012. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has declined
5.5 percent in 2013 after a 15 percent gain last year.  The decline in Polish trading volumes last year compares
with a 41 percent drop in equity turnover on the Moscow
Exchange, as trade in the biggest Russian companies moved to New
York and  London , according to data on the bourse’s website.  Credit Suisse in February increased its cost-cutting
program by 400 million francs ($430 million) by the end of 2015,
following 4 billion francs in planned reductions announced since
2011. Credit Suisse said previously it planned to make savings
at the investment bank through synergies in equities and efforts
to “rationalize” businesses in some regions in fixed income,
underwriting and advisory. Execution is being consolidated into
hubs in the U.K. and Hong Kong.  Centralized, Efficient  In December, the bank said it would move its Russian
capital-markets and advisory businesses from Moscow to London to
cut costs, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  “Our Polish clients will benefit from a more centralized
and efficient hub in London where a dedicated team continues to
service them,”  Marc Dosch , a Zurich-based spokesman for Credit
Suisse, said by e-mail today.  The Warsaw exchange, founded two years after Poland’s
communist government collapsed in 1989, is central Europe’s
biggest equity market. The bourse currently lists 437 companies
on its main market, including PKO Bank Polski SA, the largest
Polish bank, and PZU SA, the country’s biggest insurer, with a
combined value of 693 billion zloty.  Poland was Europe’s third-busiest market for equity deals
in the first quarter following the U.K. and the Netherlands with
a combined 14.4 billion zloty in offerings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  