-- Credit Spreads to Flatten as Defaults Rise, IACPM Survey Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-04-18T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/credit-spreads-to-flatten-as-defaults-rise-iacpm-survey-says.html
Credit spreads will be unchanged
over the next three months in the U.S. and Europe while global
corporate defaults will rise “modestly” in the next year,
according to the International Association of Credit Portfolio
Managers.  The outlook for borrowing costs is “sharply different”
from the view taken by lenders at the beginning of the year,
when they forecast spreads would tighten during the first
quarter, said IACPM, whose 86  member firms  include banks,
insurance companies and money managers in 17 countries. They now
project margins on high-yield and investment-grade debt in the
U.S. and Europe will be unchanged in the next three months,
according to a member survey conducted by the New York-based
 organization  this month.  The results show that credit markets may be headed for a
shift that’s “just an event or two away from a reversal” of
bullish investor sentiment, according to Som-lok Leung,
executive director of the IACPM. While 43 percent of surveyed
members expect corporate defaults will stay the same over the
next year, their outlook became more negative since the previous
survey, with 38 percent predicting they will rise, compared with
32 percent.  “A lot has happened in the last quarter, the biggest thing
being Cyprus,” Leung said in a telephone interview. “I
actually would have expected things to look a little bit
worse.”  Cyprus, the fifth euro-zone country to tap international
aid in  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, is under pressure to
reduce its financing needs as it seeks to stay solvent.  European Outlook  Investors predict European corporate defaults will stay
about the same over the next 12 months even as their outlook for
the region is still the most negative on a global basis, the
IACPM survey shows.  The trailing 12-month global speculative-grade corporate
default rate finished the first quarter at 2.4 percent, down
from 2.8 percent at the end of last year, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  “The global default rate has been remarkably steady over
the past year,” Moody’s said in an April 8 report. “With a
combination of accommodative monetary policy and weak
fundamental growth, we expect this to continue for the rest of
the year.”  The ratings firm estimates the default rate will be 2.8
percent at the end of 2013.  The  Federal Reserve  has kept its main  interest rate  near
zero since December 2008 to spur economic growth. The central
bank’s Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is also pressing on with $85
billion in monthly bond buying to stimulate the economy until
the labor-market outlook has “improved substantially,”
according to the minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
meeting in March.  Economic Growth  Gross domestic product probably grew at a 3 percent
annualized pace in the first quarter, according to the median of
76 economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey taken April 5 to
April 9. The  U.S. economy  grew at a 0.4 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter due to the biggest slump in military spending
since 1972 and a reduction in the rate of inventory building.  Speculative-grade, or high-yield, debt is rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and less than BBB-by  Standard & Poor’s .  Bond Spreads  U.S. high-yield bonds had an average spread of 478 basis
points more than comparable Treasuries on April 16, narrowing
from a 623-basis-point margin a year ago, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  Leveraged loans sold to non-bank lenders averaged 384 basis
points more than lending benchmarks as of April 11, according to
S&P Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary & Data. That compares with a
spread of 498 basis points for the high-yield, high-risk debt in
April 2012.  “The view is, things are flattening out,” said  New York- 
based Leung. “There’s not a lot more room to narrow from
current levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  