-- Crude Rises From Four-Month Low
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-04-18T19:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/crude-rises-from-four-month-low-on-bond-sale-u-s-jobs.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
from a four-month low on signals that recent losses were
exaggerated and as Spain sold more debt than planned.  Futures in  New York  climbed 1.2 percent and Brent oil in
 London  rebounded from a nine-month low. The WTI 14-day relative-
strength index slid below 30 yesterday, a sign prices may have
fallen too far. Commodities advanced with the euro as Spain sold
10-year debt at the lowest yield since September 2010 and
borrowing costs for governments across  Europe  declined.  “Investors are looking at these prices as good value,”
said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence
Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion.
“We held above $85 and it now looks like the market will trade
in a new $85-to-$100 range.”  WTI crude oil for May delivery rose $1.05 to settle at
$87.73 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest gain since March 26. The contract fell to $85.61
earlier, the lowest intraday price since Dec. 11. The volume of
all futures traded was 49 percent above the 100-day average as
of 3:43 p.m.  Brent oil for June settlement advanced $1.44, or 1.5
percent, to end the session at $99.13 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the first increase in
six trading days. Brent touched $96.75, the lowest level since
July 2. The volume of all futures traded today was 38 percent
higher than the 100-day average.  WTI-Brent Spread  The front-month European benchmark grade settled at a
premium of $11.13 to June WTI. The spread ended yesterday at
$10.72, the narrowest closing level since Jan. 25, 2012.  WTI’s 14-day relative strength index fell to 27.33
yesterday, its lowest level since June. A reading of 30 or below
typically indicates that a market has fallen excessively and is
interpreted by traders as an opportunity to buy.  Spain  sold 4.71 billion euros ($6.14 billion) of bonds,
more than its maximum target of 4.5 billion euros.  France  sold
five-year notes at a record-low rate, while Slovenia hired banks
to organize meetings with investors a day after scooping up
twice its target in a domestic offering.  The euro rose 0.2 percent against the dollar, bolstering
the appeal of raw materials denominated in the U.S. currency as
an investment. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
commodities was up 0.8 percent, the biggest increase since Dec.
26. Gains were led by natural gas, coffee and crude oil.  “The dollar is weaker, which is giving commodities a
boost,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The market has
sold off a great deal, which makes futures an attractive buy.”  Jobless Claims  U.S. claims for jobless benefits were little changed,
signaling the labor market in the biggest oil-consuming nation
is stabilizing. First-time U.S.  unemployment claims  climbed by
4,000 to 352,000 in the week ended April 13, the Labor
Department said today.  “The success of the Spanish bond auction came as a
relief,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York energy hedge fund. “The U.S. jobless numbers
stabilized, which is a positive signal.”  Futures retreated earlier as the index of U.S. leading
indicators declined for the first time in seven months, a sign
the world’s largest economy will cool. The Conference Board’s
gauge of the  outlook  for the next three to six months fell 0.1
percent in March.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude  supplies  climbed to 388.9 million barrels in the
week ended April 5, the highest level since July 1990, according
to the Energy Information Administration. Inventories gained in
April during the past 13 years, data from the EIA, Energy
Department’s statistical arm, show. Stockpiles rise as
refineries end seasonal maintenance programs, and prepare to
boost output of gasoline for the summer months.  “Traders are taking a step back and trying to assess
whether the move lower has run its course,” said  Michael Wittner , the head of oil-market research at Societe Generale SA
in New York. “We’ve already had a big drop in prices based on
seasonal weakness of fundamentals.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has no
plans for an emergency meeting, two OPEC delegates said, asking
not to be identified because such discussions are private. An
official at OPEC’s Vienna headquarters declined to comment when
contacted by phone today. The group’s next scheduled meeting is
on May 31.  Iranian Comments  Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said yesterday that
negotiations would be held with other OPEC members to hold an
emergency meeting should prices drop below $100, without
specifying which grade of oil, according to state-run Press TV.  “If oil were to fall further you would expect action from
OPEC,” O’Grady said. “The Iranian statement makes clear that
lower prices would prompt an emergency meeting.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
June was 25.4 percent, down from 28 percent yesterday.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 702,990
contracts as of 3:45 p.m. It totaled 758,985 contracts
yesterday, 29 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.76 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  