-- CVC Agrees to Buy German Metering Company Ista From Charterhouse
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2013-04-18T18:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/cvc-agrees-to-buy-german-metering-company-ista-from-charterhouse.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the
London-based buyout firm founded in 1981, said it agreed to buy
a majority stake in German energy-metering business Ista
International GmbH from Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP,
regaining control of a company it sold in 2007.  CVC, which already held a minority stake, plans to complete
the transaction by mid-year, according to an e-mailed statement
today. The offer values Ista at about 3.1 billion euros ($4.1
billion) including debt, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who asked not to be identified because the price
wasn’t disclosed.  Charterhouse bought Ista from CVC for 2.4 billion euros in
2007, and then CVC re-invested part of the proceeds to buy a
stake in Ista. Last December, Charterhouse hired  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to advise on the sale of the
German firm, people familiar with the situation said at the
time.  Ista, based in Essen, provides electricity, water, heat and
gas-meter reading services and hardware to property managers,
home owners and utilities in 25 countries. The company may
benefit from tougher European Union rules that require energy
distributors to save 1.5 percent of their sale volumes annually,
as part of efforts to meet the EU’s target of 20 percent energy
savings by 2020.  “Ista does not only have an excellent position with
outstanding growth prospects in the field of energy efficiency,
but also has a very experienced management team and highly
dedicated employees,” said Marc Strobel, a partner at CVC, in
today’s statement.  Low borrowing costs for potential buyers and rising equity
markets have made exiting investments easier for private-equity
firms. Buyout transactions totaled $115 billion in the first
quarter, up from the fourth and first quarters of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Officials at Charterhouse couldn’t be immediately reached
for comment outside of regular business hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  