-- Cybersecurity Standards for Electric Grid Seen Expanding
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-18T17:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/cybersecurity-standards-for-electric-grid-seen-expanding.html
The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission proposed to revise its cybersecurity standards for
the nation’s electric grid, expanding the rules to more than 60
additional companies.  The agency today voted to start the process for updating
the existing critical infrastructure protection standards. The
revisions are aimed at enhancing the “security posture” of
companies that link to the grid, according to a FERC statement.  Cybersecurity is becoming a critical issue for electric
utilities as components such as generators, power meters and
appliances are interconnected using the Internet. White House
National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon said in a March 11
speech that the U.S. is concerned about “cyber intrusions
emanating from  China  at a very large scale.”  The standards proposed by the FERC will cover at least 61
companies in addition to about 1,100 subject to current rules,
agency staff said after a commission meeting. The names of the
additional companies aren’t public.  The North American Electric Reliability Corp., an Atlanta-
based organization that develops standards for utilities,
submitted the revisions to FERC in January, according to the
agency. The proposal includes cybersecurity controls for systems
including electronic perimeters, and it reorganizes how the
electric grid’s components are classified to apply the standards
more comprehensively.  Officials from the Edison Electric Institute, a Washington-
based industry group for publicly traded utilities including
 Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  of  Charlotte , North Carolina, and  Exelon Corp. (EXC) 
of  Chicago , weren’t immediately available for comment. EEI will
issue a statement later today, spokeswoman April Umminger said.  While the proposed standards are a “significant
improvement” over those in place, the agency wants to make sure
that the language in the revisions is clear and that they are
enforceable, Commissioner Cheryl LaFleur said.  The FERC said it will seek public comment to resolve these
concerns. Comments are due within 60 days after the proposed
rule is published in the Federal Register.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  