-- Cybersecurity Bill Passes House After Obama Veto Threat
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-04-19T01:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/cybersecurity-bill-passes-house-after-obama-veto-threat.html
The U.S. House passed cybersecurity
legislation backed by companies including  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  AT&T
Inc. (T) , defying a veto threat by President  Barack Obama ’s
administration over what it called inadequate privacy
protections.  The bill gives companies immunity from lawsuits when they
voluntarily share information, such as threats to computer
networks and malicious source code, with each other and the U.S.
government. It passed 288 to 127.  “This is not a surveillance bill,” Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican and chairman of the House
Intelligence Committee, said today during debate. “It is
paramount that we protect individual privacy in the conduct of
sharing cyberthreat information.”  Congress is renewing a push to pass cybersecurity
legislation following warnings by U.S. intelligence officials
that electronic attacks could disrupt the nation’s banks,
utilities, telecommunications networks and other essential
services.  Senator Dianne Feinstein said in an e-mail today the Senate
Intelligence Committee is “currently drafting a bipartisan
information sharing bill and will proceed as soon as we come to
an agreement.” Feinstein, a  California  Democrat, is chairwoman
of the committee.  Chinese Links  The threat of cyber attacks has for the first time become a
greater concern than terrorism, James Clapper, the top U.S.
intelligence official, told the House Intelligence Committee
during an April 11 hearing. The Chinese army may be behind the
hacking of at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006,
according to a Feb. 19 report from Alexandria, Virginia-based
Mandiant Corp.  The bill doesn’t require companies “to take reasonable
steps” to remove personal information when sharing
cybersecurity data with the government or other companies, the
White House said April 16 in  a statement  on the veto threat.  “Citizens have a right to know that corporations will be
held accountable -- and not granted immunity -- for failing to
safeguard personal information adequately,” according to the
administration statement.  Although some changes were made to the bill, it “does not
yet adequately address our fundamental concerns,” White House
spokeswoman Laura Lucas said in a statement. “We are hopeful
that continued bipartisan, bicameral collaboration to
incorporate our core priorities will produce cybersecurity
legislation that addresses these critical issues and that the
president can sign into law.”  Civilian Role  Legal protections for companies in the legislation are too
broad, the White House said in its veto threat. The bill
wouldn’t prohibit companies from sharing information with the
Defense Department, including the National Security Agency.  Rogers said his committee amended the bill to include
greater privacy protections, such as requiring the government to
minimize collection of information that could identify citizens
and denying companies legal protections if they use cyberthreat
data to hack each other.  The House adopted amendments to the bill yesterday and
today. Most aimed to add privacy safeguards concerning how
cyberthreat data is used and shared by companies and the
government.  An amendment from Rogers says that nothing in the bill
would authorize the Pentagon or intelligence agencies “to
target a United States person for surveillance.”  Justice, Homeland  An amendment from Representative Michael McCaul, a Texas
Republican, says the Homeland Security Department will serve as
the government’s civilian face for receiving information from
companies. The amendment designates the Justice Department to
serve as the hub for collecting information about cyber crimes.  McCaul likened cyberthreats to the April 15 bombing attack
in  Boston . “In the case in Boston they were real bombs,” he
said. “In this case they’re digital bombs. And the digital
bombs are on their way.”  Democrats including Representatives Adam Schiff and Anna Eshoo of California, Jan Schakowsky of  Illinois  and Rush Holt of
New Jersey proposed amendments they said would have improved
privacy protections. The Republican-controlled House Rules
Committee, which sets parameters for floor debate, rejected the
measures.  Along with Boeing and AT&T, the bill is supported by more
than 60 companies and industry trade groups, including  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , the Business Roundtable, the Financial Services
Roundtable and TechAmerica.  ‘Information Sharing’  “Improving and extending information sharing between
private industry and the government is necessary to better
protect our nation’s digital infrastructure and respond to the
latest, evolving cyberthreats,” Kevin Richards, senior vice
president for TechAmerica, wrote in  a letter  to House Speaker
John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of California.  The House passed a version of the bill 248-168 a year ago
after the White House threatened to veto it. The legislation
died when the Senate didn’t take it up.  A different cybersecurity bill in the Senate was blocked by
Republicans who said it would lead to regulation.  Former Senator Joe Lieberman, a Connecticut independent who
led the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee,
was the driving force behind the Senate’s cyber bill last year.
He didn’t run for re-election.  Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, is the new
chairman of the committee. He said in a statement today he plans
to work with other senators to craft a comprehensive
cybersecurity bill. He didn’t provide a timeline for doing so.  The bill is H.R. 624.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  