-- Damon, Timberlake Movies to Compete for Cannes Palme d’Or
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-04-18T14:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/damon-douglas-movie-with-soderbergh-to-compete-in-cannes.html
Michael Douglas plays Liberace,
Justin Timberlake a 1960s folk singer and Ryan Gosling a Bangkok
drug smuggler in three of the 19 contenders for the top prize at
the Cannes Film Festival, which starts on May 15.  Steven Soderbergh’s “Behind the Candelabra” is the story
of the flamboyant pianist Liberace’s stormy six-year affair with
a younger man (played by Matt Damon). Competing with it for the
Palme d’Or is Joel and  Ethan Coen ’s “Inside Llewyn Davis,” in
which Carey Mulligan co-stars with Timberlake.  Gosling -- star of Nicolas Winding Refn’s violent “Drive”
(2011) -- will be back in Cannes with another Refn movie, “Only
God Forgives.” He plays a character called Julian whose drug-
trafficking life in  Thailand  is disrupted when his mother
(Kristin Scott Thomas) urges him to avenge his brother’s death.  Organizers announced the lineup to reporters at a Paris
news conference and released it online. Steven Spielberg will
steer the jury at Cannes, the world’s leading film festival,
which ends May 26. The opening movie is Baz Luhrmann’s “The
Great Gatsby,” with Leonardo DiCaprio and Carey Mulligan; it
will screen out of the official competition.  Cannes Festival President Gilles Jacob stressed the
festival’s role as “the home of endangered artists.”  “Our door is always open,” said Jacob, whose words were
reported on the festival’s website.  Arrested Filmmaker  One movie premiering at Cannes -- Mohammad Rasoulof’s
“Anonymous” -- was shot secretly and smuggled out of  Iran .
Rasoulof is one of three Iranian filmmakers who were arrested in
March 2010, and released on bail the same month.  Another Iranian director -- Asghar Farhadi, whose “A
Separation” won the foreign-language Oscar last year -- is an
official Cannes contestant with “The Past,” shot outside Iran,
with Berenice Bejo (“The Artist”) in the lead.  Sofia Coppola’s “The Bling Ring,” inspired by a true
story of teenagers robbing celebrities, will premiere in Cannes,
though it was not selected for the main competition. Emma Watson
plays the lead.  European directors in the running for the Palme d’Or this
year include Roman Polanski, with “Venus in Fur,” featuring
his wife Emmanuelle Seigner and Mathieu Amalric; and Francois Ozon (director of “5x2”) whose “Jeune et Jolie” has
 Charlotte  Rampling in the cast.  Stephen Frears’s “Muhammad Ali’s Greatest Fight” will get
a special Cannes screening. It stars Christopher Plummer and
Danny Glover.  The first Cannes Festival took place in 1946, a year after
World War II ended. Among the event’s earliest award winners
were directors Orson Welles, Luis Bunuel, Ingmar Bergman and
Satyajit Ray.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 