-- Debenhams Surges as Much as 10% on Market Share, Online Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-04-18T09:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/debenhams-surges-as-much-as-10-on-market-share-online-gains.html
Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest department-store chain, gained market share in the first
half as online sales rose 46 percent, easing investor concern
after warning last month that profit would miss estimates.  Online sales rose three times faster than the market, the
London-based retailer said in a statement today. The shares
climbed as much as 10 percent even as first-half profit fell.  The retailer gained market share across its menswear,
womenswear and beauty ranges after increasing promotions to
clear excess stock, Chief Executive Officer Michael Sharp said
on a call to journalists today. The market is “undoubtedly very
competitive” as cold weather in the U.K. extended through
March, he said.  “There is relief today,” Jean Roche, an  analyst  at
Panmure Gordon in London, said by phone. “You’ve had a
downgrade and a big profit warning so there’s no more nasty
news,” said Roche, who has a hold recommendation on the stock.  The shares rose 7 percent to 86.15 pence at 9:58 a.m. in
London for the third-biggest gain on the FTSE All-Share Index.
That pared this year’s decline to 24 percent.  Profit before tax in the six months ended March 2 fell 5.4
percent to 120.3 million pounds ($183 million), compared with
the 121.8 million-pound average estimate of eight analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. The retailer will pay an unchanged
interim  dividend  of one penny.  January Snow  Debenhams said last month that fiscal first-half profit
would miss estimates after January snowfall hurt sales and
caused the retailer to offer deeper discounts. The company is
refurbishing 125 of its 240 stores, extending its online offer
and opening franchise outlets internationally to offset stagnant
U.K. retail sales.  “We made progress during the first half although snow in
late January meant we did not achieve the profit outcome we had
expected,” Sharp said in the statement. “We expect to make
further progress in the second half despite consumer sentiment
remaining weak and challenging market conditions.”  Roche said she expects gross margins to be 10 basis points
lower this year due to continued promotions. The measure fell by
20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage points, in the first half.
“There’s been worry about the amount of discounts, so keeping
the full-year gross margin guidance flat is good news.”  CEO Sharp defended the discounting strategy. “We know
customers like them,” he said. “I don’t think promotions does
any damage at all.”  Sharp also said that refurbishment efforts add 6 percent
same-store sales growth to refreshed outlets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  