-- Diageo Sales Miss Estimates as Emerging Markets Disappoint
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-04-18T11:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/diageo-third-quarter-sales-miss-estimates-amid-volume-decline.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, reported third-quarter sales that missed estimates as
sluggish European demand and slower-than-expected emerging-
market growth offset expansion in the U.S.  So-called organic revenue climbed 4 percent in the three
months through March 31, the London-based company  said today ,
compared with the median estimate of 10 analysts for a 5 percent
increase. Volume fell 1 percent.  Diageo, whose brands include Johnny Walker whisky, is among
consumer companies seeing a slowdown in growth in  emerging
markets  that have been helping offset falling demand in Europe.
 SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-biggest brewer, today reported
an unexpected decline in sales in Latin America, while  Nestle SA (NESN) 
said it experienced “softening” in certain emerging markets
including Asia.  “The emerging-market growth slowdown in the quarter may
worry people,”  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG in  London ,
said today. “Consensus organic sales growth estimates for the
year probably need to nudge down” for Diageo.  Diageo shares were unchanged at 1,974.5 pence at 12:02 p.m.
in London trading and SABMiller advanced 0.2 percent to 3,350
pence. That compared with a 0.4 percent rise in the benchmark
FTSE 100 index. Nestle declined 0.3 percent to 64.10 Swiss
francs in Zurich.  Diageo’s organic sales advanced 5 percent in the first nine
months of the fiscal year as revenue slumped 4 percent in
western Europe. North American sales climbed 6 percent, aided by
price rises in the company’s biggest market.  U.S. Improvement  Earlam cut her annual sales growth estimate to 5.4 percent
from 5.6 percent. The improvement in the higher-margin U.S. may
offset declines in less profitable markets including Brazil, she
said, and “while estimates for full-year earnings aren’t
changing, the weaker-than-expected third-quarter performance
isn’t great for sentiment.”  Diageo has been  snapping up assets  in emerging markets to
gain access to the growing middle classes with disposable income
to spend on its spirits, which include Smirnoff vodka. It bought
Mey Icki in  Turkey  in 2011, helping sales in the  Africa , eastern
Europe and Turkey unit grow 9 percent in the nine months. It’s
also agreed to buy a 27 percent stake in Indian tycoon Vijay Mallya’s  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)   Geographic Diversity  Sales increases at Diageo’s Africa, eastern Europe and
Turkey unit and the  Latin America  unit were weaker than analysts
expected on slower growth in Nigeria and Brazil and changes in
shipment patterns in Russia, Colombia and Venezuela.  Africa, eastern Europe and Turkey organic sales rose 9
percent compared with an 11 percent median estimate, and Latin
American sales rose 14 percent against a 17 percent estimate.
Sales in Asia Pacific rose 4 percent, restrained by a continued
decline in Scotch demand in South Korea.  Diageo is seeking to increase its profitability over the
next two years and expand its organic sales by an average of 6
percent annually in “the medium term.” Chief Financial Officer
Deirdre Mahlan said in January that the guidance was “not meant
to be linear,” but a compound annual growth rate, spurring
analysts including Earlam at UBS to cut their sales growth
estimates for the year.  “Given our market positions and geographic diversity we
remain confident that Diageo’s performance continues to be in
line with our medium-term guidance,”  Paul Walsh , Diageo’s chief
executive officer, said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  