-- Dish Asks FCC to Defer Action on Softbank Bid for Sprint
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-04-18T15:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/dish-asks-fcc-to-defer-action-on-softbank-bid-for-sprint.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , which made a
counter-bid for  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  this week, asked the U.S.
Federal Communications Commission to defer action on  Softbank
Corp. (9984) ’s offer while the mobile provider decides which to accept.  Dish’s $25.5 billion bid for Sprint made April 15 is “an
important new development” that increases uncertainty
surrounding the $20 billion bid Tokyo-based Softbank made in
October, Dish said in a filing yesterday at the FCC. “Because
Dish’s merger proposal is currently before the Sprint board of
directors, the question of which transaction the commission
ultimately should be deciding is unsettled.”  Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas, said this week that
its board will evaluate Dish’s offer. The Englewood, Colorado-
based satellite-television company’s proposal has gained support
from investor Omega Advisors and billionaire  John Paulson .  John Taylor , a spokesman for Sprint, and Neil Grace, an FCC
spokesman, declined to comment.  The bid by Dish Chairman Charlie Ergen, like that by
Softbank President Masayoshi Son, would enhance third-largest
U.S. wireless carrier Sprint’s potency as a challenger to market
leader Verizon Wireless and No. 2 AT&T Inc.  Dish wants to move into wireless as growth slows in its
traditional pay-TV business. The company on Jan. 16 asked the
FCC to delay consideration of the Softbank bid, citing
uncertainty created by Dish’s pursuit of Sprint partner
Clearwire Corp. This week’s offer for Sprint means the
“critical issue” no longer revolves around Clearwire, Dish
said in its filing.  “It is far from clear that the pending Sprint-Softbank
proposal will move forward,” Dish said.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  on March 20 said the
agency’s review of the Softbank bid was on track for completion
by late May. Antitrust regulators at the Justice Department
cleared the deal in December. The same agencies would review a
Dish bid for Sprint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  