-- LDK Reduces Solar Capacity While Seeking Investors
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-04-18T20:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/ldk-solar-fourth-quarter-profits-misses-beats-estimates.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK) ’s disclosure that
it’s now about a third of its peak size shows the scale of
Chairman Peng Xiaofeng’s efforts to retain control of the
Chinese solar manufacturer with more than $3 billion in  debt .  The company had about 9,800 employees at the end of last
year, Chief Financial Officer Jack Lai said during a conference
call yesterday. That’s down 29 percent from the prior quarter
and from 28,000 in the middle of 2011. LDK reduced its solar-
cell manufacturing capacity last year by 89 percent.  The reductions are part of Peng’s effort to secure credit
lines and equity investors to help LDK shoulder its debt load,
including $240 million due in June. The company reported
yesterday its seventh straight quarter of losses and cash of
$98.3 million, the lowest in three years. Deficits of that scale
tipped the biggest unit of LDK’s larger competitor, Suntech
Power Holdings Co., into bankruptcy last month.  “The biggest concern people have is that LDK will be the
next Suntech and go into some form of bankruptcy,” Edwin Mok,
an analyst at Needham & Co. in San Francisco, said in an
interview yesterday. “The main thesis is that they don’t have
that money.”  The solar industry is struggling with a global oversupply
of panels after manufacturers expanded production and waning
government support slowed demand. That drove down  prices  55
percent in the past two years, slashing margins and generating
losses at LDK, Suntech and other producers.  LDK is seeking to refinance its debt, including “working
with bankers on strategy to bring in more fresh cash capital,”
Peng said on the call. It didn’t fully repay $23.8 million in
bonds due April 15  ‘Needed Funding’  The company is in conversations with its three largest
shareholders and other potential partners, including its vendors
and a U.S.-based manufacturer, “to provide much needed funding
from equity point of view to enhance the company’s capital
position,” Lai said.  Chinese banks that have backed LDK have already agreed to
extend some loans and renew a line of credit, and the company is
“in the process of getting a new facility based on the current
lenders” for about 2 billion  yuan  ($320 million), Lai said.
“We’re probably going to get a little bit more line of credit
to allow the company to get through this very challenging
time.”  LDK ended the fourth quarter with $167.2 million in short-
term pledged bank deposits, down from $340.7 million in the
third quarter and $565.1 million a year earlier. The figure has
dropped each quarter since 2009.  Reduced Capacity  “We have substantially reduced our solar cell and solar
module production volume in the past months,” Chief Executive
Officer Tong Xingxue, said on the call.  Cell capacity is now about 240 megawatts, down from 2.2
gigawatts at the end of 2012, according to filings. Panel
capacity fell to 1.5 gigawatts from 2.6 gigawatts. That’s after
the sale April 16 of the company’s LDK Solar High-Tech (Hefei)
Co. to the municipal government of Hefei, in  China ’s Anhui
province.  LDK’s net loss in the last three months of 2012 was $517
million compared with losses of $136.9 million in the previous
quarter and $588.7 million a year earlier, according to a
statement from the Xinyu, China-based company.  The company’s net sales in the fourth quarter declined to
$135.9 million from $420.2 million a year earlier.  It shipped 184.7 megawatts of wafers and 69.1 megawatts in
solar cells and modules. For the first three months of 2013, LDK
anticipates $80 to $100 million in sales and shipments of as
much as 270 megawatts of wafers and 40 megawatts of solar cells
and panels.  “Management seemed pretty confident that they’re going to
be able to get support from these Chinese lenders as well as the
government,” Angelo Zino, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s
Financial Services LLC in New York, said in an interview. “What
it comes down to is this: the lenders already have no other
choice than to stick with LDK.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  