-- Drummond’s Colombian Coal Workers Set Three-Year Wage Proposal
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2013-04-18T19:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/drummond-s-colombian-coal-workers-set-three-year-wage-proposal.html
Workers at  Drummond Co. ,  Colombia ’s
second-biggest thermal coal producer, voted to push for monthly
salaries versus hourly wages in a proposed three-year labor
accord, a union official said.  The union will send the company by April 30 a list of
demands which include improved health care, education, food,
housing loans and safety including guaranteed benefits for
accident victims, negotiator Jhon Mendoza said. The 5,000-member
union expects to reach an agreement with the company within
three weeks, he said.  “Our demands are in line with the existing reality,”
Mendoza said today in an e-mailed response to questions. “We
want better labor guarantees to compensate for the struggle of
the underpaid and abusive mining industry of these multi-
nationals.”  Coal workers in March ended a month-long strike at the
Cerrejon mine owned by  BHP Billiton Plc (BLT) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  after negotiating annual pay rises and better
health insurance. Colombia lost as much as 3 million metric tons
of coal output in the first quarter, Energy and Mines Minister
Federico Renjifo said April 9.  Drummond, based in Birmingham,  Alabama , restarted coal
exports last month after the government lifted a three-week ban
on its loading operations March 1. The government is
investigating a Jan. 12-13 incident in which Drummond dumped
water mixed with coal into the sea to prevent a barge from
sinking.  Drummond controls more than 2 billion tons of reserves and
shipped about 29 million tons of coal in 2011, according to its
 website . Paulo Gonzalez, a Drummond spokesman, didn’t respond to
telephone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  Thermal coal for delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or
Antwerp in 2014 fell for a fourth session, dropping 0.2 percent
to $92.50 a ton today, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  