-- Ducati Names Domenicali CEO as Del Torchio Joins Alitalia
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-18T15:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/ducati-names-domenicali-ceo-as-del-torchio-joins-alitalia.html
Ducati Motor Holding SpA promoted
General Manager Claudio Domenicali to the top spot of the
Italian sports-motorcycle brand owned by  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  after his
predecessor was appointed to run airline Alitalia SpA.  Domenicali will become chief executive officer after
working at the manufacturer since 1991, when he joined as a
project leader, Bologna-based Ducati said in a statement today.
He succeeds Gabriele Del Torchio, who was named today as CEO of
Rome-based Alitalia, with immediate effect, Andrea Seltmann, a
spokeswoman for the motorcycle maker, said by phone.  Volkswagen’s Audi brand, the second-biggest maker of luxury
cars, bought Ducati in a 860 million-euro ($ 1.12 billion) deal
in July to enhance the sporty appeal of the Ingolstadt, Germany-
based division. Audi has a target of taking the top spot in
luxury-auto sales from Bayerische Motoren Werke AG by the end of
the decade.  Ducati, the maker of the Monster, Diavel and Superbike
models, employed 1,054 people and sold 44,102 motorcycles last
year, according to  Audi’s website .  Del Torchio, who joined Ducati in 2007 after it was
acquired by Milan-based private-equity firm Investindustrial
Advisors SpA, remained CEO after the Audi takeover. He also
joined the board of Audi’s Lamborghini sports-car brand. Audi
CEO Rupert Stadler, Chief Financial Officer Axel Strotbek and
executive Horst Glaser are also members of Ducati’s board.  Audi’s other Italian assets include the design and
technology firm Italdesign, founded by Giorgetto Giugiaro, who
sketched the first Volkswagen Golf hatchback.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  