-- Dutch Slump Woes Haunt Rutte as Deficit Breach Persists
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-04-19T09:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/dutch-recession-woes-haunt-rutte-as-deficit-breach-persists.html
Record unemployment  in the
Netherlands is compounding Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s dilemma
on how far to push austerity measures needed to curb the
country’s deficit.  Consumer confidence , which improved by six points to minus
35 in April, has not been positive since 2007, the national
statistics agency CBS said today. That follows data yesterday
showing the  jobless rate  reached an 18-year high of 8.1 percent
in March, with 643,000 people out of work. Reports on  house
prices ,  consumer spending  and manufacturers’ confidence next
week will confirm just how far the slump has damaged sentiment
in the euro-area’s fifth largest economy.  Rutte’s coalition government agreed on a four-year, 16
billion-euro ($21 billion) austerity package in October and will
decide later this year on additional measures of 4.3 billion
euros for 2014. The Netherlands, in the throes of a housing-
market slump and facing its third recession since 2009, has
breached the European Union’s deficit limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product limit since then.  ‘Alarming’ Unemployment  “The increase in unemployment is alarming,” Sweder van Wijnbergen, a professor of economics at the University of
Amsterdam, said in an interview. “The Dutch government has to
reduce its deficit, so cannot be an engine of growth. Business
investment isn’t likely to pick up before a recovery, so it
can’t lead us out of the recession either.”  The Dutch jobless rate rose by 0.4 percentage point from
7.7 percent in February, CBS said yesterday. That matches the
level of 1995, CBS’s Peter Hein van Mulligen said in an
interview. Based on EU methods, unemployment rose to 6.4
percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  predicted this week that
the Dutch economy will shrink 0.5 percent in 2013. It expects
growth to pick up later this year, leading to expansion of 1.1
percent in 2014. The Washington-based institution sees
unemployment on the EU basis rising to 6.5 percent in 2014.  “The Dutch economy is performing badly,” Nico Klene, a
senior economist at ABN Amro Bank NV, said in an interview. “We
expect unemployment to increase until 2014, though the increase
will become smaller.”  Klene said that while industrial production may start
improving later this year, helping the labor market,
unemployment in construction may keep rising until 2015.  Construction Jobs  Joblessness last year increased the most in the building
industry. Almost a quarter of the 89,000 positions that were cut
in the Netherlands in 2012 came from that area.  “The recovery of the Dutch economy largely depends on the
recovery of the housing market,” said Arnoud Boot, a professor
of corporate finance and financial markets at the University of
Amsterdam.  Data published on April 22 will show whether house prices,
which have fallen by a fifth since 2008 and slid more than 10
percent last year, are continuing their slump. Consumer spending
numbers will come the following day and producer confidence data
are released on April 24. Neither gauge has shown a positive
result since 2011.  The Netherlands had the outlook on its AAA credit rating
cut to negative in February by  Fitch Ratings , which cited
problems in the banking system and difficult economic
conditions.  Germany , U.K.  Elsewhere in  Europe ,  German producer prices  fell 0.2
percent in March on a monthly basis and climbed 0.2 percent from
a year earlier. That compares with median economist estimates of
increases of 0.1 percent on the month and 0.7 percent on the
year.  U.K. gross mortgage lending increased to 11.6 billion
pounds ($17.8 billion) in March from 10.6 billion pounds in
February, the  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said today. While the
March figure is down 8 percent on the year, March 2012 was
boosted by demand before the end of a tax holiday, “distorting
meaningful comparison.”  “Conditions in the housing and mortgage markets continue
to show signs of improving,” said CML Chief Economist Bob Pannell. “The improvement in funding markets over the past
year, reinforced by the incremental benefits of the Funding for
Lending Scheme, has been the key catalyst behind stronger
housing activity,” he said, referring to the  Bank of England ’s
program aimed at boosting credit.  Dutch Austerity  While Rutte last week postponed additional 2014 austerity
measures in a deal with labor unions and business groups, his
April 17 pledge to lawmakers to meet the EU’s budget ceiling may
force him to implement them after all. The country’s planning
agency sees the Dutch deficit at 3.3 percent of GDP this year,
before increasing to 3.4 percent in 2014, according to its most
recent estimate published Feb. 28.  Still, the Netherlands enjoys the third-lowest borrowing
costs among euro countries as one of the remaining top-rated
nations in the currency. The Dutch 10-year bond has a yield of
1.65 percent. Only Germany, at 1.24 percent, and  Finland , at
1.43 percent, command lower rates to borrow for a decade.  “I’m calling on people to stop being so somber,” Rutte
told reporters in  The Hague  on April 12 when asked about the
accord on austerity. “The recovery is becoming visible, and
with this agreement we hope that people start looking more
positively at the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  