-- The Second Amendment Might Need Some Revisions
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-04-18T22:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/the-second-amendment-might-need-some-revisions.html
Several months ago, not long before
the massacre in Newtown,  Connecticut , I asked Dan Gross, the
president of the  Brady Campaign  to Prevent Gun Violence, why his
group refused to argue for amending the Second Amendment.  Maybe a revision stipulating that only members of organized
state militias could own firearms. Or maybe spelling out what
sort of citizen should be allowed to have weapons, and what sort
of weapons would be legal to possess.  Gross was dismissive. “I’m happy to consider the debate on
the Second Amendment closed,”  he said . “We have to respect the
fact that a lot of decent, law-abiding people believe in gun
ownership.”  Gross is no gun-lover. His support for the Second Amendment
-- specifically for the idea, endorsed now by the  Supreme Court ,
that the Constitution guarantees individual gun ownership --
seemed to me mainly tactical. And cleverly so. Explicitly
supporting the Second Amendment removes an important argument
from the ideological arsenal of the  National Rifle Association 
and likeminded groups: that gun-control advocates are actually
just dissembling gun-grabbers. We don’t want to seize the guns
of law-abiding citizens, Gross was saying. We just want to limit
the ability of the violent, the criminal and the deranged to
cause harm.  Background Checks  This is why the Brady Campaign, the leading (and most
moderate) gun-reform group, made expanding background checks its
central goal. Their position seemed reasonable even to someone
like me, who believes in the individual right to carry arms and
favors issuing “concealed-carry” permits to carefully vetted gun
owners. I fear that an expanded background-check system might
only have a marginal effect on gun violence. But if it would
make it even slightly more difficult for those bent on doing
harm to obtain weapons, it would be worth it.  Such a system, however, was simply too much for the NRA to
bear, and the group convinced a sufficient number of senators
that support for it would cost them their jobs. Which raises a
question: If such a reasonable and incremental gun-safety
measure, proposed in a spirit of total respect for the Second
Amendment, is considered to be too extreme by the NRA; if the
reformers’ carefully articulated endorsement of the individual
right to own firearms isn’t enough to convince the NRA that they
aren’t up against fascist gun-grabbers; and if the NRA is still
so powerful that it can defeat a proposal supported by a large
majority of Americans, then why not have an actual debate about
the Second Amendment?  Why not ask Americans to consider amending the Constitution
to spell out more clearly which citizens should have the right
to own a gun, and which shouldn’t? Congress, as currently
constituted, won’t adopt common-sense and popular reforms. So
why not go all the way and talk about what really matters?  I understand that opening this debate wouldn’t result in
any amendments being passed. The move would fail, and fail
again, and again after that. But over time -- sometimes decades
-- attitudes about important social issues do change. Women did
get the right to vote. Black people, too. Gays are gaining the
right to marry. And cigarettes were popular once, until they
weren’t. A discussion about the Second Amendment would put on
the table the issues that Congress, under pressure from the NRA,
simply won’t address.  Public Support  I called Gross on Thursday, the day after the background-
check plan was blocked in the Senate, to see if he was wavering
on the Second Amendment. He was surprisingly upbeat for the
leader of a movement that had just been so comprehensively
stymied. He thinks the country is with the Brady Campaign, and
not with the NRA, and he said a debate about the Constitution
wouldn’t be helpful.  “Turning this into a Second Amendment issue will hurt our
cause,” he said. “The Second Amendment has been decided. The
fact is, there is a limited right to bear arms, and we have to
deal with that. There are a lot of people in our community of
organizations and activists seeking gun reform who thought that
the decision yesterday was devastating, but I think it has
created an opportunity to move the discussion forward, and we
don’t need a discussion about the Second Amendment in order to
move forward.”  I detected the presence of spin in his words, so I asked
him for proof that yesterday’s obvious defeat contained the
seeds of later victory. “We got a majority of senators with us,
including six senators with ‘A’ ratings from the NRA,” he said.
“The winds are shifting. The American public wants this.”  He went on: “I get what you’re suggesting about the
constitutional issue, but I will never abandon an issue that
enjoys 90 percent support among the American public. There’s no
need to open up the Second Amendment debate because of that
support. I mean, we have polls that show that background checks
are literally more popular than kittens and baseball. We’ll get
there. We don’t need to change the basis of our arguments. We
need to make Congress feel the overwhelming public sentiment.”  I wish him well, but I’m not so sure. If the NRA could
defeat the most mild and reasonable gun-control measure
imaginable only a few short months after the most horrifying
mass shooting in American history, I’m pretty sure it could do
the same again in a year. This might not be an issue meant for
incremental fixes. This might be an issue that needs a full
philosophical vetting.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 