-- Leading Index’s Drop Points to Slower U.S. Growth: Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-04-18T20:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/leading-economic-indicators-index-in-u-s-unexpectedly-declines.html
The index of U.S. leading
indicators unexpectedly declined in March, and manufacturing in
the Philadelphia region slowed this month, adding to evidence
the economy will cool.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the  outlook  for the next
three to six months fell 0.1 percent last month, the first drop
since August, the New York-based group said today. The  Federal
Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia’s factory  index  eased to 1.3 in
April from 2 the prior month, another report showed.  While the world’s largest economy is losing some momentum
from the effects of a payroll tax increase and concern over
 federal budget  cuts, there is reason to believe any slump in
household spending will prove temporary. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index today showed  consumer confidence  shot up last week
to a five-year high.  “We’re seeing economic growth cool off a little bit after
a strong start to the year,” said  Mark Vitner , a senior
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in Charlotte,  North
Carolina , the top-ranked forecaster for the leading index over
the past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
“There’s no question that growth is going to remain in positive
territory.”  Stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the
lowest level since March 6, amid disappointing earnings reports.
The  S&P 500  declined 0.7 percent to 1,541.61 at the close in New
York.  Consumers Globally  Consumers are retrenching elsewhere, with another report
today showing retail sales in the U.K. fell more than forecast
in March as cold weather depressed purchases of clothing and
household goods.  In  China , a deadly bird-flu outbreak is rippling through
industries from restaurants to travel, adding to headwinds after
the world’s second-largest economy unexpectedly slowed last
quarter.  Shoring up global growth will be a topic of discussion
among finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20
advanced and emerging economies meeting this week in  Washington .
A draft of their statement reaffirms a commitment to avoid
competitive currency devaluations as nations compete for sales
in overseas markets.  The U.S. leading index was projected to rise 0.1 percent in
March, according to the median forecast of 48 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Estimates ranged from a decline of 0.4
percent to an increase of 0.6 percent.  Leading Components  Five of the gauge’s 10 components contributed to the March
decrease, including declines in construction applications and
factory orders and a drop in consumer expectations. Building
permits in March fell 3.9 percent to a four-month low 902,000
annualized rate, the Commerce Department said this week.  “Data for March reflect an economy that has lost some
steam,”  Ken Goldstein , an economist at the Conference Board,
said in a statement today. “The biggest challenge remains weak
demand, due to nervous consumer sentiment and slow income
growth.”  The decline in the Philadelphia Fed’s factory index this
month reflected a drop in orders that prompted managers to cut
back on hiring and inventories. The reading exceeded zero,
signaling manufacturing in the area covering eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware  is still growing.
The median forecast of economists surveyed projected the gauge
would increase to 3.  Manufacturing Cooling  The data follow a report last week showing expansion also
cooled at factories in the New York region. This week, separate
data from the Federal Reserve indicated output at factories is
moderating as companies limit inventories.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s biggest engineering company, is among
companies that anticipate further growth in the economy. Siemens
made 21.3 percent of its  revenue  from the U.S. in fiscal year
2012.  “In the long run, we see a good business climate there,
although currently it is a little bit bumpy,” Siegfried Russwurm, head of Siemens’ industry division, said in an April
11 industry teleconference.  The  U.S. economy  is projected to grow at a 1.5 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, down from an estimated 3
percent pace in the first three months of the year, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists from
April 5 to April 9.  Payroll Tax  One reason for the projected slowdown: Americans are
starting to feel the pinch of the increase in the  payroll tax 
that took effect in January. The levy used to fund  Social
Security  reverted to 6.2 percent at the start of the year from
4.2 percent.  Retail sales dropped in March by the most in nine months,
figures from the Commerce Department showed last week. At the
same time, a jump in stock prices to fresh records last week
gave American households a reason for optimism.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus 29.2
in the week ended April 14, the highest since January 2008, from
minus 34 during the prior period, another report showed today.  The biggest surge in more than a year was broad-based, with
every age group, all regions and most income brackets showing an
advance.  All three comfort index components improved last week, with
one turning positive. The  personal finances  gauge rose to 1.6,
its highest level since July, from minus 2.9 the prior week.  “We’re on the upward curve now,” Glenna Blackwell, a 58-
year-old from Great Barrington,  Massachusetts , said as she
browsed a Macy’s Inc. department store in downtown Washington.  Feeling ‘Better’  Blackwell, who is visiting the nation’s capital both for
business and as a tourist, said she was “feeling a little bit
better than I did a few months ago.”  The measure assessing Americans’ views on the current  state
of the economy  climbed to minus 54.7, the highest since late
January 2008. The index of whether consumers consider it a  good
time to buy  improved to a four-month high of minus 34.6.  Another report today showed the labor market was
stabilizing. The number of  claims  for jobless benefits climbed
to 352,000 in the week ended April 13, little changed from the
prior week, according to figures from the Labor Department.  “Businesses at least need the workers they have and
probably could use some more,” said Tom Simons, an economist at
Jefferies LLC in  New York , who projected claims would rise to
350,000. “Claims will probably stay in this range for some
time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  