-- EDF May Let Talks for New U.K. Nuclear Plant Fail
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-04-18T17:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/edf-may-let-talks-for-new-u-k-nuclear-plant-fail.html
Electricite de France SA , which is
negotiating to build the U.K.’s first new nuclear power plants
in almost two decades, is preparing to allow the talks to fail
because of a dispute over the price of electricity.  Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said the French
utility isn’t “in a hurry” to  agree with the government the
so-called strike price it will receive for power produced at the
planned plant at Hinkley Point in southwest England.  “We have precise conditions in mind, and we are
negotiating with the British,” Proglio told reporters today in
Paris. “For me negotiations can fail.”  U.K. lawmakers have warned that failure to build new
nuclear plants will jeopardize the country’s chances of meeting
its legally binding obligations to slash  greenhouse gases . The
former chief scientific adviser to the government,  David King ,
said last year that a better nuclear strategy is needed, or
“the risk of the lights going off is very serious.”  EDF is seeking a strike price of at least 95 pounds ($145)
a megawatt-hour for the power it produces from Hinkley, and is
trying to lock in the rate for 40 years. The government says
it’s trying to make sure consumers get the best value for money
from any deal.  EDF intends to build two reactors made by  Areva SA (AREVA)  at
Hinkley Point, about 150 miles (240 km) west of London on the
southern edge of the Bristol Channel. The units would have a
total capacity of 3,260 megawatts, enough to supply 5 million
homes for 60 years.  The Paris-based company already owns eight nuclear stations
totalling almost 9 gigawatts in the U.K., though only its 1.2-
gigawatt Sizewell B is scheduled to stay open past 2023.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  