-- Elan Says Buyback Tender Strike Price Set at $11.25 per ADR
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-04-18T16:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/elan-says-buyback-tender-strike-price-set-at-11-25-per-adr.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  said the strike price
for a buyback of 116.4 million shares was set at $11.25 per
American depository receipt, indicating a takeover bid by
Royalty Pharma may be set at that level.  Among the shares tendered, representing 14.8 percent of
current shares, 92.3 percent were sold by one corporate
stakeholder, Elan said in a statement today. That shareholder is
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , which held an 18 percent stake in the
company, according to Elan spokesman Jonathan Birt. Royalty
Pharma said this week it may set a takeover offer price of
$11.25 if the shares are tendered at that price.  Elan, led by Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin, is
buying back the shares to return a portion of the $3.25 billion
it received after divesting its stake in the multiple sclerosis
drug Tysabri to U.S. partner  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  Royalty Pharma’s
takeover offer challenges Martin’s plan to embark on company
acquisitions to bring in new products.  Excluding J&J, which confirmed its share sale in a
statement, 73.1 percent of all shares weren’t tendered,
suggesting that about 60 percent of the shareholding did not
tender, UBS analyst Guillaume van Renterghem said in a note
today.  Offer Prospects  “The fact that 60 percent of shares were not tendered
makes us believe that the likelihood of Royalty Pharma being
successful in its attempt to buy Elan has significantly
reduced,” van Renterghem said. “A significant downside risk
exists if the deal does not go through and the offer expires.”  J&J’s sale will result in an after-tax gain of about $213
million, which it will invest in its business, the company said
in the statement.  Elan shares rose 0.5 percent to 8.97 euros ($11.73) in
Dublin. Elan’s American depository receipts climbed 0.2 percent
to $11.90 at 12:01 p.m. in  New York .  The institutional shareholders holding on to their stakes
indicates a vote of confidence in Elan, prompting the positive
reaction in the market, van Renterghem said. J&J’s relationship
with Elan had already been winding down after an Alzheimer’s
drug they were jointly developing with Pfizer Inc.,
bapineuzumab, failed in a late-stage clinical trial last year,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  