-- Emerging Stocks Decline to Five-Month Low on Tech Slump
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-18T21:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/emerging-stocks-decline-to-five-month-low-as-commodities-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped to
the lowest level in almost five months as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 's Asian 
suppliers retreated on speculation sales are slowing and concern
grew that the global economy is faltering.  LG Display Co. (034220)  slid the most in four months in Seoul after
audio-chipmaker  Cirrus Logic Inc. (CRUS)  reported an inventory glut
that suggests slowing iPhone sales.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358)  sank 2.5
percent in Hong Kong, while Russia’s Micex Index reversed
earlier gains, closing at the lowest level since June 25.
Brazil’s Bovespa index rebounded from a nine-month low, as Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA jumped 11 percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.4 percent to 997.33
in  New York , the lowest level since Nov. 28. Stocks joined
losses in the U.S. equity market as data on leading economic
indicators and Philadelphia-area manufacturing trailed
estimates. Earlier this week, the  International Monetary Fund 
trimmed its global growth forecast.  “It’s global, very much like a cold that seems to be going
around,”  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund
manager at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees about $380
billion, said by phone. “Earlier in the year, the macro data
was on a more reliably upward trajectory. Now there appears to
be a moderation going on.”  A gauge of technology shares in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index fell 1.4 percent, the most among 10 groups. The emerging-
markets index has lost 5.5 percent this year, trailing a 5.6
percent increase in the MSCI World Index of developed-country
stocks. The emerging-markets measure trades at 10.5 times 12-
month projected profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.7
valuation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)   exchange-traded
fund  was little changed at $41.05. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a  measure  of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
jumped 3.3 percent to 23.20.  Brazil’s Bovespa rose 0.5 percent and swap rates tumbled
after the central bank raised benchmark borrowing costs
yesterday less than some analysts had forecast, spurring
speculation that monetary tightening will be limited. Gol surged
the most since Dec. 26 on speculation a reduction in fuel taxes
will help reduce costs. Mexico’s IPC Index fell 0.4 percent to a
one-month low.  Russia’s Micex measure closed little changed after climbing
as much as 1.1 percent earlier today. Fertilizer producer OAO
PhosAgro jumped 2.8 percent, ending a eight-day slide, following
an offer to buy shares of OAO Apatit.  Turkey, Poland  Benchmark gauges in Turkey, Poland and Hungary retreated.
The Czech Republic’s PX index slid for a fifth day to the lowest
level since Aug. 14.  South Korea’s Kospi Index declined 1.2 percent to an almost
five-month low as foreign funds sold $3.8 billion more equities
than they bought this year through yesterday, exchange data
show. LG Display, which supplies touch screens for Apple’s
iPhone and iPad, dropped 4.8 percent. Hon Hai Precision Industry
Co., which assembles Apple’s iPhone, fell 1.3 percent in Taipei
to the lowest level since Aug. 3.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  slid 0.3 percent while the Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.2 percent. India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  gained
1.5 percent. Jiangxi Copper capped its sixth day of declines.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  was unchanged at 297 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  