-- Empirical Economics Isn’t Yet as Smart as Dentistry
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-04-18T23:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/empirical-economics-isn-t-yet-as-smart-as-dentistry.html
In macroeconomics, ideas are more
powerful than facts. That’s a shame, but it isn’t a criticism.
Even with the best will in the world (a condition, admittedly,
that’s rarely satisfied) economists who debate fiscal and
monetary policy couldn’t settle their disagreements by appealing
to facts. Their discipline is too difficult, or too far from
being a proper science, for that to happen. Ideas trump data
time and again.  The thought is prompted by two burning topics being
discussed this week by the world’s top economic officials who
are gathered in  Washington  to attend the semi-annual meetings of
the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank . The first is
a  paper  trashing a  study  by  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff 
on the relationship between public debt and economic growth. The
other is  new work  from the IMF on the relationship between
inflation and unemployment.  The Reinhart-Rogoff paper looked at historical data and
found that when the ratio of public debt to gross domestic
product exceeds a “threshold” (their word) of about 90
percent, economic growth drops sharply. These are two of the
world’s most distinguished researchers -- Rogoff is a former
chief economist of the IMF -- so their findings were taken
seriously. Now three economists from the  University of
Massachusetts  at Amherst contend the paper is “riddled with
faults” and its headline finding is wrong.  Bungled Coding  The critique raised a storm of gleeful outrage mainly
because it caught Reinhart and Rogoff in one (and only one)
cringe-making error. As they admitted, they bungled the coding
on a spreadsheet and excluded several countries’ data from an
important calculation. The critics also accuse them of
incorrectly weighting observations and of “selective
exclusion” of data -- but the first, as Reinhart and Rogoff
have said, is a matter of opinion and the second, with its
implication of deliberate falsification, is wrong (the missing
data became available too late for inclusion).  Quantitatively, it’s the difference of opinion on
weightings, not the spreadsheet error, that matters.
Qualitatively, though, it’s the embarrassment over the error
that leaves Reinhart and Rogoff defenseless. They can point out
until they’re blue in the face that the critics ultimately
agreed with them that high debts are associated with (somewhat)
slower growth. It won’t stop the smirking.  You could draw several lessons from this episode, but
here’s the one I’m interested in. The Reinhart-Rogoff finding,
everyone agrees, was influential -- and now it turns out to have
been marred by an error. Does that mean the professors are to
blame for misguided fiscal policy all over the world? Many seem
to think so. But did the Reinhart-Rogoff paper change anybody’s
mind? I wonder. Conservatives embraced it for supporting a view
they already held (high levels of public debt are dangerous).
Progressives rejected it for opposing a view they already held
(fiscal stimulus is necessary).  Progressives, to be sure, had a solid rationale for their
position, because the Reinhart-Rogoff numbers didn’t address
causation -- does high debt cause slow growth or vice versa?
Trouble is, that question is hard to settle. Even harder to say
is whether some general finding of that kind would apply to any
case in particular -- such as, should the  U.S. budget deficit  be
bigger or smaller next year? Good empirical analysis can hope to
inform such discussions. Don’t expect it to settle them.  Reading Inflation  The IMF’s new study on inflation and unemployment is
another instance of the limits of the discipline. The fund’s
economists show that since 1995 inflation has been less
sensitive to unemployment than in earlier years. Previously,
lower unemployment tended to mean higher inflation. Lately,
inflation has stayed put regardless of whether unemployment is
high or low. The researchers attribute this to the firmer
anchoring of inflation expectations that comes from having
independent central banks dedicated to managing those
expectations with a policy regime called “flexible inflation
targeting.”  It won’t be long before we’re calling this study
influential -- because it has something for everyone. It can
support either of the two main prescriptions in contention.
Supporters of aggressive fiscal or monetary stimulus can say:
“With inflation so well anchored, we can push more decisively
for higher employment. Central banks should be bolder.” Those
who take the opposite view can say: “The anchoring of
expectations has helped us to avoid deflation and an even worse
recession. Don’t put that in jeopardy with aggressive stimulus
that works the anchor loose. Central banks should be more
cautious.”  This argument would be moot if we knew how much of today’s
unemployment is cyclical as opposed to structural. But, again,
we don’t. If it’s cyclical, and there’s spare capacity, higher
demand would increase employment without creating inflation. If
it’s structural, perhaps because of a skills mismatch or other
impediment, higher demand would be inflationary. In the U.S.,
the  Federal Reserve  seems convinced that cyclical unemployment
is still high, leaving room for continued stimulus. But the
evidence isn’t conclusive, and the new IMF findings don’t shed
much light on this one way or the other. In short, choosing a
policy still involves a lot of ignorance and a complex balance
of risks.  Empirical work can push macroeconomics forward inch by
inch. It’s a noble endeavor, and I salute the practitioners --
especially when they code their spreadsheets properly. But let’s
not delude ourselves that policy in 2013 is founded on it, or
even should be founded on it. Ideas, good and bad, still prevail
over facts. John  Maynard Keynes  famously said he hoped that
economists would one day be as humble and competent as dentists.
Brilliant as many of them undoubtedly are, they haven’t yet
advanced to that point.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 