-- Templeton’s Mobius Says South Korean Stock Valuations Attractive
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-04-18T03:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/templeton-s-mobius-says-south-korean-stock-valuations-attractive.html
South Korean equity  valuations ,
dragged lower by rising tensions with North  Korea  and a weaker
yen, are attractive amid “resilient” corporate earnings,
according to Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group’s  Mark Mobius .  No large-scale investor withdrawal is expected as most
international investors are “well aware” of the history of the
North’s aggression toward its southern neighbor, Mobius,
Templeton Emerging Markets’ executive chairman, wrote in a blog
 posting  dated yesterday. Government stimulus measures could
boost economic growth and equities once tensions ease, he wrote.  The benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI)  has fallen 4.1 percent this year,
giving the measure its biggest valuation  discount  to the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index in six years, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The MSCI gauge has climbed 5.5 percent in 2013.  “As we are long-time emerging markets investors, tensions
on the Korean peninsula are not news to us,” Mobius wrote.
“During crisis periods, market weakness can be viewed as
potential buying opportunities, which could be the case in  South
Korea .”  The Kospi fell 0.4 percent to 1,915.80 as of 12:09 p.m. in
Seoul today. The 764-stock index is  valued  at 1 time net assets,
versus 1.5 times for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the biggest
discount on a monthly basis since March 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korean equities have  lagged behind  regional equities
as  North Korea  cut off a military hotline, declared a state of
war with the South, threatened pre-emptive nuclear strikes and
prevented South Korean workers from entering a jointly run
industrial park.  Nuclear Test  International investors have sold a net 2.4 trillion won
($2.1 billion) worth of  Kospi index  stocks after March 26, when
Kim Jong Un’s regime announced its highest combat level.
Domestic institutions bought a net 1.8 trillion won.  “Not all that much is known about Kim Jong Un,” Mobius
said. “This does create some additional uncertainty and there
is a risk that the regime will undertake some type of military
action, launching missiles or nuclear tests.”  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  ended a trip to Seoul,
Beijing and  Tokyo  this week by calling for dialogue with Kim’s
regime, while saying a nuclear-armed North Korea was
unacceptable. North Korea’s state-run news agency said April 16
talks with the U.S. are possible once it has sufficient nuclear
weapons to deter an attack.  Mobius’s views on valuations align with South Korea’s
biggest investors. Stock declines are “an opportunity to add
blue chips at bargain prices,” the  National Pension Service ,
which had about $350 billion in assets as of January, said in an
April 11 e-mail.  “We believe there are reasons to be optimistic about South
Korea’s long-term investment potential,” Mobius wrote. “Right
now we generally view valuations in Korea as attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  