-- Let Cities Build Better Internet-Access Networks
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-04-18T16:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/let-cities-build-better-internet-access-networks.html
Last month, a majority of the
Georgia House of Representatives voted against a proposal that
would have barred cities from investing in their own Internet-
access networks. The bill failed because Georgia municipalities,
businesses and minority advocates want  Internet access  that’s
faster and less expensive than what commercial providers now
offer them.  This is a turning point in what has been a multiyear,
state-by-state effort by major commercial Internet-access
providers -- AT&T Inc., Time Warner Cable Inc. and CenturyLink
Inc., banded together within the American Legislative Exchange
Council -- to erect state barriers to competition from local
public-private partnerships. Nineteen states have such laws in
place.  Meanwhile, cities such as  Seattle  and  Chicago , fed up with
second-rate Internet access, are aiming to work with private
parties to provide world-class local communications networks. To
make sure that all U.S. cities have this choice, Congress should
step in to preempt state laws that bar local authority over
communications networks.  The federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 already
stipulates that no state may prohibit the ability of any entity
to provide communications services. But in a 2004 decision, the
U.S. Supreme Court held that a municipality is not an “entity”
separate from the state itself. Emboldened by this ruling, the
American Legislative Exchange Council and other lobbyists for
network operators flocked to state capitols. In  North Carolina 
in 2011, after large telecom providers contributed almost $1.2
million over five years to state legislators, a law backed by
the council was passed making it virtually impossible for cities
in that state to involve themselves in communications networks.
 South Carolina  enacted a similar measure in 2012.  Member ’Scholarships’  In  Georgia , half the legislators sponsoring the anti-
municipal networks bill were council members who had received
“scholarships” to attend council meetings, workshops and
parties.  Ending these state laws would take just three words from
Congress: “including public entities.” Adding that phrase to the
Telecommunications Act would clarify that the “entities” that
cannot be interfered with by states include cities. Bills along
these lines were proposed in 2005 and 2007 but failed to pass.  Events since 2007 make federal preemption more urgent and
its chances of success more certain today. Although Americans
often believe the U.S. leads the world in technological prowess,
in fact, when it comes to affordable world-class high-speed
Internet access, we are being left far behind. China plans to
have all new homes wired for fiber access;  Japan  long ago made
sure that each of its citizens had reasonably priced fiber
Internet access at home.  South Korea ,  Sweden ,  Norway  and even
Latvia are far ahead us.  Adoption and pricing of high-speed Internet access in the
U.S. haven’t changed much since 2009: Only about 7 percent of
Internet connections are fiber-to-the-home, and  roughly a third 
of Americans don’t subscribe at all. Only Chile, Mexico and
Israel have high-speed connections more expensive than those in
the U.S.  For the U.S. to move ahead, American cities need to get
involved.  Julius Genachowski , the chairman of the Federal
Communications Commission, recently called for high-speed
Internet-access providers as well as state and municipal leaders
to come together to develop at least one  gigabit community  (with
Internet access capable of download and upload speeds of a
gigabit per second, or a thousand megabits -- 100 times faster
than the Internet-access connection that most Americans have
today) in each of the 50 states by 2015.  “The U.S. needs a critical mass of gigabit communities
nationwide so that innovators can develop next-generation
applications and services that will drive economic growth and
global competitiveness,” Genachowski said.  Quiet Business  Right now, the corporate members of American Legislative
Exchange Council in the communications business are enjoying a
quiet life. Their companies are, for the most part, subject to
neither competition nor substantial oversight, and they are
under no pressure to build fiber-to-the-home networks. Mayors,
for their part, are eager to act but uncertain that their states
will allow it.  The bipartisan defeat of the Georgia anti-muni bill last
month demonstrates that this is not a right-left issue. Nor is
it a pro-business/anti-business issue: Opposed to the Georgia
bill were hardware provider Alcatel-Lucent SA and advertising
giant Google Inc., which said public/private high-speed Internet
access was necessary to “stimulate and support economic
development and  job creation , especially in economically
distressed areas.”  Now Congress needs to play its part.  (Susan P. Crawford, a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
professor at the Cardozo School of Law, is the author of
“Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly Power in
the New Gilded Age.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or  @scrawford  on
Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  