-- Etisalat Said to Set Terms for $8 Billion Maroc Telecom Bid Loan
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-04-18T11:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/etisalat-said-to-set-terms-for-8-billion-maroc-telecom-bid-loan.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) 
set the terms of $8 billion of loans backing its bid for a 53
percent stake in  Maroc Telecom SA (IAM)  being sold by  Vivendi SA (VIV) ,
according to two people with knowledge of the deal.  The company, known as Etisalat, is raising debt comprising
a $4 billion portion to be refinanced by bonds, and three- and
five-year loans, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the terms are private. The facility, which was reported
earlier by Reuters, is being arranged by the company, they said.  Etisalat, the  Middle East ’s second-biggest phone operator
by market value, is weighing options including debt financing to
fund the potential acquisition of Vivendi’s $6 billion stake,
Group Chief Executive Ahmad Julfar said earlier this year. It is
vying with  Qatar Telecom QSC (QTEL)  for the shares after  South Korea ’s
 KT Corp. (030200)  withdrew its interest this week citing “big
differences” in valuations. Final binding offers for the stake
are due by Monday, the people said.  Officials in Etisalat’s investor relations department
didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment on the financing. The
media relations department couldn’t be reached by telephone.  More than 10 banks have already committed to the Abu Dhabi-
based company’s financing, and as many as 17 may participate,
according to the people. Lenders can provide funds in either
dollars or euros, and must commit to all parts of the deal, they
said.  Bridge loan  The six-month bridge loan can be extended to one year and
the company is offering to pay an initial interest margin of 45
basis points, or 0.45 percentage points, more than the London
interbank offered rate, rising to 75 basis points if extended,
said the people. The three-year portion would pay a margin of
less than 100 basis points more than Libor, while the five-year
debt would pay less than 150 basis points, said the people.  Vivendi has hired Lazard Ltd. and Credit Agricole SA to
explore a sale of the stake, people familiar with the matter
have said, as it overhauls its business to refocus on media and
content distribution. The Moroccan government owns 30 percent of
Maroc Telecom and must sign off on any deal.  Qatar Telecom , which operates under the brand name Ooredoo,
has the capacity to finance a deal, Chief Executive Officer
Nasser Marafih said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  