-- EU Fails to Agree on Markets Law Amid Swaps-Clearing Clash
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-18T16:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/eu-fails-to-agree-on-markets-law-amid-swaps-clearing-clash.html
European Union nations must resume
talks on a draft law to overhaul the bloc’s financial market
rules, after ambassadors failed to resolve a clash between the
U.K. and  Germany  on competition in derivatives clearing.  Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, will
seek to broker compromises on the measures, which would toughen
oversight of high-frequency trading, and impose limits on
traders’ positions in commodity derivatives markets, according
to three European officials who aren’t authorized to be cited by
name, in line with policy.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, proposed
overhauling the EU’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive,
or Mifid, to counter “speculative trading activities” and
implement agreements reached by the Group of 20 nations. His
plans would also boost competition by forcing exchanges to hand
over trade data to rival clearinghouses, so that they can
compete in processing derivatives transactions.  The data-access plans are supported by the U.K. government,
which says that greater competition will reduce costs for
investors. Germany has resisted, arguing that the move would
fragment markets and harm financial stability. The competition
issue is the main one sticking point in the talks, said the
officials.  Ireland’s EU presidency will continue efforts to reach
consensus on the draft law, said a spokeswoman, who also
couldn’t be named, in line with government policy.  She said Ireland also aims to start negotiations with the
European Parliament on the measures. The final version of the
law must be agreed on by governments and by the EU assembly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  