-- EU Says Serbia, Kosovo Have Hours Left for Deal as Report Nears
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-04-18T05:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/eu-says-serbia-kosovo-have-hours-left-for-deal-as-report-nears.html
Serbia and  Kosovo  ended another
round of European Union-mediated talks without an accord and
have “some hours left” to reach a compromise before EU’s
Foreign Policy Chief  Catherine Ashton  presents a report.  The difference between positions held by Serbian Prime
Minister  Ivica Dacic  and Hashim Thaci, met nine times in six
months with no result, “are narrow and very shallow,” Ashton
said in a statement e-mailed by her office.  “As we prepare for the General Affairs Council on Monday
where I will make my report, we have some hours left,” Ashton
said. “I hope in that time, that both delegations will reflect
on whether they can take the final steps necessary to finish
this agreement and to move their people forward into the
future.”  Ashton invited the two leaders to Brussels to make another
effort toward reconciliation before Enlargement Commissioner
Stefan Fule completes his his report on  Serbia ’s readiness to
start membership talks, which include an accord with the
breakaway province.  Serbia refuses to acknowledge Kosovo’s 2008 declaration of
independence, which has been recognized by more than 90 nations,
including the U.S. and 22 of 27 EU member states.  Serbia, which hopes to get a date for the start of EU entry
talks by June, wants Thaci to grant Serbs in Kosovo’s northern
region decision-making rights on police and the judiciary and to
pledge to keep the Kosovo army out of Serbian communities.  Serbia rejected an EU-brokered deal on April 8 and called
for more talks toward sustainable and implementable solution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  