-- EU Sugar Market Seen Balanced in Two Years as Imports Rise
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-04-18T13:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/eu-sugar-market-seen-balanced-in-two-years-as-imports-rise-1-.html
The European Union sugar market
will probably be balanced in two years as imports from
preferential nations are set to rise, reducing the need for the
bloc to take steps to boost supplies, Czarnikow Group said.  Shipments from countries that have trade agreements with
the EU will reach 2.86 million metric tons in the 2014-15
season, estimated Peter de Klerk, a senior analyst at the
London-based Czarnikow, which traded sugar in more than 90
countries in 2011. That compares with a forecast for imports of
2.34 million tons in the current season, according to the
European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm.  Europe  faced sugar shortages in the past two seasons after
supplies from preferential nations fell short of the
commission’s forecasts. That prompted the bloc to allow more
imports and authorize local producers to sell more in the
domestic market. For the current marketing year, shortages are
also foreseen and the commission has said it will boost local
supplies by 1.2 million tons.  “The EU quotas market will be in equilibrium” in 2014-15,
de Klerk said at the Kingsman EU Seminar in Geneva today, adding
that imports from preferential nations have started to rise and
will probably continue to do so.  Applications to import sugar from preferential nations
including a group of least developed countries and some members
of the African, Caribbean and Pacific group of states have
reached 1.13 million tons so far this season, Roger Waite, a
spokesman from the commission, said in an e-mail today. That
compares with 1 million tons in the same period in 2011-12. The
season started in October and will end in September.  Preferential Nations  The cost of importing sugar from preferential nations
climbed to 620 euros ($809) a ton in January, according to the
commission. That was the second-highest price since at least
2006 and 63 percent above the average of the white sugar futures
traded on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London  that month.  Some of the preferential nations may opt to export their
sugar production to Europe during the season and import the
sweetener for their local use, de Klerk said. A new trade
agreement with countries including  Peru , Colombia and nations in
Central America will also bring in additional supplies of
260,000 tons to the EU, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  