-- European Stocks Close Unchanged; Debenhams Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-04-18T15:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/european-stock-futures-little-changed-nestle-may-fall.html
European stocks closed unchanged
from yesterday’s level, erasing intraday gains, as companies
from Debenhams Plc to  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  and Nokia Oyj reported
financial results.  Debenhams rallied the most in more than five months after
the U.K.’s second-biggest department-store chain gained market
share in the first half. Syngenta advanced 3 percent as the
chemical company’s Brazilian operations boosted revenue. Nokia
tumbled 8.3 percent after the mobile-phone maker posted results
that disappointed investors.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index closed at 283.73, erasing an
earlier advance of as much as 0.7 percent. The equity gauge has
lost 3 percent so far this week as reports from U.S.
manufacturing and retail sales to Chinese economic growth fell
short of forecasts.  “With the markets having fallen so sharply in the last few
weeks, a lot of the concerns about results have already been
discounted by investors,” said Matthew Beesley, the London-
based head of equities at Henderson Global Investors Holdings
Ltd. which overseas about $100 billion. “That leaves scope for
some of these companies to move quite significantly on half-
decent earnings.”  Some 29 companies on the  S&P 500  including Google Inc. and
Microsoft Corp. report results today. In Europe, seven companies
on the Stoxx 600 have posted earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Of those that have announced results so
far, 64 percent have  beaten estimates  for profit.  American Economy  Stocks erased gains after U.S. economic data missed
estimates. A release showed the Conference Board’s index of
leading indicators unexpectedly dropped 0.1 percent in March.
Economists had forecast a 0.1 percent gain.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  fell to 1.3 in April from 2 in March. Readings greater
than zero mean manufacturing expanded in eastern  Pennsylvania ,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey had called for a reading of 3.  National benchmark indexes fell in 12 of the 18 western
 European (SXXP)  markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index and  France ’s CAC 40
Index were little changed and  Germany ’s DAX Index slid 0.4
percent.  Debenhams gained 4.9 percent to 84.45 pence after reporting
a 46 percent increase in first-half online sales, climbing three
times faster than the market. Chief Executive Officer Michael Sharp said the company gained market share across its menswear,
womenswear and beauty ranges after increasing promotions to
clear excess stock.  Syngenta, Glaxo  Syngenta climbed 3 percent to 389.60 Swiss francs after the
world’s largest maker of crop chemicals reported a 6 percent
increase in first-quarter sales to to $4.60 billion, buoyed by
Brazilian operations that helped offset weaker demand for seeds
and crop chemicals in parts of Europe. That met the $4.57
billion average  analyst estimate  in a Bloomberg survey.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc rallied 3.2 percent to 1,658 pence, the
highest price since April 2002, after advisers to the U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration  recommended that experimental treatment
Breo Ellipta be approved to treat a lung disorder.  Sky Deutschland AG increased 3.9 percent to 4.19 euros
after the German pay-TV provider’s chief financial officer,
Steven Tomsic, confirmed the company’s 2013 forecast for
positive earnings in a speech for its annual general meeting.  Opap SA (OPAP)  rallied 6.2 percent to 7.02 euros after  Greece ’s
state asset sales funds announced that two groups submitted
binding offers for a 33 percent stake in the country’s biggest
gambling company.  Nokia dropped 8.3 percent to 2.42 euros after posting a 20
percent drop in first-quarter sales of 5.85 billion euros ($7.6
billion). That missed the average analyst estimate of 6.52
billion euros, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Sodexo tumbled 9.6 percent to 64.03 euros, the largest drop
since November 2007. The second-biggest provider of catering
services cut its annual profit-growth forecast after first-half
results missed projections. The company expects “stable”
earnings before interest and taxes compared with last year,
after saying in January it expected “modest” profit growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  