-- Europe Shows Little Promise for Denmark’s Biggest Pension Fund
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-04-18T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/europe-shows-little-promise-for-denmark-s-biggest-pension-fund.html
The head of  Denmark ’s biggest
pension fund warned that  Europe  is showing few signs of emerging
from its crisis.  “We all hope for a better Europe, but there is little
reason for optimism at this point,”Carsten Stendevad, chief
executive officer at ATP, which manages $140 billion in assets,
said in an interview yesterday. Stendevad, 40, started at ATP
this month after leaving a position as global head of financial
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  ATP has limited its government bond portfolio to Danish and
German debt since 2011, when it renegotiated contracts to avoid
taking French bonds as collateral. ATP said in December the fund
is broadening its investment scope to benefit more from global
growth as the euro area stays mired in a recession. The strategy
emulates an approach adopted by  Norway ’s $725 billion sovereign
wealth fund, which is relying less on European assets to
generate returns.  “We, like all other investors, are facing challenging
market conditions to generate attractive and predictable
returns,” Stendevad said. “It is a difficult market. I remain
concerned about the world economy. It’s in a fragile
condition.”  The economy of the 17-nation euro area will shrink 0.3
percent this year, after contracting 0.6 percent in 2012, the
International Monetary Fund said April 16. So-called advanced
economies will expand 1.2 percent while a group of nations the
IMF defines as developing countries will see their output grow
5.3 percent in 2013, it estimates.  Outside Denmark  ATP plans to start buying listed equities outside Denmark,
it said in December. The fund’s portfolio of listed shares now
holds only Danish stocks traded on the Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
exchange in Copenhagen. Denmark’s  benchmark stocks  gained 5.5
percent this year, compared with a 1.5 percent increase in the
STOXX Europe 600 Index. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  is up 5.7 percent
in the period.  ATP, which is based north of Copenhagen in Hilleroed, last
year had a return of 57.4 billion kroner, or 9.9 percent, on its
hedging and investment activities, as credit bonds, Danish
stocks and private equity holdings gained. The fund reported a
profit of 10 billion kroner after paying out 11.9 billion in
pensions and allocating 34.8 billion to future payments.  Hedge Fund  The fund increased its equity allocation and reduced its
bond allocation last year after the hunt for havens from
Europe’s debt crisis sent yields plunging, according to its
annual report. The reallocation didn’t significantly increase
ATP’s overall investment risk of major losses, since that
already was low, it said.  ATP in December shut down its hedge fund unit, fired half
the 35 people working there and unveiled plans to weave hedging
strategies across all its divisions to help take advantage of
investment opportunities.  “There are rays of hope, certainly within the U.S.
economy,” Stendevad said. “But rays of hope are not the same
thing as sunshine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  