-- Dollar Falls as Manufacturing Gauge Trails Forecast; Real Drops
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-18T21:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/euro-erases-advance-against-dollar-as-u-s-equities-decline.html
The dollar fell against the euro,
reversing an earlier gain, after a report showed manufacturing
in the Philadelphia region expanded less than forecast, boosting
the chances that U.S. monetary stimulus will be maintained.  A gauge of currency  volatility  rose to the highest level in
almost four weeks. Sterling gained amid bets the U.S. currency
will weaken as the  Federal Reserve  keeps buying bonds to spur
economic growth, while  Brazil ’s real tumbled after policy makers
raised  interest rates  less than forecast. The euro slid
yesterday the most since June against the dollar.  “It was another negative surprise, and the market has been
reacting quite poorly to these,”  Sebastien Galy , a foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in  New York , said of
the factory report. “The key will be to watch the main equity
indices to see if we enter what is called a break-out pattern.”  The dollar declined 0.2 percent to $1.3051 per euro at 5
p.m. New York time after losing 0.5 percent earlier and gaining
as much as 0.1 percent. The greenback climbed 1.1 percent
yesterday, the most on a closing basis since June. The 17-nation
currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 128.13 yen after rising 0.7
percent earlier. The dollar was little changed at 98.17 yen
after falling 0.5 percent earlier.  The JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index , based on three-month
futures options on Group of Seven nations’ currencies, increased
to 9.65 percent, the highest since March 22. It has averaged
9.06 percent this year.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.7 percent to
close at a six-week low of 1,541.61. It dropped 1.4 percent
yesterday after gaining 1.4 percent on April 16.  Manufacturing Report  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in April
at a slower pace than projected as fewer orders prompted
managers cut back on hiring and inventories. The data follow a
report April 15 showing growth also cooled at factories in the
New York Fed region.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index fell to 1.3 in April from 2 the prior month. Readings
greater than zero signal expansion. The  median forecast  of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a gain to 3.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of bonds each month until it
sees significant improvement in the labor market. While minutes
of the central bank’s March 19-20 meeting said officials debated
slowing and ending the purchases, a Labor Department report
April 5 showed jobs growth unexpectedly slowed last month to
88,000 workers.  Pound Gains  Sterling appreciated versus its 16 most-traded peers even
after the  Office for National Statistics  said U.K.  retail sales 
including fuel dropped 0.7 percent from February, when they
climbed 2.1 percent. Sterling traded as low as $1.5218 before
rising 0.3 percent to $1.5279.  “Sterling has held up quite well, and we’re seeing the
dollar coming under some pressure,” said  Ian Stannard , head of
European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley Inc. in  London .
“The dollar is weakening after the Philly Fed data. Going
forward, sterling looks vulnerable, though.”  Hungary ’s forint weakened the most in a month against the
euro as Hungary’s central bank President  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
signaled further measures to loosen monetary policy to spur
growth. The currency depreciated as much as 1.3 percent, the
most since March 12, to 298.80 per euro before trading at
298.33, down 1.2 percent.  The forint lost 1 percent to 228.59 per dollar.  Real Weakens  The Brazilian real dropped against all of its major
counterparts after the country’s central bank raised benchmark
borrowing costs less than some analysts had forecast, spurring
speculation the cycle of monetary tightening will be limited.
The target lending rate was increased by a quarter-percentage
point to 7.5 percent, while 18 of 58 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey projected a half-percentage-point increase.  The real declined 0.9 percent to 2.0190 per dollar and
touched 2.0222, its weakest level since April 4.  “Over the last couple of days, we’ve been seeing big
fluctuations between risk-on grabs for yield and pullbacks,”
Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a phone interview. “Larger trends in
positioning and liquidity seem to be moving markets.”  Lagarde Comments  The euro pared an earlier gain after International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the currency bloc
has the only central bank with enough leeway to take more
measures to boost growth as low interest rates fail to trickle
down to the region’s economy. The IMF cut its global growth
forecast this week and called for “aggressive” monetary policy
in the region, which is set to contract for a second year.  Europe ’s shared currency rose 1.1 percent over the past
month versus nine developed-nation peers monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar fell 0.4 percent, while
the yen decreased 3.8 percent.  The euro’s move up toward $1.3226 has prompted selling,
leaving the shared currency vulnerable to a drop to $1.2962,
Cilline Bain, a London-based technical analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, wrote in a client note. A decline beyond that level
would expose the euro to a move to $1.2746, which would be its
weakest level in two weeks.  The yen declined earlier versus the dollar as a draft
statement prepared for a meeting of Group of 20 nations
officials suggested members will withhold direct criticism of
 Japan ’s efforts to weaken the currency and end 15 years of
deflation. G-20 nations will affirm a commitment to avoid
debasing their currencies to gain a trade advantage, according
to the statement.  The G-20 talks will be the first since the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
announced record monetary easing. The BOJ plans to purchase 7.5
trillion yen ($76 billion) of bonds a month and double the
monetary base in two years, the central bank said April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  