-- Ex-Judicial Official Charged in Slaying of Prosecutor
-- B y   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-04-18T19:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/ex-judicial-official-charged-in-slaying-of-prosecutor.html
A former justice of the peace in
Kaufman County,  Texas , and his wife were charged in the slaying
of the county’s top prosecutor, his wife and an assistant
district attorney who had won a conviction against him for
stealing computers from his employer.  Eric Williams, 46, was charged with capital murder, the
county sheriff, David Byrnes, said today at a press conference
in Kaufman County. His wife, Kim, was arrested yesterday and 
charged with capital murder in connection with the killings of 
District Attorney Mike McLelland, his wife, Cynthia, and 
Assistant District Attorney Mark Hasse.  Eric Williams has been in custody since April 13, charged
with making a threat to law enforcement officials who were
investigating the slaying of the McLellands at their home on
March 30. Hasse was shot and killed in his car near the county
courthouse on January 31.  The sheriff’s office said in an affidavit for the arrest of
Kim Williams, 46, that she confessed to her involvement in the
killings and told an investigator that her husband shot the
three.  Eric Williams, while working as a justice of the peace, was
convicted last year of stealing county computers in a case
prosecuted by McLelland and Hasse, according to the affidavit.
He subsequently lost his peace officer’s license and his law
license was revoked.  County Employees  Officers and county employees told investigators that Hasse
and McLelland both said they believed that Eric Williams blamed 
them for his removal from office, according to the affidavit. 
The two prosecutors regularly carried handguns after Eric 
Williams’s jury trial because they stated they believed Williams 
“to be a threat to their personal safety,” according to the 
affidavit.  The sheriff’s office said it traced an electronic
communication that Eric Williams sent from his personal computer
to law enforcement officers the day after the McLellands were
killed.  “The threat implied unless law enforcement responded to
the demands of the writer, another attack would occur,”
according to an April 12 affidavit for a warrant to arrest Eric
Williams.  Kaufman County has about 106,000 residents. The McLellands
lived about 26 miles east of  Dallas  near Forney in a home with a
publicly listed address.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Kaufman County, Texas,
at   tkorosec@texaswordworks.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  