-- Texas Prosecutor Shooting Suspect Charged With Murder
-- B y   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-04-18T18:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/texas-prosecutor-shooting-suspect-charged-with-murder.html
A woman arrested in  Texas  for the
slaying of the Kaufman County  District Attorney , his wife and
another prosecutor confessed to her involvement and said it was
her husband who shot the three, police said.  Kim Lene Williams, 46, was arrested yesterday and charged
with capital murder in connection with the killings of District
Attorney Mike McLelland, Cynthia McLelland, and Assistant
District Attorney Mark Hasse, according to a warrant affidavit
released by the Kaufman County Sheriff’s Office. She’s being
held on $10 million bond, the office said in a statement.  Williams “confessed to her involvement to the scheme and
course of conduct in the shooting deaths,” according to the
affidavit, which said she offered information about the crimes
that had not been made public. “Kim Williams described in
detail her role with that of her husband, Eric Williams, whom
she reported to have shot to death Mark Hasse on January 31,
2013, and Michael and Cynthia McLelland on March 30, 2013.”  Eric Lyle Williams, while working as a justice of the peace
in Kaufman County, was convicted last year of stealing county
computers in a case prosecuted by McLelland and Hasse, according
to the affidavit. He subsequently lost his peace officer’s
license and his law license was revoked.  Officers and county employees told investigators that Hasse
and McLelland both believed that Eric Williams blamed them for
his removal from office, according to the affidavit. The two
prosecutors regularly carried handguns after Eric Williams’ jury
trial because they believed Williams “to be a threat to their
personal safety,” according to the affidavit.  Terroristic Threat  Eric Williams, 46, was arrested and jailed April 13 on a
charge of making a terroristic threat and is being held on a $1
million bond, according to Kaufman County Jail records. He is
accused of sending an electronic communication to  law
enforcement  officials the day after the McLellands were found
shot and killed at their home, according to a warrant affidavit.  “The threat implied unless law enforcement responded to
the demands of the writer, another attack would occur,”
according to the affidavit.  Kaufman County has about 106,000 residents. The McLellands
lived near Forney, Texas, about 26 miles east of  Dallas  in a
home with a publicly listed address.  Hasse was shot and killed in his car near the county
courthouse. McLelland had promised to catch Hasse’s killer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in the Dallas federal courthouse
at   tkorosec@texaswordworks.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  