-- Exelon, Entergy Rise to Highest in 5 Months on Gas Price
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-04-18T17:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/exelon-entergy-rise-to-highest-in-5-months-on-gas-price.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  Entergy Corp. (ETR) , the
two largest U.S. nuclear power operators, rose to their highest
in five months as increasing natural gas prices boost wholesale
electricity rates.  Exelon, based in Chicago,  climbed  0.8 percent to $36.37 at
12:51 p.m. in New York, the highest price since Nov. 1. New
Orleans-based Entergy  gained  1.5 percent to $70.23, the highest
since Nov. 2. Both power producers have risen 9 percent in the
past month, outpacing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Utilities Index,
which has increased 5.7 percent since March 18.  Exelon and Entergy have benefited from “a sharp recovery”
in gas, which is helping drive power prices higher in the
eastern U.S. where their nuclear plants are concentrated, Travis Miller, director for utilities research at Chicago-based
Morningstar Inc., said in a phone interview today.  “We continue to think there’s upside for these eastern
power producers, especially the low-cost ones like Exelon and
Entergy,” Miller said. The companies will benefit as more coal
plants retire because of federal restrictions on mercury and
other airborne pollutants that take effect in 2015, he said.  Exelon had no immediate comment on the share gain and
Entergy declined to comment.  Entergy today reported preliminary first-quarter earnings
that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Higher prices for nuclear
energy resulted in per-share profit excluding one-time items of
93 cents a share, beating the 73-cent average of 11 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures Rise  Natural gas futures reached a 20-month high in New York
today, making it the largest gainer on the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI index of 24 commodities. The price fell to a 10-year low
last April.  Spot wholesale power prices at PJM Interconnection’s
benchmark western hub have averaged $41.61 a megawatt-hour since
Jan. 1, 22 percent more than a year ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “When gas prices go up, the coal and nuclear guys who’ve
gotten crushed over the past year start to make margins again,”
Samuel Brothwell, senior utilities analyst with Bloomberg
Industries, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in  Chicago  at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  