-- FBI Says Images Show Two Suspects in Boston Bombings
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2013-04-18T23:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/fbi-says-images-show-two-suspects-in-boston-bombings.html
The FBI released photos and video
showing two men suspected in the April 15 terrorist bombing in
 Boston  and appealed for the public’s help in identifying them.  The two men, in baseball caps and carrying backpacks,
became suspects after agents combed through thousands of images
from the area where two improvised bombs exploded near the
finish line of the Boston Marathon, FBI Special Agent in Charge
Richard DesLauriers said.  “We know the public will play a critical role in
identifying and locating these individuals,” DesLauriers said
today at a briefing in Boston. “Somebody out there knows these
individuals.”  The images are being distributed on the FBI’s website,
 www.fbi.gov . The video shows two young men walking separately
down a sidewalk along Boylston Street paralleling the race path
near the finish line. They also are shown individually in a
sequence of still pictures.  One of the men was seen dropping a bag suspected of
containing a bomb and was targeted “within the last day or
so,” he said. The FBI subsequently linked the second man.  ‘Extremely Dangerous’  “We consider them to be armed and extremely dangerous,”
DesLauriers said. “Do not take any action on your own. If you
see these men, contact law enforcement.”  He said tips should be directed to a hotline, 1-800-
CALLFBI.  The break in the case came three days after the bombing
that killed three people and wounded scores in the highest-
profile act of terror in the U.S. since the 2001 attacks on  New
York  City and Washington.  The FBI’s decision to describe those in the images as
“suspects” who are “armed and dangerous” means the bureau
has “solid evidence” that they’re responsible for the attack,
said Andrew Arena, who worked for the FBI for 24 years, most
recently as the special agent in charge of the Detroit office.  Release of the images also indicates that the FBI wasn’t
able to identify the suspects using other investigative methods,
said Arena, who left the bureau last year to serve as the
executive director of the Detroit Crime Commission.  Earlier in the day, President  Barack Obama  attended a
memorial in Boston for the victims of the bombing. Addressing
hundreds of citizens at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross, Obama
said the perpetrators will be caught.  “Yes, we will find you, and yes, you will face justice,”
he promised.  Vantage Points  The pictures come from several vantage points, including
store security cameras on and across the street from the bomb
site, according to federal law-enforcement officials.  The FBI’s release of the images generated a flurry of
traffic at the agency’s website and on social media. On Twitter
Inc.’s messaging service, mentions of “FBI” and “suspects”
spiked to about 445,000 at 5:30 p.m. from about 6,000 at
3:30 p.m., according to Topsy, a social media analysis company.  Going public carries benefits and risks, and often is done
only after investigators try unsuccessfully to identify suspects
on their own, former law enforcement officials said.  “You’re likely to quickly get information about people
you’re looking for, assuming the photos are clear enough,” said
J. Patrick Rowan, an attorney with McGuireWoods LLP in
 Washington  who served at the U.S. Justice Department for 18
years. He was the assistant attorney general for national
security from 2008 to 2009. “The No. 1 downside: You’re also
alerting them that the FBI is looking for them.”  False Tips  Also, if the photos aren’t clear, they can tie up
investigators with false tips, or tar people who are innocent,
Rowan said.  Both bombs may have been made using pressure cookers packed
with explosives and nails, pellets and other shrapnel to maim
victims, investigators said.  Authorities searching the site recovered bomb components,
including a piece of circuit board and the lid of a pressure
cooker blown onto a rooftop, that may provide critical clues to
tracking down the bombers.  Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, testifying
this morning before the House Homeland Security Committee, said
the investigation is “proceeding apace.”  “This is not an NCIS episode,” she said. “Sometimes you
have to take time to properly put the chain together to identify
the perpetrators.”  Witness Interviews  Police and FBI agents interviewed witnesses in city
hospitals, people closest to the blasts who might have important
clues.  FBI agents yesterday visited Remy Lawler, 25, for the
second time, said her father, Arthur Lawler, of Amesbury. They
came to Faulkner Hospital, in Jamaica Plain, to ask for photos
she took and inquire about what she saw, her father said.  “She was heavily medicated and she told them in no
uncertain terms to ‘Get the hell out of here,’” he said,
describing his daughter as traumatized and angry. “Their timing
was very poor.”  Remy Lawler had been standing with a roommate and friend
Jeff Bauman a few feet from where the bomb went off, her father
said. Shortly before the explosion, she moved closer to the
finish line to take better photographs.  Bomb Wounds  She suffered a baseball-sized shrapnel wound while Bauman,
the subject of one of the most widely distributed photographs of
the event, lost both his legs.  “She feels guilty about a lot of this -- that she wasn’t
with her friends,” who were just feet away, her father said.  “I hope they get the people responsible. People have said
they should be hung in the public square right near the site.”  The city at the center of the nation’s 10th-biggest
metropolitan area went about its business today armored by a new
apparatus of security. At the Sheraton Boston Hotel, near the
bombing site, conventioneers mingled with guards in camouflage
carrying automatic weapons. Morning commuters waiting for the
Silver Line bus in the South End watched a white truck from the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives cruise
through the neighborhood.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  