-- Feinberg Will Run Boston Fund for Marathon Bomb Victims
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2013-04-18T00:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/feinberg-will-run-boston-fund-for-marathon-bomb-victims.html
Kenneth Feinberg , the lawyer who ran
the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund, will play the same
role for those affected by the Boston Marathon bombing, said
Boston Mayor Thomas Menino and Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick .  More than $7 million has been committed to The One Fund
Boston by individuals and companies, including $500,000 from
more than 8,500 people contributing through OneFundBoston.org,
the two Democrats said in a statement.  Feinberg, a native of Brockton, a Massachusetts city south
of Boston, will provide the service without charge, according to
the statement. The founder of Washington-based law firm Feinberg
Rozen LLP is a graduate of the University of Massachusetts at
Amherst and serves on the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation’s
board of directors.  “I will do my best to justify their confidence in me as we
move forward to design and administer an effective program
following the terrible tragedy in Boston,” Feinberg said in the
statement. He will design the fund and oversee its operations,
starting April 19, when he is set to arrive in Boston.  Feinberg, 67, also oversaw compensation limits for
executives at seven companies bailed out by the  U.S. Treasury ,
including insurer American International Group. He also
supervised Gulf Coast Claims Facilities, set up to compensate
victims of the 2010 BP Plc oil spill in the  Gulf of Mexico . He
also ran compensation funds for victims of mass shootings in
Aurora, Colorado, and at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University, the school known as  Virginia Tech .  Investigators have video of a possible suspect in the
Boston Marathon bombings that left three dead and more than 170
injured. No one had been arrested in the case as of late today,
according to the Boston office of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 