-- Argentines Protest Fernandez’s Bid to Increase Grip on Courts
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-19T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/fernandez-seeks-greater-control-of-courts-as-foes-plan-protests.html
Argentines packed the streets of
 Buenos Aires  last night to protest against President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s proposals that would increase state
control over courts. The bills are set to be approved by
Congress next week.  Protestors banging pots and holding Argentine flags and
banners saying “Enough,” “No to Impunity,” gathered in
central avenues of the country’s capital and sang the national
anthem. Thousands gathered at the Plaza de Mayo square, in front
of the presidential palace, brandishing banners urging
“Independent Justice” and “Stop Corruption.”  “The government wants to domesticate justice, to get more
control on judges and that’s a risk for all of us,” said
Gustavo Alvarez, a 50-year-old lawyer who attended the rally
with his son and wife. “We are here to force Cristina to listen
to us, it’s all we can do.”  Fernandez, 60, sent a bill to Congress on April 8 to
restrict court injunctions against the government and would
limit any injunction to a period of six months. The bill would
leave citizens and companies unprotected in their attempts to
seek an injunction against state action to protect their
finances or assets, said Gregorio Badeni, a professor of
Constitutional Law at University of Buenos Aires.  “The idea of injunctions was to strengthen the position of
people and companies to confront the strongest actor, which is
the state,” Badeni said in a telephone interview. “This means
a step back of 70 years.”  Million Marchers  Yesterday’s demonstrations in the streets of major cities
represented the third nationwide protest against Fernandez’s
government in eight months.  Mayor of Buenos Aires Mauricio Macri said in message on his
Twitter account that there were more than 1 million people out
on the streets taking part in the protests in the capital. TN
television network showed rallies in cities of Salta, Cordoba
and  La Plata  as well.  Fernandez’s proposal also seeks to expand the council of
magistrates, a body that selects, monitors and evaluates the
nation’s judges, to 19 from 13.  The planned changes to the justice system come four months
after the government failed to impose a deadline for Grupo
Clarin SA, the country’s largest media group, to sell assets
that exceed limits set in a 2009 media law.  When Fernandez announced the proposed changes, she said the
goal was to “democratize” and increase transparency in hiring
attorneys for the judicial branch, justice workers’ wealth
declarations and in selecting new members of the council of
magistrates.  ‘Flexible Justice’  Fernandez  defended  the restrictions on injunctions against
the state, saying that injunctions can delay the law and legal
rulings for years.  “By seeking injunctions against the state, they interrupt
the application of laws or decrees ordered by legitimately
elected authorities,” Fernandez said April 8. “We want
legitimate, democratic, flexible justice for all Argentines,
without fear of anyone.”  The Senate yesterday passed the bill restricting
injunctions and will send the legislation onto the lower house,
where the government has the majority to secure its approval,
according to opposition Senator Maria Eugenia Estenssoro.  “The reform is a serious threat to constitutional
guarantees,” said the Argentine Business Association in an e-
mailed  statement . “It would do great damage to  Argentina ’s
investment environment and  job creation .”  ‘Arbitrary Measures’  Argentina’s Rural Society, the country’s biggest farm
group, asked for an injunction when Cabinet Chief Juan Manuel Abal Medina in December ordered the confiscation of its
exhibition center in the Palermo neighborhood of Buenos Aires as
the government said that its purchase was “irregular.”  “Injunctions are the only way to oppose political power
until judges rule on a case,” the Rural Society said in an e-
mail statement. “It’s certain that in the near future, the
government’s wishes won’t suffer limits,” the Rural Society
said in an e-mail statement.  Opposition lawmakers, including former presidential
candidates Elisa Carrio and Ricardo Alfonsin and Eduardo Amadeo,
a former Ambassador to the U.S., said that the government is
seeking an excessive level of impunity  Justice system workers are staging a three-day strike
against the reform, which they say violates the Constitution as
undermines the independence of the judiciary, union leader Julio
Piumato said.  “By limiting and restricting injunctions against the
state, citizens and the private sector are left unarmed to face
arbitrary measures by the government,” said Estenssoro
yesterday in a telephone interview. “This undermines
individual’s rights and freedom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  