-- Fischer Says Other Nations Need to Cut Japan Slack on Yen
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2013-04-18T23:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/fischer-says-other-nations-need-to-cut-japan-slack-on-yen-s-fall.html
Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  endorsed Japan’s efforts to end 15 years of deflation
and suggested that other nations should refrain from criticizing
the world’s third-largest economy.  “Japan being as sick as it was for as long as it was,
you’ve got to cut them slack in allowing themselves to work
their way out of this situation,” Fischer said in an interview
in  Washington  with Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Fischer joined a growing number of policy makers expressing
approval for steps by Japan’s central bank to revive its
economy.  International Monetary Fund  Managing Director Christine Lagarde yesterday said the country has “clearly innovated,”
while European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said “very forcible policy action” is
understandable.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  announced plans earlier this month to
embark on record monetary easing. The BOJ plans to purchase 7.5
trillion yen ($76 billion) of bonds a month and double the
monetary base in two years, the central bank said April 4.  The yen has fallen against all 16 of its most-traded peers
since then, prompting some unease among its trading partners.
The U.S. Treasury Department said last week it will press Japan
to refrain from competitive devaluation of its currency.  Fischer said the BOJ’s effort to stimulate the economy
“certainly goes in the right direction” though “how big the
impact will be is hard to tell.”  ‘The Experiment’  “That is the experiment we’re all watching,” he added.  Others aren’t so sanguine. South Korean Finance Minister
Hyun Oh Seok said  Japan ’s weakening yen is hurting his country’s
economy more than North Korean threats, an example of a
“spillover” that merits discussion.  “Japan’s economic policies are doing their part to help
the world economy recover but if this causes problems, and then
the problems cause new responses from partnering nations, for
example a currency war, the world economy will have a hard
time,” Hyun said yesterday in an interview in Washington, where
the Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers are
meeting today.  Fischer told a seminar in Washington yesterday that he’s
worried about the use of unconventional monetary policies around
the world, which make measures to slow capital inflows a
necessity in some countries.  “One has the impression from the press that we all love
doing these complicated things and that quantitative easing
fills us with a sense of power,” he said.  Messy, Ugly  “Actually, it fills me with a sense of worry. And it’s not
like doing ordinary monetary policy. It’s messy, it’s ugly,
you’re always struggling to come up with something,” he said.
“And if we didn’t have to be in this world we’d feel much
better. But we do have to be in this world, so we’re trying to
deal with it.”  The  Bank of Israel  took action earlier this month to stem a
rally in the country’s currency, the shekel, to a near 18-month
high. The central bank on April 8 bought foreign currency for
the first time in almost two years. The currency appreciated 0.1
percent to 3.63 a dollar at 6:03 p.m. in  Tel Aviv  yesterday,
bringing this year’s advance to about 2.8 percent.  “We’ve got to deal with the consequences of what other
countries do,” Fischer said in the Bloomberg Television
interview. “We’ll do what we have to do to try to preserve the
growth in the Israeli economy, which has been very good.”  Slower Growth  Growth may slow to 2.8 percent this year from 3.2 percent
in 2012, excluding first time natural-gas revenues, according to
a central bank forecast. In 2011, the economy expanded by 4.6
percent.  Fischer, 69, said in January he would leave the bank at the
end of June. He became governor in May 2005 after previous jobs
as vice chairman of Citigroup Inc. and first deputy managing
director of the International Monetary Fund.  He declined to comment about his plans. Asked if he was
interested in succeeding  Ben S. Bernanke  as chairman of the
 Federal Reserve , Fischer said, “I prefer not to go into that at
all.” Bernanke’s term as chairman ends in January 2014.  Bernanke has “had a phenomenal impact on monetary
policy,” Fischer said. “I think we’re all very lucky he, and
the Fed that he’s the chairman of, have done what they have
done. We thought in October and November of 2008 that we were
heading for a great depression. We got nowhere near there.”  When he was an economics professor at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology , Fischer was Bernanke’s thesis adviser.  Europe Lagging  The Bank of Israel governor said  Europe  remains the weak
link in the world economy and European Union officials need to
tackle the continent’s banking difficulties.  Europe “is up and down and still the weakest part of the
global economy,” he said. Europe has to “really take their
banking-sector problems seriously.”  He contrasted the European approach to that of the U.S.,
which in 2009 put banks through stress tests and forced them to
recapitalize.  “The problems in some of the European countries haven’t
been recognized yet,” said Fischer, who was in Washington to
attend the semi-annual meeting of the International Monetary
Fund and  World Bank .  The IMF trimmed its global growth forecast this week and
urged European policy makers to use “aggressive” monetary
policy as a second year of contraction leaves the euro area’s
recovery lagging behind the rest of the world.  The global economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, less
than the 3.5 percent forecast in January, after 3.2 percent
growth in 2012, the Washington-based fund said April 16, cutting
its prediction for this year a fourth consecutive time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in  New York  at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  