-- Fisker Spent $660,000 on Each $103,000 Plug-in Car
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-04-19T00:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/fisker-allowed-to-tap-u-s-loan-after-default-report.html
Fisker Automotive Inc. spent more
than six times as much U.S. taxpayer and investor money to
produce each luxury plug-in car it sold than the company
received from customers, according to a research report.  The Anaheim, California-based company made about 2,500 of
its $103,000 Karmas before halting production last year,
disrupting its plans to use a $529 million U.S. loan to restart
a shuttered  Delaware  factory owned by the predecessor of  General
Motors Co. (GM)  The Karma was assembled in  Finland .  Fisker was allowed to keep using money from its Energy
Department loan after violating its terms multiple times,
according to a  report  released April 17 by PrivCo, a  New York- 
based researcher specializing in closely held companies. It said
it based its report on documents, including the loan agreement,
obtained through the U.S. Freedom of Information Act.  “They made a mistake” in awarding the loan, PrivCo Chief
Executive Officer Sam Hamadeh said of the Energy Department in
an interview yesterday. “Should they have fought this sooner?
Obviously -- as soon as it became evident that they had begun to
default.”  PrivCo’s report contains errors, particularly in asserting
the Energy Department knew by December 2010 that the carmaker
wasn’t meeting milestones required to keep drawing taxpayer
funds, Bill Gibbons, a department spokesman, said in an e-mail
yesterday. The department cut off Fisker’s funding in June 2011,
after the company drew down about $193 million.  “PrivCo’s assertion that Fisker defaulted in December 2010
is simply false,” Gibbons said. “The milestones that PrivCo
includes in its report are also wrong. The fact is, the
department stopped disbursements on the loan after the company
stopped meeting its milestones.”  Production Halted  Fisker has spent $1.3 billion in taxpayer and venture
capital money, or $660,000 for each car it sold, the report
said.  Fisker stopped manufacturing cars late last year and fired
three quarters of its remaining workers April 5. The company’s
first repayment of $20.2 million on the Energy Department loan
is due April 22, the report said.  Tony Knight of Sitrick & Co., an outside public relations
agency representing Fisker, declined to comment.  A U.S. House panel is scheduled to hold a April 24 hearing
on Fisker and its government financing. Invited witnesses
include co-founder and namesake Henrik Fisker, who resigned last
month; CEO  Tony Posawatz  and Chief Operating Officer Bernhard Koehler, who helped start the company whose customers include
singer Justin Bieber and actor  Leonardo DiCaprio .  Delaware Plant  “PrivCo’s report raises more questions as to the
circumstances surrounding government support for Fisker,”
Representative  Jim Jordan , an  Ohio Republican  who is chairman of
the House Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee holding
next week’s hearing, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The Energy Department, which has had to defend its loan
guarantees to failed solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, gave Fisker
its loan primarily to acquire and restart production at a closed
GM plant in Delaware, the home state of Vice President  Joe Biden , who attended the press conference announcing the venture.
The company forecast it would create 2,500 jobs, according to a
project summary still posted on the Energy Department’s website.  Activity at the Delaware plant stopped last year and no
cars have been made there.  Of the cars produced, about 1,600 were purchased by
consumers. Another 338 cars were destroyed during November’s
Superstorm Sandy while parked at the Port of  Newark ,  New Jersey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  