-- Flight Delays to Grow April 21 With Air-Traffic Furloughs
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-18T21:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/flight-delays-to-grow-april-21-with-air-traffic-furloughs.html
Flight delays of more than two
hours may occur at the largest U.S. airports after furloughs of
controllers and maintenance workers begin April 21 under
automatic spending cuts, Federal Aviation Administrator Michael Huerta said.  Atlanta’s Hartsfield, the world’s busiest airport, has the
longest projected maximum delay in the FAA’s models, as much as
3 1/2 hours, Huerta said. Delays there will average 11 minutes
for all flights if one runway can’t be used as a result of
furloughs, he said.  The FAA must cut $637 million from its $16 billion budget
by Sept. 30 under the government budget cuts known as
sequestration. Huerta said the FAA projects increased delays as
a result at  New York ’s three major airports, and in  Chicago ,
Atlanta and  Los Angeles .  “There are about a dozen airports that will likely see
heavy to moderate delays,” Huerta said. “It could be similar
to the delays that we would experience during significant summer
thunder storm, except that the impact would be spread across
country instead of just one area.”  The FAA has cut as much as it can from spending on travel
and training, making reductions in air-traffic control
operations necessary, Huerta and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood told reporters at a briefing.  “We have no choice at this point to implement the law as
it was passed by Congress,” Huerta said.  ‘Legal Options’  Airlines may sue to block the furloughs,  Jean Medina , a
spokeswoman for the Washington-based Airlines for America trade
group, said in an e-mail in response to questions.  “We find ourselves with little choice but to actively
review all of our legal options to protect our passengers and
shippers from being needlessly impacted,” Medina said in a
statement.  Carriers don’t believe the FAA has done everything possible
to shift money within its budget to minimize the impacts of
sequestration, Medina said.  “The FAA expects that a 10 percent sequestration cut will
equal 30-40 percent capacity reductions at certain airports,”
she said. “That math simply doesn’t work.”  Huerta said Chicago’s O’Hare is expected to have the
longest average wait times above normal, at 50 minutes. With
fewer controllers, it must close one runway under some
conditions, he said.  Delays Unavoidable  The agency also projected additional congestion at seven
other airports in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida ; Miami;  San Diego ,
Philadelphia;  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ; and Chicago Midway.  The projections were based on flights on March 29, which
had higher than average traffic because it was a Friday, Huerta
said.  “We want the traveling public to be aware of the
possibility of delays so they are not surprised as their travel
plans are delayed or disrupted,” LaHood said.  “We know that many people have purchased their tickets for
the summer vacation season,” he said. “We will do all we can
to reduce impacts, but reduced staffing will slow down our
ability to keep the system moving.”  The delays due to furloughs could be compounded by bad
weather or air-traffic equipment failures, he said.  Busy Airports  Furloughs will make delays and disruptions unavoidable at
busy airports such as  Newark ’s Liberty International, Ray Adams,
the National Air Traffic Controllers Association’s local
president at that airport’s tower, said in an interview. The
union represents about 15,000 FAA-employed controllers.  About 10 percent of controllers will be furloughed on
average, according to Huerta. The impacts on some shifts will be
greater than that, Adams said.  Newark, the most-delayed airport in the U.S. according to
Department of Transportation data, is chronically understaffed
because it’s so difficult for new controllers to become
certified there, Adams said.  At times late at night, only two controllers staff the
tower, Adams said. FAA rules prohibit having fewer than two
people working late shifts, so additional cuts will have to come
during busier day shifts, he said.  “We’re not going to move as many airplanes as we normally
could if we had the bodies and positions that we need,” Adams
said. “You’re going into the busiest season in the most complex
airspace in the country with less controllers.”  Tower Closings  The agency plans to close 149 towers staffed by contractors
at small and mid-size airports by June 15 and require most of
its 47,000 employees to take as many as 11 unpaid days off.  Airports are working with airlines, the FAA and other
agencies to prepare for possible delays, according to an e-
mailed statement from the Washington-based trade group Airports
Council International-North America.  “ACI-NA is very concerned about significant delays and
passenger inconvenience that could occur beginning this
Sunday,” Christopher Oswald, the group’s vice president of
safety and regulatory affairs, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  