-- Food Illness-Decline Stalls as Safety Rules Arrive Late
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-04-18T17:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/food-illness-decline-stalls-as-u-s-safety-rules-arrive-late.html
Regulators have their work cut out
in enforcing stricter U.S. food-safety rules set in motion this
year, according to new data that show progress in reducing
contamination has slowed from about six years ago.  Total cases of foodborne illness were unchanged last year
from 2006-2008, stalling from “substantial declines” in
earlier years, according to preliminary data released today by
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Some incidents
increased, including a 43 percent jump in vibrio, a bacterial
infection often acquired by eating raw oysters.  The Obama administration has been slow to fully enact the
2011 Food Safety Modernization Act, which was supposed to be the
most sweeping overhaul of U.S. food safety in 70 years. The
administration this year proposed the first major regulations,
which Congress called for after poisonings related to cookie
dough, spinach, jalapenos and other foods killed at least nine
people and sickened more than 700 in 2008 and 2009.  “There’s not a lot of recent progress to talk about,”
said Robert Tauxe, deputy director of the Atlanta-based CDC’s
division of foodborne, waterborne and environmental diseases, in
an interview. “That means there’s more that could be done.”  One of two regulatory proposals made Jan. 4 to carry out
the core of the food safety act would give companies one year to
develop a formal plan for preventing the causes of food illness.
The second would force produce farms with a “high risk” of
contamination to develop new hygiene, soil and temperature
controls.  “Both of these are important and when they begin to be
adopted, we hope that will help,” Tauxe said.  Salmonella Cases  Neither proposal has taken effect, nor have any of the
other major provisions of the food safety act. The Obama
administration has said additional rules under the law are
likely to be released later this year.  The CDC report showed there were 19,531 foodborne
infections and 4,563 hospitalizations in 2012, with 68 deaths,
based on surveillance data from laboratory-confirmed infections
at 10 sites in the U.S. The sites are a representative sample
that covers 15 percent of the population, or about 48 million
people. Many cases of foodborne illness are never diagnosed by
physicians.  Salmonella is still the most common foodborne infection
even though incidents declined to 7,800 confirmed cases, the CDC
said. The bacteria, commonly passed from the feces of chickens
or other animals to contaminate water and produce, may lead to
diarrhea, fever and abdominal cramps.  Chicken Standard  Campylobacter , a diarrhea-causing pathogen associated with
poultry, raw milk and untreated water, rose 14 percent to the
highest level since 2000. There were 6,793 campylobacter cases,
and 2,138 for  shigella , a condition that may lead to a severe
infection in children less than 2 years old, the CDC said.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  set new standards in
July 2011 for salmonella and campylobacter in young chickens and
turkeys. Those rules set a percentage level of samples that can
test positive for the pathogen, and within two years the USDA
estimates about 5,000 campylobacter illnesses and 20,000
illnesses from salmonella will be prevented annually.  Preliminary results indicate the standards may be having an
effect, said David Goldman, assistant administrator for the
office of public health science at the USDA.  “The evidence we have, and it’s preliminary, is that
campylobacter is decreasing on whole chickens and whole
turkeys,” he said today on a conference call.  The incidence of all foodborne infections last year were
highest among children younger than age 5, according to the
report. Deaths and hospitalizations were highest among seniors
65 and older.  The percentage of victims who died was highest among those
65 and older who were infected with vibrio, at 6 percent, and
 salmonella , at 2 percent, according to the report. The
percentage of patients who died from all pathogens studied was
highest for listeria, at 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  