-- Forint Declines Most in Month on Policy Signal: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-18T14:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/forint-falls-second-day-as-central-bank-signals-looser-policy.html
The forint dropped the most in a
month as central bank President  Gyorgy Matolcsy  signaled further
measures to loosen policy and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
recommended selling the currency. Yields plunged at a bond sale.  Matolcsy, Hungary’s former economy minister who took over
at the bank last month, said the achievement of price stability
meant policy makers must focus on supporting the government’s
quest for economic growth, state-run MTI news service reported
today. Matolcsy, who announced plans two weeks ago to provide
cheap loans to boost lending, said the bank was only at the
start of its monetary policy overhaul.  “The central bank will continue to accelerate monetary
policy loosening that will result in higher inflation and forint
weakness,” Daniel Hewitt and Piotr Chwiejczak, London-based
analysts at Barclays Plc, wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.8 percent against the euro
to 297.63 by 4:06 p.m. in Budapest, paring its gain this month
to 2.2 percent. The forint may weaken to 310, analysts at
Goldman including  Thomas Stolper  in  London  wrote in an e-mailed
report.  The central bank will probably be prepared to ease monetary
policy even at the expense of a weaker currency, the Goldman
analysts wrote.  The government’s Debt Management Agency sold 62.5 billion
forint ($274 million) in bonds at an auction today, 19.5 billion
forint more than planned. The average yield on 30 billion forint
in 2016 notes fell to 4.65 percent from 4.81 percent two weeks
ago and borrowing costs for 2018 and 2028 bonds also declined,
according to data from the agency on Bloomberg. The agency
raised an additional 19.9 billion forint in debt at a later,
non-competitive tender.  Growth  As part of additional measures to boost economic growth,
the central bank will propose to limit eligibility in its two-
week bill facility, which is the main instrument of monetary
policy, to exclude foreign banks that are not active lenders in
 Hungary , Matolcsy said.  The restriction proposed by Matolcsy has an impact similar
to a rate cut, which hurts the forint, analysts at Erste Group
Bank AG including Zoltan Arokszallasi in Budapest wrote in an e-
mailed report.  The central bank’s Monetary Council will probably reduce
its benchmark rate by 25 basis points to a record 4.75 percent
on April 23, according to 13 out of 14 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. One economist forecasts a 50 basis point cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  