-- Four Men Sentenced to Jail Terms for Plotting U.K. Terror Attack
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-04-18T12:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/four-men-sentenced-to-jail-terms-for-plotting-u-k-terror-attack.html
Four men charged with planning a
terrorist attack in the U.K. and discussing targets and weapons
were given jail sentences totalling as long as nearly 45 years.  Two of the quartet, Zahid Iqbal, 31 and Mohammed Sharfaraz
Ahmed, 25, will spend 11 years and three months in jail for
plotting to make a homemade bomb with a view to attacking an
army base in Luton, north of  London . They could be hauled back
to prison for a further five years if they break the terms of
their release.  Syed Hussain, 21, and Umar Arshad, 24 were jailed for five
years and three months and six years and nine months
respectively for their part in the plot which included terrorism
training, fundraising and traveling to  Pakistan .  “Iqbal and Ahmed are in their different ways the most
serious of these offenders,” Judge Alan Wilkie said handing
down the sentences today. They seriously discussed “assembling
and deployment” of an improvised explosive device “with a
specific target in mind and had discussed with others the
acquisition of a firearm and ammunition.”  The U.K. courts are grappling with terrorist cases as U.S.
authorities deal with the aftermath of the Boston Marathon
bombing, which killed three people -- the highest profile act of
terror in the U.S. since the Sept. 11 attacks on  New York City 
and  Washington  in 2001.  “The actions and intentions of these men starkly
demonstrate what we have repeatedly said -- that terrorists live
among us while they carry out their plans, doing all they can to
conceal their activities,” Stuart Osborne, head of Counter
Terrorism Command at the Metropolitan Police, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The charges against the quartet include “committing acts
of terrorism, or assisting others to commit such acts, engaged
in conduct in preparation for giving effect to that intention,”
police said in a statement at the time of the charges being made
against them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  