-- Fracking Tax Pushed in Pennsylvania Green-Energy Governor Quest
-- B y   K a r e n   W e i s e
-- 2013-04-18T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/fracking-tax-pushed-in-pennsylvania-green-energy-governor-quest.html
John Hanger, a prolific blogger
running for governor of Pennsylvania, recently drew attention to
two farmers he learned about from a local public-radio station.  The men leased the drilling rights on their land to gas
producer  Range Resources Corp. (RRC) , then used the proceeds to
install solar panels on their property. “The shale-gas
revolution has turned energy on its head, and solar will do it
again,” Hanger says.  Hanger, a lawyer and former state regulator, was the first
Democrat to enter the race. At least half a dozen others are
either running or considering it, and many -- Representative
Allyson Schwartz, State Treasurer Rob McCord, and former
Representative  Joe Sestak  -- have better name recognition.
There’s something that sets Hanger apart, though: He’s running
as a green energy evangelist.  An incumbent governor has never lost a re-election bid in
Pennsylvania, where there’s a two-term limit, but Hanger and
other Democrats sense an unprecedented opportunity to unseat
Republican Governor Tom Corbett next year. Unemployment is above
the national average despite a gas boom that’s made the state a
top energy producer. Corbett has the approval of only 1 in 3
registered voters, according to a March survey by Public Policy
Polling, which called him “the most endangered governor in the
country up for re-election” in 2014.  Energy Policy  Hanger comes off not as a pie-in-the-sky idealist but as
someone who’s spent 29 years toiling over the minutiae of  energy
policy . He rattles off stats in kilowatt-hour units, cites the
U.S. Energy Information Administration as his favorite news
outlet, and constantly updates his blog, Facts of The Day, where
a typical headline reads: “Stunning Fact: Top Ten Wind States
All Have Electric Rates Below The National Average.” Says
Hanger: “I’ve been charged by some to be a policy wonk, and I
plead guilty.”  Hanger says that Pennsylvania should support more
renewable-energy investment projects such as building charging
stations for electric cars. He also says the state should
continue hydraulic fracturing for natural gas as a cleaner
alternative to coal. Hanger promises stricter oversight and says
that as governor he would impose the state’s first fracking tax.  ‘Principled Pragmatist’  “He is what I would call a principled pragmatist,” says
John Quigley, the former head of the state’s Department of
Conservation and Natural Resources, who once worked for Hanger.
“He can very dispassionately assess a situation and find a way
that seeks the win-win.”  In 1993, Governor  Bob Casey  tapped Hanger for a five-year
term on the Public Utility Commission, where he led the effort
to end a monopoly on electrical power generation and allow
consumers and businesses to shop around for the best price.
Hanger then founded PennFuture, a group that pressed for
stricter environmental regulations as well as a controversial
2004 state law requiring utilities to get 8 percent of their
power from renewable sources by 2020.  Former Governor  Ed Rendell  appointed Hanger to run the
state’s Department of Environmental Protection in 2008, at the
dawn of Pennsylvania’s shale-gas revolution. Hanger allowed
fracking but raised permit fees and imposed stricter standards
for building wells to prevent methane from seeping into water
sources. He also recruited private developers and manufacturers
to build wind farms, which Hanger says are now a $3 billion
industry in the state.  Moviemaker Target  That mixed approach made Hanger a target of liberal
critics, including the filmmaker behind the Oscar-nominated
documentary “Gasland.” When director Josh Fox asked Hanger on
camera to drink water that Fox said was polluted by a gas well,
Hanger stormed out of his own office.  He’s pro-choice and pro-gay marriage and supports
legalizing pot, yet 26 percent of voters who consider themselves
very liberal have an unfavorable opinion of him, according to
the PPP survey. Hanger says, “I’m not in the ‘drill, baby,
drill’ crowd, but I also know you can’t make a flash-cut to the
future.”  To introduce himself to voters, Hanger’s visiting each of
 Pennsylvania ’s 67 counties in his Prius. At a recent dinner in
Cumberland County outside Harrisburg, a woman told him gas
drillers should pay for contaminating land. He agreed, then
spent several minutes plowing through the details of his many
other policy ideas as the woman’s attention drifted toward
another guest.  To succeed, Hanger needs voters to at least hear out his
nuanced positions. He’s leading Corbett by seven points in the
PPP poll, but other Democrats have slightly wider margins over
the governor. The primary is 13 months away.  “Certainly from the standpoints of policy and expertise,
John has equipped himself very well,” says Quigley. “He just
has to go out there and work on the electability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Weise in  New York  at 
 kweise@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  