-- France Should Explore Potential of Shale Resources, Senator Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-18T16:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/france-should-explore-potential-of-shale-resources-senator-says.html
France  should allow exploration for
shale oil and gas to gauge potential reserves even after banning
hydraulic fracturing used to extract the fuels, the author of a
report into alternative technologies told fellow lawmakers.  “We can’t close the door to research,” said Jean-Claude Lenoir, a senator who’s researching the alternatives to so-
called fracking, banned in 2011. “Good sense tells us we should
allow exploration to see how much resources we actually have.”
He spoke at a parliamentary hearing into his report today.  President  Francois Hollande  said in September he backed the
fracking ban because of dangers to the environment. Opponents of
the method, which blasts sand and chemicals into shale rock to
release fuel, say it can contaminate underground water supplies.
France and Poland have the greatest potential for recoverable
shale gas in Europe, the  International Energy Agency  says.  Energy explorers in France want a reversal of the ban as
the economy is weakening and industry complains of losing out to
U.S. competitors benefiting from cheaper domestic shale energy.  “Fracking has progressed enormously in recent years,”
Lenoir told the lawmakers today. “It seems to be the most
effective method to develop unconventional hydrocarbons.”  They also listened to representatives of  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s
biggest oil company and  Vermilion Energy Inc. (VET) , France’s largest
oil producer. Total has shale operations in the U.S. and Poland
and Vermilion carried out fracking in France before the ban.  Scientists and energy-policy analysts also presented views,
which mostly favored allowing research into shale resources.  Non-Negligible  “France may have non-negligible shale resources,” said
IEA analyst Christian Besson. “One really has to drill wells to
get an idea” of whether it’s profitable. “The vast majority of
fracking pollution incidents aren’t linked to drilling but to
accidents on the ground.” Damage may be limited with safer
chemicals and treating water used in drilling, he said.  The Senate requested the report into alternatives to
fracking, which was banned by lawmakers before elections.  Explorers have lobbied the government to allow research
into the size of shale reserves in the hope prospects for  job
creation  and cheaper energy spur an end to the ban. Energy
Minister Delphine Batho says the ban should stand and Industry
Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  has spoken in favor of shale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  