-- Gay Marriage Legalized in New Zealand as Lawmakers, Public Cheer
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-04-18T00:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/gay-marriage-legalized-in-new-zealand-as-lawmakers-public-cheer.html
New Zealand  became the first Asia-
Pacific nation to legalize same-sex marriage, prompting cheers
and singing in the same parliament where sexual relations
between men were decriminalized 27 years ago.  The third and final reading of the  Marriage Equality Bill 
was passed late yesterday 77 votes to 44. Lawmakers and members
of the public applauded in the Wellington debating chamber when
the result was heard, before singing “Pokarekare Ana”, a
traditional Maori love song. Celebrations were held throughout
the night in bars and clubs across the country.  New Zealand joins 12 other nations that allow same-sex
marriage, including  Canada , South Africa and Spain. Prime
Minister John Key voted in favor of the law-change, after last
May saying he wasn’t opposed to gay marriage, shortly after U.S.
President  Barack Obama  voiced his support. Key had previously
voted against civil unions, which New Zealand legalized in 2005.  “I am very proud to be a Member of a Parliament that has
voted overwhelmingly to give New Zealanders, regardless of their
sex, sexual orientation or gender, the right to marry,” Louisa
Wall, the main opposition Labour party member who introduced the
bill last year, said in a statement.  The legislation amends 1955 laws to rule that all adults in
New Zealand, including those identified as transgender or
transsexual, can wed.  Law Changes  New Zealand decriminalized sexual relations between men
aged 16 and over in 1986, while such activity between women was
not illegal, the Ministry of Culture and Heritage said on its
New Zealand History  website . Seven years later, discriminating
against people on the grounds of their sexual orientation was
outlawed, the ministry said.  Supporters and opponents gathered in Wellington ahead of
the vote. The first reading of the bill in August passed by 80
votes to 40, and the second in March by 77 votes to 44.  “I have had a reverend in my local electorate call and say
that the gay onslaught will start the day after this bill is
passed,” Maurice Williamson, Minister of Building and
Construction, said in a debate before the vote. “We are really
struggling to know what the gay onslaught will look like. We do
not know whether it will come down the Pakuranga Highway as a
series of troops, or whether it will be a gas that flows in over
the electorate and blocks us all in.”  A New Zealand Herald  Digipoll  survey conducted last month
showed 52 percent of respondents supported same-sex marriage
while 48 percent were opposed. The poll surveyed 750 people and
had a margin of error of 3.6 percent.  “What we have had is a small yet vocal minority telling
the rest of New Zealanders that there is a law change that
everyone wants, and anyone who disagrees has got to be a
bigot,” Winston Peters, leader of the New Zealand First party,
said in the pre-vote debate. He voted against the bill.  Gay marriage is also legal in  Argentina ,  Belgium ,  Denmark ,
 Iceland ,  Netherlands ,  Norway , Portugal,  Sweden  and Uruguay, as
well as parts of the U.S. and Mexico City. The French Senate
this month approved a bill allowing same-sex marriage, paving
the way for it to become law later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  