-- German Economy to Grow Faster as Exports Revive, Institutes Say
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-04-18T09:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/german-economy-to-grow-faster-as-exports-revive-institutes-say.html
Germany ’s economy is shrugging off
a contraction at the end of last year and starting to grow due
to revived exports and rising private consumption, the country’s
leading economic institutes said.  Europe ’s biggest economy will expand by about 0.8 percent
this year, double the rate forecast by the government, and pick
up momentum to grow 1.9 percent in 2014, said the group, which
includes Munich’s Ifo institute. The euro area as a whole will
probably contract by 0.4 percent this year and expand by 0.9
percent in 2014, the group forecast.  Germany’s growth outlook “is again pointing upwards”
tracking developments in global markets, the group stated in its
report, released in Berlin today. “The headwind in the world
economy has also tailed off somewhat” while “subsiding
uncertainty” over the euro’s future is supporting business
confidence.  Rising economic growth may help Chancellor  Angela Merkel  as
she seeks a third term in Sept. 22 elections and back up her
conviction that sound budgets will restore the euro area to
health. Germany will run a  budget surplus  this year and in 2014,
the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday.  At the same time, Merkel is struggling to ward off pressure
from within the 17-nation euro area as well as from her Group of
20 partners to back temporary budget easing across the currency
union to promote growth. At a press conference in Berlin on
April 9, U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said “we need to
balance policies of growth and investment in the future with
policies of fiscal consolidation.”  French Deficit  France , Germany’s biggest trading partner, will report
economic growth of just 0.1 percent this year, rising to 1.2
percent in 2014, its government said yesterday. The French
 budget deficit  will be 3.7 percent this year, above the euro’s
3 percent limit, and 2.9 percent in 2014.  Merkel’s spending plan for this year assumes economic
growth of 0.4 percent and was made in the fourth quarter when a
2 percent slump in exports caused the economy to contract.
German exports that include cars made by  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and
machines by  Siemens AG (SIE)  may expand by 2.1 percent this year,
accelerating to 6.1 percent in 2014, the institutes said.  “Conditions are ripe for a sharp increase in economic
output” as Germany upholds its competitive edge over its
biggest rivals for export share in global markets, according to
the report. Euro area consumer prices will rise just 1.7 percent
on average this year, increasing to 1.6 percent in 2014, while
unit labor costs will rise 1.9 percent and 1.8 percent, it
stated.  The employment level -- about half of Germany’s 82 million
citizens work -- will hit a record of 42 million in 2014, while
the jobless tally will decline to 2.8 million this year and 2.7
million in 2014. The  European Central Bank  will probably keep
 interest rates  unchanged at 0.75 percent, the group said.  The institutes are commissioned twice yearly by the
government to produce a broad economic review. In October, the
group forecast Germany’s economy would grow by 1.0 percent this
year.  The group includes the Ifo, the IfW institute Kiel, the RWI
Essen institute and the IW Halle institute  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  