-- German Concerns Won’t Delay Bank Union, Austrian Regulator Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-04-18T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/german-concerns-won-t-delay-bank-union-austrian-regulator-says.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s concerns about the legal basis for a common European
authority and fund for  bank failures  won’t delay the creation of
the system, Austria’s financial watchdog said.  The schedule for introducing all elements of a planned
European Union banking union hasn’t changed, Helmut Ettl, co-
chairman of the Finanzmarktaufsicht regulator, or FMA, told
journalists in Vienna late yesterday.  “When the pressure is great enough, solutions will be
found,” Ettl said. “We’re very optimistic about that.” The
contention that treaty changes are needed to set up the banking
union are “disputable,” FMA co-head Klaus Kumpfmueller said.  The  European Central Bank  and  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, have called for a European Resolution
Authority to intervene at crisis-hit banks, saying the step is
essential to untangle the fates of lenders and sovereigns.
Barnier said he will present draft legislation in June.  Schaeuble told his EU counterparts at a meeting in Dublin
last week that setting up a central authority to deal with
failing banks requires treaty changes. The German minister has
also argued that revising the bloc’s rules would benefit the
ECB’s bank supervision arm by ensuring independence from
monetary policy.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter has backed
Schaeuble’s view, saying that a “firewall” between monetary
policy and banking supervision at the ECB isn’t strong enough.
“The ECB is not a supervisory body, according to EU treaties.
The ECB is a monetary institute,” she said.  Ministers in Dublin endorsed plans to hand supervision
powers to the ECB, a step billed by Barnier as a cornerstone of
the banking union, after committing to “work constructively”
on any proposals for treaty change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  