-- Ghana Gives Primary Dealers Until June to Boost Bond Trading
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-04-18T15:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/ghana-gives-primary-dealers-until-june-to-boost-bond-trading-1-.html
Ghana ’s central bank is giving
primary dealers 10 weeks to increase purchases at debt auctions
or risk losing their role in the market.  Six of the 15 dealers bought 3 percent to 5 percent of
securities at sales in 2012, falling below the quota of 7
percent, Adams Nyinaku, the central bank’s head of treasury,
said in an interview in Accra, the capital of West  Africa ’s
second-biggest economy. He declined to identify the lenders.  “We have given them assurance that after June we will be
very stiff,” he said in the April 12 interview. “It’s not a
luxury to be a primary dealer. You should have some
commitment.”  Ghana is using Treasury bill sales to pull liquidity from
the market and stem a tumble in the local currency, the cedi,
which is down 7 percent against the dollar in the past 12
months. Yields on Ghana’s 91-day Treasury-bills, the second-
highest in sub-Saharan Africa after Malawi, rose 10.13
percentage points in 2012 to 23.1 percent as the  Bank of Ghana 
offered higher returns to lure demand.  The yields fell 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, at
the last auction on April 12 to 22.97 percent. The cedi weakened
0.3 percent to 1.9542 per dollar by 3:15 p.m. in Accra, bringing
its decline this year to 2.5 percent.  Capital Needs  Ghanaian lenders have a minimum capital requirement of 60
million cedis ($31 million) and have most deposits in accounts
where clients can withdraw their money at any time, rather than
in fixed-term ones that lock funds in for a set limit. The banks
may not be able to afford buying their whole share of the weekly
auctions, Chris Nettey, a bond trader at Standard Bank Group
Plc’s local unit and a member of the Dealers Club Association of
Ghana, said by phone on April 16.  “With the kind of liabilities they have, it’s easier to
lock in a one-month instrument rather than anything longer than
that,” he said.  Kobla Nyaletey, the president of the dealers club and head
of liquidity management and market making at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s unit
in Ghana, which is one of the dealers, declined to comment when
called yesterday.  The others include Standard Chartered Plc,  Ghana Commercial
Bank Ltd. (GCB) ,  Ecobank Ghana Ltd. (EBG) , Societe General SA’s local unit,
Merchant Bank Ltd., ARB Apex Bank Ltd. and  Access Bank Plc. (ACCESS) 
Nyinaku said an ideal number of dealers at the auctions, held on
Fridays, is 10 to 12.  Auction Failures  Last year, the most active banks bought as much as 9
percent of auctioned bills and notes, Nyinaku said. The central
bank has to pay a brokerage fee to dealers on purchases above
the 7 percent quota. When a dealer doesn’t buy its portion of
debt, another one has to step in and absorb the remainder,
forcing the central bank to pay the fee, he said.  “We don’t want auction failures in the sense that if the
government says I want 100 million cedis, everything should be
purchased on the auction,” he said. If dealers don’t buy all
the notes offered, the Bank of Ghana has to step in to make up
the gap, putting local currency from its own coffers back into
the market and defeating the objective of removing cedi
liquidity, Nyinaku said, adding that the bank bought some of the
securities this year to make up the difference.  “When they are not getting customers, it’s a bit difficult
for them to meet the quota,” Nikoi Kotey, a currency trader at
Accra-based  CAL Bank Ltd. (CAL)  and a member of the dealers club, said
by phone. “Customers like to talk to some banks; it’s a
relationship thing. Some people prefer to deal with specific
banks.”  Secondary Trading  The central bank and the Ghana Stock Exchange are merging
their security depositories, a move that will lead to all
government bills and bonds listed on the Accra bourse to allow
for secondary trading, Nyinaku said.  The Bank of Ghana’s Central Securities Depository keeps
records on ownership, selling and buying of government bills and
bonds while the stock market’s depository keeps the record for
shares of companies traded.  Banks now trade government debt over-the-counter, Nyinaku
said. While two-, three- and five-year debt are listed on the
stock exchange, the separate depositories mean trading is low
and limited, he said.  “If you get an effective primary dealer system, then they
will be underwriting all the issues and they will be trading
among themselves,” said Nyinaku. “If we can get a smaller size
then we put in a code of conduct and a regulation and they
append their signatories to it, then we’re going to have the
market makers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  