-- Ghanaian Public Workers’ Strike May Threaten Deficit
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-04-18T11:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/ghanaian-public-workers-strike-may-threaten-deficit.html
Ghana risks missing its  budget
deficit  target this year as thousands of doctors and teachers
strike to demand higher pay in West Africa’s second-biggest
economy, according to Databank Financial Services Ltd.  Services at state hospitals have been disrupted since April
8 after more than 3,500 doctors and pharmacists stopped work to
demand higher allowances and back pay. The once-off payment
amounts to about 9 percent of basic salary, Frank Serebuor,
general secretary of the Ghana Medical Association,  said in a
phone interview today from the capital, Accra.  The government is struggling to narrow a budget gap that
soared to 12.1 percent of gross domestic product last year,
almost double the 6.7 percent target. Finance Minister Seth Terkper has pledged to curb the deficit to 9 percent this year
as  Ghana  faces the threat of a credit-rating downgrade.  “If government is pushed to spend anything outside the
budgetary limit then the deficit will exceed 9 percent of GDP,”
Sampson Akligoh, head of research at Accra-based Databank, said
in an interview yesterday.  Ghana has more than tripled the wage bill for civil
servants to 8.54 billion cedis ($4.4 billion) between 2009 and
2012 as it raised salaries to bring parity to pay grades. Wages
are equivalent to about 68.2 percent of government tax revenue,
according to the budget statement.  Doctors are currently only attending to emergencies and
won’t resume work until their wage demands are met, Serebuor
said.  Inflation Threat  Terkper told the state-owned Daily Graphic newspaper on
April 10 the government can’t afford to raise doctors’ pay
without increasing borrowing.  Fitch Ratings  cut its outlook on Ghana’s B+ rating to
negative from stable on Feb. 15, concerned by the deterioration
in the budget deficit.  Higher wages also threaten to boost inflation and undermine
the currency. Consumer prices rose 10.4 percent in March from a
year ago, the fastest pace since May 2010, the statistics office
said on April 10. The cedi has dropped 2.2 percent against the
dollar this year and was trading as low as 1.95 in Accra today.  University Teachers Association of Ghana, which represents
3,300 lecturers, called off a two-week strike on April 15 after
agreeing a pay settlement with the government, the union’s
national president, Anthony Simmons, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  