-- Gol Surges Most This Year on Fuel Tax Outlook: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-18T21:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/gol-surges-most-this-year-on-fuel-tax-outlook-sao-paulo-mover.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ,
 Brazil ’s second-biggest air carrier by market share, surged the
most this year as investors speculated a reduction in fuel taxes
could help the company reduce costs.  Shares surged 11 percent to 12.79 reais at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo , the steepest one-day gain since Dec. 26.
Trading volume on the shares was 3.3 times the three-month daily
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the
best  performance  on the benchmark Bovespa index, which advanced
0.5 percent.  Distrito Federal, the district where Brazil’s government is
seated, is lowering a tax on airline fuel to 12 percent from 25
percent, Agencia Estado reported today. The news service cited
the head of the country’s association of airlines, Eduardo
Sanovicz. The reduction could save airlines 131 million reais
($65 million) a year, Agencia Estado reported. The state of  Rio
de Janeiro  already has a 12 percent tax on airline fuel.  “This is beneficial for the company,”  Pedro Galdi , the
chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora,
said in a telephone interview. “The company’s capital structure
is in a very complicated spot right now, and a reduction of
costs is in line with what the company is trying to do.”  In the fourth quarter, fuel accounted for 38 percent of
Gol’s operational expenses, according to a company filing. The
airline said it would pay bonuses to pilots for saving fuel,
Folha de Sao Paulo reported on April 15.  Gol is reducing domestic capacity by 7 percent in 2013 as
it tries to improve margins. The airline posted a net loss of
447.1 million reais in the last three months of 2012, exceeding
the average analyst estimate of 210.8 million reais, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company is also conducting an initial public offering
of its frequent-flier unit, Smiles SA, to raise cash and reduce
debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  