-- Goldman’s O’Neill Says Bank of Japan Can Beat Deflation
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a ,   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o   a n d   S a m   W a i t e
-- 2013-04-18T10:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/goldman-s-o-neill-says-bank-of-japan-can-beat-deflation.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  can achieve its
goal of 2 percent inflation within two years and may need to
concern itself with containing prices if it succeeds, according
to Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill .  If the central bank is truly committed to reaching its
target, then it can, London-based O’Neill said at a Goldman
Sachs seminar in Tokyo today. BOJ governor Haruhiko Kuroda has
pledged to do “whatever it takes” to beat deflation and plans
to double the monetary base -- cash in circulation and the money
that financial institutions have on deposit at the central bank
-- within two years in pursuit of that goal.  “They’ve set it themselves and they’ve got to keep doing
things to get to what is their target,” O’Neill said. “If they
do start to get 2 percent inflation in the next two years, how
do they stop it going, at least for a brief while, to quite a
bit more than 2 percent. That to me would be more of a valid
issue than whether they will be able to do it.”  The 56-year-old’s confidence in  Japan ’s central bank runs
counter to skeptics from  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, to former BOJ Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata.
The Topix Index, Japan’s broadest equity measure, has rallied 55
percent since November on pledges to end deflation while the
two-year rate on overnight-index swaps, used to wager on changes
in the BOJ’s target rate, is set for its biggest monthly jump
since November 2010.  Where previous inflation targeting exercises in Japan have
been “a bit of a game,” this time around things are different,
O’Neill said.  Equity Upgrade  Goldman Sachs last week raised its outlook on Japanese
shares for the fourth time this year citing the BOJ’s “credible
commitment” to beat deflation.  “The biggest change is that the government and the central
bank are on the same page said ‘‘let’s exit deflation,’’” Kathy Matsui, chief Japan strategist at Goldman Sachs, said during a
panel discussion with O’Neill at the seminar. “It’s not that
important whether they can achieve 2 percent inflation, but the
key is they set the target. The absolute commitment to beating
deflation is paramount.”  Analysts led by Matsui boosted the 12-month Topix Index
outlook to 1,350 from 1,250. Goldman Sachs also raised its 12-
month  Nikkei 225  Stock Average estimate to 16,000 from 15,000.
The brokerage also sees the Topix reaching 1,600 and the Nikkei
225 at 19,000 before fiscal 2015.  The average estimate for the Topix Index at year end is
1,160, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 15 strategists.  O’Neill will step down this year from his current role as
chairman of Goldman Sachs’s asset-management division, which he
has held since 2010, according to a February announcement. He
joined the company in 1995 as a partner, became head of global
economics, commodities and strategy research in 2001 and was
added to the European management committee in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Waite in Tokyo at 
 swaite1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  