-- Goodman to Boost Rents in Japan as Land, Building Costs Increase
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2013-04-18T00:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/goodman-to-boost-rents-in-japan-as-land-building-costs-increase.html
Goodman Group (GMG) , the world’s second-
biggest industrial property manager by market value, plans to
increase rents in Japan by about 5 percent amid rising land and
construction costs.  Prices of land sites used for distribution centers and the
cost of construction, which has increased as much as 20 percent,
are making development more expensive, said Paul McGarry, chief
executive officer of Goodman Japan Ltd. Even as demand for
modern warehouses and investor interest remain strong, the
supply of such facilities will be limited, he said.  The logistics property market in Tokyo is rebounding from
record-high vacancy rates three years ago amid increasing demand
for modern storage. The city is Asia’s second-most active
warehouse market after Hong Kong with $1.6 billion of
transactions in the past one year, according to New York-based
Real Capital Analytics Inc.  “What we have seen in the last six months is a sharp
increase in land prices for logistics,” said McGarry in an
interview in  Tokyo  yesterday, declining to provide an estimate
of how much land prices have risen. “There will be less supply
moving forward just because the numbers don’t add up.”  The capitalization rate, a measure of investment yield, for
office buildings in Tokyo declined to 6.4 percent in February
from 6.7 percent a month earlier, according to Real Capital
Analytics. A drop in the cap rate, which is a property’s net
income divided by the purchase price, usually signals an
increase in real estate prices.  Declining Vacancies  The vacancy rate for warehouses in the Tokyo metropolitan
area fell to 3.7 percent in the fourth quarter from 5.2 percent
a year earlier, CBRE Group Inc. said. The rate has been in
decline from a peak of 20 percent in September 2009, it said.  Goodman, which has $22 billion of properties under
management globally, is currently developing a combined 433,000
square meters (4.7 million square feet) of space in Tokyo and
Osaka metropolitan areas, according to the company. That is more
than half of 700,000 square meters of space it has developed
since 2005, McGarry said. The developer is currently looking at
half a dozen opportunities, he said.  “We think the demand is there if you can get the metrics
to work,” said McGarry. “From the capital perspective, we’ve
really got unlimited capital as long as we can find the
opportunities.”  Modern Facilities  Goodman said last September it partnered with Abu Dhabi
Investment Council to buy warehouses in  Japan . With $500 million
of borrowings, the fund can buy about $1.2 billion worth of
warehouses in the country, McGarry said. The venture has
invested $700 million so far, consisting of four properties
under development, he said.  Modern distribution facilities -- which have bigger floor
space that allows trucks to reach every floor via ramps,
reducing time needed to load and unload goods -- only account
for 2 percent of the total warehouse space in Japan, according
to data compiled by LaSalle Investment Management Ltd.  Industrial spaces returned 4.4 percent in 2012, more than
double the total return for office properties, according to
London-based Investment Property Databank Ltd.  An increase in demand has lured  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802)  and
 Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) , Japan’s two-biggest developers, to enter the
business.  Mitsui Fudosan on Jan. 17 said it plans to invest 200
billion yen in warehouses over five years to meet rising demand,
while Mitsubishi Estate last year announced two warehouse
projects with partners in Tokyo Bay and Kanagawa prefecture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  