-- Google Sales Miss Estimates as Ad Fees Per Click Fall
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-04-19T20:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/google-profit-tops-estimates-on-mobile-advertising-tools.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular Internet search engine, reported profit that topped
analysts’ estimates as advertisers increased spending on mobile
and video promotions.  First-quarter profit, excluding some items, was $11.58 a
share, Google said yesterday in a statement. Analysts had
projected $10.68 per share, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income increased 16 percent to $3.35 billion, or
$9.94 a share.  Google is pushing beyond its roots as a desktop-based
search business to enter new ad-driven markets, including
smartphones, Web services and video, stepping up competition
with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The company’s search and
video businesses bolstered results with Google-owned sites
generating $8.64 billion in revenue for the quarter, up 18
percent from a year earlier, according to Benjamin Schachter, an
analyst at Macquarie Securities USA Inc.  “The core business is still doing well,” Schachter said.
“They’re managing to maintain a lot of strength in that core
business across geographies.”  First-quarter revenue, excluding sales passed on to partner
sites, rose to $11 billion, Google said. Analysts had projected
sales of $11.2 billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Mountain View, California-based Google rose 4.4
percent to $799.87 at the close in New York. The stock has
advanced 13 percent this year, compared with a 9 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Tax Credit  The company benefited in the first quarter from a federal
credit that helped reduce its tax rate and boost earnings,
Patrick Pichette, chief financial officer, said yesterday on a
conference call with analysts. Google had an effective tax rate
of 8 percent in the first quarter, less than half the 18 percent
of a year earlier, the company said.  The average amount that advertisers paid each time a user
clicks on a promotion decreased 4 percent, following a 6 percent
decline in the previous three-month period. The total number of
clicks advanced 20 percent, after a 24 percent gain in the
fourth quarter. Analysts had predicted the cost per click would
fall 2 percent, while the overall number would climb 20 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rates for smartphone ads can be about 52 percent less than
for promotions on desktop machines, according to Covario Inc.,
an online marketing agency.  Revamped AdWords  Google is counting on mobile advertising to bolster growth.
In February, the company upgraded its online advertising service
to make it easier for marketers to reach users on different
devices, including smartphones and tablets. The revamped AdWords
service will also help companies manage bids for ads running at
different locations and times,  The new push in mobile also includes the $12.4 billion
acquisition of Motorola Mobility, which makes smartphones that
run on Google’s Android software.  Google has made other investments outside its core search-
based online advertising business. In February, the company said
it would expand its laptop line, called Chromebook, to include a
higher-end touch-screen  version  that cost at least $1,299 and
up. Earlier this month, the company unveiled plans for high-
speed Internet and television service in Austin,  Texas , and
Provo,  Utah , after starting a similar program in  Kansas  City,
Kansas, last year.  The company is investing now to ensure it benefits from
future changes in technology,  Larry Page , chief executive
officer, said on the call with analysts. He touted new products
including Glass, the digital eyewear with some of the same
features as a smartphone.  “Incremental improvement is guaranteed to be obsolete over
time,” Page said. “A big part of my job is to get people
focused on things that are not just incremental.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  