-- Li Ka-Shing’s Striking Port Workers Lose Jobs as Protest Widens
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-04-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/li-ka-shing-s-striking-port-workers-lose-jobs-as-protest-widens.html
Some port workers at  Li Ka-shing ’s
 Hong Kong terminals  were told they will lose their jobs, as a
three-week strike over wage demands at the world’s third-biggest
container port escalates.  Global Stevedoring Service Co., one of the contractors
which employs the workers, said yesterday it’s unable to meet
the wage demands or continue operations because three quarters
of its staff are on strike.  “This is one of the worst scenarios we had expected when
the strike was started,” said Cheung Chi-ming, 52, a stevedore
who works for another contractor. “I’ll have to continue
fighting as we have no way out.”  Dozens of the workers have pitched tents surrounding Li’s
70-story Cheung Kong Center in the business district after a
protest march on April 17 as government mediators struggled to
narrow the differences. The strike, which prompted shipping
lines to divert vessels to Shenzhen,  China , from the city’s
harbor, is the biggest revolt against the 84-year-old Li, who is
 Asia ’s richest man and is nicknamed “superman” by the local
media for his investing prowess.  Contract workers of Li’s Hongkong International Terminals
Ltd. were offered a 7 percent raise by their employers, the
company said in an e-mail on April 17, compared with the demand
for a 23 percent increase.  Rising Costs  About 450 workers, mostly crane operators and stevedores,
walked out on March 28, seeking higher wages and better working
conditions as rising living costs and record  home prices  spur
discontent in the former British colony.  Hongkong International Terminals is operated by  Hutchison
Port Holdings Trust (HPHT) , whose largest shareholder is Li’s Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. Hutchison Port, along with partner Cosco Pacific
Ltd., dominates half of the capacity at  Hong Kong , the world’s
third-largest container port behind Shanghai and Singapore.  Global Stevedoring Service, which employs fewer than 200
workers, will shutter after its contract with Hongkong
International Terminals ends on June 30, the company said in an
e-mailed statement.  “We have been willing to talk to the workers since the
outbreak of the strike, but we couldn’t reach an agreement with
the workers during several meetings,” Global Stevedoring said.
“We have clearly expressed that we can’t satisfy the union’s
demand.”  Widening Protests  Hundreds of port workers surrounded Cheung Kong Center on
April 17, holding placards demanding better pay and shouting
slogans against Li. Police and security guards are patrolling
the area.  The strike in Hong Kong prompted shipping lines including
 Evergreen Marine Corp Taiwan Ltd. (2603)  to divert vessels to Shenzhen.
Terminals controlled by Hutchison Port have a 46 percent market
share in that port.  Chan Tsz-kit, who has worked as a stevedore for 22 years
for one of the port contractors, said he decided to join the
strike because his wages don’t meet his expenses.  “The companies have forced us into a hopeless situation,”
said 40-year-old Chan, who moved house to neighboring Shenzhen
because he can’t afford Hong Kong rents. “Our pay can never
catch up with inflation. Everything is so expensive now.”  The dockworkers at Hong Kong port earn HK$55 ($7) an hour,
according to Union of Hong Kong Dockers. That is less than they
were paid in 1995, according the union. The workers had a pay
cut in 2003 during the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
outbreak.  Work to Rule  In support of the dockworkers, about 300 crane operators,
hired by Hongkong International, began a work-to-rule action on
April 4, according to Sin Hiu-yan, a spokeswoman of Hongkong
International Terminal Group Employees General Union.  The daily financial loss caused by the strike narrowed to
HK$2.4 million on April 5 from HK$5 million earlier as an
“increasing number” of workers returned to the port after the
strike began, according to Hongkong International.  Hongkong International will make arrangements to minimize
the impact on its operations of Global Stevedoring’s expected
closing, and will help the workers, it said yesterday.  Shares of Hutchison Port closed unchanged at 82 cents in
 Singapore  trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  