-- IBM Profit Misses Estimates for First Time Since 2005
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-04-19T20:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/ibm-revenue-misses-analysts-estimates-as-hardware-sales-slow.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the largest computer-services provider, fell the most in
eight years after missing profit estimates, hurt by a hardware
slump and the failure to sign customers to contracts.  The shares  dropped 8.3 percent to $190 at the close in  New
York , the biggest one-day decline since April 15, 2005. The
tumble wiped out the stock’s gains for the year, a month after
it hit a record high.  The Armonk, New York-based company posted first-quarter
profit of $3 a share yesterday, missing the $3.05 predicted by
analysts. It was the first earnings shortfall  since 2005 ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In a bid to rebound,
the company announced plans to spend $1 billion cutting jobs in
the second quarter and will divest some businesses this year.  As part of the effort to slim down, IBM is in talks to sell
its low-end server division, a person familiar with the matter
said yesterday.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , which acquired IBM’s
personal-computer business in 2005, is seen as the most likely
bidder, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
negotiations are private.  “It is a painful but smart move in the long run,” said
Laurence Balter, an analyst at Oracle Investment Research in Fox
Island,  Washington . “The low-end server division was a drag,
subtracting economic value from Big Blue.”  Deal Price  The server business may fetch $2.5 billion to $4.5 billion,
depending on what assets and liabilities are included, the
person familiar with the talks said. A deal is still several
weeks away, according to the person.  For now, IBM Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty is
struggling to revive growth. Amid weak demand for hardware and
consulting work, especially in  Europe , the company has been
trying to push into more lucrative markets like data analysis
and mobile-phone security.  “We did not achieve all of our goals in the period,”
Rometty said in yesterday’s statement.  The poor performance of some businesses, such as certain
storage products, is prompting the company to take “substantial
actions,” Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said on a
conference call. The moves will include job cuts, or “workforce
rebalancing,” this quarter, he said. Loughridge declined to
discuss the potential deal with Lenovo.  “I’m obviously not going to comment on rumors,” he said
during the call.  Profit Drops  First-quarter net income slid to $3.03 billion, or $2.70 a
share, from $3.07 billion, or $2.61, a year earlier, IBM said.  “It’s a combination of Europe, financial services and
discretionary spending affecting their performance,” said  David Grossman , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  San Francisco ,
who still advises buying IBM shares. “I wasn’t going into this
quarter with grand expectations.”  Sales slid 2.3 percent to $104.5 billion in 2012, the first
decline in three years. Last year’s  revenue  was just 0.8 percent
more than 2008 sales. That’s the worst four-year growth rate
since the period that ended in 2002, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The sales force has had difficulty closing deals,
Loughridge said.  “By and large, this is an execution problem,” he said.  In recent years, the company has focused on improving
earnings instead of revenue. That effort has included moving
into higher-profit businesses, selling off segments that became
too competitive to be profitable, and buying back shares. IBM
maintained its forecast for 2013 earnings per share of at least
$16.70 -- on the road to its goal of $20 a share by 2015.  Big Data  Rometty has said that “big data” services, which let
customers mine vast troves of information to make better
decisions, are the company’s biggest priority for 2015.  In February, IBM said its data-analysis business will
perform better than expected, adding $20 billion in annual
revenue by 2015. That compares with an earlier forecast of $16
billion.  The plan to spend $1 billion on staff reductions continues
a trend over recent years. IBM spent $803 million on workforce
restructuring in 2012, up from $440 million in 2011. Last year’s
rise was primarily due to actions outside the U.S. in the third
quarter, according to IBM’s filings. The recent job-cut plan
also will focus on overseas employees, IBM said yesterday.  An employee-advocacy group said in February 2012 that the
company had fired more than 1,000 workers in  North America  in a
single week. IBM didn’t comment on the claim.  Even with the job cuts, IBM’s workforce has steadily grown,
partly through acquisitions. The company had almost 467,000
workers at the end of last year, up 7.8 percent from 2011. Net
income per employee, a measure of productivity, declined 2.8
percent last year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  