-- Microsoft Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates on Cost Controls
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-04-19T20:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/microsoft-third-quarter-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-cost-control.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s third-quarter
profit exceeded analysts’ estimates, buoyed by cost controls and
sales of business and server software amid weak demand for
personal computers running the new Windows 8 operating system.  Net income in the period that ended March 31 rose 19
percent to $6.06 billion, or 72 cents a share, Microsoft said
yesterday in a  statement . That beat the 68-cent  average 
projection of analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue rose 18 percent to $20.5 billion, matching estimates.  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  kept expenses in
check at the world’s largest software maker, while sales of
Office collaboration and teleconferencing programs climbed. That
blunted the impact of a drop in quarterly PC sales -- the
steepest decline on record, according to market-research firm
IDC, which cited lackluster demand for Microsoft’s new operating
system for the slump.  “I was expecting a foot of snow and we just got a
flurry,” said  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG, referring to
the better-than-estimated profit. “They have pretty strong cost
controls in place.  Wall Street  thinks they’re a PC play, but
there’s a lot more to Microsoft than PCs. There are certainly
elements to the story that are working to offset the PC
exposure.”  Microsoft said operating expenses for its next fiscal year,
which starts July 1, will be $31.6 billion to $32.2 billion --
the company’s first forecast for the coming year. For the
current year, expenses will be $30.2 billion to $30.5 billion,
lower than the company’s previous target of $30.3 billion to
$30.9 billion.  CFO Departing  Microsoft rose 3.4 percent to $29.77 at the close in  New
York . The stock has gained 11 percent this year, compared with a
9 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Chief Financial Officer  Peter Klein  will step down at the
close of the fiscal year, which ends June 30, Microsoft said in
the statement.  So-called unearned revenue, which comes from sales of
multiyear deals that will be recognized in the future, was $17.9
billion in the third quarter, compared with the $17.8 billion
average analysts’ projection, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Global PC unit shipments slid 14 percent in the first three
months of the year, IDC said last week. PC sales are falling
faster than Microsoft can gain revenue from tablet machines,
Klein said in an interview. That will continue in the near
future and weigh on sales of Windows software, he said.  “That’s certainly had an impact on the Windows business,”
Klein said. “Our diversified business is allowing us to deliver
solid financial results while we work through that process.”  Windows 8  Microsoft released Windows 8 and the Surface tablet, its
first hardware product, on Oct. 26 to stem the loss of PC sales
as smartphones and tablets attract users with many of the same
features.  In the period that ended in March, every PC maker except
 China ’s  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  saw shipments decline as businesses
chose to install Microsoft’s older Windows 7 operating system on
existing PCs instead of buying systems with Windows 8,  Jay Chou ,
an analyst at Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC, said in an
interview last week.  Microsoft’s Windows division sales rose 23 percent to $5.7
billion, less than the $5.9 billion predicted by analysts.
Excluding the impact of revenue from previous quarters, Windows
sales were unchanged from a year earlier, the company said.  “That’s not bad, considering PCs were down 14 percent,”
said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities
LLC who rates Microsoft shares sector perform.  Surface Sales  As for the Surface tablet, Microsoft has sold little more
than a million of the lower-end RT version and about 400,000
Surface Pros since their debut, three people with knowledge of
the company’s sales said in March. The company had ordered about
3 million Surface RTs, the people said. Microsoft hasn’t
disclosed Surface sales.  For the long term, Windows 8 is the right product to help
Microsoft gain share in tablets, Klein said. The difficulties in
the Windows business and the shift to a bigger percentage of
Windows sales coming from tablets “will continue through
several selling seasons,” he said yesterday.  Klein declined to comment on Surface sales or on how many
copies of Windows 8 have been sold. The company has yet to prove
that tablets will be a significant business as PC sales slow,
said  Sid Parakh , an analyst at McAdams Wright Ragen in  Seattle .  “There is some uncertainly around whether they can
actually get consumers to buy Windows tablets,” Parakh said.
“It’s a show-me story now. Show me that you can actually sell
these devices.”  Windows Blue  On a conference call with analysts, Klein said the company
is working on a new version of Windows, code-named Blue, that
will address customer feedback on Windows 8, as well as
developing smaller, cheaper touch-enabled Windows devices with
computer-maker partners.  While the better-than-projected earnings were welcome,
Microsoft was able to exceed estimates in part because analysts
had reduced their predictions in the past several weeks, said
Pat Becker Jr., a  fund manager  at Becker Capital Management in
 Portland ,  Oregon , who owns Microsoft shares.  Analysts’ average  estimates  for Microsoft’s profit had
declined 11 percent in the past four weeks. At least five
downgraded their recommendations on Microsoft’s stock in the
past two weeks.  Corporate Customers  Still, Becker said he is encouraged by demand among
corporate customers for products like Office software and the
older Windows 7 operating system.  “It’s a good business,” he said. “You see it in the
numbers for the quarter, you see it in the cash balances going
up. At the base of everything, they have a very strong
enterprise business.”  Sales in the Business division, which includes mostly
Office software, and in the server unit were largely in line
with the average estimates of analysts polled by Bloomberg.
Microsoft said its Internet-based version of Office, Office 365,
is bringing in revenue at an annualized rate of more than $1
billion.  The Online division, which includes the Bing search engine
and Internet display advertising, and Xbox gaming unit both
posted better-than-projected sales. Klein said Microsoft’s
products other than Windows have “a lot of headroom” to grow
and shore up results while Windows struggles.  Klein, who said he’s leaving Microsoft to spend more time
with his family and doesn’t have immediate plans, said he’ll be
replaced by a new CFO from Microsoft’s internal finance team in
the next several weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  