-- IMF Chief Lagarde to Be Heard by French Court Next Month
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-04-18T15:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/imf-chief-lagarde-to-be-heard-by-french-court-next-month.html
International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said she will be heard in
May by a court in relation to her decision on a case involving
businessman  Bernard Tapie  when she was French finance minister.  The Cour de Justice de la Republique, which investigates
ministers’ actions in office, is looking into whether Lagarde
erred in agreeing to an arbitration to end a dispute with
businessman Tapie, a supporter of former President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  “There is nothing new under the sun,” Lagarde, who denies
wrongdoing, told journalists today in  Washington . “Ever since
2011 I have known very well that I would be heard by the
investigating commission of the Cour de Justice.”  Tapie won a 385 million euro ($503 million) arbitration
award to settle a dispute over his company’s sale of German
sportswear brand  Adidas AG. (ADS)  Tapie claimed Credit Lyonnais
mishandled the 1993 sale and pursued a claim against the
formerly state-owned bank’s liquidator.  “The hearing will be Madame Lagarde’s first opportunity to
provide the investigative commission with information that will
demonstrate that there is no basis to find fault with her
actions,” Yves Repiquet, her lawyer, said in a statement.  The court opened its investigation into whether there was
“complicity in forgery” or “complicity in misuse of public
funds” in the case in 2011, soon after Lagarde became IMF head.  The longest-serving finance minister of France since the
1970s, Lagarde has stood by her decision in the Tapie case,
saying in an interview broadcast by  France  2 television on Jan.
25 that “it was the best solution at the time and I think it
was the right choice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  