-- IMF’s Lagarde Says ECB Only Central Bank With Room to Act
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-04-18T16:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/imf-s-lagarde-says-ecb-only-central-bank-with-room-to-act.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
Managing Director said the euro area has the only central bank
with enough leeway to take more measures to boost growth as low
interest rates fail to trickle down to the region’s economy.  After doing “ an awful lot for the last couple of years,”
the European Central Bank “is the only central bank that still
has a bit of space,”  Lagarde told Sara Eisen in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “I trust that they will be using
that space when they feel that it will be most useful and they
have biggest leverage effect.”  European policy makers are seeking ways to give companies
and households in the so-called periphery access to affordable
credit, even after the ECB announced plans last year to purchase
bonds of indebted countries to cap borrowing costs. The IMF cut
its global growth forecast this week and called for
“aggressive” monetary policy in the region, which is set to
contract for a second year.  It’s not enough for policy makers to cut rates further;
they must also ensure that the benefits of lower borrowing costs
reach “the real economy,” Lagarde said in the interview. “It
might be that to restore fluidity, a bit of work needs to be
done at the receiving end,” she said.  While European nations need to reduce their fiscal deficits
and debt burdens, some of them can afford to pace their efforts,
Lagarde said, citing the Netherlands as an example of a country
that gave itself more time to reach targets.  “It’s a question of how much and how quickly, and for some
of them there’s no reason to rush into up-front, heavily loaded
fiscal consolidation,” she said.  Group of 20 finance ministers are in  Washington  this week
to discuss policies aimed at sustaining the global recovery and
strengthening the world’s financial system. Five officials from
the 17-country euro area today defended the region’s efforts to
fight off banking and sovereign-debt crises.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  