-- Timken Investors Backing Split Seen Reaping 29%: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-04-18T14:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/timken-investors-backing-split-seen-reaping-29-real-m-a.html
Ralph Whitworth’s proposal to break
up  Timken Co. (TKR)  helped boost shares of the ball-bearings maker 26
percent in five months. With the stock still trading at a
discount to peers,  shareholders  stand to more than double that
gain by voting in favor of his plan in May.  Timken’s shares have climbed to $51.99 since Whitworth’s
Relational Investors LLC and the California State Teachers’
Retirement System called for a spinoff of the steel business in
November. That still makes Timken cheaper relative to profit
than any of its industrial peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The $5 billion company’s units are worth $70 a share
when valued separately, according to SunTrust Banks Inc.  “I have a fair amount of confidence that this actually
will happen,” Jason Detzi, an analyst at Philadelphia-based
Penn Capital Management Co., which oversees $7.7 billion,
including Timken shares, said in a telephone interview. “When
you look at the merits of the proposed spinout, we think it
makes a lot of sense.”  Timken’s rise since November  beat  the 15 percent advance
for industrial stocks in the Standard & Poor’s MidCap 400 Index,
a sign of support for Whitworth’s proposal. On average, analysts
and investors project a breakup could extend Timken’s gains by
another 29 percent. Whitworth said that none of the “dozens”
of Timken shareholders he’s spoken with say the spinoff is a bad
idea. The activist said he could try to oust  directors  and run a
competing board slate if his proposal fails.  Spinoff Proposal  Relational and the California retirement fund known as
Calstrs disclosed stakes in Timken in a Nov. 28 filing. Calstrs,
the second-biggest U.S. public pension, submitted a proposal to
be voted on at Timken’s annual meeting May 7 that recommends
hiring an investment bank to spin off the steel business into a
separate publicly traded entity.  In calling for a split, Relational and Calstrs -- with a
combined stake of 7.3 percent in Timken as of this week -- said
the company’s two  businesses  don’t fit, and their “widely
divergent business characteristics” have left Timken trading at
a discount to peers. One unit produces anti-friction bearings
and power-transmission components, while the other produces
alloy steel used in vehicle chassis and engines as well as steel
forging bars and seamless tubes for oil and gas drill bits.  Different Views  “These are incongruent assets inside a single business,”
Whitworth said yesterday in a phone interview. “It will always
have a conglomerate discount. One part of it is industrials and
one part is metals. They are not even followed by the same
analysts.”  Even after the company’s stock gains, Timken  trades  at
almost 13 times this year’s estimated earnings, lower than any
of the 12 companies it describes as its peers in the  steel
industry  and the bearings and power-transmission group,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median of the
group, which includes  Carpenter Technology Corp. (CRS) , SKF AB and
 Nucor Corp. (NUE) , is about 16, the data show.  James Griffith, Timken’s president and chief executive
officer, said he first met with Relational last May and reviewed
the firm’s breakup analysis before the board concluded that it
wasn’t in the company’s best interests. Management has instead
advocated a plan to boost  shareholder value  that includes
bolstering margins, repurchasing shares and making acquisitions.  Relational’s action “doesn’t change our analysis,”
Griffith said in a phone interview yesterday. “We are confident
that our plan will create more shareholder value.”  ‘Convincing Arguments’  Timken’s  shares  have surged 26 percent since the November
filing by Relational and Calstrs, exceeding the gain of the S&P
MidCap Industrials Index. At least some of the rise can be
attributed to the activist’s involvement, said  Stephen Volkmann ,
a New York-based analyst at Jefferies Group LLC.  Today, Timken shares fell 1 percent to $51.44 at 10:21 a.m.
New York time.  Analysts and investors reckon Timken would be valued at $67
a share if the company were split, based on the average of four
estimates ranging from $65 to $70 a share. Whitworth and Calstrs
said in a presentation filed with regulators this week that
Timken could be worth about $68 a share, a 31 percent increase
from yesterday’s close.  The steel business, which is more volatile and faces
greater competitive threats, “creates a distraction” that
drags down Timken’s overall valuation, said Michael Willemse, an
analyst at Toronto-based Taylor Asset Management Inc., who
estimates Timken could be worth $65 a share based on the sum of
its parts.  “Investors are not putting an appropriate valuation on the
core business,” Willemse, whose firm oversees about $900
million including Timken shares, said in a phone interview.
“Relational and Calstrs have made pretty convincing
arguments.”  Luring Support  The chance to boost the company’s languishing valuation
will likely lure enough support for Whitworth’s proposal to make
it a reality, according to shareholders Penn Capital and James
Investment Research Inc. Penn Capital  owned  a 0.3 percent stake
in Timken as of Dec. 31, while James Investment had a 0.4
percent stake as of March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Shareholders will say, ‘This is what we want, it’s a much
better value to us,’ and ultimately I think that’s what the
company will have to listen to,”  David James , director of
research at Alpha, Ohio-based James Investment, which oversees
more than $4 billion including Timken shares, said in a phone
interview.  Still, even without a spinoff, Timken shares are  poised  to
rise to $63.13 in the next 12 months, a 21 percent gain,
according to the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Magic Bullet?  Steve Barger, a Cleveland-based analyst at KeyCorp, boosted
his 12-month price target for Timken shares in March to $66 a
share from $58, citing expectations for “solid” margins and
strong free cash flow generation. Timken itself  said  sales may
reach $6.1 billion by 2015, a 22 percent increase from 2012.  “Some of that valuation discount will take care of
itself,” Stanley Elliott, a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst at
Stifel Financial Corp., said in a phone interview. “I’m still
on the fence on whether it’s the magic bullet approach to what
this company needs. Part of me thinks it’s just going to be a
little bit of time for some of the things the company is working
on internally to kind of manifest itself.”  Elliott estimates Timken may be worth $65 to $69 a share
based on the sum of its parts, compared with his price target
for the consolidated company of $65 a share.  Timing Issue  While the argument behind a breakup has “economic
foundation,” it may make more sense for Timken to wait to
consider a split until the economy improves and the company has
completed planned investments in the steel unit, according to
Eli Lustgarten, an Independence, Ohio-based analyst at Longbow
Research. Timken is reducing costs and investing $225 million in
its Faircrest steel plant.  Timken management has also said that untethering its steel
unit from the ball-bearings business would  cost  the company
about $200 million in one-time expenses and about $60 million to
$80 million in annual savings tied to keeping the two divisions
melded.  The loss of those benefits would be “minimal” though
compared to the boon to shareholders from jettisoning the steel
unit, said Detzi of Penn Capital.  “We’d like to see it done,” Detzi said. “The underlying
value of the company is not recognized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  