-- India’s Nifty Futures Decline on Earnings as Volatility Climbs
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-04-18T02:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/india-s-nifty-futures-decline-on-earnings-as-volatility-climbs.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures dropped
on concern corporate earnings may miss forecasts, even after the
nation’s biggest company reported a 22 percent rise in profit,
and as  volatility (RIL)  rose to a 10-month high.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for April delivery fell 0.4
percent to 5,680 at 10:04 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index was unchanged at 5,688.70 yesterday. The S&P BSE
Sensex index fell 0.1 percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India
ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares lost 1.4 percent.  Net incomes for the 30 Sensex companies in the quarter
ended March 31 may fall 0.8 percent from a year ago, the first
drop in three years, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s biggest
company by  market capitalization , reported net income for the
quarter ended March 31 rose to 36 billion rupees ($665 million),
signaling demand for outsourced software services remains
buoyant. The Sensex’s 15-day  volatility  measure, a gauge of
price swings, climbed to the highest since June.  “The volatility in large-cap stocks is worrisome,” Andrew Holland, chief executive officer of investment advisory at Ambit
Capital Pvt. in Mumbai., said in an interview with Bloomberg TV
India yesterday. “Maybe with the  Reserve Bank  of India’s help,
we can see a clear path towards lower interest rates.”  Volatility Rising  Tata Consultancy’s 15-day volatility measure held near a 3-
month high yesterday, while the gauge for Oil & Natural Gas
Corp., the country’s second-biggest company, was at a six-week
high. Volatility in shares of Reliance Industries Ltd. and  ITC
Ltd. (ITC) , the third- and fourth-largest companies, is the most
elevated since October.  The central bank meets on May 3 to set monetary policy,
after cutting its benchmark interest rate in March for the
second time this year. A recent rout in gold prices, combined
with a decline in crude oil, may help damp inflation and narrow
India’s record current-account deficit, boosting scope for a
further reduction in interest rates.  Foreign funds bought a net $117.6 million of Indian shares
on April 16, data compiled by Bloomberg show, taking net
investment in stocks this year to $10.2 billion, a record for
the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Inflows
last year totaled $24.5 billion, the most among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  The Sensex has dropped 3.6 percent this year and is valued
at 12.6 times  projected 12-month profits , compared with this
year’s peak of 13.8 times in January. The MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index trades at 10.1 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  