-- India Trade Deficit Contributed to Measured Easing, Patel Says
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-04-18T05:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/india-trade-deficit-contributed-to-measured-easing-patel-says.html
India  has taken a measured approach
to easing monetary policy partly because of a record current-
account deficit, according to  Reserve Bank  of India Deputy
Governor Urjit Patel.  “Given that there is a current-account deficit issue, we’ve
followed a calibrated approach,” Patel told investors in  New
York  at a meeting yesterday. “We’ve been complementary to the
government’s effort to bring the fiscal deficit under control.”  Patel is traveling in the U.S. with Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram as India strives to lure capital inflows
to fund the current-account gap. The shortfall and lingering
price pressures have restricted the central bank to a reduction
of 50 basis points in  interest rates  in 2013. The monetary
authority has also cut  reserve requirements  at banks.  “There’s one instrument or one-and-a-half instruments and
several objectives, that’s the balancing act we have to do,”
said Patel, who became one of four deputy governors in January.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao lowered the  repurchase rate  by 25
basis points each in January and March, to 7.5 percent. He also
cut the  cash reserve ratio  in January to 4 percent from 4.25
percent.  Wholesale-price inflation  eased  to a 40-month low of 5.96
percent in March. Another index, based on consumer prices,
 climbed  more than 10 percent last month from a year earlier.  The moderation in headline and core inflation on some
measures has fed into the calibrated easing of monetary policy,
Patel said.  Rate Outlook  Twelve of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey predict a
cut in borrowing costs to 7.25 percent at the review due May 3.
One sees no change.  India’s  gross domestic product  rose 5 percent in the year
ended March, the slowest pace in a decade, according to an
estimate from the nation’s statistics agency.  A moderation in exports and investment has hampered the
economy. The  current-account deficit  swelled to $32.6 billion in
the quarter ended Dec. 31, equivalent to 6.7 percent of GDP,
according to the Reserve Bank.  The gap could ease to 2.5 percent of GDP in one to two
years if exports advance and oil prices remain contained,
Chidambaram told reporters in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  