-- Intuitive Marketed Robot to Less-Skilled Surgeons, Witness Says
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/intuitive-marketed-robot-to-limited-skill-surgeons-witness-says.html
Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG)  targeted
surgeons with “basic or limited” skills in minimally invasive
procedures to increase sales of its robotic surgical system, a
company marketing executive told a jury.  Ryan Rhodes, Intuitive’s director of marketing, testified
yesterday about a “surgical target list” contained in internal
marketing documents at a state court trial in Port Orchard,
Washington. The trial is over the company’s robotic  da Vinci
surgical system , and whether Intuitive’s training was
compromised by aggressive marketing, which allegedly led to
errors in removing a patient’s prostate gland, and eventually
caused his death four years later.  A document pertaining to how sales people interact with
physicians described a category of urologists who have “basic
or limited laparoscopic skills who currently perform”
traditional prostate removals. That group is “where 80 percent
of your clinical time should be spent,” according to the
document.  Rhodes was asked by a lawyer for the deceased patient’s
widow if “a doctor who had mastered laparoscopic surgery would
be less interested” in using the da Vinci system. A minimally
invasive approach to surgery, laparoscopic procedures afford
patients the benefit of smaller incisions, less pain, and
shortened hospital stay.  “They might or might not, but yes, many times, yes, they
might show less interest,” Rhodes said.  First Trial  The case is the first to go to trial of at least a dozen
lawsuits filed against Sunnyvale, California-based Intuitive
since 2011 alleging injuries tied to its  da Vinci surgical
system . The robots were used in more than 300,000 U.S.
operations last year.  The plaintiff’s attorney, Richard Friedman, was trying to
show yesterday how the internal marketing conflicted with the
company’s recommendations that the da Vinci system is for
surgeons with “basic and advanced” skills in minimally
invasive surgery-- a criterion it used in materials submitted to
the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to get approval for
marketing the robotic devices.  Allen Ruby, a lawyer for Intuitive, told jurors yesterday
that that the surgeon who operated on the patient, Fred Taylor,
ignored Intuitive’s warnings that the procedure shouldn’t be
performed on obese people when using the da Vinci.  Fred Taylor was five-feet, 11-inches tall (180
centimeters), and weighed 280 pounds (127 kilograms), giving him
a body mass index of 39 -- a measurement that should have
precluded robotic surgery according to the training Intuitive
provided to the doctor, Scott Bildsten, Ruby said.  First Patient  Taylor was Bildsten’s first patient using the da Vinci
unassisted. Bildsten, who is expected to testify as a witness at
trial, was cautioned by Intuitive that for his early procedures
with the da Vinci -- at least the first four to six surgeries --
he should choose simple cases and patients with a low body-mass
index, Ruby said.  In robotic surgery, a doctor sits at console several feet
from the patient and peers into a high-definition display. Foot
pedals and hand controls maneuver mechanical arms equipped with
surgical tools, guided by a 3D camera that shows the work as it
is done inside a patient.  After seven hours of trouble with robotic surgery on Taylor
in September 2008, Bildsten and other doctors turned to
traditional surgery and then emergency care to repair a rectal
laceration. Taylor died in August of heart failure resulting
from injuries caused by Intuitive’s inadequate training of
Bildsten, according to Friedman.  Bildsten settled claims against him by Taylor’s estate,
according to court documents.  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v. Intuitive Surgical
Inc., 09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of  Washington , Kitsap
County (Port Orchard).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in Port Orchard, Washington, at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  