-- TIPS Attract Least Demand Since 2008 as Inflation Ebbs
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-04-18T21:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/tips-trail-conventional-u-s-bonds-first-time-since-2008.html
Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities tumbled after a record $18 billion auction of the
notes attracted the lowest demand in more than four years with
the economy showing few signs of rising consumer prices.  The five-year securities’  bid-to-cover ratio , a gauge of
demand that compares the amount bid with the amount offered, was
2.2, the least since October 2008. Yields on benchmark 10-year
notes traded at almost to the lowest level in four months. Three
regional  Federal Reserve  bank presidents said a further decline
in U.S. inflation below the Fed’s 2 percent goal may signal a
need for more accommodation.  “The market seemed unprepared for the largest ever TIPS
auction,” said Michael Pond, head of global inflation-linked
research at Barclays Plc, one of 21 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. “Economic data has turned from a tailwind to a
headwind and break-evens are just now catching up to
fundamentals.”  The yield on the 0.125 percent security maturing in January
2023 rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
negative 0.59 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The U.S. 10-year note yield
declined one basis point to 1.68 percent after touching 1.67
percent yesterday, the lowest since December.  The  break-even rate , or the difference between the yield
and that on 10-year notes that investors use as a gauge of
inflation over the life of the securities, fell nine basis
points to 2.27 percent, the biggest decline since November 2011.
The break-even rate on the current  five-year TIPS  fell 13 basis
points to 1.94 percent.  TIPS Auction  “We’re looking at buying right now -- the break-evens have
been coming down,” said Mitchell Stapley, the  Grand Rapids ,
Michigan-based chief fixed-income officer for Fifth Third Asset
Management. The firm oversees $15 billion in assets. “The
market has got momentum to the downside so we’re trying to be
smart about it.”  Treasury volatility as measured by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s  MOVE index  was at 51.31 basis points as of 4:09 p.m.
today, the lowest level since Dec. 3, when it closed at a record
51 basis points. The gauge, which tracks the outlook for swings
in U.S. government debt rates, has averaged 63.6 basis points in
the past year.  The five-year TIPS sale drew a yield of negative 1.311
percent versus a forecast of negative 1.384 percent, according
to the average in a Bloomberg News survey of six of the Federal
Reserve’s 21 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio fell from
versus 2.7 at the last auction in December and 2.8 average
averaged over the previous 10 sales.  Bidder Participation  Indirect bidders , a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 46.1 percent of the securities
versus 49 percent at December’s auction, the most since October
2006. The average for the prior 10 offerings was 39.2 percent.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 7.8 percent, the
lowest since April 2011, after buying 10.7 percent at the
December and average of 8.2 percent at the past 10 auctions.  Treasury Inflation Protected Securities are lagging behind
traditional U.S. securities in 2013 for the first time in five
years. TIPS investors have gained 0.2 percent since Dec. 31,
while nominal debt has returned 0.6 percent, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes. That puts the index-linked
securities on course for the first underperformance since 2008,
when they lost 1.1 percent while Treasuries climbed 14 percent.  ‘Rough Time’  “TIPs have had a rough time recently with the commodities
selloff and renewed fears of deflation,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors. “People
are again more concerned about deflation than they are about
inflation. When that occurs, it will affect this market.”  Firms from U.S. Bancorp to Federated Investments that had
been buying  government securities  that protect against rising
consumer prices during the Fed’s recent efforts to inject cash
into the economy are now selling on the behalf of clients. For
the first time since the depths of the financial crisis in 2008,
mutual funds that target Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities
have seen outflows for three straight months, according to
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The U.S. will sell $99 billion in nominal notes next week:
$35 billion in two-year debt on April 23, the same amount of
five-year securities the next day and $29 billion in seven-year
notes on April 25.  Fed Governors  “If inflation looked like it was going to sag further on a
persistent basis, I would certainly consider stimulus for the
purpose of bringing inflation up to target,” Richmond Fed
President  Jeffrey Lacker , a critic of current easing, said
today.  Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota today
called for guarding the inflation target “from below,” while
 James Bullard  of  St. Louis  said yesterday, “we should defend
the inflation target from the low side.”  The Fed bought $3.378 billion of securities due from May
2020 to February 2023 today as part of its program known as
quantitative easing, in which it is purchasing $85 billion of
government and mortgage debt a month to spur growth and boost
employment.  Treasuries rose earlier as manufacturing data and an index
of leading economic indicators trailed forecasts.  “The economy is weakening going into the summer -- it’s
tilting back toward zero percent growth, and that will keep the
Fed continuing to do what they do,” said  Charles Comiskey , head
of Treasury trading in New York at primary dealer  Bank of Nova
Scotia. (BNS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  