-- Liquid Ammonia at Texas Plant Had Small Window to Explode
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-18T19:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/liquid-ammonia-at-texas-plant-had-small-window-to-explode.html
The perfect mixture of ammonia
vapors and heat in narrow ranges would have been required to
cause yesterday’s deadly explosion at a Texas fertilizer plant.  Anhydrous ammonia , a nitrogen-hydrogen combination used as
a crop nutrient, has a tight explosive window that needs a
precise ratio of liquid to vapor, said  John Goodpaster , an
assistant professor at Indiana University-Purdue University
Indianapolis who researches explosives. The “sweet spot” is 16
percent to 25 percent vapor by volume, he said.  “If the mixture of ammonia gas and air is in the right
range, then it can be very flammable,” Goodpaster said by
phone. “If you have a fire going on outside a large container
that has this mixture in it, and the fire is hot enough, then
the mixture, if it’s right, would spontaneously ignite.”  There really are no procedures to regulate the amount of
vapor and no ability to vent the tanks because of regulations
preventing ammonia from being released into the air, Goodpaster
said. Anhydrous ammonia is typically safer than other volatile
chemicals and gases, such as hydrogen, which tend to have
broader ranges of gas and air mixtures, Goodpaster said.  If anhydrous ammonia is stored in a 100 gallon tank and
some of it is left empty, ammonia vapors would need to make up
16 gallons to 25 gallons of the tank to create the hazard.  Yesterday’s explosion at Adair Grain Inc.’s plant in West,
 Texas , killed as many as 15 people and injured at least 160 in
what may be the worst U.S. industrial disaster since at least
2010, when 29 coal miners perished in Massey Energy Co.’s Upper
Big Branch mine.  Making Meth  Anhydrous ammonia and ammonium nitrate, which is a solid in
the form of small white pearls, can both be used to make
fertilizer that farmers use to add nitrogen to the soil and
boost crop yields. Ammonium nitrate can also be mixed with any
type of fuel to create an explosive, such as the truck bomb
detonated by Timothy McVeigh in 1995 at a federal office
building in  Oklahoma City , killing 168 people.  “Ammonium nitrate makes a pretty good explosive and it’s
available because it’s a fertilizer,” Goodpaster said. “You
can buy it in pretty large quantities.”  Ammonium nitrate was responsible for another Texas disaster
in 1947, when the ship  SS Grandcamp  exploded at the docks in
 Texas City , according to the Texas State Historical Association.
The ship was carrying the chemical and caught fire, destroying
the dock and the nearby businesses and grain warehouses.  Ammonium nitrate and anhydrous ammonia also are used in one
of the most popular methods of making methamphetamine,
Goodpaster said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  