-- Irish Debtors Face Ban on Vacations, Caps on Food Spending
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-04-18T14:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/irish-debtors-face-ban-on-vacations-caps-on-food-spending-1-.html
Irish borrowers struggling to meet
their loan repayments may be banned from taking vacations and
face limits on how much they can spend on food under guidelines
published by the country’s personal insolvency service.  Monthly individual living expenses for people seeking debt
relief may be capped at 35.73 euros ($46.7) for clothing, 247.04
euros for food and 33.40 euros for personal-hygiene items, the
Insolvency Service of Ireland said in Dublin today. Households
in towns with “adequate public transport links” may not need a
car, while private health insurance may also be banned, the ISI
 said .  The guidelines set a “standard of living that is based on
needs, not wants, but it is more than survival and allows for
meaningful participation in society,” the ISI said. “It should
not be regarded as a standard of living for people in poverty.”  Ireland’s government set up the service after lawmakers
passed personal insolvency laws last year, paving the way for
write-downs of unsustainable debt such as home loans. With Irish
central bank data showing household debt at more than 200
percent of disposable income, twice the euro-area average, the
laws also enable bankrupts to emerge debt-free after three
years, instead of 12 years under previous legislation.  ‘Unsustainable Debt’  “One of the main priorities of this government was to put
in place the best solutions we could for people living under the
burden of unsustainable debt,” Justice Minister Alan Shatter
told reporters in Dublin today.  Almost 12 percent of Irish owner-occupier loans were at
least three months in arrears at the end of December, compared
with about 19 percent of buy-to-let mortgages, the central bank
said on March 7. Ireland’s unemployment rate has more than
trebled in the past six years to 14 percent, after the collapse
of the nation’s real-estate market sparked an economic slump.  “We welcome the acceptance by the insolvency service that
a reasonable standard of living does not mean that a person
should only live at subsistence level,” the Free Legal Advice
Centres, a Dublin-based consumer advocacy group, said by e-mail.  The central bank, pressing lenders to do private deals with
borrowers instead of personal insolvencies, last month set
quarterly targets to tackle “unprecedented levels” of mortgage
arrears. Banks have begun writing off irrecoverable home loans
and allowing borrowers to suspend repayments on part of their
mortgage until their personal circumstances improve.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  Chief Executive Officer David Duffy
said on March 27 that the country’s largest mortgage lender’s
debt-restructuring offers are “likely to be significantly
better” than what debtors would achieve through personal
insolvency arrangements. The bank plans to restructure almost
all of its troubled residential mortgages by the end of 2013, he
said in an interview in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  