-- Italy Fails to Elect President as Bersani Coalition Fractures
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-18T17:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/italy-s-first-presidential-vote-fails-as-allies-desert-bersani.html
Italy ’s Parliament failed to elect
a president today as Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani
faced a revolt from his allies after he sought to compromise
with former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi .  Bersani was deserted by allies on the first ballot as
Franco Marini, the candidate he backed with Berlusconi forces
received 521 of 1,007 possible votes, less than the necessary
two-thirds majority. With no path to a Marini victory, both the
Democratic Party and Berlusconi’s forces cast blank ballots on
the second vote. The election continues at 10 a.m. tomorrow.  “It’s another manifestation of how deeply divided Italy
has become and how much resentment and mistrust there is among
the leading politicians,” said Georg Grodzki, head of credit
research at Legal & General Investment Management in  London .  The next head of state, who will succeed President Giorgio Napolitano, will become the key figure in the effort to resolve
the political impasse caused by inconclusive elections in
February that produced a hung parliament. The president appoints
the prime minister and, when stalemates prove intractable,
dissolves parliament and calls new elections.  Bersani signaled that he would reconsider Marini’s
candidacy as he prepared for talks with members of his
 Democratic Party , or PD.  “It’s necessary to acknowledge that we are in a new
phase,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “At this point the
PD has the responsibility to advance a proposal to the
Parliament.”  Early Election  Speaking at a rally in norther Italy, Berlusconi said that
if a strong government didn’t emerge “it would be better to
hold elections in June.”  Bersani’s compromise with his rival was seen by lawmakers
as a move toward an agreement on a coalition government, riling
many of Bersani’s supporters.  “A government with Berlusconi was never in our plans;
Marini was a sign of an accord on certain points but certainly
not an alliance or broad coalition afterwards,” said Paolo
Corsini, a PD lawmaker, who rejected Marini and voted for former
Prime Minister  Romano Prodi .  Bersani may have more success with a new candidate tomorrow
afternoon when the voting rules change on the fourth ballot to
allow victory by a simple majority.  Marini garnered 521 votes in the first vote, more than
twice that of Stefano Rodota, the candidate of Beppe Grillo’s
Five Star Movement. More than 400 lawmakers cast blank ballots
in the second vote.  Grillo’s Rise  “The biggest mistake we made with Marini is making a
choice that divided the PD,” PD lawmaker Matteo Orfini said in
an interview televised on RAINews24. “We need a new name.”  The Democratic Party and Berlusconi’s People of Liberty, or
PDL, were thrown together by the emergence of Grillo, an ex-
comic and anti-corruption crusader who won a blocking minority
in the February elections. Five Star, which refused to support
Bersani’s bid for the premiership last month, campaigned against
political scandals and says its aim is to sweep established
lawmakers from power.  Grillo is gaining support from Bersani’s group. Rodota, a
professor and former lawmaker with a forerunner party of the PD,
is getting the votes of Bersani ally Nichi Vendola and some
dissenting PD members.  Berlusconi is appealing convictions in wire-tapping and tax
fraud cases. He is also standing trial accused of paying a minor
for sex and abusing the powers of his office. He has denied all
the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  