-- Prodi Nominated for Italy Presidency as Bersani Lags
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e ,   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-04-19T09:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/italy-impasse-deepens-as-bersani-bowed-by-failed-berlusconi-deal.html
Democratic Party  leader Pier Luigi Bersani turned to former Prime Minister  Romano Prodi  as a
candidate for the Italian presidency after members of his party
rejected his first choice, rupturing a rapprochement with  Silvio Berlusconi .  “Romano Prodi is able to unite our coalition and we’re
sure he can even go beyond our borders,” said Stefano Fassina,
economic spokesman for Bersani’s Democratic Party.  Lawmakers for the Democrats, or PD, voted unanimously today
to endorse Prodi a day after rebelling over Bersani’s original
pick, Franco Marini, who the party leader backed in a deal with
three-time Premier Berlusconi. Prodi, 73, and a former Europe
Union Commission president, defeated the billionaire media
magnate in two elections.  The third round of presidential voting is underway in
Parliament after two failed ballots yesterday.  Without an agreement on a candidate between the two main
parties, “chances of new elections as soon as the third quarter
of this year” would increase, Barclays Plc economist Fabio Fois
said in a note to investors today.  Investors are taking the gridlock in stride. The yield on
Italian 10-year bonds fell 2 basis points to 4.24 percent at
11:00 a.m. in  Rome , narrowing the difference between yields on
similar maturity German bunds by 4 basis points to 299 basis
points. The 10-year yield is now lower than before the Feb. 24-
25 vote.  ‘Campaign Mode’  “We are now in election campaign mode,” Renato Brunetta,
chief whip of Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, or PDL, said
after the nomination of Prodi in an interview with SkyTG24
television.  The PDL widened its lead over the PD in an opinion poll
released today by SWG. Berlusconi’s coalition would win 33.8
percent of the vote if elections were held today, with the PD
getting 31 percent. Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement was at 24
percent, SWG said.  Caretaker Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said his Civic Choice
party will endorse Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri for
the presidency. Monti also praised Prodi, saying he would make a
good president, though his candidacy risked dividing rather than
uniting  Italy ’s political forces.  The PD’s choice of Prodi was a “desperate attempt to
safeguard the party’s unity, not the country’s unity,” Monti
said at a press conference in Rome.  Fourth Round  The PDL may also consider supporting Cancellieri, Brunetta
said. Five Star plans to stick with its initial choice of
Stefano Rodota, lawmakers for the party said.  Bersani may have enough support to install Prodi from the
fourth round of voting as soon as this afternoon, when the
threshold for victory is lowered to a simple majority of the
1,007 electors from the two-thirds needed during the first three
rounds. Bersani may resign as PD leader after the presidential
succession is resolved, daily la Repubblica reported today.  The next head of state, who will succeed President Giorgio Napolitano, 87, will become the key figure in the effort to
resolve the political impasse. The president appoints the prime
minister and, when stalemates prove intractable, dissolves
parliament and calls new elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  