-- Itau Bet on Stocks Outside Brazil Leads Latin America Funds
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-04-18T12:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/itau-bet-on-stocks-outside-brazil-leads-latin-america-funds-1-.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  has found
a winning strategy for the Itau Latam Pacific mutual fund:
avoiding shares from the bank’s home country, Brazil.  The $45 million fund has beaten 96 percent of 860 funds
that focus on Latin American equities, with a  20 percent return 
over the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sao
Paulo-based Itau, Latin America’s biggest bank by market value,
set up the fund in 2011 with a mandate to invest in the region
outside of Brazil.  The restriction helped the fund, run by Brian Chase from
Santiago and Sylvia Bigio from New York, avoid a 16 percent
decline in Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index during the past 12
months as President  Dilma Rousseff  sought to boost growth by
intervening in industries including energy, utilities and
banking, crimping earnings. The fund’s top three  holdings  are in
 Mexico , where the benchmark index gained 8.3 percent as
President Enrique Pena Nieto moves to open the state-controlled
oil industry to private investment.  In Brazil “you have a lot of policy intervention which,
although it looks to bring growth back, has taken a toll on
specific sectors,” Chase, 35, said in an interview in his
office in Santiago, where the fund is based. “Mexico is going
through a series of reforms that are creating opportunities not
only in the entire economy but also in certain sectors and
segments that we are looking to gain access to.”  The fund’s biggest holding is  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the Mexico
City-based mobile-phone company controlled by billionaire  Carlos
Slim , which also is the most heavily weighted stock on the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Latin America Index. (MXLA)   America Movil  The fund’s allocation to  America Movil  was smaller than its
index weight last year, when the stock fell 5.8 percent in
Mexico City, Chase said. Since then, the fund has increased its
America Movil weighting to neutral, he said.  “America Movil was an important underweight for our fund
last year relative to the benchmark,” Chase said. “We still
see risks there but it certainly has become more attractive.”
The stock has  fallen 18 percent  this year.  The fund has an above-weight allocation to Mexican real
estate investment trusts, known as Fibras, he said. They include
Mexico City-based  Fibra Uno Administracion SA (FUNO11) , which has gained
71 percent in the past year.  Fibras are a bet on economic growth as the government
reforms lead to higher employment, the start of infrastructure
projects and greater consumption, Chase said.  Peru Equities  Chase said he likes Peruvian stocks that stand to benefit
from growing consumer demand in the country, including Lima-
based  Credicorp Ltd. (BAP) , owner of the country’s biggest lender,
Banco de Credito del Peru. The economy may grow 6.2 percent this
year, the most among major Latin American economies except for
 Panama , based on average estimates in Bloomberg surveys of
analysts.  The fund also owns Lima-based builder  Grana y Montero SA ,
which will benefit from infrastructure investments in the
country, he said.  Chase targets Chilean companies that get revenue from
outside the country, such as Santiago-based  CFR Pharmaceuticals
SA (CFR) , which gets about 70 percent abroad, and Santiago-based
information technology company  Sonda SA (SONDA) , which gets more than 50
percent, he said.  Government-imposed interest-rate caps in Chile will inhibit
the growth of retail-industry and bank earnings, while power
companies have been stopped from new projects by environmental
concerns, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  