-- Japanese Exports Exceed Estimates as Yen’s Slide Aids Sales
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-04-18T05:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/japan-march-exports-exceed-analyst-estimates-after-slide-in-yen.html
Japan ’s exports exceeded estimates
in March and the trade deficit narrowed from the previous month
after declines in the yen made the nation’s products more
competitive in overseas markets.  Overseas shipments  rose 1.1 percent from a year earlier,
the Finance Ministry said in  Tokyo  today. The median estimate of
22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 0.2 percent
increase. The  trade shortfall  was 362.4 billion yen ($3.7
billion) from 777.5 billion yen in February.  Better-than-forecast trade numbers add to positive signs
for Japan’s economy as central bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
rolls out unprecedented monetary stimulus to trigger a growth
rebound. At the same time, declines in shipments to  China  and
the European Union highlighted limits on the likely scale of
export gains this year. The U.S. displaced China as Japan’s
biggest export market for the year through March.  “The yen’s weakness has been supporting Japan’s exports,”
said Long Hanhua Wang, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in Tokyo. “We are yet to see any signs that Japan’s
exports are set for a full-fledged rebound.”  The yen fell about 19 percent against the dollar in the
past six months, trading at 97.91 as of 2:42 p.m. in Tokyo
today. Imports rose a less-than-forecast 5.5 percent, today’s
report showed.  Import Costs  While the trade deficit narrowed from the previous month,
it was four times bigger than a year earlier. The trade 
shortfall for the year through March was a record. The yen’s 
decline is swelling Japan’s import bill as nuclear-plant 
shutdowns force increased inbound shipments of fossil fuels.  Japanese exports to China fell 2.5 percent from a year
earlier, while those to the European Union slid 4.7 percent.
Shipments to the U.S. rose 7 percent.  The Group of 20 economies will affirm a commitment to avoid
weakening their currencies to gain an advantage for their
exports, according to a draft statement prepared for a meeting
this week in  Washington , Bloomberg BNA reported.  The draft statement, seen by a Bloomberg BNA reporter,
maintains a pledge made in February in Moscow to “move more
rapidly toward more market-determined exchange rate systems and
exchange-rate flexibility” and to refrain from competitive
devaluations.  G-20 Communique  A first draft communique, prepared for meetings of finance
ministers and central bankers starting today, describes the
global outlook as “generally somewhat weaker and uneven” with
“unbalanced” recoveries between advanced economies and
 emerging markets .  The maintaining of the language on currencies suggests the
G-20 members will withhold direct criticism of Japan’s efforts
to rally its economy from 15 years of deflation so long as it
doesn’t seek to do so at their expense by driving the yen down.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and Bank of Canada Governor
Mark Carney both signaled support for Japan’s stimulus push this
week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  