-- Japan Inflation Could Near 2% in Fiscal 2014, Miyao Says
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-04-18T06:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/japan-inflation-could-near-2-in-fiscal-14-or-later-miyao-says.html
Japan ’s inflation may rise above 1
percent in the year starting April 2014 and approach a 2 percent
target either that year or later, central bank policy board
member Ryuzo Miyao said.  Miyao gave the estimates in a  speech  in Gifu, Japan, today.  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and his colleagues need to
drive up public expectations for price rises as part of a
campaign to pull the nation out of 15 years of deflation. The
bank may upgrade its forecast for inflation in fiscal 2014 to at
least 1.5 percent at a meeting next week, according to people
familiar with the bank’s discussions.  The yen has weakened more than 19 percent against the
dollar in six months as the BOJ pushes bolder monetary easing to
end falling prices. The central bank will purchase 7.5 trillion
yen ($76 billion) of bonds a month and double the monetary base,
which includes cash in circulation, over two years, the central
bank said April 4.  The bank may continue with quantitative and qualitative
easing even after it achieves 2 percent inflation if necessary
to maintain stable prices, Miyao said.  Zero-Interest Policy  Miyao, 48, proposed at three meetings this year prior to
Kuroda taking office that the bank continue with its zero-
interest rate policy until 2 percent inflation is “in sight.”
His proposals were rejected by the other eight board members,
including former Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his two deputies
who stepped down March 19.  The Group of 20 economies will affirm a commitment to avoid
weakening their currencies to gain an advantage for their
exports, according to a draft statement prepared for a meeting
this week in  Washington , Bloomberg BNA reported. The G-20 talks
will be the first since the BOJ announced details of its record
easing.  Miyao also said that he expects the BOJ’s increased
government bond purchases to induce banks and institutional
investors to increase purchases of foreign bonds.  Debt market volatility spiked after Kuroda unleashed
unprecedented easing. The  yield  on Japan’s benchmark five-year
note climbed to a one-year high of 0.32 percent on April 11,
more than tripling from the all-time low of 0.095 percent
reached last month. The rate fell one basis point to 0.235
percent today.  Miyao told reporters after the speech that these
fluctuations may be a short-term phenomenon.  “It’s a temporary movement that reflects supply and demand
in a market seeking a new equilibrium point,” he said. “We’ll
carefully watch market movements to see if this situation calms
down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  