-- Jupiter’s Assets Climb as Fund Performance Outweighs Inflows
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-04-18T08:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/jupiter-s-assets-climb-as-fund-performance-outweighs-inflows.html
Jupiter Fund Management Plc (JUP) , the
U.K. money manager run by Edward Bonham Carter, said assets
under management grew 11 percent in the first quarter as its
funds outperformed rising equity markets.  Funds rose to 29.1 billion pounds ($44.4 billion) in the
first three months of the year, helped by 2.7 billion pounds of
investment gains and 209 million pounds of inflows, mostly into
mutual funds, London-based Jupiter said today in a statement.
The firm had 688 million pounds of net inflows in the fourth
quarter of 2012.  The implementation this year of the retail distribution
review, a U.K. regulatory ruling that bans financial advisers
from accepting commissions from fund firms, has caused inflows
to stall while advisers instead begin charging up-front fees to
clients. Jupiter mitigated the impact of the changes because its
fund managers outperformed the market, according to Peter
Lenardos, a London-based analyst at  Royal Bank of Canada .  “We believe that our 2013 forecasts are likely to be
achieved, with stronger  investment performance  compensating for
weaker net inflows,” said Lenardos, who has a hold rating on
the stock.  Jupiter achieved 10.1 percent returns on its funds in the
first quarter, compared with an 8.7 percent gain in the FTSE 100
Index, he said.  The fund manager, whose biggest market is the U.K., said
the  European debt crisis  is continuing to have an impact on
clients’ risk appetite.  “While financial markets have made progress during the
year to date,  consumer confidence  across  Europe  remains fragile
and industry flows vulnerable to any perceived increase in stock
market volatility,” the firm said in the statement.  The stock  slipped  0.2 percent to 326.8 pence at 9:30 a.m.
in London trading, valuing the firm at about 1.5 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 