-- Keystone Fought by Nebraska Landowners Vowing to Block
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-04-18T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/keystone-fought-by-nebraska-landowners-vowing-to-block.html
Bob Allpress describes himself as a
“redneck Republican.” Standing on the pasture behind his
Nebraska home, the burly former Marine Corps sergeant with a Fu
Manchu mustache explains what made him an environmental
activist.  The Keystone XL pipeline, which  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  wants to
build to bring  Alberta ’s oil sands to refineries on the U.S.
coast of the  Gulf of Mexico , would cut across the 900 acres near
Naper, Nebraska, that Allpress’s grandfather acquired by
homestead in 1886. He is vowing to fight that prospect.  “I love this country,” Allpress, 59, said, explaining his
opposition to a revised path the company chose after objections
were raised over an earlier one. “Where they are trying to put
it is still not where they should.”  Allpress plans to bring his complaints to a public hearing
today in Grand Island, Nebraska, about 3 1/2 hours south of his
ranch near the South Dakota border. The hearing is the only
chance pipeline opponents will have to tell U.S. State
Department officials in person why the administration should
reject the project, which has become one of the most politically
volatile energy debates in  Washington .  Nationally, opponents claim the $5.3 billion project would
exacerbate global warming by encouraging the mining and use of
tar sands, resulting in more greenhouse-gas emissions.
Supporters say the project would create jobs and that the
Canadian fuel would get used even without the pipeline. Lobbying
and activism has picked up in advance of a decision expected in
coming months from the State Department, which has jurisdiction
over the project because it would cross an international border.  Nebraska Emotions  While the debate in Washington is a partisan fight over
energy development versus environmental protection, the sides
aren’t so easily defined in Nebraska, one of six U.S. states the
pipeline would traverse and the center for much of the opposition.
Some along the 274-mile (441-kilometer) route though the state have
vowed to block or slow the project by filing lawsuits, challenging
contract terms TransCanada proposes or staging acts of civil
disobedience.  Allpress’s soil is sandy, which means any spill from the
buried pipeline would probably leak through to his drinking
water source just 14 feet below the surface. His two-story home
is a bumpy 4 1/2-mile ride from the main -- though still dirt --
road and could be hard to access in an emergency, like a spill.  Even the laying of the underground pipeline is likely to 
leave a permanent scar on his soil, which still retains wagon
ruts that mark the route his ancestors took to market, he says.  New Route  Allpress admits he didn’t pay much attention to the
pipeline debate until TransCanada, under pressure to avoid the
ecologically sensitive Sand Hills region in Nebraska, proposed a
new route that runs through his property.  While  state  officials approved of the project with the new
path, the revision still elicits complaints from landowners like
Allpress who say Keystone remains a threat to their land and the
Ogalalla aquifer underneath the soil.  If the hearing is the only chance to make their case to
federal officials in a public forum, landowners say it won’t be
the last word.  “We’re trying to preserve what we have,” said Susan
Dunavan, who along with her husband Bill owns 80 acres of land
outside of York, Nebraska.  Their property includes more than 100 varieties of native
prairie plants, which they say would be threatened by the
pipeline.  Dunavan is part of a lawsuit challenging the
constitutionality of the state law that gave the state
Department of Environmental Quality and Governor David Heineman
the power to approve the project.  Press Tour  Reporters were introduced to landowners who oppose the
project this week by Bold  Nebraska , an anti-Keystone, non-profit
group founded by a Florida transplant who married a Nebraskan
and fell in love with the Sand Hills while visiting his family’s
ranch.  Jane Kleeb, who lives in Hastings with her husband Scott,
said landowners were determined to make it as difficult as
possible for the project to go forward.  “This is a very personal and emotional fight,” said
Kleeb, a former director of the Young Democrats of America.
“You’re messing with our friends and family.”  In case the project wins Obama administration approval,
Kleeb’s group has organized a second entity designed to
challenge TransCanada’s plans. The Nebraska Easement Action Team
is signing up landowners and plans to provide legal advice as
they negotiate with TransCanada for the use of their land. Kleeb
says about 100 of the 500 families who live along the pipeline’s
route have signed up.  ‘Plan B’  “We always wanted to have a Plan B to make sure landowners
are protected,” Kleeb said in an interview as she drove two
reporters along highways in central Nebraska. “We see it as a
way to slow down or stop the project. I don’t think TransCanada
knows how many families we have.”  Their options may be limited if the project wins federal
approval. The Nebraska state law that approved a new route gives
the Calgary-based company the right of eminent domain, meaning
they can seize the property for the construction of the project
even from landowners who refuse to cut deals. That’s the law
Dunavan and others are challenging.  Shawn Howard, a spokesman for TransCanada, said the company
viewed eminent domain as a last resort.  TransCanada Response  “It’s always our goal to come to negotiated easement
agreements with landowners because it has a much better result
for everyone involved,” TransCanada spokesman Shawn Howard said
in an e-mail. “In our experience when these matters go through
the full eminent domain process, the independent panels that
hear these matters almost always award much less for the
easements than we have offered.”  Lawmakers from the state have largely lined up behind the
project, with one, Republican Representative  Lee Terry , pushing
a bill in Congress to approve Keystone.  Lynn Blais, a  University of Texas  in Austin law professor
who specializes in pipeline issues, said if landowners lose a
political fight, the courts could offer further recourse. They
could challenge, for example, whether the project is intended
for public use, the standard the U.S. Constitution requires if
eminent domain is invoked.  Sandra Zellmer, a  University of Nebraska  at Lincoln 
professor who specializes in environmental and resources law,
said the state's constitution prevents the legislature from
passing legislation to the benefit of specific companies. The
law giving Heineman authority over Keystone may have violated
that provision, she said.  ``It's a David versus Goliath kind of fight'' Zellmer said
in an interview. ``But I think they do have some viable
constitutional arguments.''  Environmental Assessment  A draft analysis by the State Department concluded Keystone
posed minimal environmental risks if it was managed properly.
Legal challenges could cause “significant delays,” for
construction of the pipeline, Blais said.  Kleeb said her group intends to seeks further concessions,
such as more money or greater protections for landowners.
Nebraska law allows landowners to go to a county court to
determine the fair value for their property, a process she says
can take two years to settle.  Not everyone along the new route opposes the project. Joe
Higgins, 60, whose property abuts the Allpresses’ and who leases
land from him for his cattle to graze, said he doesn’t worry
about the project.  “Every gallon of fuel I use comes on a pipeline, so I
don’t see what the difference is,” Higgins said. “It doesn’t
bother me a bit. I ain’t scared of it.”  The pipeline wouldn’t cross Higgins’ land and he figures
he’s in the minority among his neighbors.  Job Creation  Supporters, who will also get a chance to speak at the
Grand Island hearing today, say the project will create
thousands of construction jobs and improve the U.S. energy
security by negating the need to import oil from less friendly
places like  Venezuela .  Kleeb said much of the oil from the  tar sands  is likely to
be exported after being processed in Gulf Coast refineries.  For Allpress, the issue is less about geopolitics and more
about his connection to the land. He and his wife Nancy returned
to Nebraska five years ago to retire.  Their living room is decorated with an 8-point mule deer he
shot on the property and badger and bobcat pelts either hunted
or trapped. A buck Nancy shot is mounted on their bedroom wall.
At the hearing, Allpress plans to show artifacts he’s collected
on his land, including Sioux arrow heads and grinding stones.
He says he and his neighbors come from “pioneer stock” and
won’t easily agree to TransCanada’s altered route.  “Like Bob said, he’s a redneck. I’m more of a flower child
from the ’60s,” Nancy, 56, said. “People make this out to be a
Democrat and Republican issue. And it’s not.” 