-- Keystone XL Supporters and Critics Square off in Nebraska
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-04-18T19:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/keystone-xl-supporters-and-critics-square-off-in-nebraska.html
TransCanada Corp.’s new route for
its Keystone XL pipeline, aimed at easing residents’ concerns,
drew some of the same complaints at a hearing from activists and
 Nebraska  landowners who said it remained a threat to land and
water.  “We are amongst those with the most to lose and the least
to gain from the Keystone XL pipeline,” said Randy Thompson, a
Nebraska rancher and chairman of the “All Risk, No Reward”
coalition that opposes the pipeline to carry bitumen from
 Alberta ’s oil sands to refineries in the U.S.  Gulf Coast .  Supporters of the project said the pipeline poses minimal
environmental risks and would create thousands of jobs.  People on both sides of the debate started lining up
outside the Grand Island, Nebraska, site of the hearing five
hours early in blowing snow and sub-freezing temperatures for a
chance to speak today at the only public hearing on a U.S.
environmental analysis of the project.  The U.S. State Department was scheduled to hear testimony
about its draft environmental impact assessment of the new route
from noon until 8 p.m. local time at the Heartland Event Center.
More than 400 people were in the audience. The turnout appeared
lower than the a September 2011 hearing in Lincoln, the state
capital, where residents said the original route threatened
Nebraska’s Sand Hills region.  The agency’s analysis examined a new path that Calgary-
based TransCanada proposed after President  Barack Obama  rejected
following complaints from Nebraska landowners and state
politicians. He encouraged TransCanada to reapply for a permit
that would resolve those concerns.  Farms, Ranches  The State Department has jurisdiction because Keystone
crosses an international border.  The course now juts further east to avoid the Sand Hills
region, according to the state’s Department of Environmental
Quality. Critics say the project still threatens farms and
ranches and the Ogallala aquifer underneath.  “Our soil is so fragile, the oil will go down to our water
when it leaks,” said Ron Crumly, who operates a 1,500 acre corn
and soybean farm outside O’Neill, Nebraska. Crumly, 62, and his
wife, Jeanne, 60, got in line at 7 a.m. for a chance to tell
State Department officials their concerns.  The proposed re-route would cut across the Crumly’s
property.  Ronnie Hill drove 11 hours from his home in Kosse,  Texas ,
to speak in support of the pipeline, which would carry bitumen
from Alberta’s oil sands to refineries on the Gulf Coast.  Union Jobs  “We want the pipeline to be built as safely as possible,”
Hill said, as he stood in line waiting to sign up to speak. A
welder, he said his union stood to benefit from building
Keystone. “If they use union labor, it will be.”  Today’s hearing is the only public event the State
Department is holding to receive comments about its
environmental analysis.  “What we hear today really informs what goes into the
final,” Kerri-Ann Jones, assistant secretary of state for
oceans and international environmental and scientific affairs,
told reporters before the hearing.  Public complaints about the original route led to the
decision by the administration to block it, she said.  The sides were easy to delineate. Opponents wore white T-
shirts and black armbands that said “pipeline fighter.” They
stood up in support of critics and sometimes jeered industry
representatives who said the pipeline could be built and
operated safely and would improve U.S. energy security.  Wearing Orange  Many supporters were dressed in orange, the color of the
Laborers International Union of  North America , which sees
Keystone as a source of jobs.  The critics appeared to outnumber the supporters of the
project.  The State Department is gathering comments on its
environmental assessment, released in March. It didn’t make a
recommendation as to whether the pipeline should be built. It
did conclude that there was no compelling environmental reasons
why it shouldn’t be.  While construction of the pipeline could lead to soil
erosion and spills might leak into groundwater sources, the
risks could be mitigated and the threats localized, according to
the State Department’s environmental assessment.  Environmental groups complained about the report’s finding
that Keystone wouldn’t significantly worsen  climate change  by
encouraging development of the Alberta tar sands.  Climate Change  The mining and processing of the bitumen releases more
 greenhouse gases  than most forms of conventional drilling. The
State Department analysis concluded that the fuel would be still
be used -- carried by rail or through other pipelines -- if
Keystone was blocked.  The department is accepting public comments on its draft
analysis through April 22. Other federal departments, including
the Environmental Protection Agency, which criticized a prior
analysis by the State Department, will also weigh in before a
final decision, which may come in September.  The State Department will post all public comments on its
review of the pipeline on a website, reversing a position
disclosed in March, Kerri-Ann Jones said.  The department also will provide additional chances for
comment during the National Interest Determination period, she
said.  Before the hearing, TransCanada officials said they had
added safety features to address concerns of a spill.  “Keystone will be a safe line to bring products we all
need to live our daily lives,” said Corey Goulet, vice
president for Keystone Pipeline Projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  