-- Knicks Fans Facing Increased Postseason Security After Bombings
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-18T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/knicks-fans-to-face-increased-postseason-security-after-bombings.html
Ticket holders at the  New York
Knicks ’ game last night were greeted with tighter security at
the National Basketball Association team’s first home game since
the deadly  Boston Marathon bombings .  Chris Reynolds, who watched with his 8-year-old son as the
Knicks beat the Atlanta Hawks 98-92 in their final regular-
season game, said he missed the tipoff because the line to enter
Madison Square Garden took longer than usual. He said there was
an increased police presence in front of the arena and in Penn
Station, where his train arrived from  New Jersey .  “After what happened at the marathon, I think I feel more
comfortable with the increase in security at the game,”
Reynolds, 43, said in an interview. “It has to help that the
arena is on top of  Penn Station .”  The Knicks face the  Boston Celtics  in the first round of
the NBA playoffs starting April 20. Game Three of that series
will be the first Celtics game in Boston since the attacks.  Knicks forward  Steve Novak  said he’s looking forward to the
emotion in Boston’s TD Garden when New York plays there next
week. He said when  Hurricane Sandy  struck New York at the
beginning of the season, sports provided a distraction for many
in the area.  “Sports have that power to heal and people aren’t going to
have forgotten about this by the time we get to Boston,” he
said.  Dog Patrols  Amtrak Police K-9 dogs patrolled sidewalks outside Madison
Square Garden and security officials conducted thorough scans of
people entering the building last night, two days after twin
bombings in  Boston  killed three people and injured at least 175.  A former New York law enforcement official said the block
that contains the arena and the train station, which services
roughly 600,000 travelers per day, is one of the three Manhattan
areas with the most intense law enforcement presence, along with
Times Square and the Financial District.  Pasquale D’Amuro, former head of the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation’s New York office, said that intense security is
needed.  “You’ve had threats against sporting events, you’ve had
threats against transportation nodes and that contains both of
them at that particular location,” D’Amuro, chairman and chief
executive of New York-based Global Risk & Investigative
Diligence LLC, said in a telephone interview.  Multiple Agencies  Richard Falkenrath , former New York Police Department
deputy commissioner for counterterrorism, said the area was also
unique in the amount of different law enforcement groups
present. They include the New York Police Department,
Metropolitan Transportation Authority Police, New Jersey Transit
police, Amtrak Police and the Garden’s security teams, sometimes
supplemented by Transportation Security Administration officers,
Port Authority police and the National Guard.  Now principal of the Chertoff Group, Falkenrath said in an
interview that the block is “in the first tier” of New York
properties that sees additional security when there are safety
concerns in any high-profile American city.  Barry Watkins, a spokesman for MSG, declined in an e-mail
to comment on whether the arena changed its own security
procedures for the game. Watkins said the Garden was working
with the NBA and local law enforcement to ensure the safety and
security of its employees and fans.  Players in both locker rooms said they were not worried
about security inside the building, and noticed nothing abnormal
when they entered the arena.  Players’ Reaction  “They always check bags and look at what’s coming in,”
Hawks guard DeShawn Stevenson said before the game. “Everything
was pretty much the same.”  For fans, the security was enhanced and efficient,
according to Jack Borcelli, a New Jersey resident who said he’s
been to a handful of games this year. He said guards scanned him
with a metal-detection hand wand before entering the game, which
has not always happened in the past.  “I got in in about five minutes,” Borcelli, 50, said in
an interview. “It was definitely increased, they were wanding
everybody and the dogs were out front, but I think they did a
great job.”  There was increased security two nights ago at Yankee
Stadium in the Bronx, where fans observed a moment of silence to
honor victims of the bombing and sang along to “Sweet
Caroline,” a staple at Boston Red Sox home games, at the end of
the third inning.  Bruins Game  Boston’s TD Garden tightened its security last night when
the  National Hockey League ’s Bruins got the point they needed to
clinch a playoff berth with a 3-2 loss in a shootout to the
 Buffalo Sabres .  Security at sporting events changed dramatically after the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, according to Wayne Hasenbalg, president
and chief executive of New Jersey Sports & Exposition Authority.
He said that, while it is easier to plan security at a closed
venue such as an arena, it is important to provide adequate
security without impeding the fan experience, such as the amount
of time it takes to enter the venue.  “That’s a delicate balance,” he said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  