-- Knicks’ $630 Playoff Tickets Are Priciest as Nets Lag
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-19T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/knicks-630-playoff-ticket-is-priciest-as-nets-lag.html
The  New York Knicks  are a tougher
ticket than Brooklyn’s Nets as New York becomes a two-team
National Basketball Association playoff city for the first time.  Secondary-market tickets for the Knicks’ four possible
first-round games at Madison Square Garden are listing for an
average of $630, according to ticket aggregator  TiqIQ . That’s 72
percent higher than tickets for the Nets’ best-of-seven series
at the Barclays Center, which average $367.  The Knicks, a No. 2 seed in the Eastern Conference after
winning the  Atlantic Division  with a 54-28 record, host the No.
7 seed  Boston Celtics  tomorrow afternoon. At night, the fourth-
seeded Nets, who moved this season from  Newark ,  New Jersey , host
the fifth-seeded  Chicago Bulls .  Averaging $461 a ticket including the games in  Boston , the
Knicks-Celtics series is the highest priced of any first-round
matchup because New York earned its best seed since reaching the
1994 NBA Finals, TiqIQ spokesman Chris Matcovich said.  “With them playing so well this year it definitely has
helped increase prices,” Matcovich said in a telephone
interview, also citing increased primary ticket costs following
an arena renovation. “Clinching a two seed instead of backing
in, playing really well from start to finish, has fans excited
that they can get out of the first round.”  In 1994, the Knicks reached the finals, where they lost to
the Houston Rockets in seven games.  The Knicks, the oldest team in the NBA at an average age of
more than 31, enter the postseason with injuries. Forward
Carmelo Anthony, who won his first NBA scoring title by
averaging 28.7 points per game, missed the team’s past two
contests with a shoulder injury. Rasheed Wallace retired two
days ago because of a foot injury and Amar’e Stoudemire,  Tyson Chandler , Kenyon Martin and Marcus Camby all were sidelined to
end the regular season.  Sprained Ankle  Knicks backup point guard Pablo Prigioni sprained his right
ankle two nights ago in the team’s regular-season finale and is
questionable for Game 1. Stoudemire probably won’t play against
the Celtics while Chandler will, Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  told
reporters yesterday, according to the New York Daily News.  Still, the Knicks went 16-2 to close the regular season,
including a 13-game winning streak from March 18-April 9.  The Knicks have the fourth-shortest odds, at 18-1, to win
their first NBA title since 1973, according to Las Vegas Sports
Consultants, which advises Nevada sports books on gambling
lines. Last year’s champion, the  Miami Heat , are favored to
repeat, with 5-9 odds after a league-best 66-16 record.  The Oklahoma City Thunder, which earned the top seed in the
Western Conference with a 60-22 record, have 9-2 odds, meaning a
$100 bet on the Thunder to win the title would net $450. That
same bet on the Heat to repeat would net $55.56.  Public Opinion  “As far as the betting public and what money is coming in
on, nobody thinks the Heat are not going to the finals,” Greg
Stockdale, an oddsmaker for Las Vegas Consultants, said in a
telephone interview. “They really don’t face any stiff
competition in the East, so the best chance they have to lose is
whoever they have from the West.”  The  San Antonio Spurs  have the third-shortest odds to win
the title at 7-1. Championship odds for other playoff teams are:
the  Los Angeles Clippers , 20-1; Denver Nuggets, 22-1;  Indiana
Pacers  and Memphis Grizzlies, 35-1; Chicago Bulls, 40-1; Nets
and Los Angeles Lakers, 50-1; Celtics, 70-1;  Golden State
Warriors  and  Houston Rockets , 80-1; Atlanta Hawks, 250-1, and
Milwaukee Bucks, 400-1.  The Nets went 49-33 to earn a No. 4 seed in the East,
qualifying for the playoffs for the first time since 2007. The
Nets’ previous NBA season in the state of New York was 1976-77,
its first in the league, when the former American Basketball
Association team played at the Nassau Coliseum on Long Island,
going 22-60. The franchise moved to New Jersey the following
season.  First Game  Game 3 between the Knicks and Celtics on April 26 will be
the first NBA contest in Boston since the April 15 bombings at
the city’s annual marathon that killed three people and injured
more than 170. While the cheapest tickets for the first two
games in  New York  are averaging around $156, fans can get into
Games 3 and 4 in Boston for less than $60 each.  “If Knicks fans are willing to travel, there’s tremendous
value going up to Boston,” Matcovich said. “Especially since
it’s two weekend games, Friday night and Sunday afternoon, I’m
assuming there will be a good influx of Knicks fans heading up
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  