-- Kocherlakota Says Low Fed Rates Create Financial Instability
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-18T15:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/kocherlakota-sees-fed-s-low-rates-creating-financial-instability.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the central bank’s low
interest-rate policies, though necessary, will probably generate
signs of financial instability.  “Unusually low real interest rates should be expected to
be linked with inflated asset prices, high asset return
volatility and heightened merger activity,” Kocherlakota said
today in the prepared text of a speech in  New York . “All of
these financial market outcomes are often interpreted as
signifying financial market instability.” He told reporters
later he doesn’t see financial instability as imminent.  Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  and Kansas City Fed President
Esther George are among those who have voiced concerns that an
extended period of low interest rates is heightening the risk of
asset bubbles in markets such as  junk bonds  and farmland.  While George has dissented from this year’s  Federal Open
Market Committee  decisions because of this risk, Kocherlakota is
among the strongest supporters of additional monetary stimulus
on the committee.  In speeches earlier this month, Kocherlakota said he sees
an “ongoing modest recovery” with unemployment staying at 7
percent or more through late 2014. The slow recovery calls for
“more accommodation,” he said in a speech, repeating his call
to postpone consideration of any increase in  interest rates . He
doesn’t vote on policy this year.  Dual Mandate  “It is likely that, for a number of years to come, the
FOMC will only achieve its dual mandate of maximum employment
and price stability if it keeps real interest rates unusually
low,” Kocherlakota said at the Levy Economics Institute’s 22nd
Annual Hyman P. Minsky Conference.  The Minneapolis Fed chief has said the central bank should
hold its target interest rate near zero until  unemployment  falls
to 5.5 percent. That’s a percentage point below the 6.5 percent
threshold that has been adopted by the FOMC.  Answering audience questions, Kocherlakota said the
recovery in the housing market is evidence that the Fed’s
monthly purchases of $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage
securities are effective.  “They are having an impact on the economy,” he said.
“Look at what’s going on in the mortgage market.”  “It would be nice if we did even more along those lines
because I think our tools have been effective,” he said. “In
the housing market, in particular, you’ve certainly seen direct
effects of that kind of stimulus.”  Growth Outlook  Kocherlakota told reporters that the current growth outlook
is sufficient to raise inflation, currently measured at 1.3
percent by the Fed’s preferred price gauge, closer to the Fed’s
goal of 2 percent.  “It’s very important to protect the target both from
above, which gets so much attention, but from below as well,”
he said.  “Given the stimulus we’re providing, given the growth I
see in the economy, 2.5 percent in 2013, 3 percent in 2014, that
kind of growth I see as sufficient to put upward pressure on
inflation,” Kocherlakota said.  He said he’s already “in favor of more accommodation” and
further declines in the inflation rate would make him “even
more” supportive of additional stimulus.  In his speech, Kocherlakota said that “for a considerable
period of time,” the FOMC may only be able to “achieve its
macroeconomic objectives in association with signs of
instability in financial markets. These financial market
phenomena could pose macroeconomic risks. In my view, these
potentialities are best addressed using effective supervision
and regulation of the financial sector.”  “The low interest-rate environment” in coming years
“will put even more pressure on the regulatory framework,”
Kocherlakota told reporters after his speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  