-- Krauss-Maffei to Sell Tanks to Qatar in 2.5 Billion Accord
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-04-18T09:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/krauss-maffei-to-sell-tanks-to-qatar-in-2-5-billion-accord-1-.html
Krauss-Maffei Wegmann GmbH & Co.
KG, the German military vehicle maker, won a 1.89 billion euro
($2.47 billion) contract from Qatar to modernize the Middle East
country’s fleet of tanks and self-propelled howitzers.  The deal covers the export of 62 Leopard 2 tanks and 24 PzH
2000 Howitzers, the closely held Munich-based arms maker said in
a  statement . The accord also includes training and other
support, it said.  Middle East buyers  have become increasingly important to
sustaining sales for U.S. and European arms makers as home
markets contract.  Saudi Arabia  is also exploring the purchase of
Leopard 2 tanks, considered among the world’s most advanced
battle vehicles.  The equipment being sold to Qatar will replace French and
South African machinery, the German manufacturer said. Delivery
of the vehicles, which are all new build, will unfold over
several years, the company said by e-mail. KMW says its vehicles
and weapon systems are used by armed forces of more than 30
nations worldwide.  The company has sold more than 3,000 Leopard 2 tanks, which
can weigh as much as 63 metric tons. Its weapons system,
including a 120mm smooth bore gun, is supplied by Dusseldorf,
Germany-based  Rheinmetall AG. (RHM)  The PzH 2000 howitzer is jointly
produced by Rheinmetall’s defense unit and KMW, with Rheinmetall
responsible for about half of total content.  Stock Gains  Rheinmetall rose as much as 1.43 euros, or 4.1 percent, to
36.68 euros, the most in two months, and traded at 36.62 euros
at 11.09 a.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at 1.45 billion
euros.  “For Rheinmetall, the share of the tanks order may well be
more than 200 million euros, plus additional orders from shared
production of the howitzers,´´ said Benjamin Glaeser, an analyst
at Berenberg Bank in  London . ‘‘Germany’s government approving an
order to Qatar may mean additional orders may have a better
chance of getting approval.’’  The German government has sanctioned the deal, KMW said.
 Germany ’s Economic Ministry didn’t immediately return a phone
call seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  