-- N. Korea Missile Report Released by Mistake, Clapper Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-04-18T19:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/n-korea-missile-report-released-by-mistake-clapper-says.html
The  Defense Intelligence Agency ’s
declaration that  North Korea  may be able to arm its long-range
missiles with nuclear warheads was supposed to remain secret,
the top U.S. intelligence official said today.  “The statement in question was one sentence in a seven-
page classified report and was mistakenly miscategorized as
unclassified,” Director of National Intelligence James Clapper
told the Senate Armed Services Committee.  The sentence said the DIA “assesses with moderate
confidence the North currently has nuclear weapons capable of
delivery by ballistic missiles however the reliability will be
low.”  After the excerpt was disclosed at an April 11 U.S. House
of Representatives hearing, Clapper and Pentagon spokesman
 George Little  disputed it, with the intelligence director saying
North Korea hasn’t “demonstrated the full range of capabilities
necessary for a nuclear-armed missile.” President  Barack Obama 
and Secretary of State  John Kerry  later challenged the DIA
assessment, too.  Today, Clapper said the unusual public debate reflected
normal disagreements among intelligence agencies, especially on
difficult target countries such as North Korea, not infighting
in the 16-agency intelligence community.  U.S. intelligence agencies “lack uniform agreement on
assessing many things in North Korea,” Clapper said. “Its
actual nuclear capabilities are no exception.”  ‘Confidence Level’  The difference between the DIA and other intelligence
agencies “has to do with the confidence level in the actual
ability of the North Koreans to make a weapon that will work in
a missile,” he said.  “Neither we nor the North Koreans know” whether “such a
capability, if they have it, will actually work,” Clapper said.  “And so DIA has a higher confidence level than the rest of
the community on that capability,” he said. “That’s the
difference.”  Clapper said varying assessments by different intelligence
agencies reflect a diversity of views that’s encouraged.  “This revelation is illustrative of the standard dilemma
we in the intelligence community face in portraying what we know
to be fact in contrast to what we attempt to impute from those
facts,” Clapper said.  The DIA frequently takes a more extreme view of the
capability of potential enemy military forces than the State
Department and other agencies do, largely because it’s charged
with ensuring that U.S. forces are prepared for any threat.  Collaborative Process  The DIA assessment of North Korea’s nuclear missile
capabilities was the product of a collaborative, competitive
process that’s evolved since 2002 after the intelligence
community mischaracterized the existence and extent of  Iraq ’s
purported weapons of mass destruction, Clapper said.  “We learned lessons from that experience,” he said.  In that case, though, CIA, State Department and other
officials expressed numerous doubts and dissents about the
intelligence on  Saddam Hussein ’s weaponry, but political
appointees in the George W. Bush administration ignored them in
their effort to make a case for invading Iraq.  Clapper said the intelligence community now “is in process
of generating an overall assessment” of North Korea’s nuclear
missile capabilities.  “If we all agree, great. If we don’t, that’s healthy,
too,” Clapper said. “We will clearly portray the views of the
various members to our consumers,” including the president, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  