-- N.Z. Opposition Would Force Power Companies to Split Structures
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-18T02:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/n-z-opposition-would-force-power-companies-to-split-structures.html
New Zealand electricity companies
would be required to separate their generation and retailing
businesses under a new industry structure proposed by the
opposition Labour and Green parties.  The proposal includes creating a new industry regulator to
act as the sole buyer of wholesale electricity with the power to
set prices, according to details of the plan on the Labour
 website . Labour trails the ruling  National Party  in opinion
polls ahead of an election due by the end of 2014.  The government has begun selling shares in its three state-
owned generators, with the offer of as much as 49 percent of
Mighty River Power Ltd. Offers of shares in Meridian Energy Ltd.
and Genesis Power Ltd. are also planned. All three companies
have retail units, as does the largest publicly traded power
company Contact Energy Ltd.  “This policy is likely to have an impact on share
prices,” Labour leader David Shearer said in a statement on the
website, adding that he has asked the Mighty River Power board
and its shareholding ministers to issue a supplementary
disclosure to the offer documents.  Contact shares fell 2.6 percent to NZ$5.57 as at 2:05 p.m.
in Wellington.  Under Labour, power companies would have to separate their
retail arms into standalone companies with their own management
and boards, according to the plan. They won’t initially need to
be spun-off, although this may be necessary to ensure benefits
to retail customers, it said.  The new industry entity, to be called NZ Power, would pay
generators a return for their actual costs, and would therefore
be able to sell power to retailers at lower prices, Labour said.
NZ Power would plan for new generation and invite offers to
build plants. It would replace the Electricity Authority and
take over the relevant powers of the Commerce Commission and the
Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  