-- Naira Retreats Third Day as Nigerian Oil Prices, Production Fall
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-04-18T11:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/naira-retreats-third-day-as-nigerian-oil-prices-production-fall.html
The naira slid for a third day on
concern slumping oil prices and production will weaken Nigeria’s
foreign exchange reserves and government finances.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer depreciated
0.2 percent to 158.63 per dollar by 11:44 a.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital. The naira has retreated 1.6 percent this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qua Iboe and  Bonny Light crude , the nation’s main export
grades, both slid for a seventh day to their lowest levels since
July 2012. West Texas Intermediate oil yesterday fell for the
fourth time in five days as a U.S. government report showed
production rose to the highest level since July 1992 and
gasoline demand waned.  “This implies that the government will be less able to
build up reserves in the Excess Crude Account, thereby exposing
the economy to a possible oil price shock,” Melissa Verreynne,
an analyst at NKC Independent Economists, said in an e-mailed
note from Paarl in South Africa. “In addition, the oil
benchmark price was increased from the previous year’s budget,
while global oil prices are expected to average lower this year
than in 2012.”  Nigeria sets a price per barrel when calculating oil
revenue in the budget, and saves any money collected above that
level in the Excess Crude Account to meet spending shortfalls.
President Goodluck Jonathan in February approved this year’s
budget after lawmakers raised the benchmark oil price to $79 a
barrel from the $75 proposed by the government.  The Central Bank of Nigeria uses the country’s reserves to
stabalize the naira, selling dollars to lenders at twice-a-week
auctions.  Production Falls  The West African nation’s oil production fell below
projections in the first quarter due to crude theft and pipe
line sabotage, the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.
said yesterday. The output ranged from 2.1 million barrels per
day to 2.3 million barrels per day, less than an estimated 2.48
million barrels per day, it said.  Nigeria depends on crude exports for 80 percent of
government revenue and 95 percent of its export income. The
nation’s  foreign exchange reserves  have climbed 10 percent this
year to $48.7 billion as at April 16, according to central bank
data published on its website.  Borrowing costs on Nigeria’s local-currency debt due
January 2022 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
11.11 percent, according to yesterday’s prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nigeria’s  inflation rate  eased to 8.6 percent in March,
from 9.5 percent in February, the lowest in almost five years,
as the effect of higher fuel prices a year ago fell out of the
calculation, the West African nation’s statistics bureau said
yesterday.  Yields on Nigeria’s $500 million of Eurobonds due January
2021 slipped three basis points to 4.032 percent today.  Ghana ’s cedi climbed less than 0.1 percent to 1.9475 per
dollar in Accra, gaining for the first time in three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  