-- NBK Gains on Most Trading in 3 Years After Profit: Kuwait Mover
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-04-18T11:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/nbk-gains-on-most-trading-in-3-years-after-profit-kuwait-mover.html
National Bank of Kuwait  gained on
the biggest trading volume in almost three years after the
country’s largest lender reported first-quarter profit that beat
estimates and said this year’s outlook is “promising”.  More than 38 million of the bank’s  shares  were traded, 26
times the three-month daily average and the most since August
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank known as
NBK rose 1.1 percent to 940 fils at the close in Kuwait. The
benchmark Kuwait SE Price  Index (KWSEIDX)  fell 0.1 percent.  NBK advanced for the first time in three days after the
bank reported late yesterdayprofit of 81.3 million dinars ($285
million), exceeding the 79.5 million-dinar estimate of four
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the  third quarter  in a
row it has topped expectations, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Kuwaiti banks are poised to benefit as the government revives a
$110 billion spending plan that may spur corporate lending,
according to Standard & Poor’s said last month.  “The stock is active today and is trading on huge volumes
after it reported first-quarter figures,” said Fadi Al Said, a
senior fund manager at ING Investment Management in Dubai.  Government plans to accelerate implementation of projects
is positive for the bank, Chief Executive Officer Ibrahim
Dabdoub said in a statement yesterday. The lender’s full-year
profit is set to rise 3 percent, the fastest since 2010, the
average estimate of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg shows.  NBK’s shares may be fairly valued, according to Al Said.
Six analysts have a hold recommendation on the shares while two
recommend selling them, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock gained 2.8 percent this year, underperforming a 19
percent jump in  Kuwait ’s gauge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  