-- Nestle Has Slowest 1st-Quarter Sales Growth in Four Years
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-04-18T09:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/nestle-has-slowest-1st-quarter-sales-growth-in-4-years.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
maker, said full-year sales will be at the lower end of a
forecast after reporting its slowest first-quarter revenue
growth since 2009.  Nestle now  expects  sales growth excluding acquisitions,
divestments and currency swings to be nearer to the bottom of a
5 percent to 6 percent range, investor relations chief Roddy Child-Villiers said in a webcast with analysts today.  Emerging markets are decelerating after sales growth of
more than 10 percent in the past two years, and the Vevey,
Switzerland-based maker of DiGiorno pizzas is also suffering
from weaker demand for its frozen foods, water, ice cream, and
diet products in the U.S. and  Europe .  “We see the past two years of aggressive  emerging markets 
growth development now running out of steam and the prospects
for a tight delivery on the Nestle model in 2013 will concern
the market,” wrote David Hayes, an analyst at Nomura, using the
company’s terminology for its long-term sales target.  Sales growth has beat Nestle’s target for six of the past
10 years. The last time the KitKat maker missed the goal was in
2009.  Nestle’s  so-called organic sales growth  was 4.3 percent in
the first quarter, falling short of the 4.7 percent average
estimate of 21  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg. It’s the third
consecutive quarterly miss, which hasn’t happened in at least 11
years, according to Andrew Wood, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein.  Shares Decline  Nestle  stock  dropped as much as 2.4 percent in Zurich
trading and was down 1.1 percent at 11:02 a.m., extending
yesterday’s decline of 2.4 percent. That was the biggest two-day
decline since Aug. 19, 2011 on an intraday basis. The stock is
up 6.7 percent this  year .  Earlier this week,  Danone (BN)  said like-for-like revenue rose
5.6 percent in the first quarter, beating analysts’ estimates,
as renewed concern in  China  over the safety of baby-food
products caused consumers to turn to established brands.
Nestle’s infant nutrition revenue rose more than 10 percent in
the quarter.  Nestle said sales were hurt by “softening” in certain
emerging markets like Asia and after the destruction of a
factory in  Syria  that supplied the Middle East. Revenue advanced
4.4 percent in the Asia, Oceania and  Africa  region, below
analysts’ estimates and less than half of the 11 percent growth
in the same quarter last year. The miss in Asia, Oceania and
Africa was the “real stand out” in the results, according to
Jeff Stent, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  ‘Rather Odd’  “This is not what people own Nestle for,” Stent wrote in
a note to clients. “It seems rather odd to us that Nestle
claims to be holding or growing its market shares in the
region.”  Volume increased 2.3 percent, the slowest growth since the
third quarter of 2011.  Four of the company’s seven product categories missed the
company’s long-term sales target of 5 percent to 6 percent. They
were beverages, water, milk and ice cream, and prepared dishes.  “The overall result was disappointing and the company is
trying to bring down expectations after a slower-than-expected
start to the year,” Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets, said by phone. “It was a pretty downbeat call.”  ‘Lumpiness’ Foreseen  In February, Chief Financial Officer Wan Ling Martello told
analysts to expect “lumpiness” in Nestle’s results in 2013 as
price increases provide less of a lift than in past years.
Higher prices contributed 2 percent to first-quarter sales
growth, more than analysts’ estimates of 1.2 percent. Pricing
boosted sales in the year-earlier period by 4.4 percent.  Revenue at the Nestle Waters unit gained 1.8 percent, down
from 6.4 percent last year, hurt by “intense” price pressure
in the U.S. and the late arrival of spring, the company said.
Nestle owns Pure Life, the world’s largest bottled-water brand.  Nestle cut prices on Gold Blend Nescafe in  Russia  last
year. Switzerland, a market where the company gets about 2
percent of sales, has had pressure on prices for four years,
Eugenio Simioni, head of the business, said April 11.  Sales in a business unit that includes the Nespresso
single-serve coffee business and a unit that sells to
restaurants and caterers rose 4.2 percent, less than half of the
8.7 percent growth generated in 2012. Nespresso had a slower
start to the year than last year as it faced increasing
competition, such as capsules from Swiss retailer Migros, Child-
Villiers said on the conference call.  Nespresso Target  This is the first time in four quarters that Nestle didn’t
say that Nespresso generated sales growth of at least 10
percent. The company did say Nespresso sales grew in all the
regions it’s sold and reiterated a target for the brand to
increase full-year revenue by about 500 million francs.  “The start to the year reflects the caution we expressed
in February,” Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said in a
statement. “We continue to expect some volatility throughout
2013.”  In Europe, where the company said consumer sentiment
remains low, sales grew 1.5 percent. Frozen food and pizza had a
“weak start,” in part due to concerns over horse meat found in
frozen meat dishes, while ice cream sales suffered due to the
cold weather, the company said. Revenue in the Americas region
grew 5.3 percent, helped by “strong” growth of dairy and ice
cream in  Mexico .  Organic sales at Nestle’s nutrition unit, which also makes
BabyNes baby-formula capsules and Jenny Craig weight-loss
products, increased 7.6 percent in the quarter, yet were hurt as
sales of weight-management products continued to decline. Child-
Villiers said the company was “not expecting immediate
improvement” in that category.  Separately,  Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN)  said it agreed
to buy licenses to sell Nestle infant formula in  Australia  and
southern African countries for $215 million. Nestle is selling
assets after its $11.9 billion purchase of Pfizer Inc.’s Wyeth
infant nutrition business to comply with antitrust regulators.  Sales of prepared dishes and cooking aids declined 0.1
percent. Pet care was the category that grew the most, with
revenue increasing 7.9 percent in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  