-- New Mexico Gay Marriage Lawsuit May End Couple’s Decade in Limbo
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-18T04:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/new-mexico-gay-marriage-lawsuit-may-end-couple-s-decade-in-limbo.html
When a  New Mexico  county clerk
began issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples in 2004,
Mary Houdek and her longtime partner Norma Vasquez were the
first in line.  The women, among 64 same-sex couples allowed to wed in
Sandoval County before commissioners sued to halt the practice,
have been in limbo ever since. New Mexico, whose voters backed a
Republican governor in 2010 and President  Barack Obama , a
Democrat, in the past two presidential elections, is the only
U.S. state that has no law related to same-sex marriage or civil
unions.  Now, as the U.S. Supreme Court weighs gay marriage for the
first time, two lesbian couples recently denied marriage
licenses are suing in state court. The case is the first since
the 2004 lawsuit, which was dropped, and it may eventually
determine whether other gay couples in New Mexico can wed.  “I think the time has come -- and it came a long time
ago,” Houdek, 64, said in a telephone interview from her home
in Rio Rancho.  The case in New Mexico, where legislative proposals to
allow and ban gay marriage both failed this year, comes as
public opinion nationwide is shifting toward acceptance of same-
sex relationships. Support for gay marriage has increased in
every state in the U.S. by an average of almost 14 percent since
2004 when it was legalized in the first state,  Massachusetts ,
according to a  study  released this month by the Williams
Institute, a public policy think-tank at the  University of
California , Los Angeles law school. It found 47 percent support
in New Mexico, up from 38 percent.  Seventh-Highest  New Mexico had the seventh-highest concentration of same-
sex couples in the country in 2010, according to an analysis of
U.S. Census data by the Williams Institute. There were 5,825
same-sex couples living in the state, or 7.4 for every 1,000
households, compared with 5.5 per 1,000 households nationwide.  The lawsuit by the  American Civil Liberties Union  was filed
two weeks after the Supreme Court heard arguments in same-sex
marriage cases. In one involving the legality of  California ’s
Proposition 8 ban, approved by 52 percent of voters in 2008, the
court is considering whether the U.S. Constitution gives same-
sex couples the right to wed. The high court is also reviewing
the constitutionality of a federal law, the 1996 Defense of
Marriage Act, which defines marriage as a heterosexual union and
prohibits gay spouses from claiming federal benefits. The court
may rule on the cases by the end of June.  State Prohibitions  Thirty-eight states prohibit same-sex marriage either in
their constitutions or statutes.  Nine states  and  Washington ,
D.C., allow it, including three states where voters authorized
it last year.  Rhode Island  and  New Jersey  also don’t have a law
one way or the other; they are among nine states that offer
equivalent spousal rights through civil unions or domestic
partnerships, according to the Washington-based  Human Rights
Campaign . That includes  Colorado , which voted last month
legalized same-sex civil unions.  Lawmakers in Rhode Island,  Delaware ,  Minnesota  and  Illinois 
are considering measures to allow gay marriage while a measure
to ban it in  Indiana  has stalled, said Marty Rouse, national
field director for the HRC.  “New Mexico is almost a picture of America today regarding
same-sex marriage,” said Rouse. “It’s a state that is
teetering in the middle.”  Push to Legalize  This year brought the first strong push to legalize gay
marriage there after lawmakers had rejected bans year after
year, he said.  “It is clear the momentum is on the side of marriage
equality,” he said.  Last month,  Santa Fe  Mayor David Coss and Councilor Patti
Bushee introduced a resolution asserting that gay marriage is
legal under state law and calling on county clerks to issue
marriage licenses to same-sex couples. Attorney General Gary King, a Democrat, is weighing the issue and is expected to
release an opinion soon, spokesman Phil Sisneros said in an e-
mail. The New Mexico Conference of Catholic Bishops reiterated
 its opposition  to gay marriage on March 27. The state is more
than one-fourth Catholic, according to  a 2008 report  from the
Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life.  “Protecting the institution of marriage from new
definitions we believe guards this institution which is unique
and irreplaceable,” the bishops wrote in their statement, which
also called for respect and tolerance of homosexuals.  Legal Rights  Denying marriage licenses to gay couples violates their
rights to equal protection under New Mexico’s constitution, the
ACLU alleged in its complaint filed March 21 in state court in
 Albuquerque . The plaintiffs were turned down for marriage
licenses by the Bernalillo County Clerk’s office because they
were the same gender, according to the complaint.  Maggie Toulouse Oliver, the county clerk named as the
defendant in the case, said that while she supports gay
marriage, New Mexico law requires that a marriage license
application be completed by one male and one female applicant.  “That’s been the basis of why I and my fellow clerks have
not issued them,” Oliver said in a March 21 phone interview.
The marriages of the so-called “Sandoval 64” are considered
valid, she said. The state also recognizes same-sex marriages
from other states after a 2011 opinion from King.  The content of the marriage license form doesn’t trump the
protections in the state’s constitution, said Elizabeth Gill,
staff attorney with the LGBT and AIDS project at the ACLU in  San
Francisco .  ‘Long History’  “New Mexico has a long history of respecting the rights of
individuals and freedom for all folks,” she said.  The state’s protections for gay residents include one of
the country’s first anti-discrimination laws to include both
sexual orientation and gender identity. That 2003 law has made
the state a focal point for opponents of gay marriage in a case
involving a photographer who refused to shoot a lesbian
commitment ceremony in 2006. The owner of Elane Photography in
Albuquerque was ordered to pay almost $7,000 in attorney fees
for violating the law. Two lower courts upheld that order.  The  case , pending before the New Mexico Supreme Court, is
about discrimination and has nothing to do with gay marriage,
Gill said. Opponents of same-sex marriage, though, see the case
as a warning about how legalized gay marriage could impact
religious freedom, citing it in at least three amicus briefs
filed in the U.S. Supreme Court cases, said  Jim Campbell , legal
counsel for  Alliance Defending Freedom , a Scottsdale, Arizona-
based Christian legal group representing the photographer in the
New Mexico case and Proposition 8 proponents in the Supreme
Court case.  ‘Religious Liberty’  “People are paying attention to it because it illustrates
some of the religious liberty concerns with same-sex marriage,”
Campbell said. “If a case like that can arise in a state that
doesn’t recognize same-sex marriage, it would be far more likely
and far more difficult to defend against in a state that
recognizes gay marriage.”  For Houdek, clarity on New Mexico law is overdue. She said
her marriage is not always recognized. When her wife, who she
has been with for 26 years this month, added her to her state
employee health insurance they were treated as domestic
partners.  “We are not able to technically use our marriage license
for anything, but it is fully legal,” Houdek said. “It’s not
right. I know loving, committed couples and they should have the
same legal status as we do.”  The ACLU case is Griego v. Oliver, New Mexico Second
Judicial District Court, County of Bernalillo (Albuquerque). The
photographer’s case is Elane Photography LLC v. Willock, 33,687,
New Mexico  Supreme Court  (Santa Fe).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  