-- Nokia Sales Hit 13-Year Low as Phone Demand Falls Short
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-04-18T15:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/nokia-sales-drop-more-than-estimated-on-slow-phone-demand.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone
maker seeking a comeback, reported its smallest quarterly
revenue in 13 years as handset demand waned, missing analysts’
estimates and sending its stock down 8.3 percent.  First-quarter sales fell 20 percent to 5.85 billion euros
($7.6 billion), Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said today. Analysts
projected 6.52 billion euros, the average of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Mobile-phone volumes slumped 25 percent.  Competition from Asian manufacturers building phones that
run Google Inc.’s Android software is hurting demand for Nokia’s
basic handsets. The sales miss leaves Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Elop’s recovery effort in doubt, as nascent demand for
Nokia’s Lumia smartphones isn’t enough to offset plummeting
demand for the company’s cheaper models.  “The lower-end mobile-phone business is not doing well,”
 Mikko Ervasti , an analyst at Evli Bank Oyj in Helsinki, said in
a phone interview. “They need to start pushing their Microsoft-
based Lumias into cheaper prices to gain traction in  emerging
markets .”  Nokia fell to 2.42 euros at the close in Helsinki. The
 stock  tumbled 22 percent last year, its fifth straight annual
drop, and has lost 17 percent this year.  The revenue was the smallest since the third quarter of
1999, when Nokia was still a more diverse company with business
lines including computer monitors. Its focus on mobile phones
pushed quarterly revenue to a record 15.7 billion euros in 2007,
after which competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  led to sliding sales.  ‘Aggressive Moves’  Sales of the flagship Lumias running  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows software rose to 5.6 million units from 4.4 million in
the fourth quarter as Nokia added versions. Apple and Samsung
Electronics Co.’s quarterly smartphone sales exceed 100 million
units combined.  Nokia sold a total of 61.9 million mobile devices during
the three months. Analysts on average predicted 73 million
units, including 5.7 million Lumias.  “The decline in our mobile phones business was primarily
due to some competitive industry dynamics,” Elop said on a call
with reporters. Nokia is preparing “aggressive moves” to
respond, he said.  The company plans more competitive pricing, while new
products such as the Asha 310 with smartphone-like functions and
the ultra-affordable Nokia 105 should help sales, Elop said.  U.S. Device  Nokia is also preparing to introduce new smartphones, Elop
said, a category in which the company is seeking to break the
dominance of Apple’s iPhone and Samsung’s Galaxy devices. A
major U.S. wireless carrier is expected to introduce a Nokia
device “in the month immediately ahead,” Elop said.  Once the world’s largest smartphone maker, Nokia had more
than 50 percent of the market before Apple’s iPhone and Google’s
Android were introduced about six years ago. Nokia has lost
about 90 percent of its market value since then and fallen
outside the top-five smartphone makers.  In the last three months of 2012, Cupertino, California-
based Apple sold 47.8 million iPhones and  South Korea ’s Samsung,
the biggest maker of Android devices, sold 62 million
smartphones.  Elop, who joined from Microsoft, started betting on his
former employer’s operating system after Nokia’s homegrown
Symbian software fell out of favor among consumers.  Reducing Costs  Revenue at Nokia’s  handset business  slumped 32 percent to
2.89 billion euros. Operating profit at the unit, excluding some
items, was 0.1 percent of sales. The company had predicted a
margin of between negative 6 percent and positive 2 percent.  This quarter, that margin will be negative 2 percent, plus
or minus 4 percentage points, Nokia predicted. Evli’s Ervasti
predicts a margin of 0.7 percent.  To reduce costs, Elop has cut  more than 20,000 jobs  and
closed production and research sites since taking over in 2010.
For the last three months of 2012, the company posted its first
profit in seven quarters.  The first-quarter net loss narrowed to 272 million euros,
or 7 cents a share, from 928 million euros, 25 cents, a year
earlier.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the company’s equipment joint
venture with  Siemens AG (SIE) , posted a first-quarter operating profit
of 196 million euros, excluding some items, as sales fell 5
percent to 2.8 billion euros.  Nokia’s net cash increased to 4.5 billion euros from 4.4
billion euros at the end of December. Nokia’s debt is at  junk
status  with the three main rating companies. In January, Nokia
scrapped its dividend for the first time in at least 143 years
to bolster its liquidity position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  