-- Northern French Coal-Gas Gains Political Interest Amid Frack Ban
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-18T14:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/northern-french-coal-gas-gains-political-interest-amid-frack-ban.html
Developing  France ’s coal-gas fields
would be a profitable alternative to hydraulic fracturing, a
practice banned by the government, European Gas Ltd. said.  “Our projects are very robust,” Chief Executive Officer
Frederic Briens told a parliamentary hearing in Paris today.
Reserves may be sufficient to meet French demand for a decade.  Domestic production of coal gas, which is methane that can
be used for energy, is gaining political ground in France where
a ban on hydraulic fracturing blocks exploration and production
of shale oil and gas. Briens was speaking before a commission
charged with writing a report on alternatives to fracking, which
French lawmakers outlawed in 2011.  Coal-gas reserves in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais and Lorraine
regions “are of a strategic size for France,” Briens said.
Output could provide 15 percent of the country’s daily demand
and won’t require fracking, he said.  Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg , a long-time proponent
of domestic oil and gas production, has advocated pumping
methane from defunct coal mines and sees coal-gas development as
one way of keeping a lid on energy price gains.  “The reserves seem very promising,” Christian Bataille, a
deputy from the Nord region, said at the hearing. “It could
have a real impact on reducing our energy imports.”  EGL’s plans for about 30 production sites and 2,500 direct
and indirect jobs have the backing of local government and
farmers, Briens said.  EGL would use horizontal drilling from “low profile”
platforms to extract gas from underground coal seams, Briens
said. Initial tests from three wells indicate the permeability
of the coal is adequate to make production profitable at current
gas prices.  It may be possible to extract more than 10 billion cubic
meters of methane from the northern coal beds, French energy
think-tank IFP Energies Nouvelles said in a  report  earlier this
year. Even so, proven reserves are only about 865 million cubic
meters so far, the report shows. Annual French gas consumption
is about 50 billion cubic meters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  