-- North America Cocoa Grindings Unexpectedly Gain in First Quarter
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-04-18T22:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/north-america-cocoa-grindings-unexpectedly-gain-in-first-quarter.html
Cocoa processing in  North America 
unexpectedly gained for a second straight quarter, signaling
increasing consumption.  In the three months ended March 31, grindings, a measure of
demand, rose 5.8 percent to 125,887 metric tons from a year
earlier, the  National Confectioners Association  said today in a
report on its website. On average, traders and analysts expected
a drop to 118,061 tons, according to a Bloomberg survey. Last
quarter, processing was up 0.9 percent.  Cocoa prices are up 3.7 percent this year in New York, one
of four gainers among the 24 raw materials tracked by Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index, as prolonged rain delayed the harvest in
Indonesia. Global demand will outpace supplies by 50,000 tons
this season, Marex Spectron Group Ltd. estimates.  “This is a pleasant surprise for the bulls,”  Hector Galvan , a senior commodities broker at RJO Futures in Chicago,
said in an e-mail. “I would imagine in the near term that this
would add premium to the market. This is also likely going to
push end-users to move quickly to make further purchases.”  Global consumption will grow annually by 3 percent to 3.5
percent in the next five years, driven by  emerging markets ,
 Jonathan Parkman , the co-head of agriculture at Marex Spectron
Group in London, said in an interview April 11. In the week
ended April 9, money managers raised their cocoa net-long
position, or bets on a rally, by 18 percent, government data
show.  In Europe, bean processing fell 3.9 percent in the first
quarter, exceeding analyst expectations, a European Cocoa
Association report showed yesterday.  “Consumption is on an upward path and this continues,”
Arthur Liming, a vice president at Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago ,
said today in an e-mailed report. “While Europe is facing
particular issues, other areas of the globe should be able to
pick up the slack.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  