-- Obama Fans Out-Sing Beliebers on French Lab’s Twitter Yardstick
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-04-18T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/obama-fans-out-sing-beliebers-on-french-lab-s-twitter-yardstick.html
Justin Bieber’s 37 million
followers on Twitter make him the most-followed person on the
microblogging service. It doesn’t make him the most influential,
though, according to French mathematicians.  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s 29 million Twitter followers
repost his comments more often and for a longer time than
Bieber’s, giving him effectively a louder microphone than the
Canadian pop star, according to an application developed by
Paris-based  MFG Labs .  The group, founded by French mathematics professors three
years ago, released a beta version of  “Where Does My Tweet
Go?”  this month. The app measures the range and path a person’s
posts take to show how far they reach beyond direct subscribers
and has drawn the attention of closely held Twitter Inc., which
is in talks with MFG on how to use it to quantify Web-based
media’s impact, Chief Operating Officer Joachim de Lezardiere
said.  “There’s all this data available on Twitter, Facebook,
 Google Maps ,” he said earlier this month in an interview at
MFG’s offices in Paris’s 9th arrondissement. “It’s dirty data,
it’s in a raw state. We’ll clean it all up.”  San Francisco-based Twitter didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail seeking comment on MFG.  MFG use complex algorithms to sort data to help companies
understand customers and advertisers tailor efforts to the
audience. Clients include  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. film
studio and  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group. They focus on
speedy turnaround times, targeting months rather than years to
get from idea to product. It took just three months for Where
Does My Tweet Go? to get from concept to beta stage, for
example.  Big Data  So-called big data work is becoming trendy in  France , which
produces the highest number of math, science and technology
graduates in the European Union, as an increasing number of
French mathematicians and engineers are putting their talents to
use in digital entertainment and online services rather than
traditional career paths like banking and industrial companies.  Afdel, an association of software and web application
makers, asked the French government in February to co-finance a
300 million euro ($384 million) investment fund to help create
100 big data startups by 2018. Making sense of oceans of data is
an increasingly sought-after skill, as advertisers need it to
better target shoppers, while companies experiment with it to
figure out consumers’ tastes and purchasing behavior.  “If you know how to use it, social data potentially holds
a full portrait of anyone,” said Julien Laugel, a data analyst
at MFG. “Tell me what you liked or tweeted, and I’ll tell you
who you are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  