-- London Susceptible to Measles Outbreak Given Low Vaccine Rate
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-04-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/london-susceptible-to-measles-outbreak-given-low-vaccine-rate.html
London  is susceptible to an
 outbreak of measles  as currently seen in  Wales  given one of the
lowest vaccination rates in the U.K. a decade ago, according to
a pediatric epidemiologist.  In  England , the  national coverage  for the  measles-mumps-
rubella  combined vaccine dipped to 80 percent in 2003, the
lowest rate in more than 10 years. In London, the vaccination
rate for the recommended two doses by age 5 was 55 percent that
year, one of the lowest rates in the U.K., according to Helen
Bedford, a pediatric epidemiologist at  University College
London .  The outbreak in Wales has resulted in  903 reported cases 
since November, according to the local health authority.
Coverage rates for the MMR vaccine dropped in the U.K. and in
the U.S. after a study by Andrew Wakefield, published in The
Lancet medical journal in 1998, linked the vaccine to an
increased risk of autism. The Lancet retracted the study in
2010, citing “false” claims, and the British Medical Journal
called it a fraud in a report the following year.  “Ten years ago, MMR was getting a lot of bad press,”
Bedford said in an interview in London. “It’s not surprising
that coverage rates fell with parents frightened by the news
reports.”  Confirmed Cases  Among the  confirmed measles cases  in Wales as of April 15,
the largest group was among children between the ages of 10 and
14, likely because they weren’t vaccinated a decade ago, Bedford
said. Coverage rates have risen in recent years and was at  91
percent  in England in the 2011-2012 year.  “What we are seeing is the after-effect” of the autism
scare, said  Michael Fitzpatrick , a former general practitioner
and author of “MMR and Autism: What Parents Need to Know.”
“We are in a position where we are trying to mop up on these
older children who missed out on the MMR.”  Two doses of the vaccine by the age 5 are recommended to
provide 99 percent protection against measles, while only one
dose provides as low as 90 percent protection, said David
Elliman, an immunization specialist at the Royal College of
Pediatrics and Child Health in London.  Measles is one of the most infectious viruses for humans,
spread through coughing, sneezing and other direct contact with
infected nasal and throat secretions. Last year, 2,016 confirmed
cases in England and Wales were reported, the  highest annual
total in 18 years , according to Public Health England.  Complications from measles are particularly common among
young children and can include blindness, severe diarrhea, ear
infections, or pneumonia. As many as 10 percent of measles cases
result in death among populations with high levels of
malnutrition and inadequate health care, according to the  World
Health Organization .  A recent study published in the Journal of Pediatrics by
researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta confirmed earlier studies that found autism risk isn’t
increased by the use of childhood vaccines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  