-- London Deploys More Police for Marathon After Boston
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-04-18T11:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/london-deploys-more-police-for-marathon-after-boston-bombings.html
U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May
said more police officers will be deployed for the  London 
Marathon this weekend after the bombings in  Boston  on April 15.  “They have made a number of adjustments,” May told
Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee in London today, referring
to the Metropolitan Police’s plans to secure the April 21 race,
which has 37,000 entrants. “Appropriate arrangements” have
been made, she said.  There will be extra “high-visibility” patrols at key
locations on the marathon route “for reassurance and
vigilance,” the Metropolitan Police said in an e-mailed
statement. A spokesman for the force declined to discuss the
numbers of officers to be deployed.  Law-enforcement authorities in the British capital are
continuing their review of security for the 26-mile (42-
kilometer) race from Blackheath in southeast London to near
 Buckingham Palace  in the center of the capital, days after two
bombs went off at the finish line of the Boston Marathon. An 8-
year-old boy was among those killed.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said police had been
“double, triple, quadruple checking” security arrangements. In
his weekly LBC radio phone-in show, Clegg said news images from
the U.S. were “heartbreaking” and “horrific” and that he
understood people were anxious.  “We have the right security procedures in place,” Culture
Secretary Maria Miller told lawmakers in Parliament today. “As
a result of the experience we have not just with the marathon
but with the Olympics, we have the right people in place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  