-- London Marathon Set to Raise $100,000 for Boston Bomb Victims
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-18T17:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/london-marathon-set-to-raise-100-000-for-boston-bomb-victims.html
Organizers of this weekend’s  London 
Marathon will make a donation for every finisher to the fund set
up to help victims of the Boston Marathon bombs.  Officials said 2 pounds for every runner who crosses the
finish line on April 21 will be donated to  The One Fund Boston 
set up to raise money after the explosions three days ago. With
more than 35,500 runners expected to finish the race, organizers
said at least 70,000 pounds ($107,000) is likely to be raised.  “Everyone connected with the London Marathon was shocked
by the terrible events in Boston, and we are keen to show our
support to the victims’ families and our friends in the running
community there,” race director Hugh Brasher said in a
 statement . “As soon as we heard about The One Fund  Boston  we
decided to make a donation. Our pledge to give £2 for every
finisher at the 2013 Virgin London Marathon seemed an
appropriate and fitting way to make our contribution.”  Three people were killed and more than 175 were injured
when two bombs exploded near the finish line as recreational
runners completed the Boston race, which has been held annually
since 1897. The blasts occurred about 2 1/2 hours after Lelisa
Desisa of  Ethiopia  won the men’s event.  “It was the City of Boston that was attacked this week,
and we are deeply gratified that the citizens of Boston are
receiving so many displays of support,” Boston Marathon Race
Director Tom Grilk said in the statement. “We remember the Star
Spangled Banner being played at the Changing of the Guard after
9/11. We will remember what the runners in London and the
organizers of the Virgin London Marathon are doing on Sunday. On
behalf of everyone, thank you.”  The London Marathon said it’s also sent a link to The One
Fund Boston website --  www.onefundboston.org  -- to all runners,
encouraging them to make their own donations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 