-- BofA’s Merrill Unit Sputters as Moynihan Reduces Risk
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-04-18T14:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/montag-s-bofa-trading-unit-trails-peers-as-revenue-falls.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s first-
quarter revenue from fixed-income trading slumped more than most
of its peers, eroding the biggest source of profit at the firm’s
Merrill Lynch investment bank amid a push to curtail risk.  Fixed-income, currency and commodity revenue reported
yesterday by the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender tumbled
20 percent to $3.3 billion from a year earlier while total
trading revenue fell 13 percent to $4.5 billion in the quarter,
missing the $5 billion estimate of  David Trone , an analyst with
JMP Securities LLC. Among the five biggest U.S. investment
banks, only  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s fixed-income sales fell more.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, has relied
on investment-banking units overseen by former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  trading head Thomas K. Montag to generate income
while booking more than $40 billion in costs from defective
mortgages. Moynihan is focused on lowering risk, improving
capital and regaining regulators’ trust, which could mean Bank
of America will lag behind rivals on trading, said Eric Wasserstrom, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc.  “Given those priorities, there’s very little incentive for
them to take outsized trading risks,” said Wasserstrom, who has
a neutral rating on the bank’s shares. “Their absolute levels
of trading revenue may be lower than peers.”  Moynihan told analysts yesterday he was comfortable with
the trading unit’s performance because the division took less
risk and lowered expenses. Bank of America’s value-at-risk, a
measure of potential trading losses on most days, fell to
$80.5 million from $84 million in the year-earlier quarter.  Keeping Balance  “There will be times when people do better than we are and
times when we’ll do better than them, but we’re keeping a
balance,” Moynihan said. “We may not roar as much as some
other people might because this is one of many businesses we
have, and we drive it for the benefit of the investing customers
and also the issuing customers.”  Results were also hurt by “less-favorable markets” for
commodities and “significantly lower spreads” in credit-
related products, the bank said. The spread is the extra yield
that investors demand to own a bond rather than Treasuries.
 Jerry Dubrowski , a company spokesman, declined to comment.  Peer Performance  Fixed-income revenue fell 5 percent to $4.75 billion at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , 9 percent to $3.26 billion at Goldman
Sachs and 3 percent to $4.62 billion at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  The three
firms cited declines in their so-called rates businesses. Rates
traders buy and sell products including Treasuries, inflation-
protected bonds and  interest-rate swaps .  Citigroup benefited from trading mortgage-related products
as investors sought out securities with higher yields, Chief
Financial Officer  John Gerspach  told reporters. For all four
firms, results were the best since the first quarter of 2012, as
revenue was helped by a higher volume in corporate bonds and
declining credit spreads in high-yield debt, Trone said.  Morgan Stanley’s fixed-income revenue plunged 42 percent to
$1.52 billion, the New York-based bank said today. The firm, led
by CEO  James Gorman , is the smallest fixed-income trader among
the five biggest U.S. investment banks.  Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
 fell  4.7 percent yesterday in  New York  trading, the worst drop
in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  and the firm’s biggest
decline since November. Income at the markets division fell 20
percent to $1.39 billion, while profit from investment and
corporate banking slipped 15 percent to $1.34 billion as the
unit’s provision for credit losses increased.  Real Estate  The real-estate division posted a loss that widened to
$1.3 billion from $1.1 billion a year earlier as expenses
climbed 4.5 percent to $4.06 billion and margins narrowed.  During the years immediately after the financial crisis,
“Merrill was the only thing that was working as the commercial
bank was getting pummeled by real-estate losses,” said David Knutson, a credit analyst with Legal & General Investment
Management America.  Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch units may provide a smaller
slice of the firm’s income when retail businesses fully recover
as restrictions on proprietary trading and other rules in the
Dodd-Frank Act could restrain profit, he said.  Commercial Focus  “Moynihan recognizes that there are regulatory changes
coming and that Merrill may not have as meaningful a revenue
contribution in the future,” Knutson said. “His view is that
it’s going to be a large commercial bank with an investment bank
to facilitate large commercial customers, instead of an
investment bank that will go out and seek risk on its own.”  Montag, who is co-chief operating officer, got a 21 percent
raise to $14.5 million for 2012, marking the third straight year
he earned more money than Moynihan. The CEO earned $12 million
for the year, a raise of more than 70 percent from 2011.  Regulators might prefer Moynihan because he isn’t
associated with  investment banking , Knutson said. Bank of
America repaid $45 billion in U.S. bailout funds in 2009 after
losses tied to the Merrill Lynch and Countrywide Financial Corp.
takeovers.  “Moynihan may not make as much money as Montag, but
regulators are happy to have him in that chair,” Knutson said.
“Moynihan represents more of a business banker, a commercial
banker. Their near-death experience is still fresh in
regulators’ and the board’s mind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  