-- Orban Democracy Clash With EU Spares Election Poll Lead
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-04-19T08:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/orban-democracy-clash-with-eu-spares-election-poll-lead.html
The European Union is worried about
the rule of law in  Hungary  and the economy there is stuck in
recession. Prime Minister Viktor Orban is doing his best to turn
that to his advantage in next year’s election.  As Orban spars with Brussels, at home he’s focusing on
curbing what he calls the “luxury profit” of energy companies
including  RWE AG (RWE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA with a cut in household energy
prices. The backlash from the EU is a “smokescreen,” with the
“real reason” behind it being the lobbying from energy
companies, Orban said in a public radio interview aired today.  It’s working, polls show. Orban, who turns 50 next month,
has thrived on adversity since his days as an anti-communist
student leader. In more than two decades as a front-line
politician since then, he has learned to outmaneuver his
opponents while strengthening the loyalty of his followers.  “Orban is at his best when he can rally his voters against
an enemy,” Attila Juhasz, an analyst at Political Capital in
Budapest, said by phone. “This enemy can be the EU,
multinational companies and this may make him stronger in the
short-run, until the elections.”  While investments are forecast to drop this year to the
lowest level since 1992, according to International Monetary
Fund estimates, bond managers are tuning out the rhetoric and
instead focus on the premium Hungarian debt offers as
unprecedented global monetary easing fuels risk appetite.  Bond Auction  The government yesterday sold 30 billion forint ($132
billion) of three-year bonds at a record-low 4.65 percent. The
forint has dropped 2.5 percent this year to 298.7 per euro. It
rose 8.1 percent last year.  The unprecedented centralization of power with the help of
Orban’s two-thirds parliamentary majority -- including a move
last month to use a constitutional amendment to override court
decisions and limit legal interpretation -- has sparked
criticism from Brussels to  Washington .  The amendment added to concern that checks and balances are
eroding under Orban, whose lawmakers have ousted the chief
justice of the  Supreme Court , set up a media regulator led by
ruling-party appointees and named allies to independent
institutions, including the Constitutional Court bench.  The European Parliament in Strasbourg on April 17 discussed
the “the constitutional situation” in Hungary. EU Justice
Commissioner  Viviane Reding  told the chamber that the 27-nation
bloc’s executive will take action “where relevant” to rein in
Hungary once a legal assessment is finished.  Germany  and three
other countries have proposed cutting EU funding to member
states that violate the bloc’s democratic values.  ‘Baseless Criticism’  “The criticism that the rule of law in Hungary has been
fundamentally undermined is baseless,” government spokesman
Ferenc Kumin said in an April 17 phone interview. Broad
criticism usually narrows down to a few issues, he said.  Amid the tussle with the EU, shifting the debate back home
to issues like utility bills is proving a panacea for Orban.  With elections scheduled in a year, the opposition is
fragmented as former Prime Minister  Gordon Bajnai  and Socialist
Party Chairman Attila Mesterhazy compete for its leadership.  Backing for the Socialists, who governed from 2002 to 2010
and left office with the highest government debt in the EU’s
east, fell to a decade-low 9 percent among eligible voters,
according to a March 14-18 survey by the polling company Tarki,
which asked 1,000 eligible voters. No margin of error was given.  Rising Support  A March 8-14 Ipsos poll of 1,500 people showed the ruling
party pulling ahead as a record number of undecided voters,
coveted by opposition parties, flocked to Orban’s Fidesz. Its
support jumped to 24 percent from 18 percent while the share of
undecided voters dropped to 44 percent from 55 percent,
according to the poll published March 18. The margin of error
was 2.5 percentage points.  Ipsos’ April poll published yesterday showed Fidesz’s
support unchanged from March while backing for the Socialists
fell to 15 percent from 16 percent in the previous month, MTI
state news service reported.  “With the latest gain in Fidesz popularity, the government
would likely ensure a simple majority in the parliament if
elections were held today, even if opposition parties formed an
alliance,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist at
Citigroup Inc., wrote in a report last month.  Channeling Voters  Orban’s ability to maintain his poll lead shows his
experience in channeling voter angst and recasting criticism of
his government as attacks on the country’s sovereignty.  Fresh from his 2010 victory, Orban rejected extending an
International Monetary Fund loan, saying it was blocking his
“economic freedom fight” to cut the eastern EU’s highest debt
level by self-described unorthodox measures. They included the
effective nationalization of private pension funds and the
imposition of  Europe ’s highest bank tax.  Last year, Orban covered Budapest with posters telling
voters he won’t give up Hungary’s independence for an IMF loan.  The EU, the source of 95 percent of funding for
infrastructure investments in Hungary, blocked aid talks citing
concern for central bank independence. Orban in response
compared Brussels officials to Soviet oppressors, telling a
March 15 rally that his government won’t live by the “dictates
of foreigners.”  That parallel harkened back to Orban’s student-leader days,
when he shot to prominence on June 16, 1989 as a scruffy 26-
year-old who called on Soviet troops to leave Hungary.  Orban Rhetoric  “The attack on large corporations owned by foreigners --
who are allegedly protected by that shady Soviet-style power in
Brussels, to borrow from  Viktor Orban ’s recent parlance --
meshes perfectly with the grand narrative of Fidesz’s struggle
against global capitalism and foreign domination,” Tamas Boros,
the director of Policy Solutions in Budapest, said in an April 2
report. “This potent combination makes Fidesz’ latest move
particularly suave.”  The next election will serve as a referendum on Orban’s
concentration of power, according to the opposition. The result
will be about “the next 20 years,” Bajnai’s office said in e-
mailed comments.  “I wouldn’t call it cementing” my power, Orban said in an
April 15 Die Welt interview. “I’d call it the stability of the
constitutional system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  