-- Morgan Stanley Trims Investment Bank’s Compensation Pool 14%
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-04-18T13:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/morgan-stanley-shrinks-investment-bank-pay-pool-14-as-jobs-cut.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the
world’s biggest brokerage, set aside $1.89 billion to pay
employees at its investment-banking and trading division in the
first quarter, 14 percent less than a year earlier.  Compensation at the institutional-securities unit, which
includes salaries, bonuses and the cost of previous deferred
awards, equaled 43 percent of adjusted revenue, little changed
from a year earlier, according to figures posted today on the
New York-based firm’s  website .  The drop was “in part driven by lower headcount,” the
company said in a statement. While the firm doesn’t report how
many people are employed within the division, its total number
of employees fell 6.6 percent from a year earlier.  Morgan Stanley has cut pay and jobs, deferred bonuses and
toughened clawback rules as Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 54, seeks to improve returns amid lower trading revenue
and higher  capital requirements . The bank deferred all bonuses
for employees getting both total pay exceeding $350,000 and
incentive compensation of at least $50,000, a person briefed on
the matter said in January.  “We are benefiting from the headcount reductions, which
obviously reduces base, benefits and above-base comp,” Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat, 55, said in a telephone interview
today, referring to compensation. “We’ve also become more
efficient with location sourcing, which helps improve comp
efficiency.”  Companywide Compensation  Excluding severance, investment bank compensation was about
40 percent of adjusted revenue in the quarter, a ratio the firm
plans to maintain, Porat said.  Companywide compensation and benefits fell 4.8 percent to
$4.22 billion as adjusted revenue dropped at the same rate to
$8.5 billion. That revenue figure excludes accounting charges
known as debt-valuation adjustments. Those changes stem from
increases in the value of the company’s debt, under the theory
that it would be more expensive to buy back the securities.  The bank’s total compensation cost was enough to pay each
of the firm’s 55,289 employees $76,254 on average for the
period, more than the $74,831 it set aside for each of the
59,200 employees a year earlier, figures released today show.  Fixed Grid  Morgan Stanley’s brokerage division employed 16,284
financial advisers at the end of March, down from 16,726 a year
earlier. It set aside $2.07 billion for pay, up from  $2.01
billion  in the first quarter of 2012. The unit’s compensation
cost, set by a fixed grid for some employees, was 60 percent of
its revenue, compared with 61 percent a year earlier.  The unit’s 60 percent ratio was up from 57 percent in the
fourth quarter for “seasonal reasons,” and will probably fall
in future quarters, Porat said today.  The firm shifted wealth-management advisers who work
outside the U.S. into the institutional securities unit.
Including those people, the company’s total number of so-called
global representatives fell to 16,703 at the end of March from
17,193 a year earlier.  Goldman, JPMorgan  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  reported earlier this week that it
set aside $4.34 billion to pay employees in the first quarter,
about 1 percent less than a year earlier, as the firm employed
400 fewer people. The compensation expense equaled 43 percent of
revenue, down from 44 percent in 2012.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s corporate and investment bank set
aside 7 percent less money for employee compensation in the
first quarter while the division generated 9 percent more
revenue. The unit’s $3.38 billion in compensation costs amounted
to 34 percent of revenue, excluding accounting adjustments, down
from 35 percent a year earlier.  The average compensation figures are derived by dividing
the total compensation pool by the number of employees, and they
don’t represent individual workers’ actual pay. Investment banks
set aside revenue throughout the year for pay and typically
decide bonuses at year-end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  