-- Morgan Stanley Shares Fall as Trading Revenue Declines
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-04-18T20:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/morgan-stanley-beats-estimates-on-brokerage-revenue-gains.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  fell to a three-
month low in  New York  after the firm reported the biggest drop
in trading revenue among the largest U.S. banks.  Shares of the company slumped 5.4 percent to $20.31, the
biggest decline on the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Financials  Index. (S5FINL)  Bond-trading revenue fell 42 percent in the
first quarter and stock-trading revenue declined 19 percent, New
York-based Morgan Stanley said today in a statement.  The drop in fixed-income revenue was the third in the past
four quarters, and offset the company’s record first-quarter
pretax profit from the brokerage unit. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
reported a decline of 9 percent in bond-trading revenue earlier
this week, compared with 3 percent at Citigroup Inc.  “The fixed-income rebuild hasn’t worked as well as they
had hoped,”  David Trone , an analyst with JMP Securities LLC in
New York, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview. “They want to be
more of an asset-gathering institution that also does investment
banking and a little bit of trading. They’re not yet really to
the point where they’ve convinced all of us what they are yet.”  First-quarter revenue from fixed-income sales and trading,
run by Ken deRegt with commodity trading co-heads Colin Bryce
and  Simon Greenshields , was $1.52 billion, excluding an
accounting charge. That missed estimates of $2.05 billion from
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Kian Abouhossein and $1.8 billion from
Credit Suisse Group AG’s  Howard Chen .  Revenue Ceiling  “We don’t view $1.5 billion as a ceiling on what’s
attainable in the fixed-income and commodities business,” Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in an interview.  Porat said on a conference call with analysts that the firm
is still “comfortable” with its goal of an 8 percent market
share in fixed income among the largest banks.  The business suffered from lower revenue in commodities
because of so-called backwardation, in which earlier-dated
contracts are priced higher than later ones, and as clients were
less active in hedging, Porat said. Revenue also fell in
 interest rates , while it had strong performance in credit and
foreign-exchange trading, she said.  The bank cut risk-weighted assets in its fixed-income
business to $253 billion from $280 billion in December, Porat
said. That represented a bigger reduction than the firm had
targeted for all of 2013.  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 54, has assigned Colm Kelleher, who oversees investment banking and trading for Morgan
Stanley, with shrinking the amount of capital the fixed-income
unit needs under new rules by 60 percent from its peak.  Stock Trading  In equities trading, headed by Ted Pick, Morgan Stanley’s
revenue fell to $1.59 billion from a year earlier, excluding the
accounting charge. That compared with $1.15 billion at  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and $1.72 billion at Goldman Sachs, excluding
revenue from Goldman’s reinsurance business.  Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., had
estimated equities revenue of about $1.4 billion, while Chen at
Credit Suisse estimated $1.7 billion.  First-quarter net income was $984 million, or 49 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $94 million, or 6 cents, a year
earlier. Excluding the accounting charge, profit was 61 cents a
share, topping the 56-cent average  estimate  of 20 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  A 48 percent jump in pretax profit from the brokerage
supported Gorman’s goal of doubling the firm’s return on equity
by relying on better margins from that business and buying the
35 percent it doesn’t already own from Citigroup.  More Improvement  “Wealth management seems to be coming to the fore,” Chris Kotowski, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said in a note. “Its
total contribution increased 29 percent. We would expect further
improvement here after Morgan Stanley buys the rest of Citi’s
stake.”  Total revenue excluding accounting adjustments fell to
$8.48 billion from $8.9 billion a year earlier. Book value per
share rose to $31.22 from $30.70 at the end of December. The
firm’s return on equity, a measure of how well it reinvests
earnings, was 6 percent.  Excluding an accounting charge known as a debt valuation
adjustment, or DVA, ROE was 8 percent. Gorman in January laid
out a plan to increase the gauge to 10 percent. He said today
that the consistency of the bank’s returns is as important as
the level.  Clearer Path  “In addition, we believe many of the regulatory headwinds
that face the industry are already reflected in our results,”
Gorman said. “And because our growth areas are those that are
unlikely to be much impacted by further regulation, our path is
clearer.”  DVA stems from increases in the value of the company’s
debt, under the theory it would be more expensive to buy it
back. The firm had a $317 million loss from DVA, versus a $1.98
billion charge in the first quarter of 2012.  Pretax profit from global wealth management, overseen by
 Greg Fleming , 50, jumped to $597 million as revenue climbed to
$3.47 billion. The division’s pretax profit margin rose to 17
percent from 12 percent in the first quarter of 2012.  Fleming has previously vowed to raise its pretax margin to
the “mid-teens” by the middle of this year, and has said that
the increase can be obtained through cost cutting as integration
expenses decline. The figure was 17 percent in the fourth
quarter, which Gorman cautioned was seasonally higher than the
first quarter.  Closed-End Funds  Porat, 55, said an increase in closed-end fund issuance
helped boost revenue and produce higher margins than the firm
had told analysts to expect.  “What it really shows is the operating leverage in the
business, that just some incremental new-issue activity could
result in that kind of improvement over our expectations,”
Porat said in an interview.  Morgan Stanley received approval last month from the
 Federal Reserve  to buy the rest of the brokerage from Citigroup
this year. Gorman already has set a price with Citigroup to
purchase the rest of the joint venture, which was created in
2009. Morgan Stanley said in January it will pay $4.7 billion
for the last piece, which will place demands on an additional
$400 million of capital.  Gorman said the purchase needs further approval from the
Fed, which may come in “the next several weeks or months.”
Porat said approval for last year’s purchase of a 14 percent
stake in the unit came in May.  Smith Barney  Fleming pledged $500 million for upgrades and hired a new
technology head for the division after financial advisers
complained about glitches and more cumbersome processes
following the integration of Morgan Stanley’s system with that
of  Smith Barney  last year.  Asset management reported a pretax gain of $187 million,
compared with $128 million in the previous year’s period.  Investment banking , led by Mark Eichorn and Franck Petitgas, generated $945 million in first-quarter revenue. That
figure, up 11 percent from a year earlier, included $251 million
from financial advisory, $283 million from equity underwriting
and $411 million from debt underwriting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  