-- Horror in Paradise as Tishman, BlackRock Bungle Deal
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2013-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/horror-in-paradise-as-tishman-blackrock-bungle-deal.html
In 2009,  Fitch Ratings  valued the
80-acre Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village apartment complex
in  Manhattan  at $1.8 billion. Unfortunately, it had been sold
three years earlier for $5.4 billion.  The largest real-estate transaction in history had turned
out to be a massive real-estate bust.  New York  Times reporter  Charles V. Bagli  tells the horror
story with clarity and authority in “ Other People’s Money .”  In the 1940s, New York City Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia
spearheaded an effort to raze a stretch of land on the Lower
East Side to begin construction of a middle-class residential
oasis that would include playgrounds, lawns and modest
apartments, but no luxuries like air conditioning or doormen.  Enticed in part by a 25-year tax break and 12 acres
contributed by the city, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. built
the complex. By 1950, three years after the first tenants moved
in, there were 6,000 children under the age of 5 living at
Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village -- a fifth of the
residents. For a while, the people who lived there referred to
their neighborhood as “Rabbit Town.”  There were some serious problems; Met Life wouldn’t allow
black residents, for instance. But the 11,000-unit development
was beloved by residents who watched out for one another’s kids
and passed their apartments from generation to generation.  Soliciting Bids  The seeds of destruction for this modest community were
sown when MetLife raised $2.88 billion in a public offering in
2000, adding new pressure to generate returns for shareholders.
By 2006, the giant insurer was soliciting bids for Stuyvesant
Town-Peter Cooper Village, with Tishman Speyer Properties LP and
BlackRock Inc. coming out the winners.  It was an ill-advised deal even before the financial crisis
sent the property into a tailspin, Bagli explains. The buyers
always knew rental income wouldn’t cover the interest payments
on their massive mortgages for several years. So they put aside
$400 million to cover the balance and counted on pie-in-the-sky
estimates of big rent increases down the road that would
supposedly kick in after low-rent tenants were forced out.  The  reserve fund  ran out in January 2009 and the owners
missed $20 million in payments. They turned the property over to
their lenders.  The infuriating problem brought to light in the book is one
that by now is a familiar post-financial-crisis tale: The buyers
had only a small equity stake in the deal, and the lenders had
little risk. After mortgage money was raised for the purchase,
the mortgages were bundled and sold off.  No Stake  “With no stake in the mortgage, the banks had little
financial incentive to ensure that the deal made sense and the
borrower could repay the debt,” Bagli writes.  The author says Tishman Speyer and BlackRock suffered
relatively small losses -- a combined $225 million, or four
percent of the purchase price. Even that was offset in part by
$48 million in acquisition and other fees.  Five years after the 2008 credit crisis, we’ve had examples
ad nauseum of the folly of financial transactions where
dealmakers had no skin in the game. Often those stories lack the
narrative that brings the devastation alive and sets your hair
on end.  Not so Bagli’s account of the Tishman Speyer/BlackRock
purchase. He takes readers on a walk through history’s biggest
real-estate nightmare and lays out the facts in an even-handed,
no-hysteria style.  But then again, he doesn’t need to hype the folly of his
subjects, who handily hang themselves with their greedy actions
and myopic business decisions.  “Other People’s Money: Inside the Housing Crisis and the
Demise of the Greatest Real Estate Deal Ever Made” is published
by Dutton (387 pages, $28.95). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  ( Susan Antilla  is a columnist for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Lance Esplund  on art and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 