-- House Republicans Probe TSA's Workforce Size, Purchases
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-04-18T16:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/house-republicans-probe-tsa-s-workforce-size-purchases.html
House Republicans  said they will
keep pressuring the U.S. Transportation Security Administration
to cut its workforce of 47,000 airport screeners even as they
praised the agency’s response to automatic budget cuts.  “You’re here today because in fact you have more assets
than you should possibly need,” Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican who leads the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, said at a subcommittee hearing
today.  The hearing was held in part to account for how the TSA has
managed the automatic spending cuts known as sequestration,
since airport delays predicted by Homeland Security Secretary
 Janet Napolitano  haven’t happened, said Representative  Jason Chaffetz , chairman of the National Security and Operations
panel.  Chaffetz commended the agency’s efforts to minimize effects
on travelers so far.  Delays have been minimized because the agency received
extra money for screeners in fiscal 2013, said John Halinski,
the TSA’s deputy administrator. The agency “will use these
additional funds to maintain its security screening workforce
through prudent management of hiring and controlled overtime,”
Halinksi said.  No furloughs of agency workers are planned and targeted
hiring will continue, Halinski said. Travelers may still
experience longer lines and wait times during the busiest travel
periods, he said.  More Hearings  Issa and Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican who
is a frequent agency critic, indicated they plan a series of
hearings on the TSA’s hiring, equipment purchases and management
of specific programs. Those include its squad of behavior-
detection officers and a long-delayed biometric identification
card for truck drivers and port workers.  Noting that critics refer to the TSA as “Thousands
Standing Around,” Issa said the agency has a history of buying
checkpoint equipment that didn’t work.  “Until people going through checkpoints see efficiency of
people with blue uniforms, they’re not going to believe you
today,” Issa said.  The automatic budget cuts will have “significant impacts”
on equipment purchases, including screening machines, Halinski
said. The agency has about $288 million less to spend than two
years ago, forcing it to stretch out plans to replace machines
that may be at the end of their expected service, Halinski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  