-- How a Potter Took Accounting Into the Industrial Age
-- B y   J a n e   G l e e s o n - W h i t e
-- 2013-04-18T23:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/how-a-potter-took-accounting-into-the-industrial-age.html
This week, the  International
Integrated Reporting Council  introduced a draft of a new
framework for corporate accounting that would require companies
to go beyond reporting just financial capital and also encompass
environmental, social and governance risks.  The structure -- known as “integrated reporting” -- is a
response to the realization brought on by the 2008 financial
crisis and increasing environmental stresses that we need a new
accounting paradigm for the 21st century. The limits of current
national-accounting practices were acknowledged in 2012 when the
 United Nations  adopted a new international standard to give
“natural capital” equal status to gross domestic product as a
gage of a nation’s economy.  These aren’t the first such paradigm shifts in the history
of accounting. At the end of the 18th century, the double-entry
account-keeping practices developed by Italian merchants in the
Middle Ages were updated for the new industrial era.  The first signs that double entry could be adapted to the
new age of factories, wage labor and large-scale  capital
investment  appeared in the north of  England , in the works of the
renowned potter  Josiah Wedgwood .  Industrial Pottery  An entrepreneurial and marketing genius, Wedgwood built the
world’s first industrialized pottery factory. His customers were
the new upwardly mobile classes whose insatiable wants were
described by political economist Nathaniel Forster in 1767: “The
perpetual restless ambition in each of the inferior ranks to
raise themselves to the level of those immediately above them,”
he said, caused the demand for  luxury goods  to spread “like a
contagion.”  Among the most coveted luxuries of the day were Wedgwood’s
vases. So ravenous was the appetite of the monied classes that
Wedgwood called it a “violent Vase Madness.” He wrote to his
partner Thomas Bentley in 1769 that their new London showrooms
were so crowded there was “no getting to the door for Coaches,
nor into the rooms for Ladies & Gentlemen.”  Wedgwood’s products became so popular that he could charge
high prices and the profits rolled in. But during an economic
downturn in 1772, demand for the vases slackened. With serious
cash-flow problems and an accumulation of stock, Wedgwood turned
to his accounting books to solve this dilemma: Should he cut
production or reduce prices?  And so he made a “price book of workmanship,” which
included “every expence of Vase making” from the crude materials
to the cost of the retail counter in  London . This led him to
discover the distinction between fixed and variable costs. The
greatest manufacturing costs were modelling and molds, rent,
fuel, bookkeepers, and wages. “Consider that these expences move
like clockwork, & are much the same whether the quantity of
goods made be large or small,” he told Bentley. “You will see
the vast consequence in most manufactures of making the greatest
quantity possible in a given time.”  Wedgwood used the findings of his cost analysis to make
management decisions. He revised his policy of soliciting
special commissions and made-to-order sales; lengthened his
production runs for certain products; varied his usual high-price policy; reduced his stock in market downturns; and kept a
careful eye on sales and marketing costs.  Many successful businesses failed during the financial
crisis of 1772 -- but Wedgwood’s survived, thanks to his
innovation.  Uncovering Misdeeds  His detailed cost appraisals also revealed something
unexpected: a history of embezzlement, blackmail and dissipation
in his company. He discovered that his head clerk had been
fiddling with the books and that his cashier had been fiddling
with the housekeeper. He fired the culprits and introduced
weekly accounting reports to keep a closer watch on his
finances.  A huge shift in outlook was required to move the double-entry accounting system beyond its mercantile origins in an
exchange economy (where it recorded the exchange of goods, what
it owed and was owed, paying and collecting debts) to
manufacturing, where the emphasis is on the production of goods
(the conversion of materials and labor into products).  Two books on account-keeping for factories published soon
after Wedgwood’s early forays show the conceptual difficulties
posed by the need to incorporate new elements -- labor and
materials per unit of production -- in the calculation of the
cost of each unit. Factory production presented another
challenge: How to track the way that labor and materials were
converted into a new product, which was then sold for cash to
pay those who had contributed to its production?  It took a century to devise an accounting process for
factory production and for accountants to join commerce and
manufacturing into one coordinated system of books.  The accounting systems we use today were designed for the
industrial era, so it’s no surprise they’re proving inadequate
to the new electronic age. The challenge is to integrate
nonfinancial information into corporate accounts and to account
for new value, such as social and environmental performance.
This will require a revolutionary shift in outlook. But as early
factory accountants such as Wedgwood demonstrated, crisis can be
the mother of accounting invention.  (Jane Gleeson-White is the author of “Double Entry: How the
Merchants of Venice Created Modern Finance.” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this post:
Jane Gleeson-White at  janegleesonwhite@iprimus.com.au   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  