-- How Republicans Can Win Over Asian-Americans
-- B y   L a n h e e   C h e n
-- 2013-04-18T14:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/how-republicans-can-win-over-asian-americans.html
I am the son of Taiwanese
immigrants who came to the U.S. in the 1970s seeking opportunity
for themselves and the chance for their children to grow up in a
more prosperous society. My story is not unusual among Asian-
Americans. It’s also a profile that is tailor-made for the
 Republican Party , which stands for enhancing opportunity. Yet
Asian-Americans from my generation (and others) are finding less
and less appeal in the Republican Party.  In 1992, a total of 31 percent of Asian-Americans voted for
 Bill Clinton  for president. In 2000, Asian-Americans were
roughly split between  George W. Bush  and  Al Gore ; 62 percent
voted for  Barack Obama  in 2008; and, according to exit polling,
last year 73 percent of Asian-Americans voted to re-elect him.
(Obama won a higher percentage of Asian-American voters than
Latino voters.) That’s a near-total inversion over two decades.  The  National Asian American Survey , conducted after the
November 2012 election, illustrates how thorough the political
transformation of the community has been. Obama carried every
segment of the population, including Vietnamese and Filipinos,
who have traditionally been more supportive of Republican
candidates.  No Traction  What’s concerning is not just this turn in Republicans’
electoral fortunes with Asian-Americans, who are the fastest-
growing minority group in the U.S. It is also the party’s
apparent inability to gain traction with Asian-Americans on any
dimension of its platform. Among those Asian-Americans who told
pollsters that “jobs and the economy” were “very important” to
their voting decision, Obama had a 34-percentage-point
advantage. This finding stands in stark contrast to  exit polls 
showing that among those who believed the economy was the most
important issue facing the country,  Mitt Romney  held a four-
percentage-point advantage. More broadly, Asian-Americans
preferred Obama regardless of the issues driving their vote
choice.  There are a few potential explanations for the Republican
Party’s poor performance among Asian-American voters. One is
that Republicans have failed to properly communicate their
message. Another is that there was a policy area, or areas, not
addressed by the party or the polls, which drove Asian-American
votes. A third possibility is that policy wasn’t actually the
deciding issue for Asian-Americans, but rather there was a more
intangible one -- the image the party projected, for example, or
the tone displayed by its candidates.  Regardless of the explanation, there are a few concrete
steps that Republicans can take to turn the tide among Asian-
American voters.  First, Republicans need to be better at communicating a
policy agenda that fosters opportunity, facilitates upward
mobility and puts economic success in reach for more Americans
of any race or heritage. As my background shows, many Asian
immigrants and their children want America to be a place where
they can achieve these goals.  Republican leaders already have the components of this
agenda, such as specific ideas to improve our public schools,
make college more affordable and expand access to quality,
affordable health coverage. More frequently, however, our focus
is on other policies, such as reforming the  tax code , cutting
spending, expanding domestic energy production and opening
markets abroad.  There is no question that these are important elements of a
robust plan for economic growth. Republicans should continue to
advocate for them. But party leaders must also begin to more
forcefully argue and more directly focus on an agenda that
promotes opportunity and helps those who have been less
fortunate. I believe this will go a long way toward bringing
Asian-American voters, as well as others, back into the
Republican camp.  More Involvement  Second, the Republican Party must better engage and involve
Asian-American communities. Republicans haven’t done enough to
meaningfully connect with Asian-American organizations, churches
and community leaders. The party has also been largely unable to
recruit candidates that Asian-Americans can relate to. The
diagnoses and recommendations contained in the party’s recent
Growth and Opportunity Project  report  are an excellent start,
but, as the report notes, lasting relationships in Asian-
American communities will require greater time and effort.  Republicans must recognize that the Asian-American
electorate isn’t monolithic -- whether in terms of ethnicity,
religion, age or socioeconomic status. The community
organizations and specific concerns of third-generation Chinese-
Americans in  San Francisco  are very different from those of
recent Hmong immigrants in Minneapolis-St. Paul. To repair the
party’s broken image with Asian-American voters, Republicans
will have to cultivate future party leaders, surrogates and
activists from within these communities.  Republicans clearly have a lot of work to do if they are
ever to recover the ground that has been lost with Asian-
American voters over the past 20 years. Progress will come only
with a real commitment from the highest levels of the party --
including those considering a presidential run in 2016.  Last week’s gathering of the  Republican National Committee 
in  Los Angeles , at which we discussed the ways the party can
broaden its appeal to minority communities, was encouraging. If
we invest the necessary time, energy and resources, some of the
very voters who helped to re-elect President Obama could help
return a Republican to the White House in three years.  (Lanhee Chen is a Bloomberg View columnist and a research
fellow at the  Hoover Institution  at  Stanford University . He was
the policy director of Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Lanhee Chen at  lchen301@bloomberg.net  or  @lanheechen  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 