-- Chris Hoy, Six-Time Olympic Gold Medalist Cyclist, Retires
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-18T13:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/hoy-six-time-olympic-gold-medalist-cyclist-retires-correct-.html
British cyclist Chris Hoy retired
today, ending a career in which he won a national-record six
Olympic gold medals.  The 37-year-old had considered competing at the 2014
Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. The Scot won two gold medals at
last year’s  London  Olympics to surpass the British record of
five held by rower Steve Redgrave.  “London squeezed every last drop out of me,” Hoy said in
a statement on British Cycling’s website. “To go on to Glasgow
would have been one race too far.”  Hoy broke Redgrave’s mark by winning the keirin on the
final day of track cycling in London. It was his seventh total
Olympic medal, matching the standard set by Tour de France
champion Bradley Wiggins earlier in the Games.  British Cycling President Brian Cookson called Hoy’s impact
on the sport “unparalleled.”  “Chris has done so much more for cycling,” he said. “He
was one of the first track riders to propel cycling into the
mainstream back in 2008, bringing track cycling to new audiences
and inspiring thousands of people to get on their bikes.”  Hoy is starting his own bike brand that will be marketed
through the U.K.’s Evans Cycles, and plans to begin selling the
seven different road and commuter cycles next month.  Hoy’s Olympic career started in Sydney in 2000, where he
won a silver medal in the team sprint. He won his first gold
four years later in  Athens  in the one-kilometer time trial,
setting a sea-level world record with a time of 1 minute, 0.711
seconds.  After the kilo was dropped from the Olympic program, Hoy
switched his focus to other events. He won gold medals in the
team sprint, men’s keirin and men’s sprint in Beijing in 2008,
becoming the first Briton in 100 years to win three Olympic
titles at one Games.  Hoy was named the British Broadcasting Corp.’s Sports
Personality of the Year for 2008 and the following year was
knighted by Prince Charles, giving him the right to call himself
Sir. He was then chosen by his fellow athletes to carry the U.K.
flag at the London Olympics, where he added to his medal haul
with victories in the team sprint and keirin.  “Throughout his remarkable career, Sir Chris Hoy has
exemplified the values that define an Olympic champion,”
British Olympic Association Chairman Sebastian Coe said in a
statement. “Chris is an icon and he has earned a revered place
among our nation’s greatest sporting heroes.  Hoy also won 11 gold and 25 total medals at the world
championships, along with two gold and two bronze medals at the
Commonwealth Games.  ‘‘I’ve done the very best that I can,” he said. “I’ve had
an amazing career and have so many people to be thankful for
that but this is the end of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 