-- Lloyds Banking Said to Weigh Sale of Scottish Widows Funds
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-04-18T17:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/lloyds-banking-said-to-weigh-sale-of-scottish-widows-funds-1-.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, is weighing a sale of its  Scottish
Widows  Investment Partnership unit to boost capital, four people
with knowledge of the talks said.  The company hired  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to advise on a potential
sale of the asset manager, which oversees about 142 billion
pounds ($217 billion), said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks haven’t been made public. Deutsche
Bank has been gauging interest from potential bidders, though
hasn’t started a formal sale process, one of the people said.  Lloyds Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio is
trying to shrink the lender following its government bailout in
2008. The  Bank of England  also told lenders last month that they
needed to raise 25 billion pounds of additional capital to cover
bigger potential losses on commercial real estate and from the
euro area, possible fines for mis-selling and stricter risk
models. The same month, Lloyds sold a 20 percent stake in wealth
manager St. James’s Place Plc.  The lender may also be seeking to take advantage of the
rising appetite for British fund managers as some of them show
strong performance, one of the people said.  Jupiter Fund
Management Plc (JUP) , the U.K. money manager run by Edward Bonham Carter, said earlier today assets under management grew 11
percent in the first quarter as its funds outperformed rising
equity markets.  Officials at Lloyds and Deutsche Bank declined to comment
on the talks. Lloyds stock fell 2.4 percent to 47.09 pence in
London trading today.  Takeover in 2000  Lloyds paid 7.3 billion pounds for Scottish Widows, the
asset manager’s parent company, in 2000 as part of a plan to
boost sales of life insurance and savings products. The bank
considered selling all of Scottish Widows in 2009, two people
familiar with the matter said at the time. The lender decided
against a sale of Scottish Widows’s insurance unit after Horta-
Osorio’s appointment as CEO in March 2011.  Lloyds isn’t the only bank selling stakes in asset-
management arms to raise capital. Rabobank Groep of the
Netherlands agreed in February to sell its asset-management
unit, Robeco Groep NV, for 1.94 billion euros ($2.5 billion) to
 Japan ’s Orix Corp. Dexia SA, the bank rescued by Belgium and
 France , said in December it agreed to sell its asset management
unit to GCS Capital.  Shrinking Assets  Scottish Widows Investment Partnership was the only fund
company of the four largest in  Scotland  to post a decline in
assets during the fourth quarter, the most recent reported
period. The drop of 0.1 percent compared with a 2.6 percent
increase for Edinburgh rival Standard Life Investments.  The asset manager made a pretax profit of 108 million
pounds last year, up from 99 million pounds in 2011. CEO Dean Buckley, 52, has been trying to turn around SWIP’s stock funds
after taking the job in January 2008. Buckley wasn’t immediately
available to comment, his secretary in Edinburgh said.  He first had to contend with an exodus of more than a dozen
money managers, including its heads of bonds and  emerging
markets , before hiring new people. The departures came amid
questions about whether Lloyds would keep Scottish Widows at the
heart of its fund business following the bank’s government-
brokered takeover of HBOS Plc in September 2008.  In April last year, the company said it was axing 27 of its
38 stock managers and turning to more computer-generated
strategies and index-tracking. James Clunie, who remained at the
firm to run U.K. stock funds, quit this month to join Jupiter
Fund Management Plc. The  U.K. Growth Fund (TSBUKGA)  has returned 15
percent over the past year, in line with the average for its
peer group, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Scottish Widows traces its origins to 1812, when a group of
Edinburgh businessmen set up a fund to provide for the wives of
British soldiers killed in the Napoleonic wars. The firm set up
the Scottish Widows Fund Life Assurance Society in 1815, and
early clients included Walter Scott, author of the Waverley
novels. The company had considered going public before Lloyds
acquired it from its customer-owners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  