-- Musharraf Arrested Over Pakistan 2007 Emergency-Rule Decree
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-04-19T08:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/pakistan-court-rejects-musharraf-bail-as-lawyers-chant-slogans.html
Former Pakistani military leader
 Pervez Musharraf  was arrested in Islamabad today, a day after
fleeing a court where judges had revoked a bail agreement on
charges relating to his 2007 declaration of emergency rule.  Pakistan ’s  Geo network  and other channels broadcast footage
of Musharraf, clad in a loose shirt and baggy trousers, entering
a judicial magistrate’s office this morning surrounded by
police. He is likely to be held at his compound outside the
capital, his lawyer Qamar Afzal said by phone.  Musharraf returned to Pakistan in March after four years in
self-imposed exile in a bid for a political comeback in May 11
elections. While his arrest may exacerbate tensions between the
army and the judiciary, public pressure to put him on trial may
force military leaders to remain silent, Islamabad-based analyst
Talat Masood said.  “This outcome is probably acceptable for the army, which
is in an awkward situation,” said Masood, a retired general.
“If the army tries to protect him in any way, they will be
heavily criticized.”  Musharraf faces multiple court cases, including possible
treason charges for subverting the constitution with his
emergency decree after which he placed top judges under house
arrest. He fled the court yesterday in a black SUV protected by
his bodyguards.  Political Comeback  An election tribunal this week rejected his bid to run for
a parliamentary seat in the election. The risk of unrest over
Musharraf’s arrest is low because his All Pakistan Muslim League
doesn’t have the popularity to organize major protests, Masood
said.  “Why am I being stopped from taking part in politics,”
Musharraf said in a video message posted yesterday on his
Facebook page. “Is it because I gave Pakistan hope, security
and progress?”  Former premier  Nawaz Sharif , who was overthrown by
Musharraf in a bloodless coup in 1999, was preferred by 37
percent in a Gallup analysis of two opinion polls last month.
That’s more than double the 16 percent garnered by the Peoples
Party. The Sharif stronghold of Punjab province sends more than
half of 272 directly elected lower-house lawmakers to
parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  