-- Parmalat Suffers as Aussie Supermarkets Cut Milk to $1
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-04-18T01:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/parmalat-suffers-as-aussie-supermarkets-cut-milk-to-1.html
Tim Bale’s dairy farm barely broke
even in six years as mergers of processors and competition
between supermarkets Coles and  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  pushed down milk
prices. So 14 months ago, he decided to cut out the middleman.  “The milk processors would do a deal with Woolworths and
then come back to us and drop our price,” he said by phone.
“So I wrote to Woolworths and said, ‘We can sell you milk here
that’s better than what you’re getting.”  Farmers in Australia’s A$4 billion ($4 billion) dairy
industry are striking direct deals with supermarkets that
control  80 percent  of the country’s grocery sector, as a drive
to sell milk for A$1 a liter ($3.92 a gallon) squeezes profits.
That’s threatening milk processors  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) ,  Parmalat
SpA (PLT) , and  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG)   “Coles and Woolworths have such a degree of market power
that it makes it difficult for suppliers to make a return,”
said Nick Green, a spokesman for Australian Dairy Farmers, a
group representing both processors and farmers. “Any industry
is unsustainable if it’s only barely breaking even or making a
loss.”  Australia’s  dairy industry  -- dating to 1788 when  four
cows , a bull and a calf were shipped to Sydney to feed the
British penal colony that was the country’s first European
settlement -- has seen milk export volumes more than double
since 1993. That’s largely due to  surging demand from Asia ,
which has lifted  global dairy consumption  27 percent since 2000.  $1 Liter  The shift has driven investments by dairy companies. At
Kirin,  Japan ’s largest drinks maker, Australian dairy and soft
drinks are the  largest overseas business  with 9.4 percent of
group sales. The country is also the second-biggest region for
Parmalat, accounting for about 20 percent of revenue and
outstripping sales from its home market of  Italy . Fonterra,
based in Auckland, New Zealand, has its largest overseas
investment in  Australia , with  14 percent  of group assets in the
country, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  International might hasn’t helped the processors take on
Australia’s supermarkets, which have been pushing down prices
since Coles first cut milk to A$1 a liter in January 2011, said
Ben Craw, a director at consultants PPB Advisory in Sydney.  “They’re trying to take out the middleman,” he said by
phone. “Processor margins are going to have to decline.”  Lost Contracts  Kirin’s Lion Co., which in 2010 had  supplied  all of Coles’s
and Woolworth’s store-brand milk outside Western Australia
state, last week lost contracts with Coles amounting to about
half its remaining store-brand business.  Coles  said April 10  it would instead buy 200 million liters
a year -- about 10 percent of the country’s fresh milk
consumption -- from farmers’ cooperatives Murray Goulburn
Cooperative Co. and Norco Cooperative Ltd. Murray Goulburn says
it will spend A$120 million on two processing plants to handle
the new business.  Bale and other  dairy farmers  in the Manning Valley, about
300 kilometers (190 miles) north of Sydney, today received
 regulatory backing  for a similar deal, to collectively bargain
with Woolworths, the country’s largest retailer, and Milk2Market
for three years. Bale says he currently sells to Parmalat.  The industry has “been structured in a certain way for a
period of time: farmer sells to processor, processor sells to
retailer,” said John Durkan, Coles’s merchandise manager.
“There’s no rule that says it has to be structured like that
forever.”  Safeway, Sainsbury  Woolworths and  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , owner of Coles, together
account for about  80 cents  of every dollar spent on groceries in
the country, and are each  larger than   Safeway Inc. (SWY)  or J
Sainsbury Plc.  Even as suppliers have suffered, the tight control on costs
and supply chain has boosted earnings at the two retailers.
Woolworths’  shares  have risen about 21 percent this year and
Wesfarmers has  gained  14 percent.  Australian antitrust authorities are investigating
allegations from suppliers that the supermarkets have misused
their market power, Rod Sims, chairman of the Australian
Competition & Consumer Commission, told a parliamentary
committee Feb. 13. Sims didn’t say whether the investigation was
looking at the dairy sector, and the complainants haven’t been
named. Both supermarkets say they will cooperate with the
investigation.  Discounts Bite  Dairy discounting is starting to bite at milk processors.
Kirin’s Lion Co. has written off more than half the value of the
dairy businesses it bought for A$3.68 billion in 2007 and 2008.
Lower prices were to blame for a  10 percent  drop in sales at the
Australia and  New Zealand  dairy and drinks unit last year, Lion
said Feb. 14.  Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy exporter, blamed
Australia’s “very competitive retail environment” for a 32
percent drop in first-half earnings at its local unit March 27.
Fonterra is studying Coles’s deal with Murray Goulburn and
“reshaping its business” in response to the “challenges in
the Australian marketplace,” spokeswoman Louise Nicholson said
by e-mail.  Earnings at Parmalat’s Australian unit fell 83 percent in
the first quarter of 2011 after a retailer “drastically” cut
prices for store-brand milk, chief operating officer Antonio Vanoli told a May 2011 investor call. Parmalat is focusing on
higher-margin products such as branded milk and yogurt,
according to a  presentation  July 31, and earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization rose 21 percent in
the country during 2012.  Milk’s Return  Too much pressure on suppliers risks backfiring, said
Stephen Scott, head of research at Ord Minnett Group Ltd. in
Sydney.  The bulk of Australian dairy production is already used to
make cheese, butter, yogurt, milk powder, and other extracts
used in ice cream and commercial baking. Just 25 percent goes to
fresh milk for the local market, and that could slip further if
the business isn’t profitable, Scott said.  “In the short term the supermarkets have the power,”
Scott said by phone. “In the medium term, if they don’t pay
enough for milk, it will be processed and exported. Milk will
find the highest return.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  