-- Pentagon Lost Leverage in Food Supplier Fight, Solons Say
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/pentagon-lost-leverage-in-food-supplier-fight-solons-say.html
The Pentagon may have recovered
more than a third of the $757 million in overpayments it says
went to Supreme Foodservice, a contractor in Afghanistan, yet
several U.S. lawmakers say that’s too little, too late.  In a Capitol Hill hearing yesterday, lawmakers questioned
why no officials at the  Defense Logistics Agency , which wants
Supreme to return the entire $757 million, were punished over
the handling of the contract. Supreme has been paid at least
$5.5 billion to supply food and water to troops, and says it’s
owed an additional $1.8 billion.  “It’s hard to find what went right with this,” said U.S.
Representative Jason Chaffetz, who leads the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee’s National Security subcommittee.
“Nobody was fired. Nobody was dismissed.”  Chaffetz, a Utah Republican, said he was concerned that no
one at the agency that oversees the contract would be held
accountable for the overpayments.  The Pentagon’s demand for refunds “followed six years of
unsuccessful negotiations between DLA and Supreme over fair and
reasonable rates for distributing food to hundreds of forward
operating bases throughout Afghanistan,” according to a memo
prepared by the subcommittee’s Democratic staff.  Daniel Blair, a deputy inspector general for auditing at
the Pentagon, testified that the logistics agency could have
been more aggressive when it first discovered the overcharges.  Withhold Payments  “In my view, if you withhold payments,” you have more
leverage, Blair said.  Matthew Beebe, the  defense  agency’s deputy director for
acquisition, agreed that the “process has taken too long” and
that more could be done.  The agency in March 2012 began withholding $21.8 million a
month from the Ziegelbrücke, Switzerland-based supplier, Beebe
said. As of March 31, the agency had recovered $283 million, he
said.  Gary Shifton, a division chief at the agency who was
involved in managing the contract, testified that he received
high ratings and bonuses during his involvement with the
contract.  During the hearing, Massachusetts Representative John Tierney, the top Democrat on the subcommittee, questioned
whether the agency was withholding enough money each month.  Supreme Appeal  Supreme has appealed the agency’s refund demands to the
U.S. Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals, and the case is
scheduled to be heard in April 2014.  Michael Schuster, a managing director at Supreme, told the
lawmakers that the Pentagon’s audits of the company were
“fundamentally flawed,” operating as if the contract was cost-
plus, and not a fixed-price agreement. Schuster said the heart
of the dispute came from this discrepancy.  Under a “cost-plus contract,” a supplier is paid for all
of its allowed expenses.  Schuster said the agency had rapidly expanded the company’s
responsibility weeks after awarding the fixed-price contract in
2005. The changes required Supreme to “change fundamentally”
its approach to working in isolated and dangerous  Afghanistan ,
Schuster said.  ‘War Zone’  “Although the military agency’s original solicitation said
that only ‘remnants’ of the Taliban were still active, Supreme
had to build this network in an active war zone,” he said. More
than 300 subcontractors for Supreme have been killed while
delivering food to troops in the country, he said.  “It is outrageous that the American taxpayer has been on
the hook for over $750 million in overpayments to Supreme,”
Tierney said in a statement. “While I am encouraged that DLA
has been successful in recouping a portion of these funds, I am
deeply concerned about the federal government’s ability to
collect once the contract ends.”  Supreme earlier this month sued the Pentagon in the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims for awarding a separate $10 billion food
contract to Anham FZCO. Supreme’s accord remains in effect.  Representative  Peter Welch , a Democrat from  Vermont , said
at yesterday’s hearing that taxpayers have been paying the bill
while Supreme and the Pentagon work out their conflict.  “I’d like to put the burden on the bad guys,” Welch said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  