-- PepsiCo Surges as Snack Sales Help Profit Beat Estimates
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-04-18T20:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/pepsico-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-as-snack-sales-increase.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  surged to the highest
price in at least 32 years after the world’s largest snack-food
maker reported first-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates, helped by global snack sales.  The shares  jumped  3 percent to $81.25 at the close in  New
York , the highest price since at least July 1980, according to
split-adjusted data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi , working to boost snack
sales, has increased marketing on key brands including Lays
potato chips and Quaker oatmeal. Nooyi has also put emphasis on
soft drinks to regain market share from  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  Global
drink sales volumes in the quarter, excluding acquisitions,
divestitures and currency fluctuations, rose 1 percent, while
snack sales volume on that basis gained 4 percent.  “The business momentum continues to look solid, as PepsiCo
delivered its first earnings growth quarter in over a year,”
John Faucher, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co in New York,
said today in a note. He rates the shares overweight, equivalent
of a buy.  First-quarter net income fell 4.6 percent to $1.08 billion,
or 69 cents a share, from $1.13 billion, or 71 cents, a year
earlier, PepsiCo said today in a statement. Profit excluding
some items was 77 cents a share, beating the 71-cent average of
14 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Snack Sales  Frito Lay  North America  sales volume increased 4 percent in
the quarter while PepsiCo Americas Beverages declined 3 percent.
Snack volume sales in  Europe  advanced 4 percent as beverages
increased 1 percent.  PepsiCo has shown “further evidence of improving topline
trends for Frito Lay North America, and comparatively high
growth in International,” Mark Swartzberg, an analyst for
Stifel Financial Corp. in New York, said in an April 12 note. He
recommends holding the stock.  On a conference call today, PepsiCo Chief Financial Officer
Hugh Johnston reiterated that all options are on the table to
restructure the company’s North America beverage operations and
the company will update investors in early 2014.  Total  sales  rose 1.2 percent to $12.6 billion, beating the
$12.5 billion average of analysts’ estimates. Unfavorable
currency fluctuations reduced sales by 0.5 percentage points,
the company said.  Currency Impact  PepsiCo reiterated that earnings per share in 2013 will
increase 7 percent from the $4.10 in 2012. That implies profit
of $4.39, matching the average of analysts’ estimates. The
company expects currency translation to reduce full-year
earnings per share, excluding some items, by 1 percentage point,
according to the statement.  PepsiCo  shares  have gained 19 percent this year compared
with a 16 percent increase for Coca-Cola and an 8.1 percent
advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  On April 16, Atlanta-based Coca-Cola reported first-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates and announced a deal to
sell some bottling distribution rights in North America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  