-- Pfizer CEO Was Highest Paid Among Pharma Companies Last Year
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-04-18T13:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/pfizer-ceo-was-highest-paid-among-pharma-companies-last-year.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Ian Read was the
highest-paid chief executive officer at a large pharmaceutical
company last year, as U.S. top managers remained on average much
better paid than their European counterparts.  New York-based Pfizer increased Read’s remuneration 2.5
percent to $25.6 million in 2012, while  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) ’s Lars Rebien Soerensen was the lowest-paid CEO, with $5 million, Sam Fazeli, a London-based analyst for Bloomberg Industries, wrote
in a note today. The median pay of CEOs leading large
pharmaceutical companies in the U.S. was $17.2 million last
year, 85 percent more than the $9.3 million European average,
according to the analyst.  Payments to top managers in Europe, even though lower than
in the U.S., remain under scrutiny. A U.K. pension group has
recommended that members vote against London-based  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN) ’s remuneration policy at the company’s annual general
meeting on April 25 to protest a “golden hello” payment and
planned incentives for Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot.  Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis AG (NOVN)  met similar investor
pressure earlier this year because of its plans to pay outgoing
Chairman  Daniel Vasella  $77 million as part of a non-compete
agreement. Vasella’s “golden parachute” came to light after
details were leaked to the press, leading to a public outcry in
Switzerland and prompting him to give up the money.  Large-cap pharmaceutical companies paid their CEOs a median
of $13.7 million in 2012, well below the industrials-company
median of $21.9 million, according to Bloomberg Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  