-- Philippines Relaxes Curbs on Dollar Buying to Stem Peso Gains
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-18T09:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/philippines-relaxes-curbs-on-dollar-buying-to-stem-peso-gains.html
The Philippine  central bank  doubled
the amount of dollars residents can freely buy and broadened the
range of approved outward investments in a bid to spur capital
outflows and slow peso gains.  Residents can now purchase as much as $120,000 from banks
without documentation, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Deputy
Governor Nestor Espenilla said today at a press briefing in
 Manila . Investments in overseas property as well as foreign-
currency mutual funds and debt are now allowed using greenback
bought locally, he said. Companies can also obtain U.S. currency
in the domestic market this year to meet payments on foreign-
currency loans that are not registered with the central bank, a
move that may boost dollar demand by as much as $1 billion,
Director Patria Angeles said.  “This is meant to signal that they want to increase demand
for U.S. dollars so their intervention in the foreign-exchange
market will be lessened,” said Paul Joseph Garcia,who helps
manage the equivalent of $18.4 bilion at BPI Asset Management in
Manila. “But the problem is, you cannot fight the inflows.
We’re one of the hottest  emerging markets  right now.”  The  Philippines , which won its first investment-grade
credit ranking from Fitch Ratings last month, is seeking to slow
a surge in capital inflows that made the peso the second-best
performer in the region and drove local shares to a record high.
Foreign  portfolio inflows  into the $225 billion economy jumped
79 percent from a year earlier to $7.3 billion in the first
quarter, after rising to a decade-high in 2012.  Peso, Stocks  The peso rose 0.1 percent today to 41.205 per dollar in
Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency has gained
3.5 percent in the past 12 months, trailing only the Thai baht
among Asia currencies. The Philippine Stock  Exchange Index (PCOMP)  has
rallied 18 percent this year and closed at a record on April 12.  Tourists can now change back as much as $10,000, double the
previous limit, before they leave the country, the BSP said.
Companies with unregistered foreign-currency loans were last
allowed to obtain dollars locally from December 2011 to February
2012.  The rule changes, which will allow easier access to foreign
exchange, are aimed at encouraging fund outflows, Governor
Amando Tetangco told Bloomberg Television on March 28 when he
revealed the April timetable for the revisions.  “It’s difficult to say if the new measures will weaken the
peso but it’s a good opportunity for banks to use their foreign
exchange resources,” Angeles said.  Bangko Sentral allowed banks to hold more foreign exchange
in February 2007 as the peso traded near a six-year high. Since
then, it has increased the amount of dollars that companies and
individuals can buy or invest overseas without prior regulatory
approval and allowed lenders to trade more foreign-currency
derivatives.  In March 2012, the monetary authority  raised  the limit on
purchases of the greenback by importers that don’t need to be
supported by documents to $500,000 from $50,000. In October
2010, further caps were relaxed.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  