-- Philippine Peso Extends Rebound From Five-Month Low; Bonds Gain
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-04-18T10:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/philippine-peso-near-five-month-low-before-new-rules-disclosed.html
The Philippine peso extended its
rebound from a five-month low even after the central bank
unveiled additional measures to encourage capital outflows.
 Government bonds  gained.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas doubled the amount of dollars
residents can freely buy and broadened the range of approved
outward investments. Filipinos can now purchase as much as
$120,000 from banks without documentation, BSP Deputy Governor
Nestor Espenilla said today in Manila. Investments in overseas
property, foreign-currency mutual funds and debt are now allowed
using locally-bought greenback, he said. Fund inflows into the
$225 billion economy jumped 79 percent from a year earlier to
$7.3 billion in the first quarter.  “This is meant to signal that they want to increase demand
for U.S. dollars so their intervention in the foreign-exchange
market will be lessened,” said Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps
manage the equivalent of $18.4 billion at BPI Asset Management
in  Manila . “But the problem is, you cannot fight the inflows.
We’re one of the hottest  emerging markets  right now.”  The peso strengthened 0.1 percent to 41.205 against the
greenback in Manila, extending yesterday’s 0.4 percent advance,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It touched 41.413 on April 16,
the weakest level since Oct. 22. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
4.79 percent.  The  Philippines  won its first investment-grade ranking from
 Fitch Ratings  on March 27, which fueled the biggest rally in the
peso in six months that day and drove the benchmark  stock index 
to a record on April 1. The peso reached 40.55 per dollar on
Jan. 14, the strongest since March 10, 2008.  ‘Good Opportunity’  Under the new rules, domestic companies can obtain dollars
locally this year to meet payments on foreign-currency loans
that are not registered with the central bank, a move that may
boost dollar demand by as much as $1 billion, BSP Director
Patria Angeles said. Tourists can now change back as much as
$10,000, double the previous limit, before they leave the
country, according to the central bank.  “It’s difficult to say if the new measures will weaken the
peso but it’s a good opportunity for banks to use their foreign-
exchange resources,” said Angeles.  The rule adjustments, which will allow easier access to
foreign exchange, are aimed at encouraging fund outflows, BSP
Governor Amando Tetangco told Bloomberg Television on March 28,
when he revealed the April timetable for the changes.  Philippine local-currency bonds returned 13.4 percent this
year, the best-performance among  Asia ’s 10 biggest debt markets,
according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The yield on the government’s 4 percent bonds due December
2022 dropped 10 basis points to 3.05 percent, prices from
Tradition Financial Services show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  