-- Police Raid Medvedev’s Innovation Hub Over Fraud Inquiry
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-04-18T11:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/police-raid-medvedev-s-innovation-hub-over-fraud-inquiry-1-.html
Russian police raided the Skolkovo
innovation hub, a project championed by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, a day after his speech to parliament was overshadowed
by a leaked video.  Investigators talked today to the foundation’s head,
billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg , and other top officials, Skolkovo
spokesman Roman Shcherbakov said by phone. The federal
Investigative Committee’s press service confirmed that officers
were searching the technology hub’s offices.  The Moscow-based law enforcement agency said in February
that it was investigating the misspending of 3.5 billion rubles
($111 million) provided by the government that had been on
deposit in a bank affiliated with Vekselberg.  President Vladimir Putin threatened April 16 to dismiss
underperforming officials at a meeting with ministers and
regional governors, according to a video leaked hours before an
annual speech to lawmakers by Medvedev. The video, which was
recorded during a part of the meeting that Putin had asked not
to be filmed, showed the Russian leader addressing the governors
during a discussion about housing, his spokesman, Dmitry Peskov,
said yesterday.  ‘Government Inefficiency’  The leaked warning and the raid today “are linked
indirectly in the sense that they are both negative for
Medvedev,” Sergei Markov, a political adviser to Putin’s staff
and vice rector of the Plekhanov Russian University of
Economics, said by phone. “Medvedev’s problems are increasing
because of his obstinacy and the inefficiency of his
government.”  Medvedev’s spokeswoman, Natalya Timakova, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Russia’s $2 trillion economy is growing at the weakest pace
since a 2009 contraction as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs exports
and corporate investment. Putin has told the premier to draw up
measures to revive growth after Economy Minister Andrei Belousov
warned that a recession is possible without stimulus.  Putin, 60, ceded the presidency after completing the
maximum two consecutive terms allowed by the constitution in
2008. Medvedev, 47, became president and appointed Putin his
premier, with the two swapping jobs last May after parliamentary
elections that sparked the biggest protests of Putin’s political
career.  Skolkovo, unveiled in 2010 and based outside Moscow, was a
hallmark of Medvedev’s efforts to modernize the world’s biggest
energy exporter by weaning Russia off its reliance on
commodities and nurturing a knowledge-based economy that can
compete globally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  