-- Polish Yields Fall to Record as Output Drop Spurs Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-04-18T14:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/polish-yields-fall-to-record-as-output-drop-spurs-rate-cut-bets.html
Polish government bond yields
plunged to record lows after the nation’s industrial output
dropped more than expected in March, spurring speculation of
more monetary easing to bolster a slowing economy.  The  yield  on five-year bonds fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 2.95 percent at 2:56 p.m. in Warsaw,
sliding for a fifth day.  Production slipped 2.9 percent from a year earlier, after
decreasing 2.1 percent in February, the  Central Statistical
Office  in Warsaw said today. The median estimate of 32
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 2.2 percent
contraction. The slide in output follows worse-than-expected
data on wage growth released yesterday. The rate council should
cut borrowing costs by 50 basis points next month if March
macroeconomic data are “weak,” policy maker Andrzej Bratkowski
was cited as saying by Reuters yesterday.  “The worst is not yet over” for the Polish economy, Rafal Benecki, chief economist at Warsaw-based  ING Bank Slaski SA (ING) ,
wrote in a note. He expects interest rates to be cut by 50 basis
points before August.  The central bank left its benchmark seven-day rate
unchanged at 3.25 percent for the first time in five months on
April 10, as policy makers retained a “wait-and-see” stance
after reductions by a total of 150 basis points between November
and March sent the key  reference rate  to a record low of 3.25
percent.  Nine-month forward rate agreements, derivatives used to
speculate on interest rate levels, traded 64 basis points below
the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, showing scope for  more than
two quarter-point cuts  by the end of the year.  The zloty strengthened 0.1 percent to 4.1133 per euro,
gaining for the first time in four days, as flows into  Poland ’s
bond market offset the expectations for  interest rates  cuts that
are negative for the currency, according to ING’s Benecki.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  