-- Polish March Industrial Output Drops More Than Expected
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-04-18T12:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/polish-march-industrial-output-drops-more-than-expected.html
Polish  industrial output  fell more
than economists expected in March, adding to arguments for the
central bank to keep cutting  interest rates .  Production dropped 2.9 percent from a year earlier, after
decreasing 2.1 percent in February, the  Central Statistical
Office  in Warsaw said today. The median estimate of 32
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 2.2 percent
contraction. Output rose 9.2 percent from the previous month.  The Polish central bank left its benchmark seven-day rate
unchanged at 3.25 percent for the first time in five months on
April 10, as policy makers predicted record-low borrowing costs
will reinvigorate the European Union’s largest eastern economy.
While the bank projects a “gradual” recovery, a contraction in
manufacturing deepened last month while retail sales fell in
February and  unemployment  rose to a six-month high.  “A weak output print would nicely fit into the overall
inflationary picture and may add to the pressure on the MPC to
ease,” said Gabor Ambrus, a London-based economist at 4Cast
Ltd., wrote in an e-mail yesterday. “The odds of further easing
are growing.”  The zloty traded at 4.1154 percent against the euro before
the release at 1:49 p.m. in Warsaw.  Poland ’s central bank has delivered five rate cuts since
November in a bid to stave off the country’s deepest slowdown in
12 years. Inflation slowed to 1 percent in March, the second
month the rate undershot the central bank’s minimum tolerance
level of 1.5 percent.  While the central bank’s March staff projections call for
domestic demand to recover, doubling economic growth to 2.6
percent next year, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said this month that risks remain on the downside for the euro
area, where Poland sends 52 percent of its exports.  Producer prices  fell 0.6 percent in last month from a year
earlier, the statistics office said today in a separate report.
That compared with a median estimate for a 0.4 percent decline
in a Bloomberg survey of 25 economists. Producer prices dropped
0.2 percent from February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  