-- Portugal Announces Planned Cuts After Court Clouds Rescue Effort
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-04-18T12:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/portugal-announces-planned-cuts-after-court-clouds-rescue-effort.html
Portugal  announced plans for more
than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in savings to keep emergency
loans flowing after the country’s highest court struck down
proposed salary cuts for public workers.  Spending in all programs will be reduced, Luis Morais Sarmento, the secretary of state for the budget, told reporters
in Lisbon today. The government will also “redesign” a measure
that affects payments from recipients of unemployment subsidies,
he said. The cuts represent about 0.5 percent of gross domestic
product and more detail on the measures will be provided in a
budget amendment next month.  Portugal has to find alternative measures to meet  budget
deficit  targets set in its 78 billion-euro aid program from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  after the
country’s  Constitutional Court  on April 5 blocked a plan to
suspend the equivalent of a monthly salary payment to state
workers and pensioners this year.  “As the government has opted not to address the financial
problem created by the Constitutional Court’s decision with tax
increases, there will necessarily have to be a reduction in
spending,” Parliamentary Affairs Minister Luis Marques Guedes
said.  The measures will allow Portugal to complete the seventh
review of its bailout plan and secure an extension of rescue
loans that was agreed upon in principle on April 12 by EU
finance ministers meeting in Dublin. The extension of the
maturities of Portugal’s aid loans will help the country issue
10-year bonds and regain access to bond markets, Finance
Minister Vitor Gaspar said on April 12.  Troika Talks  The so-called troika of officials from the EU Commission,
 European Central Bank  and IMF visited Lisbon from April 15 to
today and discussed with the government “compensating policy
measures” to meet deficit targets, the EU said in a statement
today. “Discussions will continue with the aim of securing a
timely completion of the seventh review,” it said.  The measures blocked by the court represent 1.3 billion
euros of savings in 2013, or about 0.8 percent of the country’s
 gross domestic product  of 164 billion euros. Portugal has set a
target for the budget deficit of 5.5 percent of GDP in 2013, 4
percent in 2014 and below the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2015, when
it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. It forecasts debt will peak at
123.7 percent of GDP in 2014.  Highway Contracts  The government also plans to bring forward to this year
“structural” measures that had been planned for 2014 and 2015
and aims to obtain  savings  of 300 million euros by negotiating
existing public-private partnership highway contracts, Sarmento
said.  “The government prefers a negotiated solution,” he said.
It may consider resorting to taxes on those contracts if the
savings target is not met through negotiation, according to
Sarmento.  Before the court ruling, the government had planned to cut
spending by about 4 billion euros in the three years through
2015. About 80 percent of the 5.3 billion-euro deficit-trimming
effort in the 2013 budget comes from revenue gains, most of
which being 3.7 billion euros of tax increases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  