-- Pound Strengthens Against Dollar as U.S. Data Trail Estimates
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-04-18T16:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/pound-strengthens-against-dollar-as-u-s-data-trail-estimates.html
The pound rose against the dollar
after U.S. data on leading economic indicators and Philadelphia-
area manufacturing trailed estimates.  Sterling gained versus 13 of its 16 major peers after
weakening earlier as a report showed U.K. retail sales fell more
than analysts predicted last month. An index of U.S. leading
indicators unexpectedly declined in March, adding to speculation
monetary stimulus will be maintained. Bank of England policy
maker Martin Weale said easing inflation may reduce the barrier
to more stimulus. U.K. government bonds rose for a second day,
with 10-year gilt yields approaching a seven-month low.  “Sterling has held up quite well and we’re seeing the
dollar coming under some pressure,” said Ian Stannard, head of
European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley Inc. in  London .
“The dollar is weakening after the Philly Fed data. Going
forward sterling looks vulnerable, though.”  The pound gained 0.3 percent to $1.5285 as of 5:04 p.m.
London time after falling to $1.5217 yesterday, the lowest since
April 4. Sterling was little changed at 85.55 pence per euro.  Sales including fuel dropped 0.7 percent from February when
they climbed 2.1 percent, the Office for National Statistics
said. The median forecast of 23 analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 0.6 percent contraction.  The pound strengthened 1.2 percent this month, the third-
best performer behind the New Zealand dollar and the Swiss franc
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro climbed 0.9 percent and
the dollar slipped 0.1 percent.  U.S. Data  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  dropped to 1.3 from 2 in March. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an increase to 3.
The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three
to six months fell 0.1 percent in March after climbing 0.5
percent in the prior two months, the New York-based group said
today. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 0.1 percent increase.  Bank of England’s Weale said there’s a risk the U.K. fell
into another recession in the first quarter, and signaled easing
inflation pressures may reduce the barrier to more stimulus.  “The inflation position, at least from my perspective, has
improved somewhat,” Weale said in a Bloomberg interview. There
has been a “favorable signal from wages and the other favorable
signal very recently has been the news on commodity prices. They
certainly make me feel there’s more room for maneuver than there
would have been if they hadn’t happened.”  Committee Divided  The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee has split on the need
for more quantitative easing, with Weale siding with the
majority this month to keep the  target  for bond purchases on
hold, citing the risks from above-target inflation. With data on
April 25 showing whether the U.K. slipped into an unprecedented
triple-dip recession in the first quarter, Weale said the report
will influence his May policy vote.  Benchmark 10-year gilt  yields  dropped three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.66 percent. The rate dropped to
1.63 percent on April 8, matching the April 5 low, which was the
 least  since Sept. 5.  “There’s a case for the Bank of England to further loosen
monetary policy given the weakness of the economy, and that
should continue to keep gilt yields at low levels,” said Robin Marshall, a director of fixed income at Smith & Williamson
Investment Management in London.  The Debt Management Office auctioned 2.25 billion pounds of
3.25 percent gilts due in January 2044 at an average yield of
3.121 percent, compared with 3.42 percent when the government
sold the securities through banks on Jan. 29. The yield fell two
basis points from yesterday to 3.09 percent.  Gilts returned 1.6 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Treasuries and
German bonds both gained 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  