-- Puma Names Pandora’s Gulden as Chief After Four-Month Search
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-04-18T09:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/puma-names-pandora-s-gulden-as-new-chief-after-four-month-search.html
Puma SE (PUM) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker, appointed  Pandora A/S (PNDORA)  leader Bjoern Gulden
as chief executive officer after a four-month search.  Gulden, 47, will take over the role on July 1, succeeding
Franz Koch, who left last month after only two years in the job.
The appointment follows speculation in February that led Pandora
to deny that Gulden would be leaving the company.  The new CEO, a former soccer professional, has “proven
leadership quality and know-how in managing sports and footwear
brands,” Jean-Francois Palus, chairman of Puma’s administrative
board, said in a statement today. “I am absolutely convinced
that Bjoern Gulden is the perfect fit to lead Puma through its
continuing restructuring and transformation program.”  The appointment helps fill a management vacuum at Puma
after the departure of three senior executives in the past six
months. Chief Supply Officer Reiner Seiz quit in December, a day
after the disclosure that Koch was leaving. Chairman Jochen Zeitz resigned in October and was replaced by Palus, managing
director of Puma’s majority owner Kering, formerly PPR SA.  “When you have a company where 50 percent plus of the top
management has left, it’s always positive to find a new CEO,”
said  Joerg Frey , an analyst at M.M. Warburg in Hamburg.  Cost Reductions  Puma announced in October that it expected earnings this
year to be “significantly below” those of 2011 as consumers
cut back on spending in the wake of Europe’s financial crisis.
The company plans more cost reductions to combat a weakening
consumer climate in Europe and  China , it said at the time.  Puma  rose  as much as 1.1 percent to 230.45 euros in
Frankfurt trading and was up 0.3 percent at 11:09 a.m.  Pandora, based in Glostrup,  Denmark , said that Chairman
Allan Leighton will succeed Gulden as CEO on July 1, with deputy
chairman Marcello Bottoli becoming chairman. The jewelry maker
said its board of directors will recommend that Gulden, who only
joined Pandora in March last year, becomes a board member.  Pandora spokesman Jakob Risom Langelund said reports
earlier this year of Gulden’s appointment by Puma, which were
denied by the CEO, were untrue at the time.  Pandora  fell  as much as 6.8 percent to 164.1 kroner in
Copenhagen trading and was down 5 percent at 11:08 a.m. The
shares had surged 41 percent this year before today after the
maker of charms and bracelets improved quarterly profit by
cutting prices and replacing unwanted products at retailers.  ‘No Catastrophe’  Gulden’s departure from Pandora isn’t a big surprise, said
Jonas Guldborg Hansen, an analyst at Jyske Bank A/S.  “It is no catastrophe and I think Allan Leighton is a very
good solution as he has been a driving part in this
turnaround,” Hansen said. “And Bottoli has been the founding
father, so to speak, for this strategy.”  Leighton, 60, joined Pandora’s board in 2010. He is a
former chairman of Royal Mail Group Ltd. and was previously CEO
of Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda supermarket chain in U.K.  “Leighton is a definite solution, he has made a long-term
commitment to this company,” Langelund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  