-- QBE Fined $10 Million After New York Kickback Probe
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-04-18T15:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/qbe-fined-10-million-after-new-york-kickback-probe.html
QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE)  was fined
$10 million, agreed to cut rates for some residential coverage
and will provide customer refunds after a  New York  probe into
kickbacks paid to banks.  The fine follows a $14 million penalty last month against
 Assurant Inc. (AIZ) , the largest provider of so-called force-placed
policies, the mandatory coverage for mortgage borrowers who
lapse on insurance payments with their original carriers.  QBE, Australia’s largest insurer, and New York-based
Assurant competed for business by offering a share of their
profits to mortgage lenders, a probe by New York’s Department of
Financial Services found. The insurers can be selected by banks,
and premiums were as much as 10 times higher than for a policy
picked by a homeowner, the regulator said.  “The kickbacks and payoffs in the force-placed  insurance
industry  used to be a dirty little secret,” New York Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  said today in a  statement  announcing the fine.
“Reforms that we’re putting in place will mean lower home
insurance costs.”  QBE fell 2.1 percent to A$13.10 in Sydney. The shares have
advanced 20 percent this year. Frank Centore, a spokesman for
the insurer, had no immediate comment.  QBE became the second-largest force-placed insurer in the
U.S. and New York after its purchase of Balboa Insurance Co.
from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in 2011. The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender also signed the settlement with New York.  Bank Payments  The insurer recorded claims costs of less than 20 cents for
every dollar of force-placed premium it collected in New York
from 2009 to 2011, the regulators found. That’s “substantially
below” the expected 55 cents per dollar expected from filings
QBE made with the department, according to the statement.  The insurer is prohibited under the deal from paying
commissions or turning over premium revenue through reinsurance
contracts to banks or mortgages servicers. QBE agreed to file
rates with the regulator based on claims costs of 62 cents per
dollar. QBE will also be required to re-file its rates every
three years and submit other data about its losses and expenses
to regulators.  New York Superintendent of Financial Services Benjamin Lawsky said other states should adopt similar changes.
Regulators in California and  Florida  have also been examining
force-placed policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  