-- Rand Weakens Second Day as Commodities Tumble on Growth Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-04-18T07:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/rand-weakens-second-day-as-commodities-tumble-on-growth-concern.html
The rand declined for a second day
as commodities tumbled to the lowest levels since July on
concern a global economic recovery is flagging.  South Africa ’s currency slipped 0.3 percent to 9.1971 per
dollar as of 8:54 a.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 10.5
percent bonds due December 2026 dropped four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 6.89 percent, the lowest on record
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields have declined 17
basis points in the past three days.  Commodities are collapsing as the  International Monetary
Fund  cut its global growth projection. Data this week showed
slower-than-expected Chinese economic growth while European car
sales slid to a 20-year low. Metals and other mining commodities
accounted for 53 percent of South Africa’s exports in 2012,
according to government data.  “The rand has weakened again as risky assets across the
globe come under pressure,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist
at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “Global demand remains weak and continues to
weaken.”  Finance ministers and central bankers from around the world
are meeting in  Washington  to discuss policies aimed at
sustaining the global recovery. Evidence of slowing growth may
persuade policy makers in developed nations to extend monetary
easing, supporting riskier assets including the rand, Cairns
added.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials dropped
as much as 0.8 percent. Copper plunged through $7,000 a metric
ton in  London  for the first time in almost 18 months and headed
for a bear market, commonly defined as a drop of 20 percent or
more from a closing high. Aluminum, nickel, zinc and lead also
declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  