-- Transnet Says its Best Placed to Run S. African Ports
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-04-18T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/transnet-says-its-best-placed-to-run-s-african-ports.html
Transnet SOC Ltd., South Africa’s
state transport company, defended its monopoly of the country’s
eight ports and said it would make no sense for private
operators such as  France ’s  Bollore SA (BOL)  to enter the market.  “We are sitting on natural monopolies” as the ports don’t
compete with each other, Transnet’s Chief Executive Officer
Brian Molefe, 46, said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Johannesburg on April 15. “Is a natural
monopoly better in private or state hands?”  Transnet owns and operates all eight commercial ports and
16 cargo terminals across Africa’s largest economy, including
the biggest container terminal at Durban and Africa’s largest
coal port at Richards Bay. One port, Ngqura, is still being
built. Ultimately the government and regulators will decide
whether private participation would be allowed.  “The country isn’t big enough to have anything else than
what we have,” Molefe said. “The ports handle what a country
of our size can handle.”  Income from ports and terminals accounted for about 42
percent of Transnet’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the six months through
September, the company said in a statement last year. Revenue
from that area of its business climbed 1.3 percent to 15.3
billion rand ($1.7 billion) and came to a about third of the
company’s total sales.  Refrigerated Goods  In addition to Durban and Richards Bay, Transnet operates a
port in  Cape Town  that mainly handles refrigerated goods such as
fruit. Saldanha ships iron ore,  Port Elizabeth  handles manganese
and cars while East London serves a nearby plant owned by the
Mercedes-Benz unit of  Daimler AG. (DAI)   Mossel Bay  is primarily a
fishing and oil products port.  French billionaire  Vincent Bollore ’s investment company
wants to increase its number of African ports under management 
to 19 from 14. The group is investing 250 million euros to 300
million euros in Africa each year,  Bollore Africa Logistics (SDSC) 
Managing Director Philippe Labonne said in an interview last
month. The company would particularly like to expand into South
Africa, he said.  “Private sector participation in ports management can be
complementary to Transnet’s internal program, in terms of
sharing risks and investments,” Goolam Ballim, chief economist
and global head of research at Johannesburg-based  Standard Bank
Group Ltd. (SBK) , said in a phone interview yesterday. “So,
partnerships can be especially fruitful.”  Trading Relevance  Transnet, which has shed loss-making airline and passenger
train units, is becoming more profitable, Ballim said.  “Transnet appears to be piloting toward a more
commercially functioning entity,” he said. “It is emphasizing
major hubs stretching from Richards Bay to Cape Town. The Durban
port is crucial to  South Africa ’s external trading relevance,
and success here can be catalyzing.”  As Transnet presses ahead with a 300 billion-rand
investment plan to upgrade and expand port and rail
infrastructure, the company is charging different prices for
bulk and container goods because of a tariff structure set many
years ago. South Africa’s ports regulator didn’t fully approve a
Transnet proposal to alter the tariffs to cut prices for
containers and increase costs for bulk goods, according to a
statement on its  website  earlier this month.  “We will not appeal,” Molefe said. “That debate really
is not about how much money comes to Transnet.” The aim was to
encourage manufacturing in South Africa, he said.  Transnet’s expansion plans include new rail services to the
agriculture industry, Molefe said. South  Africa  is the
continent’s biggest producer of corn, and may harvest 11.5
million tons this year, according to the median estimate of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Corn, Coal  About 18 percent of corn was transported by road in 2012,
down from 34 percent in 2004, according to data from the  South
African Grain Information Service .  The operation of rail lines for dedicated businesses will
probably lead to the increased transportation of crops. Molefe
said. The company is also seeking to export Botswanan coal via
South African ports.  “We see a huge opportunity there,” he said.  The number of trains the company operates daily has risen
to 1,200 from 700 two years ago. Transnet will start building a
new line to  Richards Bay  that will run through Swaziland
“certainly” by 2014, the CEO said.  That will allow it to boost coal shipments on the Richard’s
Bay line to a terminal that has bigger capacity than the lines
it is served by. Within two to three years more than 9O million
tons of coal may be railed to the port, he said. The port has
the capacity to export 91 million tons of coal annually and
shipped 68.3 million tons last year.  Still, the Swazi rail line faces challenges.  “The terrain is very hostile. It is mountainous,” he
said. “They have to find the straightest routes through the
mountains.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  