-- Raskin Says Record Fed Easing to Aid Low-Income Americans
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-04-18T21:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/raskin-says-record-fed-easing-to-aid-low-income-americans.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said the Fed should press on with record easing,
predicting that current policy will increasingly improve the
economic outlook for low-income Americans.  The Fed’s near-zero interest rate policy and asset
purchases are growing more effective by supporting the housing
market and spurring economic activity, Raskin said today in a
speech at a Ford Foundation  conference  in New York.  “Accommodative monetary policy could be increasingly
potent” as the housing market recovers, Raskin said. “As house
prices rise, more and more households have enough home equity to
gain renewed access to mortgage credit and the ability to
refinance their homes at lower rates.”  The Federal Open Market Committee in March agreed to
continue buying $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage bonds per
month in an effort to bolster growth and reduce unemployment
that was at 7.6 percent last month. Fed officials are debating
how to eventually curtail asset purchases that have swollen the
central bank’s balance sheet to a record  $3.3 trillion .  “The accommodative policies of the FOMC and the concerted
effort we have made to ease conditions in the mortgage markets
will help the economy continue to gain traction,” Raskin said.
“And the resulting expansion in employment will likely improve
income levels at the bottom of the distribution.”  Financial Shocks  At the December 2007 start of the 18-month recession, there
were an “unusually large” number of low- and middle-income
households that were vulnerable to financial shocks after 30
years of “sluggish” wage growth, Raskin said.  “Their exposure to house prices had increased
dramatically,” and they were more likely to be affected by lost
jobs and reduced savings, Raskin said. That deepened the
recession and prolonged the recovery, she said today at the
foundation’s 22nd Annual Hyman P. Minsky Conference.  U.S. growth slumped to 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter,
the slowest since the first quarter of 2011, amid government
budget cuts and military spending that plunged the most since
the waning days of the Vietnam War four decades ago.  Economists expect growth to rebound. Gross domestic product
probably grew at a 3 percent annualized rate from January
through March, according to the median forecast in an April 5-9
Bloomberg survey of 69 economists. That’s up from the 2 percent
gain projected by economists last month.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped for a second day,
dropping 0.7 percent to a six-week low of 1,541.61 as earnings
from UnitedHealth Group Inc. to EBay Inc. disappointed
investors. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note
decreased 0.01 percentage point to 1.68 percent.  Raskin, 52, was appointed by President  Barack Obama  in 2010
for a term that expires in 2016. Before joining the Fed she was
 Maryland ’s Commissioner of Financial Regulation, according to
the Fed Board  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  