-- Rehn: Japan’s Actions ‘Understandable’ To Fight Deflation
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-04-18T17:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/rehn-japan-s-actions-understandable-to-fight-deflation.html
Japan ’s record monetary policy
easing and the weakening yen make sense given the nation’s
challenges of recession and deflation, European Union Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today.  “I can well understand that Japan is taking very forcible
policy action in this juncture,” Rehn said in a Bloomberg
Television interview at International Monetary Fund meetings in
Washington this week.  “Japan has to deal with a very serious problem of
deflation,” Rehn said. “On the other hand, Japan needs also to
build up a convincing strategy of long-term fiscal
consolidation.”  The yen has fallen against all 16 of its most-traded peers
since April 4 when the  Bank of Japan (8301)  surprised investors by
doubling monthly bond purchases and setting a two-year horizon
for achieving its goal of 2 percent inflation. The  U.S. Treasury 
said this week it will press Japan to refrain from competitive
devaluation, alongside calls from European governments that it
not become too reliant on fiscal and monetary stimulus.  Rehn said  Europe  will continue to press ahead in tackling
its own challenges, particularly “what can be done in order to
tackle the excessively tight financing conditions, especially in
Southern Europe.” He also said investors shouldn’t see Cyprus
as a bellwether for bailouts in other nations.  Concerning gold sales, which are foreseen as part of
Cypriot efforts to access its 10 billion-euro ($13.1 billion)
rescue package, Rehn said it was a matter for central bankers to
discuss. He said gold sales are “not a template” for bailouts
in other nations, just as “Cyprus is not a template in
general.”  The euro zone has faced a wide range of challenges in the
nations that have sought aid, including  Greece , Ireland,
Portugal and Spain. “We’ve also had different and tailor-made
solutions to these challenges,” Rehn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Eisen in Washington at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  