-- Remy Cointreau Quarterly Sales Rise on Chinese New Year
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-04-18T08:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/remy-cointreau-quarterly-sales-rise-on-chinese-new-year.html
Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , the maker of
Mount Gay rum, reported fourth-quarter revenue that beat
analysts’ estimates, aided by demand for pricier variants of its
Remy Martin cognac during the Chinese New Year holiday.  So-called organic sales rose 12 percent in the three months
through March, Paris-based Remy said today in a statement. The
increase exceeded the median 8.6 percent growth estimate of 10
 analysts  surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Organic sales of Remy Martin cognac rose 14 percent thanks
to demand in Asia and the Americas in the quarter, helping
alleviate concern about slowing sales in  China . Remy shares rose
as much as 4.9 percent, the biggest gain in three months.  “Fourth-quarter numbers provide reassurance, in our view,
on the resilience of the cognac category in  Asia ,” Andrea Pistacchi, Adam Spielman and colleagues at Citigroup Inc. in
London wrote today in a report. “The shares have been very soft
in the past two months on concerns about trading in China.”  More sales were booked in the quarter from the Chinese New
Year festival, which fell 18 days later this year than in 2012.
Sales in the previous three-month period beat estimates after
demand for the cognac increased more than expected.  Remy  shares  traded up 2.9 percent at 88.48 euros at 10:20
a.m. in Paris after showing the biggest intraday gain since Jan.
17 earlier. That almost doubled the stock’s gain this year to
7.4 percent, valuing the drinkmaker at 4.52 billion euros ($5.9
billion).  Pernod Concern  Distillers including Remy are looking to growth in  emerging
markets  to offset tougher conditions in  Europe  as a recession
amid government cost-cutting restrains  consumer spending . The
company said today that sales growth was “driven by the move
upmarket of the entire brand portfolio,” as well as by
investments and distribution expansion.  Competitor  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  said on
April 15 that quarterly organic volume of its Hennessy cognac
brand rose 5 percent, aided by demand in the U.S. and high
single-digit percentage increases in volume in China.  Shares of Pernod Ricard SA, the Paris-based maker of
Martell cognac, plunged in March after the company reported
“softness” in revenue during Chinese New Year.  Remy said in November that it anticipated “more moderate”
growth in the second half of the fiscal year, while it planned
to “significantly” increase full-year earnings. The company
said today that it will focus on increasing operating profit
about 10 percent on a like-for-like basis. The distiller will
 report  annual figures on June 11.  Full-year organic revenue, which excludes the effects of
acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations, gained 8.8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  