-- Revel Casino Owner Seeks to Disband Creditor Committee
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-04-18T16:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/revel-casino-owner-seeks-to-disband-creditor-committee.html
Revel AC Inc., an  Atlantic City ,
 New Jersey , casino owner trying to exit bankruptcy next month,
asked a judge to disband an official committee of unsecured
creditors, calling its potential oversight unnecessary.  The committee, known as the OCUC, should be disbanded
because it has only one member left after two others resigned,
Revel said in court papers filed this morning in  U.S. Bankruptcy
court  in Camden, New Jersey. The company also said it expects a
court to confirm its reorganization plan in about three weeks.  “Confirmation is imminent, all creditors voting have
accepted the plan, exit financing is arranged and the proposed
OCUC consists of only a single member,” Revel said in the
filing.  Christopher A. Ward, an attorney for the creditor
committee, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment
of Revel’s motion to disband.  Also today, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Judith H. Wizmur gave the
company final approval for its plan to borrow as much as
$250 million to help finance the bankruptcy case. About
$42 million of the loan will involve new money Revel can use,
while $208 million is existing debt.  The loan and a series of routine requests approved by
Wizmur last month will allow the company to “continue paying
employee wages and benefits, taxes, insurance, and vendors in
the ordinary course of business,” the company said in a
statement today.  Claimholder Support  Revel filed for bankruptcy March 25 with a reorganization
plan supported by more than three-quarters of claimholders under
various credit agreements.  Revel is scheduled to return to  bankruptcy court  May 13 to
ask Wizmur to approve the plan. All creditors entitled to vote
cast ballots in its favor, including creditors owed about
$1.26 billion in debt, Revel said in court papers.  Unsecured creditors are often represented in Chapter 11
cases by an official committee appointed by the U.S. Trustee, an
arm of the  Justice Department  that oversees corporate
bankruptcies. A committee typically investigates the bankrupt
company’s financial condition and negotiates on behalf of
smaller, lower-ranking creditors. The committee’s lawyers and
financial advisers are paid by the bankrupt company.  Revel put together its reorganization plan less than a year
after the casino opened in April 2012. Under the plan, creditors
will swap debt for equity.  Philadelphia Competition  Casinos in Atlantic City have struggled with competition
from new gambling venues in Philadelphia about 60 miles (97
kilometers) away and a weak economy. Wizmur also oversaw the
bankruptcy of Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc., the Atlantic
City casino company named after, and once partly owned by,
 Donald Trump .  Revel was Atlantic City’s first new casino since 2003,
opening at a cost of $2.6 billion before closing for several
days starting Oct. 28 because of  Hurricane Sandy . Gambling
revenue in Atlantic City fell 13 percent in January to
$205.6 million, the New Jersey Attorney General’s Office said in
a Feb. 11 statement.  The Revel casino and resort, on Atlantic City’s Boardwalk,
has about 130,000 square feet of gaming space, with 2,400  slot
machines , 130 table games and a poker room, according to the
bankruptcy filing. The resort has 1,399 rooms, indoor and
outdoor pools, 11 restaurants, two night clubs and a 5,500-seat
theater. The resort employs about 5,500 people.  The casino project was the centerpiece of Governor  Chris Christie ’s efforts to revitalize gambling in the state after six
years of decline. Christie, a Republican in his first term,
jump-started the project with $261 million in state tax
incentives.  The case is In re Revel AC Inc., 13-16253, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  