-- Ricin-Letter Suspect Curtis Charged With Threats to Obama
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d ,   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2013-04-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/ricin-letter-suspect-curtis-charged-with-threats-to-obama.html
A  Mississippi  man was charged with
threatening to kill or injure President  Barack Obama  and a U.S.
senator by mailing them letters containing ricin, a deadly
poison with no known antidote.  Paul Kevin Curtis, 45, of Corinth, made an initial court
appearance yesterday with his lawyer, Christi McCoy, in Oxford,
Mississippi, where he was ordered held in custody. Curtis, in a
black T-shirt, jogging pants and sneakers, told U.S. Magistrate
Judge S. Allan Alexander that he understood he could get 15
years in prison if convicted. He didn’t enter a plea and is set
to return to court today.  Envelopes addressed to Obama and U.S. Senator  Roger Wicker ,
a Mississippi Republican, with a “suspicious granular
substance” were intercepted April 16, the day after two bombs
went off at the Boston Marathon finish line. The letters tested
positive for ricin, according to a sworn affidavit by Brandon
Grant of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and Victor
Dickerson of the U.S. Secret Service.  The letters were postmarked April 8 and both read in part:
“No one wanted to listen to me before. There are still ‘Missing
Pieces’ Maybe I have your attention now Even if that means
someone must die” and were signed “I am KC and I approve this
message.”  Further Tests  The FBI said in a statement yesterday that further forensic
tests were being conducted.  “The FBI is not aware of any illness as a result of
exposure to these letters,” the FBI said.  Inquiries with Wicker’s staff turned up previous letters to
his Washington office with the sign-off “this is Kevin Curtis
and I approve this message,” according to the affidavit. Curtis
also wrote a blog post in September 2010 saying he was working
on a novel about black market body parts titled “Missing
Pieces,” according to the agents.  A third, similar letter with a suspicious substance was
sent on April 8 to a judge in Lee County, where Curtis lives,
the agents said. That substance hasn’t been tested, they said.  All three letters were on yellow paper and bore  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , postmarks, the agents said. Letters sent from
northern Mississippi, where Curtis lives, usually bear a Memphis
postmark, according to the affidavit.  ‘Extremely Delusional’  A passage from the letters also matches a statement that
Curtis posted on his Facebook page: “To see a wrong and not
expose it is to become a silent partner to its continuance.”  The agents said that in 2007 Curtis was reported by his
wife to the Bonneville Police Department. They said she told
them he was “extremely delusional, anti-government, and felt
the government was spying on him with drones.”  The letters’ discovery following the Boston bombings evoked
memories in Washington of anthrax mailings that targeted
lawmakers in 2001. Shortly after that year’s Sept. 11 attacks,
letters containing anthrax were sent to two senators during a
series of mailings to media and government offices that claimed
five lives across the U.S. No lawmakers were harmed.  The letters and the Boston bombings haven’t been linked.  Ricin is made from castor beans, according to the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s harmful and
potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, the CDC said on its
website.  Symptoms depend on the purity, route of exposure and the
dose. Initial symptoms from inhalation occur as early as four to
six hours after the exposure, and symptoms include difficulty
breathing and a cough, according to the CDC.  The symptoms can progress rapidly to fluid within the lungs
and eventually respiratory failure. Deaths from the poison
usually happen within 36 to 72 hours. While no antidote exists,
doctors can counteract the effects of the poisoning by helping
victims breathe or giving them fluids.  The case is U.S. v. Curtis, 13-mj-00019, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Mississippi (Oxford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  