-- Rolls-Royce Dreamliner Engines Need Additional Checks for Flaw
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-04-18T13:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/rolls-royce-dreamliner-engines-need-additional-checks-for-flaw.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) ’s Trent
1000 engines powering  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliners will
temporarily require additional inspections to probe a component
flaw in the powerplant, European safety regulators said.  The European regulator is concerned about degradation of
seals on the Trent 1000’s intermediate pressure turbine section,
and the engines will have to be removed in certain
circumstances, the Cologne, Germany-based European Aviation
Safety Agency said today in an airworthiness directive that
takes effect May 2.  “This condition, if not detected and corrected, could lead
to an in-flight shut-down resulting in reduced control of the
airplane,” EASA said.  Rolls-Royce is one of two engine suppliers on Boeing’s
twin-engines 787, which has been grounded by U.S. regulators
since Jan. 16 owing to malfunctions with the electrical system.
Boeing is in talks with the  Federal Aviation Administration  to
restore the airliner to regular service.  “We have, as a matter of good practice, recommended that
Trent 1000 operators make a routine engine inspection at a time
convenient to their operations to check for the presence of a
small component piece to ensure optimum engine performance is
maintained,” Rolls-Royce spokesman Richard Hedges said. “All
the checks currently required by this recommendation have now
been completed.”  New engines can be used on up to 450 flights before being
checked and thereafter would need to be examined at least every
200 flights, EASA said. A long-term fix to remove the need for
repeat inspections should be in place in several months, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  