-- Ruble Advances as Brent Crude Gains for First Time in Seven Days
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-04-18T15:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/ruble-rebounds-from-biggest-decline-in-nine-months-as-oil-gains.html
The ruble strengthened against Bank
Rossii’s target basket as an increase in the oil price helped
the currency partly recover from its biggest retreat in almost
nine months.  The ruble appreciated 0.5 percent against the dollar-euro
basket to 36.0583 by 6 p.m. in Moscow, when the central bank
stops participating in trading. It tumbled 1.4 percent against
the basket yesterday, the steepest one-day decline since July
23. The yield on benchmark OFZ bonds due February 2027 fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.07 percent.  Brent oil snapped six days of losses, gaining as much as
1.7 percent to $99.34 per barrel, after  Spain  sold more than its
maximum target at a bond auction and U.S. employment data
matched economists’ expectations. Revenue from sales of crude
oil and natural gas comprise about 50 percent of  Russia ’s state
budget income.  The ruble’s advance is almost entirely because of the oil
price movement, according to Alexander Myulberger, head of
foreign exchange and interest rates trading at BCS Financial
Group in Moscow.  The Russian currency advanced 0.6 percent today against the
dollar to 31.6990 after sinking 2 percent yesterday. Trading in
the dollar-ruble pair reached the highest in the last four years
yesterday at $24.20 billion, the Moscow Exchange said in an e-
mailed statement. Its 30-day volatility jumped to 9.9, the
highest since October 26, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tax Payments  The regular tax period in Russia continued today with
excise tax payments. On the three biggest payment days, which
start on April 22 with value-added tax, 450 billion rubles ($14
billion) must be transferred to the state budget, according to
OAO  Rosbank (ROSB)  calculations published April 9.  “A week ago when the ruble was jumping against the dollar
exporters sold everything, so i don’t think there’ll be a big
flow from them during this window,” Myulberger said by phone
from Moscow.  Bank Rossii sold the equivalent of 2.2 billion rubles in
foreign currency on April 16 in addition to 1.6 billion on April
15, according to data on its website.  The central bank “will need to be far more heavy handed in
order to curb ruble losses within the current environment,”
Tradition UK analysts said in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  