-- Rupee Advances on Current-Account Optimism Before Trade Policy
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-04-18T05:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/rupee-advances-on-current-account-optimism-before-trade-policy.html
India’s rupee rose toward a seven-
week high on optimism falling oil and gold prices will help
narrow a record current-account deficit.  Brent crude  has slipped 11 percent this month, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, and that will help cut imports in a
nation that gets about 80 percent of its oil from abroad. The
price of gold, which the central bank estimates accounts for
two-thirds of the current-account gap, fell 14 percent. The
shortfall was as high as 5 percent of gross domestic product in
the fiscal year ended March 31, Finance Minister Palaniappan
Chidambaram said this week.  “The possibility the current-account deficit might shrink
is a major positive for the rupee,” said Sudarshan Bhatt, chief
currency trader at state-run  Corporation Bank  in Mumbai. He said
also that traders may avoid taking positions before Commerce
Minister  Anand Sharma  releases India’s foreign trade policy at
11 a.m. in  New Delhi  today.  The rupee advanced 0.1 percent to 54.1750 per dollar as of
10:23 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 53.7725 yesterday, the strongest level since Feb. 28.
The currency will stay between 54 and 54.30 today, according to
Corporation Bank. The market will be shut for a local holiday
tomorrow.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 29 basis points,
or 0.29 percentage point, to 8.62 percent.  Export Outlook  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., India’s largest software-
services exporter, expects a “strong deal pipeline” with new
business from all of its key markets to help boost sales this
year, Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said yesterday.  The company is “comfortable” with the rupee’s current
level and is maintaining its strategy of hedging foreign-
exchange exposure, Chief Financial Officer Rajesh Gopinathan
said in an interview with Bloomberg TV  India  today.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.17 per
dollar, compared with 55.07 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
54.90 versus 54.92. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  