-- Rutgers in Turnabout Will Pay Fired Coach Rice $475,000
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-04-19T01:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/rutgers-president-says-no-deal-for-fired-basketball-coach.html
Rutgers University  agreed to a
$475,000 settlement with Mike Rice, who was fired April 3 as
men’s basketball coach, hours after President Robert Barchi told
New Jersey lawmakers that he hadn’t made such a deal.  The amount, including $100,000 in lieu of unpaid bonuses,
is less than half of the $1.1 million in severance stipulated by
his contract. The accord’s terms, supplied by the school, strip
him of any post-employment fringe benefits, such as health care.  “Tonight’s agreement is in the best interests of the
university, and I am pleased this issue has been resolved,”
Barchi said late yesterday in a statement.  Rice was let go after the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN cable-
television network showed a video of him kicking and throwing
balls at players while hurling epithets, including gay slurs. At
an April 8 public meeting in  Newark , Barchi said Rice wasn’t
fired for cause. According to the coach’s contract, that meant
he would be in line for about $1.1 million in severance pay.  “I have signed no settlement whatsoever with Mr. Rice --
none,” Barchi, 66, told the state Assembly’s Budget Committee
in Trenton earlier yesterday. The settlement agreement was
signed by Bruce Fehn, the school’s senior vice president for
finance and administration.  Rice didn’t immediately respond to a voice message left at
a residence listed in his family’s name in Little Silver, New
Jersey.  Prior Confusion  Barchi, speaking to reporters after testifying at the
budget hearing, said his remarks at the meeting in Newark had
led to confusion on whether Rice would get a severance payment.  “I made a decision to terminate him and I don’t really
care whether it was for cause or not, legally,” he said. “I
tripped over a legal term there that I shouldn’t have.”  Settlements for two officials who subsequently resigned,
Tim Pernetti as athletic director and John Wolf as general
counsel, are in place, Barchi said. Pernetti was due more than
$1.2 million, according to his contract. Wolf was to get almost
$420,000, according to the Star-Ledger newspaper of Newark.  Pernetti, in his resignation letter, said he regretted his
role in the university’s handling of Rice’s departure.  Barchi, who was aware of the offending video in November,
months before its public airing, had heeded legal advice not to
watch it at the time, a decision he said he regretted. He first
viewed it April 2, he said, and decided to fire Rice.  Resignation Demanded  Some students and faculty had called for Barchi, a
neurologist and former University of Pennsylvania administrator,
to step down. Rutgers was rocked by an earlier bullying scandal
that led to a freshman’s suicide in 2010. Governor  Chris Christie , 50, a Republican seeking re-election, came to Barchi’s
defense this month, saying critics must “move on.”  Barchi, named president of the 58,000-student school a year
ago, has until July 1 to merge Rutgers with the University of
Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, under a plan Christie put
in motion. The governor has called it the biggest such
combination ever among U.S. public universities. The goal is to
create a top research institution with a $3 billion budget.  Eddie Jordan, a former Rutgers basketball star and National
Basketball Association player who is a Los Angeles Lakers
assistant coach, will replace Rice, the  Associated Press  said
yesterday, citing a person familiar with the situation who it
didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton,  New Jersey , at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  