-- RWE Defends Sale of Dea Unit Against Shareholder Criticism
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-04-18T13:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/rwe-defends-sale-of-dea-unit-against-shareholder-criticism.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, defended the planned sale of its Dea oil and gas unit
against criticism from shareholders, who accused management of
sacrificing growth for quick returns.  “You must not allow the sacrifice of mid-term growth for
short-term profit,”  Ingo Speich , a portfolio manager at Union
Investment GmbH, said today at the annual general meeting in
Essen. RWE shouldn’t sell Dea if the price isn’t right, said
Speich, whose company is a top-10  holder  of the utility. Others
warned against selling off the “family silver.”  RWE wants to raise as much as 5 billion euros ($6.5
billion) from Dea and use the cash to reduce debt, a person
familiar with the matter said last month. The sale of the unit,
which pumps oil and gas in the U.K., Germany and  Norway , will
enable the utility to bolster cash as profit margins narrow from
slowing energy demand in  Europe  and the phaseout of nuclear
power at home.  Dea is “no longer” of strategic importance, said RWE
Chief Executive Officer Peter Terium. “There are only a small
number of synergies between RWE Dea and our other core
business.”  While the Dea sale “will lead to shortfalls in our
operating result,” in the long term the sale will “save
billions in the capital investment that will otherwise be
needed,” Terium said. Dea’s operating profit rose 23 percent to
685 million euros ($895 million) last year and contributed 11
percent to Essen-based RWE’s total.  Abandons Target  RWE, joining larger competitor EON SE in cutting costs,
abandoned a previous target for disposals after prices fell
short. Last month, the utility scrapped a 7 billion-euro target
for disposals by the end of the year. RWE later that month sold
its Czech pipeline operator Net4Gas to  Allianz SE (ALV)  and Borealis
Infrastructure for almost 1.6 billion euros to help curb debt,
adding to 2.1 billion of asset sales already executed.  EON has raised almost 18 billion euros from asset sales and
has said it “could come toward 20 billion euros” by the end of
2013.  RWE last month reported full-year profit that missed
analyst estimates as power sales dropped. Net income fell 28
percent to 1.31 billion euros. Recurrent net income slipped to
2.46 billion euros, and the company forecast it will decline
again this year, to 2.4 billion.  It “will be virtually impossible to maintain this earnings
level after 2013,” Terium told the AGM.  Recurrent net, which is adjusted for exceptional items, is
used to calculate the company’s dividend, which it kept
unchanged at 2 euros a share, a proposal the AGM must approve.
Some shareholders said today that is too much.  EON last month confirmed a forecast, made in January, that
this year’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will be about 9.2 billion euros to 9.8 billion
euros. That’s a drop from 10.8 billion euros in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  