-- S&P Concerned On Austrian Banks ‘Moderate’ Capital Levels
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-04-18T16:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/s-p-concerned-about-austrian-banks-moderate-capital-levels.html
Austrian banks will struggle to
strengthen their “moderate” capital buffers because profits
are weighed down by bad debt and slow growth, and they may have
to sell shares or shed assets,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  Capital levels at  Austria ’s three biggest lenders, Vienna-
based  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank Austria, compare “poorly” with peers in
Germany or the Nordic countries, S&P said in a report released
today. They are more aligned with lenders in Ireland,  Italy  and
 France , according to S&P’s own capital measure, RAC, which
applies stricter standards than regulators. The company kept an
A rating and negative outlook on all three lenders.  “Austrian banks’ moderate capitalization is an increasing
concern,” S&P analysts led by Frankfurt-based Anna Lozmann said
in the report. “The recovery path for the Austrian banking
sector remains shaky,” and “Austrian banks could face rising
risks in the coming quarters if economic conditions deteriorate,
and may find it increasingly difficult to build up capital
internally.”  The capital weakness adds to risks from the banks’ position
as the biggest lenders in eastern  Europe . Austrian banks
together lent 326 billion euros ($426 billion) to governments,
companies and households in the former communist nations of
Europe, according to the central bank. Their biggest exposures
are in countries like Romania, Croatia and Hungary, where bad
loans are rising while credit demand remains weak.  ‘Access Markets’  Subdued demand for new business and continuously high bad
debt levels will depress banks’ earnings and limit the ability
to raise capital levels by retaining profit, Lozmann said.  “They are generating good earnings, but not enough to fill
this gap,” she said in a presentation to reporters in Vienna.
“Large Austrian banks will not be able to achieve a material
improvement in the medium term without accessing the  capital
market .”  Raiffeisen yesterday canceled the planned sale of a
subordinated bond, saying it couldn’t get enough orders. Its
 shares , which dropped 6 percent yesterday, rose 0.9 percent to
24.64 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close in Vienna. Erste dropped 2.1
percent, giving the bank a market value of 9.1 billion euros.  S&P Metric  Erste, Raiffeisen and Bank Austria all reported a core Tier
1 capital ratio, regulators’ strictest benchmark, of more than
10 percent of risk-weighted assets by the end of 2012. For Erste
and Raiffeisen, that figure is boosted by state capital, which
S&P strips off to calculate its Risk-Adjusted Capital ratio. The
ratings company also applies higher risk weightings to eastern
Europe.  The average RAC for the three banks was 5.5 percent at the
end of 2011, and that level hasn’t improved significantly in
2012, Lozmann said. S&P generally considers 7 percent to 10
percent as an adequate RAC figure, she said.  The assessment echoes analysts including Berenberg’s Eleni Papoula, who recommends selling Raiffeisen and Erste and today
cut her target price for Raiffeisen to 22 euros from 27 euros,
saying she’s worried about the bank’s rising risk appetite.  “The findings of S&P put Raiffeisen on the spot as it has
the weakest capital,” Papoula said in an e-mailed comment. “We
believe Raiffeisen cannot avoid a highly-dilutive capital
raising of as much as 2 billion euros, as retained earnings
alone cannot strengthen its capital.”  ‘Highly Dilutive’  Raiffeisen CEO Herbert Stepic said last week he considered
his bank’s capital situation to be “very relaxed.” Chairman
Walter Rothensteiner said April 16 that now “isn’t the best
time” to sell new shares.  A spokesman for Raiffeisen and a spokeswoman for Erste said
their banks exceed regulatory  capital requirements  and declined
to comment on S&P’s report. Bank Austria said last month it may
raise equity from its parent UniCredit or sell Tier 2 debt on
the market.  The banks’ weak capital also translates into higher risk
for the Austrian government, according to Markus Schmaus, the
head of S&P’s bank analysts for the German-speaking and Nordic
countries. The government propped up Erste and Raiffeisen with 3
billion euros, and has at least partly nationalized troubled
lenders Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, Kommunalkredit
Austria AG and  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG. (VBPS)   “The contingent liability is relatively high for the
sovereign because of the banks’ weak capitalization,” Schmaus
said in Vienna. He said it was doubtful whether Austria would
support the banks’ foreign operations in case of a crisis.  Austria’s banking system remains rated 2 on S&P’s 1-to-10
Bicra scale, a ranking indicating the second-lowest possible
risk level. That put it on the same level as  Germany ,  Japan ,
 Sweden ,  Norway  and  Finland .  The Bicra mainly reflects the domestic risks, Lozmann said.
It takes into account economic policy, imbalances indicating
bubbles and overall credit risk, as well as industry-specific
factors like the quality of regulation, competition and bank
funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  