-- Sabic to Cut About 1,050 Jobs, Close Some Assets in Europe
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-04-18T13:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/sabic-to-cut-about-1-050-jobs-close-some-assets-in-europe.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp., (SABIC)  the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, plans to cut about 1,050
positions and close some assets in Europe as the company
responds to diminished demand.  Saudi Basic Industries, also known as Sabic, has started
talks with works councils and trade unions on the plan, it said
in a statement today. The job cuts will take place across
Europe, a third of which will be contracting staff and two-
thirds Sabic employees, it said.  “The European market is facing structural changes that are
likely to set a new course for future competitive challenges,”
Sabic said. “Our industry continues to face slow growth.”  Sabic joins peers including  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  and  BASF SE (BAS)  in
slimming down operations that are taking the brunt of a
prolonged slump affecting construction and infrastructure as
well as consumer spending on cars and appliances. The company in
2007 bought  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s plastics unit for $11.6
billion as part of a global expansion drive.  The company, based in Riyadh, also faces stiffer
competition from a revived U.S. chemical and plastics industry
that’s benefiting from shale gas supplies, as well as increased
production among Asian peers seeking to satisfy their demand
locally.  BASF earlier this year announced 400 jobcuts at its
construction chemicals operation, along with plans to reduce
capacity at paper-ingredient plants in Europe.  Sabic, controlled by the Saudi government, may report a 10
percent  decline in first-quarter profit,  according to the
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We have stronger ambitions in terms of revenue, market
position and innovation,” Koos van Haasteren, vice-president
Sabic in Europe, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in  Riyadh  at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  