-- SABMiller Quarterly Sales Beat Estimates on Africa, Asia
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-04-18T07:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/sabmiller-s-quarterly-sales-beat-estimates-on-africa-asia-gains.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
biggest brewer, reported fourth-quarter beer sales that beat
estimates as gains in Africa, Asia and  Europe  offset an
unexpected decline in  Latin America .  So-called organic lager volume rose 4 percent in the three
months to March 31, the London-based brewer of Grolsch and
Castle lager said today in a  statement . That compares with the
median estimate of 2.5 percent from 11  analysts  surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . Growth for the full year was 3 percent.  Volume in Latin America, the company’s  largest region , fell
1 percent in the quarter, missing the median estimate for a 5
percent gain, hurt by weaker economic conditions and price
increases in some markets. This was more than offset by growth
of 12 percent in Asia-Pacific, 9 percent in Africa and 3 percent
in Europe, all of which exceeded analyst estimates.  “People may be nervous on the Latin America number as
that’s been such a massive growth engine for the stock, and it’s
a high margin region,” said  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS
AG in London.  Asian sales were aided by an “extremely strong
rebound in China,” where SABMiller sells Snow, the world’s
biggest brand by volume.  SABMiller  shares  fell 0.5 percent to 3,324 pence as of 8:22
a.m. in London, giving the brewer a market value of 53.3 billion
pounds ($81 billion).  Premium Brands  The brewer’s overall financial performance “was in line
with our expectations,” SABMiller said in the statement.  Asia-Pacific sales also benefited from improving lager
volume in  Australia  following the 2011 acquisition of Foster’s
Group Ltd. for A$10.5 billion ($10.8 billion). Premium brands
also performed well in the quarter, the company said.  Volume growth in Europe was boosted by new brand
innovations as well as purchases by customers ahead of price
increases implemented at the end of March, SABMiller said.  Gains in Africa were driven by additional capacity and
greater availability of products, the brewer said.  SABMiller’s fourth-quarter revenue rose 4 percent on an
organic basis as the company sold more expensive beer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  