-- Sallie Mae Boosts ABS Issuance Amid Hunt for Yield, Lord Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-04-18T16:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/sallie-mae-boosts-abs-issuance-amid-hunt-for-yield-lord-says.html
SLM Corp. (SLM) , the student lender known
as Sallie Mae, is boosting its asset-backed issuance as demand
surges with interest rates holding close to zero into a fifth
year, according to Chief Executive Officer Albert Lord.  Credit markets “are substantially more liquid than they
were even just last year,” Lord said today in a conference call
with investors. “Virtually all participants are looking for
yield. While these markets are as liquid and as active as they
are, Sallie Mae will continue to be active.”  The Federal Reserve’s effort to stimulate economic growth
by suppressing borrowing costs is pushing investors to take on
more risk, a boon for companies like Sallie Mae that rely on
bond buyers to fund originations. The lender is issuing riskier
debt even as concern mounts that college graduates are buckling
under ballooning loan payments.  The Newark, Delaware-based lender in February issued the
first subordinate bond tied to education debt without government
guarantees since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Subordinate debt, which shields AAA bonds by absorbing losses
first, is the riskiest portion of the deal.  The access to capital markets is “very heartening,
particularly our ability to move the subordinate piece,” Lord
said.  Additionally, Sallie Mae sold the so-called residual
interests in $3.8 billion in asset-backed bonds linked to
government-guaranteed loans in the first quarter, and plans to
close a similar transaction during the next two months, Lord
said. Residual interests are the cash that’s left over after
bondholders have been paid.  Delinquency Rates  Student-loan delinquency rates in 2012 were highest among
borrowers under the age of 30 who are repaying their debt,
according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Thirty-five
percent were 90 or more days behind, compared with 21 percent in
2004.  Delinquencies in Sallie Mae’s portfolio are “starting to
feel a lot better,” since the lender stopped making loans for
non-traditional schools such as for-profit institutions, Lord
said. The charge-off rate, or the percentage of loans that have
been written off, was unchanged from a year ago at 3 percent in
the first quarter, the company said yesterday in a statement
distributed by Business Wire. The proportion of payments more
than 90 days late fell to 3.9 percent from 4.4 percent a year
ago.  Sallie Mae is increasing its private student loan
originations after being cut out of the business for government-
guaranteed lending in 2010. Sallie Mae made $1.4 billion in
education loans in the first quarter, a 22 percent increase from
the year-ago period, according to the statement.  The amount of educational debt, which includes federally
backed and private loans taken out by students and parents, has
almost tripled in the past seven years to $966 billion, the New
York Fed said in a Feb. 28  report .  Student loans accounted for about 34 percent of $2.75
trillion in outstanding non-mortgage consumer debt in the fourth
quarter, up from 16.5 percent in the first quarter of 2005, Fed
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  