-- Germany Backs Cyprus Aid as Schaeuble Cites Default Risk
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-04-18T12:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/schaeuble-cites-cyprus-default-risk-as-germany-votes-on-aid.html
German lawmakers approved a rescue
for Cyprus as Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  warned that
refusing aid to a fifth crisis-ravaged state risked triggering a
sovereign default and contagion to other euro nations.  The lower house, or Bundestag, backed German participation
in the 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) financial lifeline by 487
votes to 101 with 13 abstentions in Berlin today, almost three
years after the euro-area debt crisis first required lawmakers
to act in May 2010. Lawmakers also approved extending aid terms
for Ireland and  Portugal .  “We must avoid turning the problems in Cyprus into new
problems for other euro countries,” Schaeuble told lawmakers in
a speech before the vote. “Cyprus is in a dramatic situation.
If we don’t help Cyprus, then Cyprus inevitably faces sovereign
default.”  The euro rose after the vote, and was up 0.1 percent to
$1.3046 at 2:15 p.m. in Berlin.  Help for Cyprus from the European Stability Mechanism, the
euro area’s rescue fund, passed by an overwhelming margin after
the two biggest opposition parties signaled support for
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s plan to contribute to the latest
bailout since the debt crisis began in  Greece  in 2009.  Election Dilemma  Political feinting over Cyprus has underscored the
opposition’s dilemma in tackling Merkel on her crisis handling
as she seeks a third term in Sept. 22 federal elections.  Merkel’s crisis policy of aid in return for fiscal
austerity and losses for creditors has helped lift voter support
for her Christian Democrats to the highest since she took office
in 2005.  Germany  is the largest country contributor to euro-area
rescues after committing as much as 211 billion euros to keep
the currency union together.  Schaeuble said that the approach of structural reforms in
return for aid is yielding results in countries such as Spain
and Greece even as they struggle under “catastrophic” levels
of unemployment.  “We aren’t over the hump, but after comprehensive reforms
 Europe  and the euro are in better and more stable shape than
ever before,” Schaeuble said in an e-mailed statement after the
vote. “The gap between north and south is closing.”  Opposition Backing  The opposition  Social Democratic Party  and Greens broadly
agreed with Merkel’s coalition to cap taxpayer-funded bailout
loans for Cyprus and force the Mediterranean island to reduce
the size of its banking industry.  “We have solidarity with Cyprus, but we don’t have
solidarity with a business model that’s a self-declared paradise
for tax evaders and money launderers,” Social Democratic
opposition leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier told lawmakers during
today’s debate.  A poll last week showed almost two-thirds of Green and SPD
voters approve of Merkel’s crisis handling, which has sought to
balance rescue fatigue among German voters with her pledge to
avoid a breakup of the 11-year-old currency used by 17 nations.  Total aid for Cyprus, including a bail-in, stands at 21
billion euros after varying from 17.5 billion euros to 23
billion euros, Michael Grosse-Broemer, the chief whip of
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc, said this week.  The bailout accord brokered this month “in the main”
meets Greens demands, Priska Hinz, the party’s budget
spokeswoman, said in an interview.  ‘Strong Signal’  Green lawmakers sought three main conditions in the accord:
a monitored plan to tackle  money laundering ; adoption in Cyprus
of a “fairer” corporate  tax rate ; and the harnessing of large-
scale deposits and shareholdings to help pay for the
restructuring of Cyprus’s two largest banks, Hinz said April 15.  While the government motion to aid Cyprus was easily
carried, Merkel failed to secure the so-called Chancellor’s
majority comprising at least 311 votes from the 620 seats in the
Bundestag, a breakdown of the votes cast showed. With 303 votes,
Merkel had to rely on the opposition to secure passage.  Of the 237 seats held by her CDU/CSU bloc, 220 lawmakers
backed the aid program, 10 rejected it and one abstained. Among
her Free Democratic coalition partner’s 93 lawmakers, 83 voted
in favor and 8 against with one abstention. A total of 601 votes
were cast, one less than announced in the chamber, the breakdown
showed.  German lawmakers “recognized their responsibility for the
euro and the  euro zone , sending a strong signal,” Schaeuble
said after the vote. The euro is indispensable for the German
economy and “whoever rattles the joint currency’s foundation is
ignoring the facts and endangering Germany’s economic success,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  