-- Seibu Says It Will Offer No Concessions in Tussle With Cerberus
-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-04-18T05:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/seibu-says-it-will-offer-no-concessions-in-tussle-with-cerberus.html
Seibu Holdings Inc. President
Takashi Goto said he won’t offer “any concessions” to Cerberus
Capital Management LP, the hotel and rail operator’s biggest
shareholder, in a dispute over the investor’s proposals.  The private equity firm’s “proposals will hurt Seibu
Group’s mid- and long-term strategy,” Goto said in  Tokyo 
yesterday. He didn’t elaborate on his objections to Cerberus’s
recommendations that Seibu add executives to its board before a
planned initial share sale.  Cerberus on April 5 offered to triple the amount of stock
it sought to buy in a tender aimed at gaining control of the
closely held rail and hotel company. It also recommended
executives including former U.S. Vice President Dan Quayle and
former U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow to be appointed to
Tokyo-based Seibu’s board.  “We are definitely against the Cerberus proposals,” Goto
said. “We are not considering making any concession to
Cerberus,” Goto said.  A Cerberus official didn’t immediately respond to a phone
call seeking comment today.  Seibu has said it opposes the tender offer and is
“financially prepared” for relisting. The two companies
haven’t held any direct talks since March 11, according to Goto.  Cerberus led a bailout of Seibu with Nikko Principal
Investments Japan Ltd. in 2005. Seibu Railway Co., the current
company’s predecessor, was delisted from the Tokyo stock
exchange in 2004 after breaking exchange rules on stake
ownership. Goto was sent by  Mizuho Corporate Bank , Seibu’s main
creditor, and took the helm of Seibu in 2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  