-- Senate Panel Approves Obama’s Energy Secretary Nominee
-- B y   S t e v e   W a l s h
-- 2013-04-18T14:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/senate-panel-approves-obama-s-energy-secretary-nominee.html
The Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee approved the nomination of Ernest Moniz as
secretary of the Energy Department, setting up a confirmation
vote by the full Senate.  Moniz, whom President  Barack Obama  nominated for the
position last month, heads the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s Energy Institute and serves on the President’s
Council of Advisers on Science and Technology.  The panel’s vote was 21-1, with South Carolina Republican
Tim Scott the only opposition. Moniz, 68, faced questions at an
April 9 hearing on issues including natural gas export licenses,
renewable energy and the Energy Department’s handling of
radioactive waste.  “He knows how the department works from the inside,”
Chairman Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, said today in favor of
Moniz’s nomination. He will “make sure our country doesn’t lose
its competitive edge, particularly to  China .”  Moniz served as undersecretary of energy from 1997 to 2001
and has advised the Obama administration on energy issues. From
1995 to 1997 he was associate director for science in the White
House Office of Science and Technology Policy.  Issues before the Energy Department include hydraulic
fracturing in shale rock, which has driven down costs for
natural gas and boosted U.S. manufacturers that use natural gas
as a fuel or ingredient for their products. The department is
reviewing more than 16 applications from companies that want to
export some of the U.S.’s growing natural gas reserves.  Moniz, who joined Cambridge, Massachusetts-based MIT as a
physics professor in 1973, is founding director and head of the
MIT Energy Initiative, a forum created in 2006 for conducting
global energy research largely funded by energy companies.  He was a member of Obama’s Blue Ribbon Commission on
America’s Nuclear Future, which issued a report in January 2012
that studied long-term solutions to nuclear waste, excluding the
proposed Yucca Mountain site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Walsh in Washington at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  