-- Serbia, Kosovo Sign Initial Deal to Normalize Relations
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-04-19T15:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/serbia-kosovo-to-meet-for-more-talks-as-eu-report-looms.html
Serbia  and Kosovo reached a
preliminary accord to normalize ties after years of conflict and
tension, paving the way for reconciliation and talks on joining
the European Union.  “This is an historic day for Serbia-Kosovo relations, for
the entire Western Balkans region and for the European Union,”
Stefan Fule, the EU’s enlargement chief, said in an e-mailed
statement from Brussels. “It is crucial now that the political
leadership and general public in both Serbia and Kosovo support
the agreement and actively help to implement it.”  Serbian Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  and Kosovar Premier
Hashim Thaci initialed the agreement in Brussels in their 10th
round of EU-mediated talks. The deal, which both leaders must
now get approved in their capitals, would help Serbia win a
start date for EU membership talks in June and unlock pre-entry
negotiations for its breakaway province, after Kosovo declared
independence in 2008 following the wars of the 1990s that split
the former  Yugoslavia .  “This is the draft text whose approval or rejection by
either side will decided in the coming days,” Dacic told
reporters in Brussels. “The document is certainly better for
our side than all previous proposals.”  Thaci called it the “best possible” solution.  “We are fully aware that there will be people in both of
our countries that are not going to be very happy with this
solution,” he said.  Dinar Down  The Serbian dinar traded 0.1 percent weaker at 111.4970 per
euro after the announcement at 5:18 p.m. in Belgrade. The main
stock market index of 15 most actively traded assets dropped
0.55 percent to close at 556.36 points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Serbia had refused to acknowledge  Kosovo ’s independence,
which has been recognized by more than 90 nations, including the
U.S. and 22 of 27 EU member states, and vowed never to recognize
it. The two leaders met after an April 17 round ended without an
agreement.  The accord came after Serbia’s delegation met with NATO
Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen to seek guarantees that
the army of Kosovo will be kept away from northern Kosovo.
Rasmussen promised help to ensure a peaceful coexistence.  Step Forward  “It has sometimes been difficult, but all leaders
concerned have risen above the difficulties,” Rasmussen said in
a statement today. “This agreement means a big step forward for
regional peace and security. And it will give new momentum to
the Euro-Atlantic integration of the Western Balkans, which is
our shared vision.”  Serbia wants Kosovo to allow Serbs who live in the north to
have their own police and judiciary systems. Before the accord
was announced, Thaci said the Serbian community won’t get
“executive powers” to avoid creating “another layer of the
government.”  Still, Kosovo will “create the conditions for opening of
the first free and open elections in the north, and the
institutions of Kosovo will invite the OSCE to observe this
process,” Thaci said, referring to the Vienna-based
Organization for Security and Cooperation in  Europe .  ‘Ground-Breaking’ Deal  Final recommendations from both sides will be delivered by
Fule and EU foreign-policy chief  Catherine Ashton  on April 22,
Fule said. “It’s an opportunity that can’t be missed,” he
said, calling the agreement “ground-breaking.”  Ashton had invited the two leaders to Brussels to make
another effort toward reconciliation before Fule completes his
report on Serbia’s readiness to start membership talks, which
include an accord with Kosovo.  Dacic had said Thaci “wanted to link the resolution of the
police issue with a new point introduced that both sides will
commit not to block each other in international organizations.”  “And where can Kosovo block us? Nowhere,” Dacic said
after talks in April 17. “That means that we should allow
Kosovo to become a member of international organizations, then
better ask us clearly to recognize Kosovo.”  Ashton’s offer addressed Serb communities’ “right to
appoint the chief of the regional police, as well as police
commanders for each Serbian municipality” in Kosovo, according
to Marko Djuric, the foreign policy adviser to Serbian President
 Tomislav Nikolic .  In Kosovo’s north, Serb leaders demanded a nationwide
referendum on possible EU-mediated agreement, opposing any pact
that would “legitimize the unrecognized, self-proclaimed
state,” said Dragisa Vasic, the head of the Leposavic
municipality, one of four in northern Kosovo where Serbs form a
majority.  Vasic is convinced the accord would be rejected in a
plebiscite, while some 100,000 Serbs still living in Kosovo
would oppose any attempt to implement it, he said in a phone
interview before the announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  