-- Sesa to Restart Karnataka Mining, Boosting Iron Ore Supplies
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-04-18T06:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/sesa-to-restart-karnataka-mining-boosting-iron-ore-supplies.html
India ’s top court today allowed
 Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  and eight other iron ore companies to restart
operations in Karnataka, 21 months after imposing a mining ban
in the southern state for environmental breaches.  The Supreme Court, which had earlier allowed mines with the
least number of irregularities to resume, today granted
permission to those with a higher number of breaches. The
permits of mines with the most number of violations were
canceled, according to a ruling by a three-judge panel headed by
Justice Aftab Alam.  Restarting the iron ore mines will ease raw material
supplies to the mills in the southern state, including  JSW Steel
Ltd. (JSTL) , India’s third-largest steelmaker. JSW’s biggest plant is
located at Vijaynagar in Karnataka. The order will also allow
Sesa, owned by billionaire Anil Agarwal, to revive its mining
business more than six months after a ban also halted its
operations in Goa, where it is based.  Shares of the company extended yesterday’s gains, rising as
much as 3.2 percent to 154 rupees. The stock has declined 24
percent in the past year, compared with a 3.2 percent fall in
the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex. JSW shares gained as much as 1.8
percent to 745.90 rupees.  Mining in the Bellary region of Karnataka was banned in
July 2011, and the court extended the ban to two other iron ore-
rich regions in the state the following month as it probed
violations of environmental norms. The court subsequently
allowed state-run  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , the nation’s biggest miner, to
extract as much as 1 million tons of ore a month and ordered all
sales to be made through online auctions.  On Sept. 3, the Supreme Court allowed 18 iron ore miners in
the state, with capacity to produce 7 million tons annually, to
resume operations. Until last month, 10 mines had been restarted
in the state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  