-- Sex Assault Complaint Filed by Occidental College Students
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-04-18T21:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/sexual-assault-complaint-filed-by-occidental-college-students.html
A group of  Occidental College 
students and alumni said they filed a complaint with the
Education Department today alleging that the school doesn’t meet
federal standards for preventing and responding to sexual
assaults.  The complaint contains allegations by 37 women who claim
their rights under Title IX, which bars sex discrimination at
schools, were violated when they were students at Occidental in
 Los Angeles , said  Gloria Allred  of Allred Maroko & Goldberg in
Los Angeles, who is representing the students.  “It has been open season on the female students at
Occidental,” Allred said in a press conference. “It will be
open season at Occidental in our criticism of them unless they
do their jobs and stop the rapes and sexual assaults.”  Students at Yale University, the University of  North
Carolina ,  Chapel Hill , and other colleges have complained to the
Education Department’s Office of  Civil Rights  that their
schools’ sexual assault policies and procedures are inadequate.
Their Title IX complaints are calling for universities to remedy
a “hostile environment” that fails to prevent sexual assault
and allows rapists to go unpunished.  Nationwide Problem  Campus sexual assault is a nationwide problem, and
Occidental has taken a series of steps toward greater safety,
spokesman Jim Tranquada said. The school has hired Gina Smith
and Leslie Gomez, both former sexual-assault prosecutors now
with Pepper Hamilton LLP, to review policies and procedures and
make recommendations for improving them.  “We take this issue exceptionally seriously and will not
tolerate sexual misconduct,” Tranquada said in an e-mailed
statement. “The creation of a safe and respectful campus
environment at Oxy is paramount.”  The Education Department said its San Francisco office
hasn’t received the complaint.  Occidental administrators came under fire earlier this year
from students who said they weren’t notified of a report of
sexual assault near the campus. Dean of Students Barbara Avery
said at the time that the assault involved two students and
didn’t represent “a continuing threat.”  An Embarrassment  Jonathan Veitch, president of Occidental, was also
criticized by students after he said that members of the campus
community who had spoken to the press regarding their concerns
about sexual assault were trying to “embarrass” the college.
He later apologized for his remarks.  Administrators have gone back on promises to tighten
policies, said  Caroline Heldman , who is chairwoman of the
school’s politics department and helped write the complaint.  “We’ve been discouraging students from filing, and we’ve
stopped discouraging them because of the administration’s
intransigence,” she said in a telephone interview. “The only
way the institution will change is if it comes from the
outside.”  About one in four women will be sexually assaulted during
their college careers, according to David Lisak, a clinical
psychologist who studies assaults and consults to the U.S.
military and colleges on the issue. The students are alleging
that Occidental failed to educate them about issues of rape and
consent, discouraged them from reporting assaults and didn’t
remove acknowledged attackers from campus, Heldman said.  UNC is undergoing two Education Department reviews for
potential violations of Title IX and the Clery Act, which
requires schools to collect statistics of campus violence,
including sexual assaults.  Yale University  in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , is being monitored by the department for its
compliance with anti-discrimination regulations.  Students filed a  complaint  against Swarthmore College in
Swarthmore,  Pennsylvania , alleging violations of the Clery Act,
the Daily Gazette student newspaper reported today. Violations
of Title IX and the Clery Act can result in fines and put
eligibility for federal student aid at risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  