-- SGL Carbon Shares Slump After Profit Warning: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-04-18T09:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/sgl-carbon-shares-slump-after-profit-warning-frankfurt-mover.html
SGL Carbon SE (SGL)  fell to a two-year
low after the carbon-fiber maker reduced its profit outlook
because of a “slow start” to the year, particularly for its
graphite-materials and carbon-fiber units.  SGL, partly owned by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , dropped
as much as 8.3 percent to 27.51 euros in  Frankfurt , the lowest
intraday price since February 2011. The stock was down 5.5
percent at 28.35 euros as of 11:46 a.m., taking the decline to
19 percent in 12 months. The volume of shares traded was more
than six times the three-month daily average.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will be 20 percent to 25 percent lower than the 240
million euros ($313 million) before write-offs in 2012, the
Wiesbaden, Germany-based company said in a statement. It
previously expected a 10 percent to 15 percent decline.  “The original forecast was not particularly positive, so
cutting it even further is naturally exceptional,” Ulle Woerner, a Stuttgart, Germany-based analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg, said by telephone. “There are negatives in so
many segments right now, with almost no positives. You couldn’t
pin it to declines in one industry.”  Of 19  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg, 15, including
Woerner, have sell recommendations on the stock and four say
hold.  Cars Slump  First-quarter Ebitda is forecast at 32 million euros to 35
million euros, and there is “increasing uncertainty about the
business recovery” in the second half of the year, SGL Carbon
said today.  SGL, which has a joint venture with BMW to make carbon-
fiber materials for a line of electric-powered cars, also counts
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  among its major shareholders.  The company makes about 16 percent of sales with its
unprofitable division for carbon fibers and composite materials
used in airplanes and rotor blades for wind power generation.
Its biggest unit, which accounts for about half of the revenue,
makes electrodes for the  steel industry  and cathodes for
aluminum makers.  European car sales are set to reach a 20-year low after
German concerns over the debt crisis sent registrations there
plunging 17 percent last month. Registrations across  Europe  fell
10 percent to 1.35 million vehicles in March, the 18th
consecutive decline, the European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association, or ACEA, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  