-- SGX Checks Derivatives Trading Glitch to Protect Cash Cow
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-04-18T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/sgx-checks-derivatives-trading-glitch-to-protect-cash-cow.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , operator
of  Southeast Asia ’s biggest bourse, said it’s reviewing
procedures after derivatives trading was delayed by a computer
breakdown last week, sending investors to alternate venues.  The three-hour delay, caused by a faulty system-monitoring
process, sent investors to  Osaka  to buy and sell Japanese index
contracts on April 9. The disruption in the bourse’s fastest-
growing business, happened as the company plans to roll out new
products amid record derivatives trading.  “We have taken preventive measures to make sure it doesn’t
happen again,” Chief Financial Officer Chng Lay Chew said in an
interview in Singapore April 17. “Improving market sentiment
and rising volatility will continue to drive growth in the
 derivatives market .”  Disruptions in electronic markets have been under scrutiny
since the May 2010 flash crash in the U.S. that briefly wiped
$862 billion from stocks. Osaka’s derivatives platform
malfunctioned in March, while in October orders for Indian
stocks improperly entered by a Mumbai brokerage sent the S&P CNF
Nifty Index down 16 percent in eight seconds before rebounding.  SGX, which reported earnings that beat analyst estimates
this week, has risen 10 percent on the benchmark Straits Times
Index this year, compared with a 4.1 percent gain in the index.
The stock fell 0.8 percent to S$7.73 yesterday.  Futures Contracts  SGX, which now hosts greater trading volumes of Nikkei 225
futures than  Japan , posted a 26 percent increase in third-
quarter net income to S$97.7 million ($79 million), more than
analysts expected, as equities and derivatives trading volumes
jumped. Derivatives trading was at a record, led by demand for
futures contracts on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average and the
FTSE  China  A50 Index.  Average daily derivatives transactions jumped 52 percent to
a record 479,235 contracts in the three-months ended March 31,
SGX said on April 16. The Japanese index futures contracts are
the most actively traded in Singapore, followed by those from
China,  Taiwan  and  India , the company said.  Revenue from derivatives trading climbed to 28 percent of
the total from 26 percent, while contributions from equities
slipped to 39 percent from 40 percent, exchange data showed.  “We have built a critical mass over the years, attracting
the right members to participate in the derivatives market,”
Chng said. “ Singapore Exchange  is in a AAA country. We have a
very strong balance sheet and we meet the highest regulatory
standards in the world.”  The bourse has about 43 derivatives trading members,
compared with 27 equities brokers, the company said on March 6.  Osaka Shift  The volume of Nikkei 225 futures traded on the the Osaka
Securities Exchange on April 9 exceeded those on Southeast Asian
bourse for first time since Feb. 11 as the software malfunction
prevented any derivatives trading in Singapore for three hours.
Equity index and commodity futures can normally be traded
Mondays through Fridays on SGX from 7:30 a.m. to 2 a.m. the
following day.  “The only loser that day was SGX,” said Brandon Chia, a
futures and options trader at Newedge Financial in Singapore,
adding that his clients were able to trade via CME and Osaka.
“It was surprising that it took them a couple of hours to get
it fixed.”  Derivatives trading has benefited from the rally in
Japanese equities in the past few months, Chng said. The  Nikkei
225 (NKY)  is heading for a ninth straight month of advance, the
longest such streak since January 2006, amid investor optimism
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda will aggressively tackle deflation.  “We are very sorry that this happened,” Chng said.“We
take it very seriously.”  Asian Gateway  Exchanges worldwide are seeking to build their futures and
commodities businesses as contributions from equities trading
decline. Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. bought the London
Metal Exchange in December as the company posted its lowest
quarterly profit since the global financial crisis. SGX, which
started trading iron-ore futures this month, will introduce
futures contracts on Philippine and Thai equity indexes by the
fourth quarter.  The outage “isn’t a major source of embarrassment for the
exchange,” Chia of Newedge Financial said. “These things
happen so I doubt there is a major dent to SGX’s reputation.”  Singapore  is adding more products to strengthen its
position as an Asian gateway for international investors, Chng
said. There’s a cost advantage for investors to trade different
countries’ equity indexes and commodity futures from Singapore
as it allows for cross-netting of collaterals that are required
when trading futures, he said.  ‘Slight Edge’  “SGX is pretty well positioned as an Asia Pacific hub for
trading of equity indices,” Chia said. “Compared to other
exchanges that pretty much trade their own domestic markets, SGX
has a slight edge.”  To further develop the derivatives business, the Southeast
Asian  bourse  said last month it will introduce foreign exchange
futures in the second half of 2013, starting with four currency
pairs including U.S. dollar-Singapore dollar, Indian rupee-U.S.
dollar, Australian dollar-U.S. dollar and Australian dollar-
Japanese yen.  HSBC Holdings Plc raised its rating for SGX to overweight
from neutral and increased its share-price forecast to S$8.50
from S$7.20 following the results. Of the 20 brokerages covering
SGX, seven recommend buying the stock, seven suggest selling it
and the rest have hold ratings, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  