-- Silver Lake Exceeds Target Raising $10.3 Billion for LBOs
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-04-18T19:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/silver-lake-said-to-exceed-target-raising-10-3-billion.html
Silver Lake Management LLC, the
private-equity firm partnered with  Michael Dell  in a bid to buy
computer maker Dell Inc., garnered $10.3 billion for its latest
fund after raising its limit to meet investor demand.  The fund is the largest ever pool dedicated to technology
buyouts, Menlo Park, California-based Silver Lake said today in
a statement. Investors’ commitments to the fund, Silver Lake
Partners IV, topped a $7.5 billion target at a time when some
firms are struggling to attract capital.  Private-equity firms are competing for a limited pool of
investor money. A record 1,949 funds were seeking $797.1 billion
as of the end of last year, according to data by London-based
researcher Preqin Ltd. Silver Lake, which began raising money in
March of last year, is among the few buyout firms that have been
able to amass large amounts of capital relatively quickly as
many investors turn their attention to small and middle-market
buyout funds. Advent International Corp., the Boston-based firm
that began raising money at the same time, closed its latest
fund at 8.5 billion euros ($11.1 billion) in November.  “In terms of technology-oriented funds, Silver Lake is
definitely best in class,” André Bourbonnais, senior vice
president of private investments at the C$172.6 billion ($168.5
billion) Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, said in a phone
interview. Bourbonnais said the pension fund made a significant
commitment to the Silver Lake pool, whose size he declined to
disclose.  Fund Returns  Silver Lake’s Fund III was generating a 1.4 times net
multiple of invested capital and a 17 percent net internal rate
of return as of Sept. 30, according to a Silver Lake
presentation, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
Fund II was producing a 1.5 times net multiple and 10 percent
net IRR.  Silver Lake, based in Menlo Park,  California , is vying with
Blackstone Group LP and activist investor  Carl Icahn  for
computer maker  Dell. (DELL)  Dell’s board tentatively agreed Feb. 5 to a
$24.4 billion offer by Michael Dell and Silver Lake that would
give Dell’s founder a controlling stake. Blackstone and Icahn
later made nonbinding offers that Dell said may be superior.
They’re examining Dell’s books before deciding whether to
proceed with final offers.  Like many of its peers, Silver Lake is offering management-
fee breaks to clients that make large commitments to the new
fund, according to a marketing document sent to prospective
investors last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  