-- Singh Gives Bihar $2 Billion as Battle to Win Allies Heats Up
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2013-04-18T15:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/singh-gives-bihar-2-billion-as-battle-to-win-allies-heats-up.html
India ’s cabinet approved an aid
package worth 120 billion rupees ($2.2 billion) for Bihar, a
sign the government may be trying to encourage the state’s
ruling party to leave the main federal opposition alliance.  Bihar, one of India’s poorest states, will receive the
funds under the so-called Backward Regions Grant Fund over the
next four years, Information and Broadcasting Minister Manish
Tewari said after the cabinet meeting in New Delhi today.  The award came as Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s
Janata Dal (United) has publicly rowed with its senior alliance
partner, the  Bharatiya Janata Party , over the growing clout of
 Narendra Modi  a year before the next election is due.  Kumar has expressed concern that the nomination of the
BJP’s Modi as the prime ministerial candidate may anger Muslims
who accuse him of failing to stop riots that targeted their
community in 2002 in Gujarat state, which Modi governs. More
than 1,000 people died in the violence, most of them Muslims.  Congress and BJP are trying to woo regional parties before
the election to be held by May 2014 as opinion polls predict
neither will lead their coalitions to a clear victory.  The Congress-led government of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has lost two key allies since September -- Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress and the Tamil Nadu-based Dravida
Munnetra Kazhagam.  Modi was elevated to the BJP’s highest decision-making body
last month, bolstering his stature amid jockeying to lead the
party into the parliamentary polls. Modi’s third consecutive
election victory in Gujarat, last year, and his high opinion-
poll ratings have made him a favorite among party members.  Besides Bihar, the eastern state of Odisha will get 2.5
billion rupees per annum for the next four years for the
development of three districts, while the Bundelkhand region of
 Uttar Pradesh  and Madhya Pradesh states will receive 44 billion
rupees to combat drought over four years, Tewari said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  