-- Singh Rescues India Land-for-Industry Bill With BJP Agreement
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-04-18T11:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/singh-rescues-india-land-for-industry-bill-with-bjp-agreement.html
India ’s government and opposition
resolved differences over legislative changes to century-old
laws on buying land for industry and roads, paving the way for
parliamentary approval in the session which resumes next week.  “We have reached a broad consensus on the Land Acquisition
Bill,” Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kamal Nath told reporters
in  New Delhi  today after a cross-party meeting. The bill will be
taken for consideration when lawmakers meet from April 22, he
said.  The bill has been fought over both within the ruling
Congress party and since September 2011 in parliament, delaying
ratification of a key plank of the government’s agenda.
Protests, some of them deadly, over state-backed purchases of
land at below-market rates for factories or highways have
increased in frequency since 2007, triggering calls for greater
compensation for farmers.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government wants to make it
mandatory for companies buying land to win the approval of 80
percent of landholders. For public-private partnership projects,
70 percent of landowners need to give consent, according to the
draft bill approved by the cabinet in December.  “I gave 12 suggestions and the government agreed to almost
all of them,”  Sushma Swaraj , leader of the  Bharatiya Janata
Party , told the NDTV 24x7  television channel . “We have told the
government that when you acquire land, you should give 50
percent of the compensation to the original farmer. And the
government has agreed to that.”  The government wants to rewrite the 1894 colonial-era Land
Acquisition Act that allows the state to seize land at cheap
rates if it believes there’s a larger public benefit, such as
the creation of jobs.  Abuse of the rule led to clashes between farmers and
provincial administrations, and fueled Maoist rebellions in some
mineral-rich states, including Chhattisgarh and Odisha.  Singh’s government -- and Congress Vice President  Rahul Gandhi  -- want to win approval for the legislation as they
prepare for a general election scheduled for May next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  