-- Slovenia Bailout Escape Plagued by Communist-Style Lenders
-- B y   A l a n   C r o s b y   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-19T14:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/slovenia-escape-from-bailout-plagued-by-pseudo-communist-lenders.html
There’s little evidence of
Slovenia’s communist past, save for a few statues of former
Balkan strongman Josip Broz Tito. And its banking industry.  Once a standout among the former eastern bloc nations that
clamored to join the European Union, Slovenia was the first to
adopt the euro and is the only ex-Yugoslav member of the 27-
nation bloc. It is also the only one that has yet to privatize
its largest banks. State lenders have an 80 percent market
share, with corporate debt-to-equity ratios among the highest in
 Europe , according to the  International Monetary Fund .  In an echo of  Yugoslavia ’s hybrid planned economy,
Slovenian governments over the past two decades used the banks
to finance state projects and companies, with less focus on risk
and return. As property and construction bubbles burst, bad debt
rose to a fifth of economic output, raising the risk of making
the country the euro area’s next bailout casualty.  “Slovenia’s banking crisis has been brewing for years,”
Anders Aslund, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington, said in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg questions on April 16. “It has privatized
less than any other former communist EU member, and this is
especially true of the banks.”  While former Soviet satellites from  Latvia  to  Romania  sold
off state assets, Slovenian governments since the breakup of
Yugoslavia chose a gradual approach to economic turnaround. With
the highest per-capita economic output among the ex-communist
countries, there was little incentive to open the economy to
foreign investors and risk causing job losses and social
upheaval.  CDS Prices  As Slovenia lurches toward a possible bailout, that policy
is coming back to haunt the country of 2.1 million people wedged
between the Alps and the  Adriatic Sea .  The cost of insuring Slovenian  government bonds  against
non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps jumped 141
basis points since the start of the year through April 16 and
was 350 basis points at 4:42 p.m. in Ljubljana.  The IMF in a Dec. 6 report said that Slovenia’s lenders are
“highly vulnerable” and may need as much as $1.9 billion in
capital to bring the core Tier 1 capital ratio of the industry
to 9 percent under a scenario simulating a worsening of the
euro-area crisis. At the end of 2011, the six largest banks were
at 8.8 percent.  Selloff Pledge  The bulk of bank restructuring must be done before the end
of the year, Finance Minister Uros Cufer told Bloomberg in an
interview in  Washington  today. Once the banks are recapitalized,
which may cost “close to” 1 billion euros, the process of
transferring assets “can start very soon” and possibly be
finished in the third quarter, he said.  The government will announce details of its privatization
plan, which will include more than two companies, on May 9, he
said.  Until now, state banks such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,
 Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  and Abanka Vipa d.d., the
country’s three largest, have been used to keep funds flowing
where private investors may have stopped them, Cufer’s
predecessor Janez Sustersic said.  “The main reason Slovenia didn’t sell its banks is surely
because they were servicing the interests of the country’s
political and financial elites,” the former finance minister
said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions. “Foreign-
owned banks behaved much more rationally.”  An April 17 auction of 500 million euros ($652 million) of
18-month Treasury bills, called at the last minute by the
 Finance Ministry , was oversubscribed by more than double. Most
of the bids came from state banks that are even more cash-
strapped than the government.  Nova Ljubljanska, headquartered in a communist-era concrete
tower in the center of the Slovenian capital, was partially sold
off, only to end in failure.  ‘Negative Impact’  KBC Group NV,  Belgium ’s second-biggest financial-services
company, bought a 34 percent stake for 435 million euros in
2002. Five years later, the government blocked the its attempt
to increase its holding to a majority, prompting then-Chief
Executive Officer Andre Bergen to lament about “a missed
opportunity.”  In 2012, KBC began to divest, citing a “negative impact”
on earnings, returning the last of its stake to the government
this year.  Nova Kreditna, which had a 205 million-euro loss in 2012,
was one of four banks that failed last year to meet European
capital targets set by regulators. Bank of Cyprus Pcl,  Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , known as Laiki Bank, and  Italy ’s  Banca Monte
dei Paschi di Siena SpA  were the others. Five Slovenian banks
were downgraded by  Fitch Ratings  on April 5.  ‘Cheap Money’  While the ratio of non-performing loans in the banking
industry was 14.4 percent at the end of last year, up from 11.2
percent at the end of 2011, the figure jumps to 20.5 percent if
the three largest banks are counted alone, according to
Ljubljana-based Alta Invest.  That’s a result of “cheap money” after Slovenia became a
euro member, as well as “loans based on political connections,
where economic logic was not included,” Saso Stanovnik and Igor
Taljat, analysts at Alta Invest, said in a note.  Fixing the country’s banking system, including the creation
of a bad bank to take on problem loans totaling as much as 4
billion euros, is the government’s priority, according to
Bratusek, whose administration has been in power less than a
month.  Even with the successful Treasury bill auction, Slovenia’s
financing needs are “high” at about 2.5 billion euros this
year and 4 billion euros to 4.5 billion euros next year, while
the banking industry remains “challenging,”  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
analysts Eldar Vakhitov, Apolline Menut and Andreas Kolbe in
 London  wrote in a note to clients late yesterday.  “Privatization would help address the long-standing
governance weaknesses of these banks, which were put into the
spotlight by the crisis,” the IMF said in the report.
“Reducing government influence on the day-to-day operations and
lending decisions of banks will help improve the risk management
practices and the efficiency and stability of the banking system
over the longer term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crosby in Prague at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  