-- Slovenia Bailout Would Be Spanish-Cypriot Mongrel
-- B y   M e g a n   G r e e n e
-- 2013-04-18T22:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/slovenia-bailout-would-be-spanish-cypriot-mongrel.html
The ink on the provisional bailout
agreement for Cyprus was hardly dry last month before bond
markets shifted their attention to  Slovenia , another small euro-
area country with a banking problem. The Slovenian government’s
borrowing costs subsequently shot up.  The fear that Slovenia might be the next Cyprus, with
international creditors again forcing losses onto bank
bondholders and uninsured depositors, is only partly justified.
Slovenia isn’t Cyprus, and its rescue program, when it comes,
will probably look like a hybrid between the Spanish-style
bailout and the Cyprus-style bail-in.  First, the similarities: Like Cyprus, Slovenia has wrestled
with a banking crisis for years and the big banks in both
countries have made bad lending decisions. In Cyprus, that
involved loading up on Greek government bonds that later had to
be significantly written down. By the end of 2012, almost 27
percent of  bank loans  in Cyprus were nonperforming.
Unfortunately, this was only slightly higher than in Slovenia,
where nonperforming loans for the country’s three largest banks
 also rose  quickly and surpassed 20 percent last year.  Slovenia’s bad loans were caused by a double-dip recession,
a burst property bubble and poor corporate governance. The
country’s three largest banks are all state-owned and the cozy
relationship between politicians, banks and corporations
resulted in many loans going to individuals and companies that
were well-connected rather than well-qualified.  Crucial Differences  Yet there are crucial differences between the Cypriot and
Slovenian cases. Cyprus’s banking sector was huge, accounting
for more than 700 percent of the country’s gross domestic
product by the end of 2012. By contrast, Slovenia’s banking
sector is only 143 percent of GDP -- much less than the 347
percent euro-area average.  Slovenia also isn’t as dependent on financial services for
growth as Cyprus was. In Cyprus’s case, financial services, and
the business services connected to them, accounted for between
one-third and half  of GDP  in 2012. The same industries accounted
for about 10.5 percent of GDP  in Slovenia . Fears that  Europe ’s
troika of international creditors -- the European Commission,
the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund --
might force Slovenia to drastically shrink its banking sector
overnight, and destroying the economy as occurred in Cyprus, are
overdone.  Finally, the sums needed to stabilize the banking sectors
in Cyprus and Slovenia differ significantly, as do the potential
sources of financing. According to the latest European
Commission  document , Cyprus must pay for the entirety of its
bank recapitalizations. The price for this could be as much as
10.6 billion euros ($13.9 billion), including the cost of
resolving Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (better known as Laiki Bank).
The Cypriot banks relied heavily on deposits for funding, with
very little equity or debt. To generate 10.6 billion euros in
savings, hefty “haircuts” had to be imposed not just on equity
and bondholders but also on uninsured depositors.  The cost of recapitalizing Slovenia’s three major banks is
only about 1 billion euros, according to an IMF  estimate . A
recent  study  by the central bank of Slovenia says the country’s
banking sector has roughly 2 billion euros in debt securities
and 4 billion euros in equity and loan provisions. So, if
Slovenian banks are forced to pay for their own
recapitalization, imposing a loss on equity and bondholders
would probably yield sufficient savings without the need to hit
depositors.  This raises an obvious question: If Slovenia can fund its
own bank rescue by bailing in creditors, why is everyone talking
about a bailout for this small alpine country? There are two
reasons.  Recapitalization Needs  First, estimates of the recapitalization needs for
Slovenia’s three biggest banks will probably grow. The corporate
sector is hugely overleveraged, with an average debt-to-equity
ratio of 200 percent last year. That compares with 70 percent
for the euro area at its 2009 peak. The banks made more than
half of their loans to corporates, of which about a third are
nonperforming. With so many loans going bad, the banks’ balance
sheets have been hit, constraining their ability to lend. As a
result, Companies have defaulted on more of their loans, driving
the banks’ portfolio of nonperforming loans ever higher.  Second, a bailout may be necessary to prevent the banking
crisis from dragging down the state. Slovenia’s fiscal situation
is healthier than most of the euro area’s peripheral countries,
with a budget deficit of 4.4 percent of GDP and total public
debt at about 54 percent of GDP, according to European
Commission  figures . Yet those relatively sound numbers didn’t
stop Slovenia’s borrowing costs from shooting up after the
Cypriot bailout, partly because the government’s debt-redemption
profile is  unfavorable , with particularly high debt rollovers in
2013 and 2014. In June, the government will have to refinance
about 900 million euros’ worth of debt, half of the year’s
total.  When the government attempted to issue 100 million euros in
Treasury bills on April 9, it managed to sell only 56.1 million
euros worth. Then, an auction on April 17 raised double the
government’s targeted amount, but that success may be misleading
because state-owned banks were the main buyers, probably under
pressure from the government to participate.  Slovenia may have to seek official assistance for its
banking sector as a way to retain market access. We saw the same
with Spain in mid-2012 when the government in  Madrid  asked
international creditors to bail out Spanish banks directly so
that the state could continue to fund itself. The difference
between Spain and Slovenia is the bail-in precedent that was set
by Cyprus in the meantime. Slovenian banks will probably be
expected to contribute to their rescue package by bailing in
investors; only in this case, depositors are unlikely to be hit.  Whatever the composition of its rescue, Slovenia will
likely share one crucial similarity with Cyprus: the need for
financial help in a German election year. The closer the German
elections, the more the euro area’s main paymaster will extract
in exchange for assistance. If Slovenia doesn’t believe it will
be able to make it past  Germany ’s September poll without help,
it should waste no time in asking for support.  (Megan Greene is a Bloomberg View columnist and chief
economist at Maverick Intelligence. She is also a senior fellow
at the Atlantic Council in  Washington .  Follow  her on Twitter.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Megan Greene at  megan@maverickintelligence.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 