-- Slovenia Taps Banks for Foreign Bond Investor Meetings
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-04-18T13:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/slovenia-said-to-plan-international-bond-investor-meetings.html
Slovenia  picked banks to organize
international bond investor meetings, a day after scooping up
twice the targeted amount in a domestic debt sale and easing
pressure on the country to ask for an international bailout.  The government hired  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to arrange meetings for a “non-deal
roadshow” starting April 22, Irena Ferkulj, a spokeswoman at
the Finance Ministry, said in an e-mailed statement today.
Slovenia’s bond yields increased today after a record drop
following yesterday’s 1.1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) sale of
bills, compared with the ministry’s 500 million-euro target.  “The government is clearly feeling more confident about
borrowing from the international market on the back of its
successful local auction, which let the government off the
hook,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an economist at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in  London , said in an e-mail. “While
attempting to tap the international market is in line with what
we have been expecting, it’s coming sooner than anticipated.”  Persuading Investors  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s month-old government is
seeking to persuade investors that Slovenia won’t follow Cyprus
and four other euro members in seeking international aid. The
government sold 18-month bills at a yield of 4.15 percent
yesterday, compared with 3.99 percent in December 2011,
according to  Finance Ministry  data.  The yield on Slovenia’s 2018 euro-denominated bond
increased 11 basis points to 5.52 percent at 3 p.m. in
Ljubljana, after peaking at 6.08 percent on March 28, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a yield of
4.72 percent on five-year notes from junk-rated  Portugal , a euro
member rated five levels below Slovenia’s Baa2 investment-grade
assessment from Moody’s Investors Service.  “In the absence of a detailed plan, I won’t be surprised
if the government faces an unenthusiastic investor base,” RBS’s
Ameli-Renani said. “The government will have to present a
credible and detailed plan on the banking sector that foresees
rapid implementation before it can borrow overseas.”  Yields Rise  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bond maturing in
2022, which dropped to 5.98 percent yesterday, rose 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 6.13 percent today at 3
p.m. in Ljubljana. The sovereign last tapped the  bond market  in
October, when it sold $2.25 billion of debt at 5.5 percent.  The country may sell 3-year or 5-year benchmark bonds with
a possible size of 1 billion euros or 2 billion euros if it
manages to get strong feedback from investors,  David Schnautz , a
strategist at Commerzbank AG, said in an e-mail today.  Slovenia should make a credible commitment to overhaul its
banking system before tapping the international bond market,
said Sam Finkelstein, who helps manage $40 billion in emerging-
market debt at Goldman Sachs Asset Management. The New York-
based company has an overweight stance on Slovene bonds and may
buy more of the securities if the country addresses the bad-debt
issue, he said today in a phone interview from London.  “It’s positive that Slovenia is able to sell T-bills, but
I would be hesitant to lend them more money until they show
progress on reforms, including privatization, and the bad debt
situation,” he said. “They should develop a good relationship
with the Troika, as they may need access to liquidity.”  The cost to insure Slovenian  government bonds  against non-
payment for five years using credit default swaps decreased four
basis point to 338 today after a 30 basis-point tumble
yesterday, the steepest fall among emerging-European nations
tracked by Bloomberg. Portugal’s CDS stood at 399 today.  ‘Over-Reacting’  “We bought some of the bonds last week and generally like
the story,” John L. Peta, who helps manage $3 billion of
emerging-market debt at  Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd . In
London, said by e-mail today. “We think that the market is
over-reacting given that Cyprus was just in the news.”  As political leaders seek to shore up confidence in
Slovenia, Finance Minister Uros Cufer and central bank Governor
Marko Kranjec will take part in the annual meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund  and World bank in Washington
beginning tomorrow.  ‘Political Suicide’  “Slovenia is definitely not” expected to seek either
technical or financial assistance from the IMF, RBS’s Ameli-
Renani said. It would be “political suicide for an unstable
coalition as Slovenia’s.”  Bratusek told lawmakers yesterday that while urgent
measures are needed to be taken to address Slovenia’s woes, the
country doesn’t need a bailout. The government will present a
plan to narrow the budget gap and fix the banks within a month,
a timeframe agreed with European leaders in Brussels, she said.  Bratusek also announced the country plans to sell at least
two state-held companies and possibly also a bank.  “The bond will very likely be sold in the U.S. debt
markets and I expect the list of state-held assets to be out
soon, before the bond roadshow,” Andraz Grahek, a managing
partner at Capital Genetics, said by phone in Ljubljana. “There
is enough speculative demand to place this bond right now,
although the Treasury has shown again it is behaving tactically
and changing attitude from one month to the other.”  Financing Needs  After the Treasury bill sale, “Slovenia still needs to
find around 2 billion euros to cover its  budget deficit  and
recapitalize state-owned banks, with risks to the upside given
quite a difference between the official government’s and the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development bank
capital-needs estimates,” analysts at Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank d.d.
in Zagreb said in a note to clients today.  Bad loans at Slovenia’s three largest banks Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  and
 Abanka Vipa d.d.  are estimated to represent 30 percent of their
total loans, according to the OECD April 9 report. The three
lenders need 2 billion euros of fresh capital,  Fitch Ratings 
said April 5.  “I’m surprised they are going ahead so soon, but perhaps
they want to keep momentum going after the strong T-Bill sale,”
 Richard Segal , head of international credit strategy at
Jefferies Group Inc. in London, said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  