-- Sodexo Falls Most in Five Years on Stagnant Catering Growth
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-04-18T15:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/sodexo-cuts-growth-forecast-as-europe-hurts-first-half-profit.html
Sodexo (SW)  shares plunged the most in
more than five years after the world’s second-biggest provider
of catering services reported declining earnings and cut its
forecast for the year.  The stock  fell  9.6 percent to 64.03 euros at the close in
Paris, the steepest decline since Nov. 15, 2007, erasing about
1.1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in market value.  Sodexo and industry leader  Compass Group Plc (CPG)  are grappling
with lackluster demand in Europe as a weaker economy prompts
clients to trim spending on catering. Compass said in September
it would expand cost-cutting and restructure operations in
southern Europe. Sodexo began trimming costs in November and
said today it plans to take advantage of demand for facilities
management, which includes contracts to look after sites from
oil rigs to hospitals, and step up cost cuts.  “Compass Group was earlier to restructure the business and
Sodexo has been somewhat behind the curve,” Craig Fraser, an
analyst at Baden Hill LLP in London said by phone today.  Sodexo, based in Issy-les-Moulineaux outside of Paris,  said 
it expects “stable” earnings before interest and taxes this
year, after saying in January it expected modest growth in
profit. Operating profit fell 14 percent to 478 million euros in
the first half, missing the average analyst estimate of 561.8
million euros.  “Overall, a disappointing release,” Vicki Lee, an analyst
at Barclays Plc in London, wrote in a note to clients.  ‘Tough’ Europe  The savings plan initiated in November was extended and
will result in exceptional charges of 180 million to 200 million
euros through February 2014, Chief Executive Officer Michel Landel said in a presentation. The full benefits will be felt in
2015, according to Chief Financial Officer Sian Herbert-Jones.  “In  Europe  the situation is tough, it’s one reason we have
expanded our operational efficiency improvement and cost
reduction program,” Landel said.  The company expects annual revenue on an organic basis to
increase 1 percent to 2 percent and aims for a consolidated
operating margin of 6.3 percent by the end of its 2015 fiscal
year, it said.  Revenue rose 4.3 percent to 9.5 billion euros in the first
half. On an organic basis, revenue increased 2.1 percent,
missing a median estimate for 2.8 percent growth. The measure
excludes effects of acquisitions, disposals and currency
fluctuations. The profit forecast strips out currency
fluctuations and exceptional items.  Compass Group fell 0.5 percent in  London , paring the gain
this year to 14 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net 
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  