-- Softbank Raises $3.3 Billion With Bond Issue in Dollars, Euros
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-04-18T18:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/softbank-said-to-plan-3-3-billion-bond-issue-in-dollars-euros.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) , the Japanese
telecommunications company vying with  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  to
acquire  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , sold $3.3 billion of bonds
denominated in dollars and euros after increasing the offering
size by more than 50 percent.  The company issued seven-year debt split between $2.49
billion of 4.5 percent notes yielding 339 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and a 625 million-euro ($816
million) portion of 4.625 percent securities yielding 395 basis
points more than similar-maturity German  government bonds ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Part of the proceeds from the sale, which was marketed last
week at $2 billion, is intended to be used for the Sprint
acquisition, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who asked not to be identified citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly. The sale is not contingent on
the deal’s settlement.  Should the acquisition fail to close, “there’s a lot of
potential uses” for the proceeds, Sajod Moradi, a Philadelphia-
based credit analyst at Delaware Investments, said in a
telephone interview. “They’re a pretty solid company and
they’ll find a good use for that cash.”  Billionaire Masayoshi Son’s Softbank offered in October to
buy a 70 percent stake in Sprint Nextel to enter the U.S. market
and create the world’s third-biggest mobile-phone services
provider. Dish made an unsolicited $25.5 billion cash-and-stock
offer for Sprint Nextel on April 15.  The bonds have been rated a provisional Baa3, the lowest
level of investment grade, by Moody’s Investors Service, the
ratings company said in an April 9 statement.  “There’s still a lot of demand for paper on higher-rated,
quality companies out there,” Moradi said. “This is an
opportunity for them to diversify their investor base a little
bit.”  Deutsche Bank AG served as global coordinator for the
offering, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  