-- South Korea’s Hyun Says Yen Bigger Issue Than North Korea
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-04-19T02:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/south-korea-s-hyun-says-yen-bigger-issue-than-north-korea.html
South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said  Japan ’s weakening yen is hurting his country’s
economy more than North Korean threats, an example of a
“spillover” that merits discussion.  “Japan’s economic policies are doing their part to help
the world economy recover,” Hyun said yesterday in an interview
in  Washington  before a meeting of Group of 20 finance chiefs.
“But if this causes problems, and then the problems cause new
responses from partnering nations, for example a currency war,
the world economy will have a hard time,”  In his first month in the job, Hyun, 62, has been
contending with a slide in Japan’s currency that is undermining
South Korean exports, and tensions with  North Korea  that
threaten to damp confidence. The won has gained more than 21
percent against the yen in the past six months on Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign for expanded monetary easing.  “Compared to the North Korea risk, a sliding yen is having
a considerable impact on the real economy of  South Korea ,” Hyun
said in the interview. “Depreciation of the yen has caused the
spillover-effect phenomenon so this is worth discussing.”  At their last gathering in February, G-20 finance chiefs
signaled that Japan could stimulate its stagnant economy as long
as policy makers refrain from publicly advocating lower levels
for the yen.  G-20 Draft  The G-20 nations will affirm a commitment to avoid
weakening their currencies to gain a trade advantage, according
to a draft statement prepared for the meeting this week in
Washington, Bloomberg BNA reported.  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda said yesterday in Washington that other nations
understand that the BOJ’s easing is aimed at spurring inflation
rather than weakening the yen.  “South Korea’s exports may decline in the second half of
this year unless the  U.S. economy  rebounds significantly, which
is unclear for now,” said Lee Sang Jae, a Seoul-based economist
at Hyundai Securities Co. “South Korea wants the G-20 to help
curb or at least slow the yen’s declines. However Japan is
trying its last resort and big powers such as the U.S. and
 Germany  see little reason to put a brake on Japan.”  The finance minister said that recent movements in stocks,
currencies and credit default swap premiums are “impacted by
North  Korea ’s provocations,” while other events, including the
Cyprus financial crisis, also have an effect.  ‘Really Difficult’  Still, it’s “really difficult to see North Korea and the
yen depreciation as the same level of risk,” he said. “North
Korea is not having a big impact on the real economy.”  North Korea fired a long-range missile in December and
carried out a nuclear weapons test in February in defiance of
tightened United Nations sanctions. Kim Jong Un’s regime has
threatened pre-emptive nuclear strikes against its enemies and
last week pulled its workers from an industrial complex operated
jointly with the South.  In March, Hyun said the yen’s weakness was “flashing a red
light” for Korea’s exports, which account for about half of
 Asia ’s fourth-largest economy.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  said in
January that currency moves could reduce its operating profit by
3 trillion won ($2.7 billion) this year.  “My thought for now is that if the global economy retains
the pace of recovery in the second half, we may be able to make
the initial exports estimate, despite the yen,” Hyun said. The
ministry earlier forecast 4.3 percent export growth this year.  Chasing Growth  South Korea’s government is seeking to get the nation
closer to a potential growth rate estimated by  central bank 
Governor Kim Choong Soo at 3.8 percent, after last year’s 2
percent expansion that was the weakest since 2009. In the fourth
quarter of last year, the economy grew 0.3 percent from the
previous three months.  Elevated  household debt  is constraining consumption, while
the central bank cited the Japanese currency and weakness in the
global economy when it cut this year’s growth forecast to 2.6
percent from 2.8 percent last week. The  finance ministry 
estimates a 2.3 percent expansion.  The single biggest risk in the world economy is lack of
leadership in policy coordination as regions recover at
different speeds, Hyun said, citing limited momentum in the
European Union compared with gains in the U.S. and emerging
nations and signs of a comeback in Japan.  Central Bank  After South Korea’s central bank last week resisted
pressure to cut  interest rates , Hyun’s finance ministry this
week announced extra spending that it said could boost growth by
0.3 percentage points and create 40,000 jobs.  Asked about the relationship between the government and the
central bank, Hyun said: “The  Bank of Korea  is really retaining
its independence well -- to the extent that some say it’s too
independent.” At the same time, the government and the BOK are
“heading in the same direction,” as shown by the central
bank’s decision to cut lending rates on a program that supports
borrowing by small businsses, Hyun said.  Hyun, who is three years younger than Bank of Korea
Governor Kim, followed a similar academic and career path. They
went to the same schools -- Kyunggi High School and Seoul
National University, and then both completed doctorates in
economics at the  University of Pennsylvania .  Both also headed the nation’s biggest state-run research
center,  Korea Development Institute , which was founded by former
dictator Park Chung Hee, father of President Park Geun Hye. As
KDI’s president, Hyun advised Kim on policy until Hyun became
deputy prime minister and finance minister in March under Park.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  