-- Spreadtrum Leads Rebound on Smartphones: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-04-18T21:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/spreadtrum-leads-rebound-on-smartphones-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities in New York
climbed from the lowest level since September, led by gains in
 Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , after Bank of America Corp. said
rising smartphone use will boost Asian semiconductor makers.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent to 86.65 in New
York. Spreadtrum, a mobile-chipmaker based in  Shanghai , jumped
to the highest level since November as Bank of America
 recommended  buying semiconductor stocks.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  rallied
the most in six weeks while  NQ Mobile (NQ)  Inc. slipped to the lowest
level since March 4.  Spreadtrum has surged 24 percent in 2013 as analysts
project that expanding demand for low-cost, third-generation
smartphones in  China  will stoke the biggest increase in
quarterly  sales  in a year. The three main Chinese
telecommunications providers reported higher-than-expected
quarterly earnings last month as demand for smartphones grows in
Asia’s biggest economy.  “The expansion of low-cost smartphones is hugely
beneficial to Spreadtrum,”  Jay Srivatsa , an analyst at Chardan
Capital Markets LLC in New York, who upgraded Spreadtrum to buy
last month, said by phone. “The 3-G smartphone demand in China
is very strong. My sense is that the company will report
earnings at or above guidance.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., rose 0.3 percent to $34.93 in
New York, after tumbling to $34.83 April 17, the lowest since
September. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped for a second
day, losing 0.7 percent to 1,541.61, as data on leading economic
indicators and Philadelphia-area manufacturing trailed
estimates.  Growth Potential  Spreadtrum jumped 3.8 percent to $21.90, the highest since
Nov. 1. Bank of America analysts led by Daniel Heyler said
Spreadtrum is among their top picks as investors underestimated
the growth potential of the smartphone markets in China and
developing countries.  The company is expected to report first-quarter sales rose
14 percent from a year earlier to $183 million. Adjusted
earnings fell to 40 cents per share, compared with 47 cents in
the year-ago period, according to the average forecast of six
analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg .  Sohu, the Beijing-based owner of China’s second-largest
online video site, added 3.4 percent to $48.60, the highest
since March 28.  The company will provide pre-installed video applications
to all mobile devices of  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  sold in China,
Shanghai Daily reported, without saying where it obtained the
information. The agreement may cover 150 million users, it
reported.  Credit Line  LDK Solar Ltd. (LDK) , once the world’s second-biggest maker of
wafers used in solar panels, slipped 2.8 percent to $1.05.
Chairman Peng Xiaofeng and his management team said during a
conference call that they were in talks to take on an equity
investor and were close to sealing a 2 billion  yuan  ($320
million) credit line.  LDK cut its capacity to make cells by 89 percent and fired
more than a quarter of its workforce as cash reserves fell to
$98.3 million, the lowest in three years. The company reported
its seventh consecutive loss in the fourth quarter.  Suntech Power Holdings Ltd., a solar company whose main
unit was forced into bankruptcy after defaulting on a bond
payment last month, tumbled 5.1 percent to 65 cents, leading
declines on the Bloomberg US-China gauge.  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest phone company by
users, rose 0.8 percent to $52.19.  Deal Scuppered  The company terminated a $596 million agreement to buy 12
percent of Far EasTone Telecommunications Co., which would have
been the first investment by a Chinese state-owned company in
 Taiwan  in six decades, after the island’s regulators wouldn’t
ease ownership curbs. The deal was replaced by a framework for
business cooperation and the carriers may resume talks if the
ownership restriction eases, the two companies said in a joint
statement yesterday.  Beijing-based NQ Mobile, the nation’s biggest mobile-phone
security company, fell 3 percent to $8.07, declining for the
third time in four days.  LightInTheBox Holding Ltd., a Beijing-based online
retailer, applied for an initial public offering on the New York
Stock Exchange April 17, aiming to raise $86 million.  Public Offering  Only three China-based companies listed in the U.S. last
year, down from a peak of 42 in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  YY
Inc. (YY) , a Guangzhou-based company that runs an online social
network, raised $82 million in November, following the listing
of  Acquity Group Ltd. (AQ) , a Hong Kong-based online marketing firm,
in April and  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , a Guangzhou-based online
retailer, in March.  LightInTheBox, which sells clothing and electronics online,
posted $200 million in revenue and net loss of $4.2 million last
year, according to the filing.  China may expand the range that the yuan is allowed to
trade within during the Group of 20 nations meetings in
Washington this week, UBS analysts Manik Narain and  Geoffrey Yu 
wrote in a note yesterday. Central bank Deputy Governor Yi Gang
said during the International Monetary Fund meeting April 17
that the yuan’s trading band will be widened “in the near
future.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable  forwards  on the yuan climbed
0.1 percent to 6.248 per dollar, suggesting traders expect the
yuan to be little changed in a year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares
added 0.2 percent to 2,197.60, while the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong
retreated 0.3 percent to 10,266.59, the lowest since Nov. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  