-- Starwood Venture Buys Wells Fargo East Coast Headquarters
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-04-18T21:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/starwood-venture-buys-wells-fargo-east-coast-headquarters.html
Barry Sternlicht ’s Starwood Capital
Group LLC and partner Vision Equities bought the 1 Wells Fargo
Center office tower in Charlotte, North Carolina, as property
investors seek higher yields in secondary U.S. markets.  The 42-story building is 98 percent leased and serves as
the East Coast headquarters for  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Starwood said today in a statement. Seven of
the nine biggest tenants occupy 92 percent of the rentable
 office space , with an average remaining lease term of about
seven and a half years, according to the statement.  “We are pleased to be acquiring one of the premier office
buildings in Charlotte’s central business district,” Mark Keatley, senior vice president at  Starwood Capital , said in the
statement. He called Charlotte, the home of Bank of America
Corp., one of the “most attractive cities for corporations to
locate,” with “outsized job and population growth.”  Properties beyond so-called gateway U.S. cities -- New
York, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Washington, Chicago and Boston
-- are benefiting from robust demand and helping to fuel  real
estate deals , according to research firm Real Capital Analytics
Inc. Prices in non-major markets have outpaced gains in larger
cities in recent months as buyers cast their nets wider in the
search for higher-yielding investments, Moody’s Investors
Service Inc. said last week.  Starwood didn’t disclose terms of the Wells Fargo Center
purchase. The seller was Childress Klein Properties, which will
continue to handle management and leasing at the tower under a
long-term agreement, according to Starwood’s statement.  The price was $245 million, the Charlotte Business Journal
reported on its website two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  