-- State Department Said to Post All Keystone Comments
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-04-18T23:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/state-department-said-to-post-all-keystone-comments.html
The State Department will post all
public comments on its review of the proposed Keystone XL
pipeline on a website, reversing its position, according to a
department official.  The department, which in March said it wouldn’t release the
comments, also will provide additional opportunities for public
input during the National Interest Determination period, said
Kerri-Ann Jones, assistant secretary of State for oceans and
international environmental and scientific affairs.  The National Interest Determination period takes place
after the close of public comments and is the final step before
the State Department notifies the president whether the project
is in the nation’s interest.  Daniel Weiss, a senior fellow and director of climate
strategy at the Center for American Progress, a policy institute
in  Washington , said the decision reflects a recognition that the
State Department “needs to be more transparent and more
accurate about how it’s evaluating whether this project is in
the national interest.”  “Attempts at secrecy are almost always a bad idea for any
government agency,” Weiss said in a telephone interview. “It’s
good that the process will become more transparent.”  A new public comment period would begin after a final
environmental impact statement is released. It wasn’t
immediately clear whether that would extend the process of
approving the pipeline.  Earth Day  The public comment period is scheduled to end on April 22,
a day already important to the environmentalists who oppose
Keystone because it is Earth Day and the day that the  BP Plc (BP)  rig
Deepwater Horizon sank in 2010 after an explosion set off the
world’s largest accidental marine oil spill.  A second department official said the agency has received
formal requests to extend the public comment period to 120 days
from the current 45 days. The State Department is considering
that request now. It has already received more than 800,000
comments responding to the review, Jones said.  “This is the Department of State’s process so it will be
up to them to determine,” said Shawn Howard, a  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP)  spokesman. “However, this is already the most extensively
reviewed cross-border pipeline ever.”  The Calgary-based company wants to build the pipeline to
bring oil from the Canadian province’s tar sands to refineries
on the U.S. Gulf Coast.  The mechanics and timing of the changes on the public
comments are still being worked out, Jones said. The decision
was made to maximize transparency, she said, even as officials
know there will be a high volume of comments.  The State Department, which held a hearing in Grand Island,
 Nebraska , today to hear comments on the pipeline, has come under
fire for the lack of transparency on Keystone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  