-- Swedish Krona Still Historically Weak, Riksbank’s Jansson Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-04-18T14:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/swedish-krona-still-historically-weak-riksbank-s-jansson-says.html
Sweden’s krona is still
historically weak and no threat to the export-reliant economy,
central bank Deputy Governor Per Jansson said.  “It’s very difficult to paint a picture” where “the
krona is so strong that we will soon die,” he said in a speech
today in  Stockholm . “In a long-term perspective it’s rather
relatively weak.”  Swedish policy makers yesterday cut their inflation
forecast and pushed back interest rate increases until late next
year amid a strengthening krona and a failure by companies to
pass on higher labor costs through price increases. The krona
has gained about 7.6 percent against the euro since May.  Central bank Governor Stefan Ingves said in an interview
yesterday that a rate cut is not in the cards, as the bank will
seek to ensure monetary policy doesn’t fuel household credit
growth, comments that were underscored by Jansson.  “It’s reasonable to take into account that households’
indebtedness is high and is expected to rise further,” Jansson
told reporters after the speech. “It then acts as a brake on
what we can do with the  repo rate .”  The Riksbank yesterday raised its forecast for household
debt, which has almost doubled since 1996, to 177 percent of
disposable income in the first quarter 2015. It cut its
 inflation  forecast for this year to 0.1 percent from 0.4 percent
at its previous meeting in February.  The bank has cut its repo rate four times since December
2011 to boost flagging growth in the  economy , which exports
about half of its output. About 70 percent of sales abroad are
bound for  Europe  where countries are cutting spending to reduce
debt.  “We’re already conducting an extremely expansive monetary
policy,” Jansson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  