-- Syngenta Sees $75 Million Risk From Bee-Related EU Chemical Bans
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-04-18T08:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/syngenta-sees-75-million-risk-from-bee-related-eu-chemical-bans.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
maker of crop chemicals, said its exposure to the thiamethoxam
chemical at risk from a proposed two-year European Union ban
amid concerns to bee health is limited to about $75 million.  Global sales of the chemical are about $1 billion for
Syngenta and certain proponents of the ban are trying to turn it
into a “cause celebre” to extend it to other areas, according
to Chief Executive Officer Michael Mack.  “We would oppose that in virtually all the places,” Mack
said in a phone interview today.  Syngenta, based in  Basel , “has a lot of support” from
countries opposing the ban and is using an appeal on the
proposal later this month to defend its products, he said. EU
official failed to agree in March on whether to approve or
reject the suggested two-year ban.  Syngenta and rival  Bayer AG (BAYN)  are seeking to prevent an EU-
wide ban on three neonicotinoid insecticides related to nicotine
amid supermarket reviews of their use in farming. J Sainsbury
Plc, the U.K.’s third largest grocer, said yesterday that it is
“monitoring the situation very closely”, while retailer  Marks
& Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  is reviewing its position on the pesticides
and will announce an update in about a month.  Grocery chain Waitrose Ltd. already plans to phase out
three Bayer and Syngenta neonicotinoid pesticides from its
supply chain by the end of 2014.  Waitrose’s planned phase-out
and the EU’s proposal cover Bayer’s imidacloprid and
clothianidin, and Syngenta’s thiamethoxam.  The pesticides, which work on the central nervous-system of
insects, pose a “high acute risk” to bees through the nectar
and pollen of some treated crops and through drifting dust, the
European Food Safety Authority wrote in a Jan. 16 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  