-- As U.S. Deliberates, Syria Human Rights Abuses Mounting
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-04-19T02:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/syria-s-daily-horrors-from-famine-to-rape-described-by-un-chiefs.html
Syrian cities have been razed to
the ground. Doctors operate without anesthesia. Children are
raped and murdered. Houses are burned with families inside.  “This is the reality of  Syria  today,”  Valerie Amos , the
top  United Nations  humanitarian aid official, told the UN
Security Council yesterday in the first of three testimonies.  Civilians are bombed while waiting in line for bread, she
said. Waste is piling up, there is often no running water and,
with summer nearing, there is a high risk of a cholera outbreak.
Amos described a lawless country plunged into chaos more than
two years into a bloody civil war pitting President Bashar al- Assad’s regime against rebel forces seeking his ouster.  Even so, descriptions of hardships confronting the Syrian
people “cannot even begin to give you the real picture of the
horrors being meted out every day,” Amos said.  The international community has been powerless to stop the
bloodshed as a team of UN experts is stranded in Cyprus waiting
to be allowed into Syria to investigate frequent allegations of
the use of chemical weapons against the population. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  has said proven use of such devices would
cross a “red line,” ushering in a possible foreign
intervention.  “We receive many claims of chemical warfare use in Syria
each day and we take them all seriously, and we do all we can to
investigate them,” U.S. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper told the Senate Armed Services Committee yesterday.  Growing Pressure  The first hard evidence that Assad’s regime has used nerve
gas or other chemical weapons -- as opposed to crowd control
agents -- would add pressure on the Obama administration to step
up aid to anti-government groups.  In congressional testimony this week, Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel, set to begin a visit to the  Middle East  tomorrow,
and Secretary of State  John Kerry , who’ll travel today to
Istanbul for meetings with the Syrian opposition and European
and Arab nations, indicated that the Obama administration
remains opposed to intervening militarily.  “Military intervention at this point could hinder
humanitarian operations,” Hagel told the Senate Armed Services
Committee April 17. “It could embroil the  United States  in a
significant, lengthy and uncertain military commitment,” strain
international alliances and “have the unintended consequences
of bringing the United States into a broader regional conflict
or proxy war.”  Nonlethal Aid  At stake is whether the U.S. will join the U.K. and  France 
in supplying rebels with military equipment, such as antitank
and antiaircraft weapons. The U.S. so far has provided more than
$115 million in nonlethal assistance.  “We are being careful, which is why the president has not
yet decided whether or not -- which is why the president has not
given lethal aid,” Kerry told the Senate Appropriations
Committee yesterday.  Assad has defied predictions of his imminent demise. His
grip is “tenuous” after two years of armed strife as
opposition forces have grown more effective, according to the
Pentagon’s top military intelligence official.  Assad’s government “maintains the military advantage --
particularly in firepower and air superiority,” and his inner
circle “appears to be largely cohesive,” the Defense
Intelligence Agency director, Army Lieutenant General Michael Flynn, told the Senate Armed Services Committee yesterday.  Humanitarian Crisis  While U.S. officials continue to deliberate, Amos gave an
inkling of the dimensions of the humanitarian crisis in a
country of more than 20 million people. There are 4.25 million
displaced persons -- about the size of  Croatia ’s population.
More than 1.3 million refugees have flooded into neighboring
 Turkey , Lebanon and Jordan, she said at the UN.  Algerian diplomat Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN special envoy to
Syria who’s largely been sidelined, will update the  Security
Council  today on the lack of progress in reaching a political
solution to the crisis.  Amos criticized the UN’s decision-making body for failing
to unite behind a common approach to ending the crisis. Amos has
visited Syria four times. Her last trip was in January, and an
increase in bureaucratic obstacles placed by the Syrian
government have impeded access.  As an example, Amos said there are 50 checkpoints between
Damascus and Aleppo, a journey of 193 miles (310 kilometers).
Twenty visas are pending for aid workers. Aid convoys require 72
hours’ notice. The approved list of nongovernment agencies was
reduced to 29 from 110.  No Answer  “We cannot do business this way,” Amos told the 15-nation
UN body. “I do not have an answer for the Syrians who ask why
have we abandoned them.”  Following her testimony, the panel condemned abuses and
violations of human rights in Syria. “Members of the Security
Council expressed the view that the escalating violence is
completely unacceptable and must end immediately,” according to
a statement distributed by the UN body.  Amos dwelt on the fate of children in the conflict.  “I was horrified to hear accounts during my recent visit
to Turkey of children dying of hunger” in opposition-held areas
near the borders.  “Children are among the ones suffering most,” she said.
“They have been murdered, tortured and raped.”  Zainab Bangura, the former foreign minister of  Sierra Leone 
who is UN special representative on sexual violence in
conflicts, followed Amos’s accounts by relating the story of a
14-year-old girl who was raped by four men in military uniforms.  The girl was beaten with electrical wire, given injections
and had cigarettes extinguished on her chest. She was released
and fled the country, yet has attempted suicide three times,
Bangura told the Security Council.  Civil War  “Girls are being raped in front of their fathers; wives in
front of their husbands,” she said.  The conflict in Syria, which began in 2011 with peaceful
protests, escalated into a civil war that has taken at least
70,000 lives and forced hundreds of thousands to flee to
neighboring countries. The U.S. and regional allies, including
 Saudi Arabia  and Turkey, have backed the rebels fighting to oust
Assad while sometimes disagreeing about how to help them.  The UN has struggled to raise funds to help relief efforts
to Syria. The UN had set a target of $1.5 billion and so far
only half that amount has been raised, Amos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  