-- U.K.’s Bowland Shale Depth Means Wells Won’t Mar Landscape
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-04-19T12:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/u-k-shale-s-depth-means-wells-won-t-mar-landscape-driller-says.html
The thickness of shale rock in
northwest  England  will allow gas production with minimal
disruption above the surface, the head of the explorer aiming to
drill in the area said.  Shale in England’s Bowland basin is about three times as
thick as the Marcellus deposit in the northeastern U.S.
according to a geologist at the U.K.’s Keele University. That
will allow horizontal wells to be stacked on top of one another,
minimizing the number of well-heads on the surface, said Francis Egan, chief executive officer of Cuadrilla Resources Ltd.  “It’s quite unique, the thickness of the shale,” Egan,
who joined the company last year from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , said in
an interview in London. “What it opens up is the possibility of
stacked laterals so you stack them like a staircase minimizing
the surface footprint.”  Hydraulic fracturing, the technique that blasts water, sand
and chemicals at high pressure to release trapped oil and gas
within rock formations, has been blamed for earth tremors in
Lancashire, northwest England in 2011 that led to an 18-month
moratorium on the process known as fracking. The U.K. government
lifted the ban in December and is preparing tax breaks to
encourage drillers as it seeks to expand domestic energy sources
amid declining production from the  North Sea .  Unlike Anything  “The Bowland is unlike anything we’ve seen anywhere in the
world,” Chris Hughes, commercial director at NuTech Energy
Alliance Ltd., said yesterday at a shale gas conference in
 London . U.S.-based NuTech, a privately owned oilfield services
company, analyzes reservoir data.  Cuadrilla estimates its licenses contain at least 200
trillion cubic feet of gas, twice the reserves of  Iraq , and at
least 10 percent of that will be recoverable.  “We have good technology now for directional drilling,”
Ian Stimpson, senior lecturer in the department of geology at
Keele, said by phone. “That allows wells to go off about 10
kilometers sideways in all directions from one pad.”  The Bowland may be 790 meters thick, according to Stimpson,
who has studied seismic data from the resource. That is
“unusually thick” compared with 270 meters in the Marcellus, a
key region for U.S. shale gas production, and 150 meters in the
Lublin basin in  Poland .  “Our geologists saw the source rock and the thickness
surprised them,” said Egan, 51. “We haven’t even got to the
bottom of it yet.”  Impact Assessment  Cuadrilla, based in Lichfield, delayed exploratory testing
at a site near Blackpool until next year while it carries out an
environmental impact assessment. It expects production in 2015
or 2016, Egan says.  Dart Energy Ltd., a Sydney-listed coal-bed methane and
shale gas explorer, said it also plans to drill exploratory
wells in its Bowland acreage in 2014 and expects to complete a
joint venture agreement this year.  Local communities are concerned about noise, disruption,
increased traffic, falling  house prices  and a “general
industrialization of the English countryside,” environmental
group Greenpeace said on April 10.  The U.K. may earn billions of pounds in revenue from shale,
Egan said. Even at a recovery rate of 10 percent, the gas
extracted would be worth 140 billion pounds ($215 billion) at
current prices, he said.  Holds Licenses  Cuadrilla, which also holds licenses in Poland and Holland,
doesn’t trade and is backed by private equity group Riverstone
Holdings LLC and  Australia ’s AJ Lucas Group Ltd. Its directors
include former  BP Plc (BP/)  CEO  John Browne .  AJ Lucas said in February that Cuadrilla was in
“advanced” talks with a leading energy company to sell a stake
in its U.K. operations. AJ Lucas, which holds 43 percent, didn’t
name the potential investor.  “Companies have approached us and AJ Lucas,” said Egan,
who worked for 20 years at BHP Billiton Ltd. and eight years at
Marathon Oil Corp. “If you look at the history of the oil and
gas industry, it’s a joint-venture business.”  Cuadrilla doesn’t have any immediate plans to list
publicly, Egan said. “We’re well-funded for the exploration
phase,” he said.  The company is looking at other opportunities in  Europe ,
Egan said. It’s just completed a 2D seismic study in Poland and
hopes to shoot 3D next year before drilling a well, he said.  “It’s a huge opportunity,” Egan said. “People are
looking to the U.K. If it can be done properly here, it can be
done anywhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  