-- U.K. Retail Sales Drop More Than Forecast on Weather: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-18T10:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/u-k-retail-sales-decline-more-than-forecast-on-cold-weather-1-.html
U.K. retail sales  fell more than
forecast in March as cold weather during the month depressed
purchases of clothing and household goods.  Sales including fuel fell 0.7 percent from February, when
they increased 2.1 percent, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today in  London . The median forecast of 23 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.6 percent decline. From a year
earlier, sales declined 0.5 percent.  Weak wage growth and accelerating inflation are squeezing
household budgets, hitting sales on Britain’s high streets and
at shopping malls.  Bank of England  policy makers are split on
the need to expand stimulus, with a majority expressing concern
that the prolonged period of inflation above their 2 percent
target may undermine  price stability .  “The outlook for household demand remains weak,” said
 Simon Hayes , an economist at Barclays Plc in London. “It is
hard to see a sustained recovery taking hold until the caution
around household income prospects lifts, making the latest rise
in unemployment and weakening in employment particularly
unwelcome.”  Excluding fuel, retail sales  fell 0.8 percent in March from
February and rose 0.4 percent from a year earlier. Last month
was the second coldest March on record and stores said it damped
sales, according to the statistics office.  ‘Challenging’  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
data were published. It traded at $1.5248 as of 11:04 a.m.
London time. Gilts fell, pushing the 10-year yield up two basis
points to 1.70 percent.  Sales at food stores rose 0.9 percent in March, according
to today’s report. Clothing and footwear declined 3.1 percent,
while household goods plunged 6.2 percent, led by a drop in
demand for electrical appliances and hardware materials.  Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s second-largest clothing retailer,
said today that consumer sentiment remains “weak” and market
conditions are “challenging.”  The report also showed that non-store retailing -- which
includes internet shopping, catalogs and markets -- rose 6
percent in March from February and was up 26 percent on the
year. That’s the biggest annual increase since records began in
1988. The ONS said internet sales accounted for 10.4 percent of
all retail sales in March.  In the first quarter, retail sales rose 0.4 percent. The
ONS is due to publish  gross domestic product data  for the
quarter on April 25, which will show whether Britain has slipped
into a triple-dip recession.  German Outlook  In  Germany  today, the country’s leading economic institutes
said  Europe ’s biggest economy is shrugging off a contraction at
the end of last year and starting to grow due to revived exports
and rising private consumption.  Germany will expand by about 0.8 percent this year, double
the rate forecast by the government, and pick up momentum to
grow 1.9 percent in 2014, the group, which includes Munich’s Ifo
institute, said. The euro area will probably contract 0.4
percent this year and expand 0.9 percent in 2014, it forecast.  The  International Monetary Fund  also sees the euro-area
economy shrinking this year, by 0.3 percent.  The Washington-based fund cut its U.K. outlook this week --
forecasting 0.7 percent growth -- and said the BOE should
consider increasing stimulus. It also said Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  should consider easing the pace of
budget cuts.  Minutes of the BOE’s April meeting published yesterday
showed Governor  Mervyn King  was defeated for a third month in a
push for more stimulus. Six of the nine-member panel voted to
keep the target for quantitative easing at 375 billion pounds
($572 billion), raising concerns about dislodging inflation
expectations.  Today’s ONS report showed that the retail sales deflator, a
measure of changes in shop prices, fell to 0.6 percent in March
from 0.7 percent in February. Excluding auto fuel, the deflator
was 0.9 percent. On food sales, the deflator was at 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  