-- U.S. Caution and Arab Restraint Mark a New Terror Era
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-04-18T15:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/u-s-caution-and-arab-restraint-mark-a-new-terror-era.html
People learn from catastrophes.
Amid the grief and speculation over the  Boston bombings , two
things stand out to me: a refusal to rush to judgment in the
U.S. commentary and the absence of schadenfreude in the Arab
media.  There was the early report that a young Saudi student had
been on the scene, that his apartment had been searched, that he
had suffered an injury, and that he was under watch in a
hospital. Here we go again, many thought. Memories of those 15
young Saudis on the planes on Sept. 11, 2001, were not far off.
But the authorities soon pronounced the Saudi student a witness,
not a suspect in the deed.  In the decade or so that separates us from the Sept. 11
attacks, tens of thousands of Saudi students have been sent by
their government to the U.S. on scholarships, so keen has been
the Saudi monarch, King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz, to rid a new
generation of the poison and radicalism that had infected an
earlier generation that had stayed at home during their
university years.  These are no small developments -- our caution and the
absence of Arab malice. Those of us who lived and worked on that
fault line between the U.S. and the large Middle Eastern world
that beckons American power and derides it at the same time, can
only experience a sense of relief.  Memorable Judgments  I vividly recall the  Oklahoma City bombing  in April 1995.
Before we came face to face with Timothy McVeigh and homegrown
terror, there was a rush to judgment.  “It has Middle Eastern terror written all over it,” was
one of the memorable expressions of that day. The suspicions fed
off an  earlier trauma : the first attack on  New York ’s World
Trade Center two years earlier. An Egyptian-born preacher, the
“blind sheik,” Omar Abdel Rahman, had brought sedition and
trouble onto American soil. He had found followers in Brooklyn,
New York, and in  Jersey City , and had given religious warrant to
drifters at odds with the regimes in their home countries, and
with the U.S.  McVeigh with his record of military service, his crew cut,
his all-American background, jumbled the discussion of
terrorism; we had pathologies of our own here at home.  But Arabs who had been eager to seize on McVeigh’s deed for
exoneration were not destined to know genuine relief. A trail of
anti-American terror, perpetrated by Arabs and Muslims, would
target American military compounds, embassies, even battleships.
An Arab of high birth, and substantial means,  Osama bin Laden 
from the city of Jeddah, had issued his own “declaration of
war” on the U.S.  The terror was relentless: the bombing of a  military
housing complex  in the  Eastern Province  of Saudi Arabia in 1996,
two deadly attacks on the  American embassies  in Tanzania and
 Kenya  in the summer of 1998, and the brazen attack on the USS
Cole in October 2000, as it docked to refuel in Aden, Yemen.  The drumbeats of anti-Americanism were steady.  John Burns ,
the gifted reporter for the New York Times, filed from Aden a
report that caught the  malice on those shores  toward the U.S.:
What he saw there was “a halting, half-expressed sense of
astonishment, something of satisfaction and even pleasure, that
a mighty power, the  United States , should have had its Navy
humbled by two Arab men in a motorized skiff.”  On Sept. 11, the Arab-American encounter hatched a monster.
There befell America a calamity that appeared for a moment to
silence and embarrass the drummers of anti-Americanism. The
cruel truth is that there was little if any sympathy for the
U.S. in Arab lands.  Miserable Company  The intellectual class, perfectly respectable American-
educated men and women, gloated over what had stricken the U.S.
That fabled Arab street was jubilant, and families with sons and
daughters working for our big financial houses gave voice to an
unrestrained sense of satisfaction. Misery loves company; their
world was in distress, and perhaps now, they said, we would
understand and share their bitterness.  It is  different  today. The comfortable folks who winked at
al-Qaeda came to see the jihadis as a menace to all they knew.
Terrorism came their way -- the car bomb became a weapon of
choice, terror hit  Saudi Arabia  in 2003 and Jordan in 2005, as
it had Beirut a generation earlier. The jihadis had ignited a
Sunni-Shiite war in Iraq and beyond. In Iraq itself, the Sunnis
who had initially welcomed al-Qaeda fighters wearied of them and
of the restrictions they sought to impose in the region they
dominated.  Mainstream Arab society came to dread the dystopia of
virtue and terror that the foot soldiers of al-Qaeda had in
store for them. The fling with mass violence, that vicarious
pleasure that met bombings in  Tel Aviv  and New York, had
backfired. The chickens had come home to roost.  All are wiser now about terror. We leave it to the
investigators and the professionals to sift through the
evidence. We know that terrorism shall always be with us. And we
have acquired a scent for those who give it a pass when it hits
other people in other lands.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at the Stanford
University’s Hoover Institution and author of “The Syrian
Rebellion.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 