-- U.S. Copper Fees Seen Higher After Mine Landslide and Waits
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-04-18T15:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/u-s-copper-fees-seen-rising-after-mine-landslide-and-backlogs.html
Copper premiums in the U.S., the
second biggest user, are rising as waits for metal at some
locations and reduced output at  Rio Tinto  Group are fueling
perceptions of limited supply, according to Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  The fee in the U.S. Midwest has risen to 6 cents to 7 cents
a pound from 5.5 cents to 6.5 cents a pound at the end of March,
according to Ian Littlewood, an analyst at Wood Mackenzie in
 London . The surcharge, added to the price of copper on the Comex
in  New York , compares with 5 cents to 6 cents a pound in
January, he said.  “Premia have edged a little higher,” Littlewood said by
phone today. “That rise is more of a case of traders being
canny and using the perceived tightness as an excuse to earn a
little bit more money. Demand is steadily improving in the
U.S.”  Rio Tinto (RIO) ’s Kennecott  Utah  Copper declared force majeure on
copper cathode deliveries on April 16. The company’s full-year
production of refined copper is set to fall by about 100,000
metric tons after a landslide last week at the Bingham Canyon
mine in Utah, which Kennecott operates. Force majeure removes
liability for natural and unavoidable events that prevent
companies from fulfilling obligations.  “Initially I don’t think there is any immediate impact on
supply” from the force majeure at Rio Tinto, Littlewood said.
“People still have stocks. Premia have just edged up on that
perceived tightness.”  Surplus Forecast  Supply of the metal used in pipes and wiring will top
demand by 97,000 tons this year as mines boost output, near the
102,000-ton excess in 2012, according to Barclays Plc.  “One surplus on top of another means material should be
more freely available,” Littlewood said. “Exchange stocks
globally have risen very strongly over the past year. But most
of that material in the U.S. is in  New Orleans  with the long
queues to get material out.”  Copper  stockpiles  in London Metal Exchange-monitored
warehouses almost doubled this year to 612,350 tons, the highest
since September 2003, bourse data showed today. Inventories have
risen in  Malaysia ’s Johor, the Belgian city of Antwerp and New
Orleans.  “Rio Tinto’s Kennecott mine landslide will prove to be a
problem here in May and beyond as people scramble to cover their
copper needs here in the U.S.,” Mark Lewon, president of Salt
Lake City-based scrap recycler Utah Metal Works Inc., said by e-
mail today. They won’t be able to get it from scrap because that
supply is also limited, he said.  Metal Lines  Supply of refined metal may be constrained because it takes
four to five months to obtain copper at LME-monitored warehouses
in New Orleans, Duncan Hobbs, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.
in London, said. The wait may be longer if other metals have to
be delivered, according to the bank. The port city accounts for
86 percent of U.S. LME copper stockpiles.  Copper for July delivery was unchanged at $3.2025 a pound
on the Comex by 11:28 a.m. in New York. The metal fell 12
percent this year. The U.S. accounted for 9 percent of copper
demand last year, according to  RBC Capital Markets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  