-- U.S. Winter-Wheat Freeze Tonight Seen Compounding Threat to Crop
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-04-18T15:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/u-s-winter-wheat-freeze-tonight-seen-compounding-threat-to-crop.html
Temperatures across the southern
Great Plains will drop as low as 14 degrees Fahrenheit (minus-
10 Celsius) tonight, compounding the risk of damage to U.S. 
winter-wheat crops that endured freezing weather last night.  Frigid air is forecast in eastern Colorado tomorrow
morning, with temperatures dropping as low as 21 degrees in
parts of western  Kansas , said  Allen Motew , a meteorologist at QT
Weather in Chicago. Elkhart, Kansas, in the southwestern part of
the state, saw 23 degrees last night, the coldest in the region,
he said.  “This morning was not the coldest -- tomorrow will be,”
Motew said in a telephone interview.  Wheat futures on the Kansas City Board of Trade rose 0.5
percent to $7.51 a bushel at 10:07 a.m. The price through
yesterday gained 2.9 percent this month on speculation that
freezing weather and the persistent drought will curb production
of hard-red winter varieties grown from South Dakota to  Texas .  The freeze last night was mostly in Kansas, where plants
haven’t started heading, the stage at which the grain emerges
from the stem, Motew said. That will limit damage. Temperatures
in southern  Oklahoma  and Texas stayed mostly above freezing,
which prevented the worsening of  heading plants .  One percent of Oklahoma wheat was headed as of April 14,
U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. About 21 percent of
the Texas crop was headed, according to the government. Further
freezing is possible in parts of the southern Plains on April 20
and again on April 24 and April 25, Motew said.  “Temperatures will warm up this weekend, then it looks
like another freeze,” Motew said. “If they get a warming trend
and the plants advance at all, then it freezes, that could
damage the crop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  Chicago  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  