-- Hungary’s Matolcsy to Bar Some Banks From 2-Week Bond Facility
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-18T09:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/hungary-s-matolcsy-to-bar-some-banks-from-2-week-bond-facility.html
Hungary ’s central bank plans to bar
banks not active in Hungary from investing in its two-week bond
facility as part of an overhaul of the country’s monetary
policy, central bank Governor Gyorgy Matolcsy said.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank supports a proposal to convert the
two-week bond into a deposit facility, tightening the
eligibility to banks that are active in Hungary, Matolcsy said
in an interview with state news service MTI today.  Matolcsy, who took office last month, has vowed to aid
government efforts to lead the country out of its second
recession in four years. The bank announced a series of measures
on April 4 aimed at offering preferential loans to small
businesses for boosting investment and refinancing foreign-
currency debt. The bank plans to use a tenth of its foreign-
currency reserves as part of the Lending for Growth program.  “Those who are eligible to take part in the central bank’s
two-week bond program, which offers very high returns, must
undertake to extend credit in Hungary, play a role in the
Hungarian economy and in preserving jobs,” Matolcsy said. The
central bank’s aim to cut the amount of money invested in the
two-week facility is “set in stone,” according to Matolcsy.  The forint weakened the most in a month, depreciating 0.8
percent to 297.58 by 11:10 a.m. in Budapest, extending this
year’s loss to 2.1 percent. Yields on 10-year government bond
were little changed at 5.6 percent, the lowest in eight years.  Liquidity Tool  The two-week bond is the central bank’s main monetary
policy tool which helps banks manage their liquidity, paying an
interest equal to the benchmark  interest rate . The central bank
wants to lower the amount of money kept in the facility to 3.6
trillion forint ($16 billion) from 4.5 trillion forint now,
Matolcsy said.  Rate-setters cut borrowing costs for an eighth month in
March to a record-low 5 percent as a central bank forecast shows
inflation will remain below policymakers’ 3 percent target
through next year and after the economy contracted 1.7 percent
last year.  “Without abandoning any of our old targets, we have to set
new priorities such as the preservation of jobs, sustainable
growth, economic stability,” Matolcsy said.  The central bank would welcome a merger with the financial
regulator PSZAF, in which case the central bank would need a
third deputy governor, according to Matolcsy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  