-- Union Pacific Tops Estimates as Prices Trump Lower Cargo
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-04-18T12:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/union-pacific-tops-estimates-as-prices-trump-lower-cargo.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the biggest
U.S. railroad, reported first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates as higher pricing overpowered a decline in
cargoes.  Net income  rose 11 percent to $957 million, or $2.03 a
share, the Omaha, Nebraska-based railroad said in a statement.
That surpassed the $1.96 average estimate of 28 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg and compares with $863 million, or $1.79 a
share, a year earlier.  Price increases pushed freight revenue up 3 percent even as
falling agricultural and coal shipments pulled total volumes
lower.  “We efficiently managed our operations in the face of
dynamic volume shifts across the network,” Chief Executive
Officer Jack Koraleski said in the statement.  Revenue from chemicals, fueled by petroleum products
extracted from shale formations from North Dakota to  Texas ,
rose 14 percent in the period, and automotive sales gained.
Revenue from coal, the largest single cargo by volume, dropped 6
percent as utilities shifted to less-expensive natural gas
produced from shale.  Union Pacific is “among the best positioned within the
rail industry to deliver stable, reliable earnings growth,”
John Mims, an Arlington, Virginia-based analyst at Friedman
Billings Ramsey & Co., said in a note to clients before the
results were announced. Mims has an outperform  rating  on the
stock.  Total revenue at Union Pacific climbed 3.5 percent to $5.29
billion, the company said. That compares with an average analyst
estimate of $5.21 billion.  The company’s operating ratio, an industry benchmark that
compares expenses to sales, improved to 69.1 percent from 70.5
percent in last year’s first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  