-- UnitedHealth Falls Most in 8 Months After Profit Drops
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-04-18T20:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/unitedhealth-first-quarter-profit-slips-as-medical-costs-rise.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the
biggest U.S. health insurer, fell the most in over three months
after the company said lower reimbursements from the
government’s Medicare program may hurt  earnings  in 2014.  UnitedHealth, the biggest private provider of Medicare
benefits, declined 3.8 percent to $59.69 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time.  Humana Inc. (HUM) , the second-largest Medicare insurer, fell 3.1
percent to $72.21.  Medicare reimbursements may fall about 4 percent next year
after the U.S. government dropped plans for a steeper decline,
UnitedHealth Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hemsley told
analysts today on a conference call.  Federal budget  cuts have
left the program “significantly underfunded” and forced
UnitedHealth to reassess its outlook, he said.  “We did not expect the fastest growing, most popular and
most effective of the Medicare benefit options serving America’s
seniors would be underfunded to this extent in 2014,” he said.  Carriers have become increasingly reliant on Medicare as an
aging U.S. population swells the program’s ranks. Medicare
Advantage, the private version of the government benefits,
accounted for 28 percent of earnings at Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based UnitedHealth last year, Carl McDonald, a Citigroup
analyst, said today in a note to clients. They accounted for 58
percent of profit at Louisville, Kentucky-based Humana.  Insurers Fall  Medicare carriers including Health Net Inc. and  WellCare
Health Plans Inc. (WCG)  also fell on UnitedHealth’s warnings, said
Jennifer Lynch, a BMO Capital Markets analyst in New York.  UnitedHealth “has scale and the tools that help them
manage costs,” she said in a telephone interview. “If they
believe they’re going to have trouble with the program in ’14,
that is going to be true for the others as well.”  Insurer shares have surged since April 1, when the Obama
administration softened a proposed cut to one rate used to set
Medicare Advantage payments. Hemsley said companies will still
see a loss when other factors are taken into account, including
a new tax to help pay for covering the uninsured. At the same
time, costs for treating Medicare patients are expected to rise
about 3 percent, he said.  The company may reduce the benefits it offers or pull back
in some markets as a result, he said.  Isabella Leung, a spokeswoman for the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, which sets the reimbursement rates,
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Advantage Plans  About 13.1 million people are enrolled in Medicare
Advantage plans, about a quarter of Medicare’s beneficiaries.
The plans offer extra benefits such as lower out-of-pocket costs
and eyeglasses. President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act cut
about $136 billion in funding for the private plans, after
complaints the government was overpaying insurers.  UnitedHealth also said that first-quarter  net income 
dropped 14 percent to $1.19 billion, or $1.16 a share, as higher
Medicare costs helped offset a surge in enrollment. The company
reaffirmed its 2013 earnings outlook of $5.25 a share to $5.50 a
share.  While maintaining the forecast, the company also said in a
statement that sequestration, the package of federal budget cuts
that took effect last month, “pressures the top end of that
range.”  First-quarter per-share earnings beat by 2 cents the
average of 21 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
rose 11 percent to $30.3 billion.  Total membership in UnitedHealth’s medical plans jumped 18
percent to 42 million people, helped by Medicare gains as well
as the $4.9 billion purchase last year of  Amil Participacoes SA (AMIL3) ,
 Brazil ’s largest health insurer.  “Medicare is the principal headwind on 2014,” Hemsley
said on the call. “The rest of it, I think we are trying to
make clear that our businesses are very strong and our growth is
very strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  