-- Usmanov Plan to Control VKontakte Said to Be Rebuffed by UCP
-- B y   I r i n a   R e z n i k   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-04-18T11:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/usmanov-plan-to-control-vkontakte-said-to-be-rebuffed-by-ucp-2-.html
United Capital Partners  agreed to
acquire 48 percent of VKontakte from the co-founders of  Russia ’s
largest social network, rebuffing efforts by billionaire  Alisher Usmanov  to gain control of the company, said two people familiar
with the matter.  Chief Executive Officer Pavel Durov will retain a 12
percent stake in VKontakte after the fund’s acquisition from co-
founders Vyacheslav Mirilashvili and Lev Leviev, the people said
yesterday. They asked not to be identified before an
announcement and declined to put a value on the deal.  Usmanov’s  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , which controls rival networks
Odnoklassniki and My World, owns 40 percent of VKontakte and had
sought to gain control of the company, efforts Mirilashvili and
Leviev have opposed. VKontakte has 73 million users globally,
including 42 million in Russia, according to researcher  ComScore
Inc. (SCOR)   VKontakte, based in  St. Petersburg , was valued at $1.5
billion when Mail.ru bought 7.44 percent for $112 million in
2011. The company shelved a planned initial public offering last
May, after shares of bigger competitor Facebook Inc. plunged
following its IPO.  United Capital Partners Moscow-based spokeswoman Nafisa
Nasyrova declined to comment on the sale yesterday as did Georgy
Lobushkin, a VKontakte spokesman in St. Petersburg.  Mail.ru global depositary receipts fell 0.5 percent to
$26.28 at 12:53 p.m. in London trading.  IPO Problem  United Capital Partners, or UCP, is a Moscow-based fund
with $3.5 billion of assets run by Russian banker Ilya Sherbovich and partners. Sherbovich, who has worked for Deutsche
Bank AG, is a board member of  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded oil company.  “UCP probably aims to earn on reselling VKontakte shares
in the future,” Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at Moscow-
based Otkritie Capital, said by phone. “A sale to a strategic
investor would be more likely as an IPO may be a problem for
VKontakte, given the abundance of illegal content on the site.”  VKontakte users in Russia spend an average of 8.5 hours a
month watching video, according to ComScore. That’s because they
can find almost any Hollywood movie for free, according to
Internet Copyright Management LLC, a Moscow-based company that
protects the interests of filmmakers.  Strategic Investor  The co-founders’ exit in favor of UCP “increases the
chances that the VKontakte stake may be sooner or later resold
to some strategic investor, including Usmanov,” Anna Kurbatova,
an analyst at Moscow-based BCS Financial Group, said by phone.  Russia’s Investigative Committee, the main federal
investigating authority in the country, will seek to question
Durov as a witness to an incident on April 5 in St. Petersburg
when a policeman was struck down by an unknown driver in a
Mercedes-Benz, Sergei Kapitonov, a spokesman for the committee
said today. Investigators have opened a criminal probe and are
looking for the driver, Kapitonov said.  Vkontakte spokesman Lobushkin couldn’t immediately be
reached by phone for comment today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Reznik in Moscow at 
 ireznik@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  