-- Verizon Tops Profit Estimates After Adding Wireless Users
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-04-18T20:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/verizon-tops-profit-estimates-after-adding-wireless-customers.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, climbed the most in five
months after its first-quarter profit beat estimates, bolstered
by customers signing up for lucrative data contracts.  Earnings rose to 68 cents a share in the period, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Analysts had
estimated about 65 cents on average, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  More than 61 percent of Verizon’s wireless subscribers now
own smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, meaning they
typically use more data -- and pay higher bills. Verizon
Wireless, the company’s market-leading mobile-phone carrier,
added 677,000 monthly contract users.  Wall Street  was projecting
629,000, according to a Bloomberg survey of nine analysts.
Verizon also has the industry’s most extensive network using a
technology called long-term evolution, or LTE.  “It’s a simple formula that’s hard to beat: Verizon sells
itself as the best network at the best price,” Gerard Hallaren,
an analyst with Janco Partners Inc., said in an interview before
the earnings report.  Verizon shares  rose 2.8 percent to $50.91 at the close in
in New York, the biggest gain in five months. After an 18
percent increase this year, Verizon is hovering near a 12-year
high.  Wireless Market  The U.S. wireless market remains an attractive field,
underscored by the bidding war currently under way for Verizon’s
rival  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  The Japanese wireless carrier  Softbank
Corp. (9984)  and the U.S. satellite-TV company  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  are
both vying to acquire Sprint, which ranks third in the market
after Verizon and  AT&T Inc. (T)  The activity speaks to the inherent
growth prospects for wireless, Verizon Chief Financial Officer
Fran Shammo said.  “We are very bullish on the industry’s growth that’s yet
to come,” he said in an interview.  Verizon is exploring its own deals, meanwhile. The company
has offered  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  $1 billion to $1.5 billion for
airwaves in major cities, Shammo said. This confirms reports
earlier this week that Verizon was the unnamed “strategic
buyer” mentioned in a Clearwire  filing  on April 12.  The bid for Clearwire spectrum is part of Verizon’s plan to
be “opportunistic” in buying airwaves to accommodate growing
mobile network traffic, Shammo said. The airwaves “would be an
enhancement of what we have,” he said.  Clearwire said in the filing that a special committee would
review the proposal.  Vodafone Deal  Shammo also reiterated that the company is still interested
in owning the 45 percent of Verizon Wireless held by  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , its partner in the venture. Vodafone wouldn’t have to
bear a heavy tax burden if Verizon purchased its stake, he said.  “We are confident that such a transaction could be handled
in a way that is tax-efficient and would not result in a tax on
the gain,” Shammo said.  Verizon and Vodafone have discussed a range of options,
including Verizon acquiring 100 percent of the wireless
partnership, people familiar with the situation said last month.
Verizon has said it would like to have full control of the
business, the most profitable and fastest-growing major wireless
carrier in the U.S.  Higher Bills  For now, Verizon is relying on a surge in smartphone users
to generate more data revenue. Smartphone customers use the
devices to surf the Web, watch videos and stream music, so their
data consumption is higher and they pay bigger monthly bills
than buyers of regular mobile phones. Verizon’s average monthly
bill for contract users was $150.27 last quarter, topping the
$149.01 analyst had predicted on average.  Even without the enticement of new models, many customers
upgraded to smartphones in the period. Apple’s next iPhone won’t
appear until later this year, and Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy S4 won’t be released until the coming weeks.  “The mix of smartphones sold remains high, despite the
lack of hot new products during the quarter,” said Walt Piecyk,
an analyst with BTIG LLC.  Verizon sold 7.2 million smartphones in the period, with
the iPhone accounting for about 56 percent.  While adding smartphone customers bolsters revenue in the
long run, it can take a toll on short-term profit. That’s
because carriers offer deep subsidies on the devices in return
for a two-year contract. To mitigate the impact of the
discounts, Verizon changed its eligibility requirements last
week so that customers have to wait 24 months to get new
subsidies, rather than 20.  Quarterly Sales  Verizon’s first-quarter sales climbed 4.2 percent to $29.4
billion, just shy of the $29.5 billion estimated by analysts.
Net income attributable to Verizon rose 16 percent to $1.95
billion, or 68 cents a share, from $1.69 billion, or 59 cents, a
year earlier.  Verizon Wireless  is luring more smartphone users with its
speedier LTE network. The company has LTE in more than 400 towns
and cities and a one-year lead over AT&T Inc., its biggest
rival, in network upgrades. Both AT&T and Verizon have targeted
heavy wireless-Internet users with new data-share plans,
introduced last year. Verizon Wireless lets customers share a
data plan between as many as 10 devices.  The increase in wireless revenue helped compensate for a
1.2 percent decline in sales from landline customers. One of the
relative bright spots of that business is Verizon’s FiOS fiber-
optic service, which added 188,000 Internet customers and
169,000 TV customers.  “The wire-line side has always been weak, but FiOS is the
saving grace,” Hallaren said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  