-- Vertex Gains as Cystic Fibrosis Combo Eases Breathing
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-04-19T20:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/vertex-gains-as-cystic-fibrosis-combo-eases-breathing.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , maker
of the cystic fibrosis drug Kalydeco, rose the most ever after
the company said the medicine combined with another eased
patients’ breathing in a clinical trial.  Vertex  surged  62 percent to $85.60 at the close in New
York, its biggest one-day increase since the stock begin trading
publicly in July 1991. The shares of the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based company have doubled this year.  A combination of Kalydeco, also known as ivacaftor, with
the experimental VX-661 improved patients’ lung function by 9
percent and 7.5 percent in the two highest dose groups compared
with placebo after 28 days, Vertex said in a statement
yesterday. Improvements in breathing were measured by a metric
called forced expiratory volume, or FEV-1. It’s a gauge of how
much air a patient can exhale in one second.  “The data demonstrate robust, statistically significant”
improvements in lung function,  Brian Abrahams , an analyst with
Wells Fargo, wrote yesterday in a note to clients. “The
significant share upside post-market is warranted.”  The study, from the second of three phases of testing
generally required for regulatory approval, was done in patients
with two copies of a gene mutation known as F508del, the most
common form of  cystic fibrosis . There is no cure for cystic
fibrosis, an inherited disease that causes mucus to form,
blocking the airways of the lungs. It affects about 30,000
people in the U.S. and 70,000 worldwide, Vertex said.  Underlying Cause  Kalydeco, approved last year, is the first medicine to
target the underlying cause of the disease: a faulty or absent
gene called CFTR, for cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance
regulator. Kalydeco alone is approved for patients with a
mutation known as G551D, which account for about 4 percent of CF
patients.  The use of VX-661, or a more advanced drug, VX-809, in
combination with Kalydeco may open up a broader population of
patients to be treated, those with the F508del mutation. Half of
cystic fibrosis patients worldwide have two copies of that
mutation, and an additional one-third have one copy, according
to Vertex.  Kalydeco and VX-809 were granted “breakthrough therapy
designations” by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration earlier
this year, part of the agency’s goal to speed development and
regulatory review of potential new medicines for serious
diseases.  The 128-patient trial reported yesterday showed that VX-661
was “generally well-tolerated” alone and in combination.
Vertex said it plans to do more studies of the drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  