-- Vestas, GE Lead Wind-Turbine Market as U.S. Installations Surge
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-04-18T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/vestas-ge-lead-wind-turbine-market-as-u-s-installations-surge.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  tied with
 Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  as the biggest turbine maker with less
than 50 megawatts between them, unsettling the Danish maker’s
12-year hold on the title, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, and Vestas each
supplied about 5.7 gigawatts of turbines in 2012, according to
the London-based researcher.  Siemens AG (SIE)  was third, Enercon GmbH
fourth and  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  of India fifth.  A tax incentive drove a record 13.6 gigawatts of
installations in the U.S., where GE commissioned 96 percent of
its turbines and Vestas sold 40 percent, its biggest market.
Installations are set to plunge to 2.8 gigawatts this year after
the subsidy expired Dec. 31, the researcher said.  “2012 was a great year for western manufacturers in terms
of adding new capacity, particularly those with large exposure
to the U.S. market,” said Justin Wu, head of wind analysis at
BNEF. “Unfortunately, this boom was largely based on beating
the deadline on an expiring subsidy and not on sustainable
growth. As such, 2013 will look very different.”  Globally, a record 48.4 gigawatts of new wind was added in
2012, BNEF said. China Guodian Corp. overtook  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  as
the largest wind owner with 13.7 gigawatts installed at the end
of 2012. Its lead is likely to extend as build-out in China
continues, it said. BNEF expects Chinese owners to gain market
share as domestic grid constraints ease and they seek overseas
expansion, while U.S. and European installations fall.  Vestas will probably regain top position over GE as the
U.S. market shrinks, BNEF said. The U.S. was also the largest
customer for Siemens AG and  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA. (GAM)   Previous rankings have split over who takes front position.
Danish researcher Make Consulting placed Vestas ahead last year,
while  Navigant Consulting Inc. (NCI) ’s BTM Consult unit said GE’s
market share beat Vestas. Both placed Siemens in third place.  While Congress extended the U.S. subsidy for a year on Jan.
1, there will probably be a drop in demand in 2013 because
developers rushed through their plans to meet the deadline, BNEF
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  