-- Votorantim Cimentos Pushes Brazil IPO Plans to $12.7 Billion
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-18T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/votorantim-cimentos-pushes-brazil-ipo-plans-to-12-7-billion.html
Votorantim Cimentos SA,  Brazil ’s
top cement producer, announced plans to raise as much as $5.4
billion in an initial public offering as the benchmark Bovespa
 stock index  posts its worst start to the year since 2000.  Votorantim will list shares in Brazil and American
depositary receipts on the New York Stock Exchange, according to
a U.S. regulatory filing yesterday, pushing the total amount of
pending IPOs in Brazil to $12.7 billion.  Banco do Brasil SA ’s
insurance unit filed to issue 12.2 billion reais ($6.1 billion)
in shares, while the frequent-flyer unit of Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA is seeking 1.35 billion reais. Alupar
Investimento SA plans to raise 1.16 billion reais.  Votorantim Cimentos, founded in 1933 and now the world’s
eighth-largest cement producer, will use the proceeds to fund
expansion outside of Brazil and for potential acquisitions. It
announced the sale plans after the  Bovespa (IBOV)  dropped 13 percent
this year amid slowing growth and government intervention in
industries including energy, utilities and banking that crimped
earnings. Commodities producers, which account for about 41
percent of the index’s weighting, were among the worst
performers.  “If you’re issuing equity in a sector that’s in favor,
there wouldn’t be any problem raising capital,” Gabriel Wallach, who manages about $2.5 billion in assets as chief
investment officer of global emerging-market equities at BNP
Paribas Investment Partners in  Boston , said in a telephone
interview. “The Bovespa is too focused on resource  stocks , and
would actually welcome more equity issuance in other sectors.”  The Bovespa is the worst-performing stock index among major
 emerging markets  this year.  Second Half  Votorantim Cimentos’s IPO will probably take place in the
second half of this year, people familiar with the matter said
last month. Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Banco Itau BBA
SA, Credit Suisse Group AG and BTG Pactual SA are managing the
sale.  Each ADR is equal to one common share and two preferred
shares, according to the filing yesterday. The amount is a
placeholder that may change.  Votorantim’s press office didn’t reply to a phone call and
e-mailed request for additional comment after regular business
hours.  Banco do Brasil, Latin America’s biggest bank by assets,
said earlier this month its insurance unit BB Seguridade
Participacoes SA planned to sell as much as 675 million of its
existing voting shares for 15 reais to 18 reais apiece. The IPO
would be the largest in  Latin America  since July 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares are scheduled to start
trading on April 29.  Smiles IPO  Gol, Brazil’s second-biggest air carrier by market share,
said on April 8 that General Atlantic LLC agreed to invest as
much as 400 million reais in the IPO of its frequent-flier unit,
Smiles SA. Smiles plans to sell as many as 52.2 million shares
priced in a range of 20.70 reais to 25.80 reais for a total of
as much as 1.35 billion reais, according to a prospectus.  Alupar, an electric utility, said April 1 it plans to raise
as much as 1.16 billion reais in its initial public offering,
selling shares for as much as 21.50 reais each. Trading is
expected to start on April 24.  Biosev SA, a Louis Dreyfus Holding BV unit in Brazil,
raised as much as 814.4 million reais in an initial public
offering this month to fund expansion.  In February, Linx SA, a Brazilian information technology
company, raised as much as 527.9 million reais in an IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  