-- VW Hires Maserati Executive as COO for Brand in U.S.
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-04-18T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/vw-hires-maserati-executive-as-coo-for-brand-in-u-s-.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , pursuing aggressive
sales growth, said it hired Mark McNabb as chief operating
officer for its namesake brand in the U.S., overseeing sales and
customer experience.  McNabb, 51, joins VW from  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Maserati where he was
chief executive officer of the luxury brand’s North America
operations, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker said today in
an e-mailed statement. McNabb starts May 1 and will report to
 Jonathan Browning , head of Volkswagen Group of America.  “As our brand grows and we continue to invest in new
products and production capacity here in the U.S. and North
America, it is important that we also keep adding to the talent
pool available to our group,” Browning said in the statement.
VW’s U.S. subsidiary is based in Herndon, Virginia.  VW, which ranked as the world’s third-best selling
automaker last year behind  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Motors
Co. (GM) , aims to be No. 1 by 2018 with the help of sales growth in
the U.S. where it has lagged for decades. VW brand sales rose 35
percent to more than 438,100 in the U.S. last year, aided by the
redesigned Passat sedan.  McNabb joined Maserati in 2009 after working at GM’s
predecessor as vice president of premium brands, including
Cadillac. He also spent almost 20 years at  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  in
different roles, including sales and marketing, VW said in the
statement.  Separately, Maserati named Bob Graczyk, who had been
director of sales for Chrysler Group LLC’s Asia Pacific region,
to replace McNabb. Chrysler is majority owned by Fiat.
Maserati’s U.S. sales rose 18 percent last year to 2,730,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  