-- Wall Street Guys Always Make the Best Villains
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-04-18T22:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/wall-street-guys-always-make-the-best-villains.html
It’s a good thing for Wall Street’s
cops that they have a guy like Anastasios “Tommy” Belesis to
kick around, because they would have to invent him if they
didn’t.  The 38-year-old founder and chief executive officer of  John
Thomas Financial Inc.  probably could have had a fabulous career
as a professional wrestler. He nailed the villain  look : brawny
and bald, like the  Iron Sheik  of 1980s World Wrestling
Federation fame, only without the mustache. He has a  reputation 
for physically intimidating opponents. And he is great on
camera. Director  Oliver Stone  even cast him in his sequel to the
movie “Wall Street.”  Belesis, instead, chased riches on Wall Street -- as in the
actual street. You know, that place in lower  Manhattan  where the
securities industry used to reside, before everything went
digital and the big firms sought roomier digs in Midtown. Today,
it is home to bucket shops and  boiler rooms  that want a Wall
Street address so they can brag about it to customers and
employees who don’t know any better. One such denizen is John
Thomas Financial, founded in 2007 with a faux  blue-blood name 
and located at 14 Wall St.  The other main benefit of having a  Wall Street  address is
proximity to the giant television studio called the  New York
Stock Exchange . Look at John Thomas Financial’s website and you
will notice links to dozens of recent  television  clips of
Belesis and his underlings yapping with hosts on cable-TV news
channels. It goes to show: If a Wall Street CEO has nothing
better to do than spend large chunks of his time on talk shows,
there’s a good chance it’s a bad idea to hand his firm your
money.  Red Flags  A publicity  photo  of the CEO with a failed presidential
candidate is another telltale red flag. So is being named  Bronx
GOP Man of the Year , or going on a PR blitz about  hiring  an
 Occupy Wall Street  protester with a doctorate for a low-wage
job.  This week, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
 accused  Belesis and John Thomas Financial of front-running
customers’ trades in a penny stock called  America West Resources
Inc. (AWSRQ)  The Securities and Exchange Commission last month  accused 
Belesis and his firm of fraud in a separate matter. They have
denied any wrongdoing and said they would defend themselves.  According to Finra, the website  AwesomePennyStocks.com  on
Feb. 23, 2012, sent an e-mail telling subscribers that it soon
would be issuing a new tout. Finra said the e-mail “appeared to
‘accidentally’ identify the pick” as America West, which sent
the stock up more than 600 percent to $1.80 in less than an
hour. About 15 John Thomas customers called in sell orders. Then
things got ugly.  Finra  said  Belesis prevented employees from executing most
of the sell orders -- and even threatened some of his brokers.
That same day, the firm sold more than $1 million of its own
shares in America West, a Salt Lake City-based coal company that
had been an investment-banking client. The  stock  soon crashed.  Finra didn’t say who put Awesome Penny Stocks up to the
task. Regardless, here were a bunch of customers who dared to
chase every retail investor’s dream: a rare shot at profiting on
the dumping end of a can’t-miss pump-and-dump strategy. And
Belesis allegedly robbed them of their opportunity to fleece the
idiots buying America West’s stock.  America West, by the way, filed for  bankruptcy  on Feb. 1.  Cartoon Crooks  All of this raises the natural question: What is it with
the flurry of cartoon crooks lately? The former KPMG LLP partner
in charge of auditing Herbalife Ltd.’s financial statements,
Scott  London , was arrested last week. The feds  photographed  him
in a parking lot taking a paper bag full of cash from his
golfing buddy in exchange for inside information about KPMG
clients.  Kareem Serageldin, the former head of Credit Suisse Group
AG’s structured-credit trading business, pleaded guilty to a
 conspiracy  charge last week. He was  caught on tape  plotting with
colleagues to mismark their books and boost their bonuses.  This week, a former Rochdale Securities LLC trader,  David Miller , pleaded  guilty  to fraud and conspiracy charges. He
bought more than $1 billion of Apple Inc. stock last year
without authorization -- and destroyed his tiny firm in the
process. Also this week, the founder of Full Tilt Poker, Raymond
Bitar, pleaded guilty to two  felonies  after prosecutors accused
him of using online players’ money to finance his Ponzi scheme
of a company.  Maybe Wall Street needs people like these. Their schemes
are so over the top, they make other more pernicious white-
collar offenses seem technical and dull, such as  lying  about a
huge, insolvent bank’s financial condition. The government
didn’t indict any of the big fish who helped cause the 2008
financial crisis. But the stupidest, most colorful  guppies  are
fair game.  Like pro wrestlers, at least they are good for a few
laughs.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  