-- Water Risks at Heart of Summit of Executives in Spain
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2013-04-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/water-risks-at-heart-of-summit-of-executives-in-spain.html
Coping with water risks is the
central theme of a meeting of business leaders in  Spain  on the
challenges industries face to maintain production when supplies
are unevenly distributed across the globe.  The two-day summit in Seville, organized by U.K. researcher
Global Water Intelligence, starts April 22 and includes
executives from  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , Europe’s largest water
company, the  World Bank ,  India ’s Delhi Jal Board and Public
Utilities Board, Singapore’s national water agency.  Water shortages are a daily issue in Yemen while changing
climate speeds the melting of glaciers in  Bolivia . Pipes that
backed up last summer in  Washington , D.C. sent sewage spewing
into basements at a time when almost three-quarters of all
diseases in India are caused by water contaminants. Half of the
sewage in India’s capital flows untreated into the Yamuna River.  “Each of us over the next decade will be affected by a
water-related event: a shortage, a flood, an infrastructure
failure, an interruption to business or an economic disruption,
which will have a bigger impact on our lives than we have ever
experienced before,” GWI said on its website. “The challenge
the world faces right now is in minimizing the impact of these
events through better water-risk management.”  With the world’s population now three times larger than in
1950, businesses from energy companies and utilities that rely
on water to soft-drink makers needing to secure reliable
supplies are experiencing water-related issues.  In the U.S., the average resident uses about 100 gallons
(379 liters) of water a day while those in sub-Saharan Africa
make do with 2 to 5 gallons daily, according to the World Water
Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in London at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  