-- Water Stocks Beat Gold, Oil as Shortages Loom: Chart of the Day
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 2013-04-18T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/water-stocks-beat-gold-oil-as-shortages-loom-chart-of-the-day.html
Shares of water companies are
beating those of gold and oil producers as governments from
 China  to India boost spending on basic infrastructure to avert
shortages threatening economic growth and political stability.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the S&P Global Water Index of 50
companies gained 162 percent since Nov. 30, 2001, when Bloomberg
started tracking the measure, compared with a 135 percent
increase in the S&P Global Oil Index and 37 percent in the
S&P/TSX Global Gold Sector Index as of 1:10 p.m. in London. The
water-business gauge has rallied 5.5 percent this year, with
three China-focused companies among the 10 best performers, led
by  China Everbright International Ltd. (257) ’s 43 percent surge.  “We can’t live without water, we can live without gold,”
said Simon Gottelier, a  fund manager  in London at  Impax Asset
Management Group Plc (IPX) , which manages $3.2 billion of assets
including a water fund. “As a sector, it has a unique set of
long-term drivers based around the need for new investments,
predominantly in  emerging markets . Water is about as attractive
as it gets.”  Increasing urbanization prompted China to pledge a spending
of $290 billion on water conservation in the five years to 2015,
double the investment in the previous half-decade. Global
requirements will reach 6,900 billion cubic meters in 2030, 40
percent more than current sustainable supplies, making water a
potential cause of regional conflicts, the U.S. National
Intelligence Council said in a December report.  The gold-equities index, comprising 54 securities, fell
about one-third this year as bullion dropped to a two-year low.
China’s slower-than-expected growth and dollar strength have
curbed demand for gold a haven. The oil gauge, which tracks
almost a 120 companies, has dropped 2.5 percent this year as the
 International Energy Agency  reduced its forecasts for global oil
demand for a third consecutive month.  “If you can find ways to invest in water, you will be
extremely rich because we do have a serious water problem in
many parts of the world like India, China, the southwestern part
of the U.S., and west of the Red Sea,”  Jim Rogers , chairman of
Rogers Holdings, who foresaw the start of a commodity rally in
1999, told reporters in Singapore on April 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Manish Modi in New Delhi at 
 mmodi6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  