-- Weale Sees Stronger BOE Stimulus Case as Inflation Risk Ebbs
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-04-18T15:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/weale-sees-stronger-boe-stimulus-case-as-inflation-risk-ebbs-1-.html
Bank of England policy maker Martin Weale said there’s a risk the U.K. fell into another recession
in the first quarter, and signaled easing inflation pressures
may reduce the barrier to more stimulus.  “The inflation position, at least from my perspective, has
improved somewhat,” Weale said in an interview in  London  today.
There has been a “favorable signal from wages and the other
favorable signal very recently has been the news on commodity
prices. They certainly make me feel there’s more room for
maneuver than there would have been if they hadn’t happened.”  The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee has split on the need
for more quantitative easing, with Weale siding with the
majority this month to keep the target for  bond purchases  on
hold, citing the risks from above-target inflation. With data on
April 25 showing whether the U.K. slipped into an unprecedented
 triple-dip recession  in the first quarter, Weale said the report
will influence his May policy vote.  “There is enough of a margin of uncertainty for me not to
be surprised” if there was a “minor contraction,” he said.
“There’s certainly a risk of that.”  Inflation Expectations  The MPC majority that voted to keep QE on hold on April 4
said that medium-term inflation expectations had “drifted
upwards” and further easing may exacerbate this. While Weale
said today there are signs in the  bond market  of an “upward
creeping” in expectations, he noted some pressures on prices
appear to have eased. The 57-year-old joined the MPC as an
external member in 2010.  “Inevitably if the underlying inflationary pressures look
weaker, then the case for stimulus becomes stronger,” Weale
said. “When you have these underlying concerns about inflation
expectations and inflation history, favorable news on the short
term does ease my longer-term concerns.”  The pound erased its advance against the euro after the
comments were published and traded at 85.54 pence against the
single currency as of 3:58 p.m. London time. It pared its gain
against the dollar, weakening to $1.5282 from $1.5310 before
Weale’s remarks.  Brent crude oil prices have fallen about 17 percent in the
past two months and have dropped below $100 a barrel for the
first time since July 2012.  Data this week showed that U.K. pay growth slowed to 1
percent in the three months through February, the least since
records began in 2001. Growth in  unit labor costs  slowed to 1.8
percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 from 2.9 percent in the
previous three months and 3.4 percent in the second quarter.  Forward Guidance  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne reworked the
BOE’s mandate last month before the arrival of Mark Carney as
governor and asked the MPC to assess the merits of forward
guidance. Asked about such a policy, Weale said it can be
difficult to implement in practice.  “Forward guidance, particularly if it’s associated with
thresholds, in the British context, does have problems,” Weale
said, noting that it could back the MPC into a corner. We may
“find ourselves either saying we’ve changed our mind, which
would be a problem, or we’d have to tighten policy at a time
when, as it turns out, no one on the committee has been voting
for that,” he said.  On other policy measures, Weale said central bankers must
have an “open mind.” The MPC said this week that it “saw
merit” in a possible extension of its Funding for Lending
Scheme, set up last year to boost credit.  “Monetary policy is now more than rates, and the letter
was an acknowledgment of that,” he said, referring to Osborne’s
mandate change. “I think it’s very important for central
bankers to keep an open mind about what instruments are
available to them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  