-- Wells Fargo Taps Notre Dame Coach for Mortgage Boost
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-18T21:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/wells-fargo-taps-notre-dame-coach-for-mortgage-boost.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, is turning to former University of Notre Dame
football coach Lou Holtz and a captive audience of real-estate
agents to attract new business as the pace of U.S. mortgage
refinancings is set to drop to the slowest since 2008.  Holtz, 76, who led Notre Dame to a national championship in
1988, will offer inspirational tips today at an invitation-only
program hosted by the San Francisco-based bank. Presentations by
Holtz and others will be broadcast in high-definition to about
24,000 Realtors in 86 movie theaters across the U.S.  While this is the bank’s sixth annual “CineMeeting,”
intended to bolster its relationship with real-estate agents,
the event is taking on added importance this year as lenders
seek an edge in financing home purchases. After mortgage banking
generated record profits last year, driven by a surge in
refinancing, lending is poised to shrink 40 percent to about $1
trillion in 2014 from 2012, according to estimates from the
Mortgage Bankers Association.  “We’re past the stage of handing out donuts,” said  Guy Cecala , publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry
publication based in Bethesda,  Maryland . “Over the last couple
of years most of the major lenders have stepped up their
outreach to real-estate brokers. They see them as a viable
channel for getting more home purchase business.”  Cash Purchases  Revenue for the largest lenders is already slumping as the
pace of refinancing slows and home-purchases aren’t accelerating
enough to compensate. Even as Americans bought existing homes in
February at the fastest pace in three years, a third of the
purchases were made with cash, and underwriting remains tight,
according to Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the National
Association of Realtors. The supply of homes for sale in January
was the lowest since May 2005, according to the Washington-based
association.  Wells Fargo’s first-quarter mortgage profit fell 3 percent
from a year earlier to  $2.79 billion , and originations slumped
16 percent to $109 billion.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s net income
from home lending dropped 31 percent to $673 million and the
pretax margin the bank gets when it sells a loan fell to about 1
percentage point in the first quarter from 1.8 percentage points
in the fourth quarter, Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake
said last week.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  also reported lower
mortgage banking income.  ‘Largest Lender’  “This is our way of getting in front of them and giving
them the viewpoint of the nation’s largest lender,” Greg Gwizdz, Wells Fargo’s national sales manager and one of today’s
speakers, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Lou is a
winner. He’s somebody that people recognize and relate to and he
has a good message around the discipline and what it takes to
win.”  For Wells Fargo, which originated almost 30 percent of U.S.
home loans last year and made almost $12 billion from mortgages,
the bank’s success may have broader implications than for
rivals.  “A big question is at this point in time: to what extent
is Wells a one-trick horse?” said Bert Ely, an independent
banking consultant in Alexandria,  Virginia , in an interview last
week on Bloomberg Radio’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “If
and when refi activity drops off, is Wells going to continue to
do well?”  Wells Fargo fell 0.8 percent to $36.27 as of 4:15 p.m. in
New York, trimming its gain this year to 6.1 percent. That
compares to a 5.4 percent rise in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   ‘Market Dynamics’  Mortgages are typically divided into those for refinancing
existing loans and for home purchases. While so-called refis are
mainly tied to the level of interest rates, purchase mortgages
are tied to home-sale activity.  “The balance between purchase and refi will be driven by
market dynamics,” Gwizdz said. “We believe, based on the
message we have and the products we offer and the service we
offer, that we will mirror the dynamics of the market. We’ll
conduct whatever business the market happens to reflect at the
time.”  In recent years, lenders have leaned on refinancings for
the bulk of their originations as the Federal Reserve has kept
its benchmark interest rate near zero since December 2008 and
bought mortgage bonds to push down long-term rates. The average
rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage fell to 3.41 percent in
the week ended today. While that’s down from 3.63 percent last
month, its risen from a record 3.31 percent in November.  Originations for refinancing existing loans will drop as a
percentage of total originations to 58 percent this year, or
$835 billion, from 71 percent in 2012 when about $1.25 trillion
of the loans were made, the Mortgage Bankers Association
estimates. This year’s total would be the lowest since lenders
made $777 billion in mortgage refinancings in 2008, according to
the group.  2014 Decline  Next year, the share will decline to 32 percent, or $337
billion which would be the least since 2000, according to the
Washington-based group’s  projections . Originations overall in
2014 will drop 40 percent from $1.75 trillion last year, the
group forecasts.  That helps to explain why Wells Fargo is pushing loan
officers to ensure theaters are filled for the event, titled
“Shake up and wake up your winning attitude,” according to a
company presentation. The bank has relied on mortgage lending to
put together 13 straight quarters of earnings-per-share growth.  Brian Buffini, an independent sales coach, is also
scheduled to speak at the session with real estate agents, along
with Holtz, who holds the  Notre Dame record  for most football
games coached, is second in wins with 100 and bills himself on
Twitter as a “Dr of football & life philosophy.”  ‘Quality Time’  Realtors will watch the program from theaters such as the
Union Square Stadium 14 in New York and the Century City 15 with
IMAX in Los Angeles. In all, 28 states will host at least one
viewing location, according to the bank’s list of  locations .  “Join thousands of your industry colleagues in 80 movie
theaters across the country for a dynamic session of high-
powered quality time,” reads the website of Wesley Boyd, a
Duluth, Georgia-based loan officer for Wells Fargo. “Let’s get
informed and inspired together, so we can help more buyers and
sellers achieve their goals -- and grow your business.” Boyd is
hosting a reception at Uncle Julio’s Fine Mexican Food in
Atlanta after the main event.  This isn’t the first time the lender has pinpointed the
purchase market for growth. In addition to the annual
CineMeeting, the lender holds regional sales rallies intended to
motivate salespeople to write more loans.  Six-Shooters  In one, held about 15 months ago, roughly a dozen sales
managers gathered at a hotel south of San Francisco, some
dressed as cowboys with six shooters strapped to their hips, to
urge an audience of 500 loan officers to reach for 40 percent of
the market, according to two attendees who asked that their
names not be used because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Wells Fargo isn’t far off that goal, originating about 34.7
percent of the loans for home purchases in 2012 compared to 28.8
percent in 2011, according to Inside Mortgage Finance. JPMorgan
ranked second with 8.6 percent compared to 7.3 percent the year
before.  The event may show that Wells Fargo thinks marketing to
agents can drive more loan demand and is more valuable than
reaching out to individual homebuyers, according to Thomas Lawler, a Leesburg, Virginia-based housing consultant. The event
has grown from 12,000 real-estate agents and 50 theaters in
2008, according to Boyd’s website.  ‘Competitive Advantage’  “You are hoping that doing that will be more cost
effective than doing outreach to actual customers,” Lawler
said. “They have to sell their competitive advantage.”  Realtors influence 45 percent of homebuyers’ decisions on
choosing a bank for home financing, according to a study
conducted by Inside Mortgage Finance and Campbell Surveys. The
study, which polled almost 2,000 agents over the first two
months of this year, shows closing times for loans, costs and an
ability to track the mortgage status as reasons why agents steer
homebuyers to particular lenders. That may make events like
these ineffective in the long run if banks can’t show they are
the fastest, cheapest lender with the best services, according
to Lawler and Cecala.  “You have to provide value,” Cecala said. “At the end of
the day, what determines whether agents send borrowers your way
is how competitive your rates are, how fast you close loans and
how much you keep the agent in the loop on the status of the
loans. To be honest, those are not things that the large lenders
do well.”  Adding Staff  Wells Fargo has hired staff and built document-processing
centers to speed up closing times. In January, the bank said it
would add more than 200 bankers and mortgage staff in  Georgia .
In February, the lender was set to open a new 111,349 square-
foot facility in Tempe,  Arizona  and planned to hire 900 workers.
The time to close a loan has been cut to 60 from 90 days, Chief
Financial Officer Timothy Sloan said last week on the company’s
first-quarter earnings call.  Chief Executive Officer John Stumpf used the same call to
parry concerns over a drop in mortgage revenue by citing the
bank’s efforts in the homebuyers’ market, without sharing
details of any initiatives. The lender also has relationships
with homebuilders.  While other large lenders also cater to agents, Wells
Fargo’s strategy appears to be the largest, Cecala said.
JPMorgan has ended what it called the Chase Preferred Agent
program, according to its website. One reason may be the
inherent risk that top executives make promises loan officers
can’t keep, according to David Lykken, the managing partner of
Mortgage Banking Solutions, an Austin, Texas-based consulting
firm.  ‘Could Backfire’  “They have to be smart about what they are saying and that
they don’t paint themselves into a corner,” Lykken said in a
phone interview. “It could backfire on them and then this
becomes a PR nightmare.”  Even so, holding such as event is a good move because it
allows the bank to control the message over how it can help
agents, Lykken said.  “In many ways I applaud them because it shows strength,”
Lykken said. “It’s a smart move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  