-- What to Take Away From the Reinhart-Rogoff Debate
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-18T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/what-to-take-away-from-the-reinhart-rogoff-debate.html
An academic tussle has rekindled
debate over one of the most important economic questions of our
time: Are the governments of the developed world -- and
particularly the U.S. -- taking on too much debt? There’s no
definitive answer, and we’re no fans of austerity in the current
economic environment. But it doesn’t take a Nobel laureate to
understand that we should be worried.  The controversy centers on work by the economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff , who found that countries experience
slower growth when government debt exceeds 90 percent of gross
domestic product. Economists at the  University of Massachusetts 
at Amherst  pointed out  flaws in one Reinhart-Rogoff  paper ,
including a simple spreadsheet error that artificially made a
result look stronger than it was. The critique has been cited as
if it debunks the entire academic case for fiscal prudence.  This would be wrong. Whatever doubts one may have about the
relationship between debt and growth, and the  causal links 
between the two, the health of  government finance  is a much
bigger issue. Let’s pretend for a moment that the Reinhart and
Rogoff result doesn’t hold up. Would we still have reason to be
concerned about government debt?  Financial crises, recessions, wars and other expensive
events have added immensely to the obligations of rich-world
governments over the past few decades. As of the end of 2012,
the average gross government debt among advanced nations stood
at 109 percent of gross domestic product, up from 60 percent in
1991, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Primary Balance  In principle, governments can manage much larger burdens.
As long as the  interest rate  on their debt equals the growth in
the dollar value of economic output -- a relationship that tends
to hold in the long run -- debt and GDP will increase at the
same pace, leaving the ratio constant. All a government has to
do is maintain a primary budget balance; that is, make sure its
spending (excluding interest on debt) matches revenue. Because
governments plan to be around forever, there isn’t necessarily a
final due date by which they must pay back all the debt.  Problem is, when governments borrow a lot, the increased
demand can push interest rates up. If the rate exceeds the pace
of GDP growth, the level of debt becomes a concern.  Consider, for example, a differential of one percentage
point. A country with a 50 percent debt-to-GDP ratio would have
to run a primary budget surplus of 0.5 percent of GDP to keep
its debt burden from rising -- well within what most governments
have been able to achieve in the past. Raise the debt ratio to
200 percent, and the required primary surplus increases to 2
percent of GDP. That’s a level of belt-tightening the U.S. has
achieved in only 25 of the past 200 years.  In a 2010  paper , a group of IMF economists sought to
identify the thresholds -- or “debt limits” -- beyond which
countries would have to engage in unprecedented austerity to
keep the debt burden from getting out of control. They found
that Greece and  Portugal , which both had to accept bailouts,
were well within the danger zone. They estimated the limit for
the U.S. at 183 percent of GDP. The country’s gross general
government debt, which includes states’ debts and money owed to
the Social Security trust fund, currently stands at about 107
percent of GDP.  It’s best to stay well below the limit. The closer a
country gets to that line, the greater the chance that markets
will lose confidence in its creditworthiness. Such market
concerns tend to become self-fulfilling as investors demand
ever-higher interest rates to compensate for the risk, or even
stop buying a government’s bonds altogether.  Inflating Away  Countries such as the U.S. and the U.K. might have a bit
more leeway, because they issue debt in currencies they control.
If they printed more money, the resulting inflation would reduce
their debt ratios by increasing the dollar value of GDP.
Inflating away debts, though, works only to the extent that it
surprises investors. As soon as bond buyers catch on, they’ll
demand higher interest rates on new issues to compensate for the
expected inflation.  In short, whether or not Reinhart and Rogoff are right in
saying that high debt levels impede growth, the case for
avoiding them remains strong.  This doesn’t mean that austerity is always the answer.
Raising taxes and cutting spending in a deep recession tends to
succeed only in raising the debt-to-GDP ratio, as some European
countries are learning. Similarly, now would be an excellent
time for the U.S. to make stimulative investments in education,
research and public-works projects. With interest rates low and
unemployment high, the added spending could boost the economy
without increasing the government’s debt burden -- as explained
in a 2012  paper  by economists Bradford DeLong and  Lawrence Summers .  Short-term stimulus would present a threat only if it
undermined market confidence in the government’s ability to
manage its debts in the long term. To that end, it’s crucial
that the U.S. present a credible plan to close the large gap
between its projected spending -- mainly on Medicare and Social
Security -- and the  tax revenue  it can reasonably expect to
receive. So far, Congress has been doing precisely the opposite,
imposing immediate cuts in discretionary spending while failing
to address the country’s long-term fiscal gap.  May wiser minds prevail before we reach the point where
government debt becomes a serious problem. It’s hard to know
exactly where that point is, and vital that we never find out.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 