-- Obama Said Near Decision on Leader for Fannie Mae Regulator
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-04-18T17:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/white-house-said-near-decision-on-leader-of-fannie-mae-regulator.html
Edward J. DeMarco, who has served
as acting director of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  since
2009, gave a Senate panel an update today on the FHFA’s
oversight of  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . It’s unclear how much
longer he’ll be guiding those efforts.  Long-stalled White House plans to nominate his replacement
are now accelerating, according to two people familiar with the
discussions who asked to remain anonymous because the process
isn’t public.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is vetting a short
list of candidates including Mel Watt, a Democratic congressman
from  North Carolina , and  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s
Corp. subsidiary Moody’s Analytics, among others, the people
said. Both Zandi and Watt have declined to comment.  “The FHFA is at a point now where it is a full-functioning
agency with clear parameters and practices, and so a leadership
change at this time would be less traumatic than two or three
years ago,” Isaac Boltansky, a policy analyst with Compass
Point Research and Trading LLC, said in an interview.  Lawmakers created FHFA in 2008, shortly before regulators
seized Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as they neared bankruptcy.  Not Certain  Though there’s no leading candidate, a nomination could
come as soon as background checks are complete, the people said.
Still, it’s not a sure thing that DeMarco’s days are numbered as
FHFA acting director. The position requires Senate confirmation
and it’s unclear whether any candidate named by Obama can win
enough Republican votes to get the job.  During DeMarco’s time as their regulator,  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac have swung from surviving on taxpayer life support
to posting record profits. The two companies, which currently
back about half of existing home loans, package mortgages into
securities on which they guarantee payments of interest and
principal.  Democratic and Republican lawmakers and Obama have called
for the enterprises to be wound down and replaced. A potential
change in leadership just as the companies are returning to
profitability could have an impact on their future.  Senators from both parties expressed concern at today’s
Banking Committee hearing that the companies’ reversal of
fortune would stall efforts to overhaul the nation’s housing
finance system.  ‘Top Priority’  “I would hope that this becomes a top priority for this
committee at this time, to get this out of conservatorship and
get a program that’s going to work for this country for the next
generation,” said Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat.  DeMarco, a career civil servant, was hired as a deputy
director at the agency that preceded the FHFA during the
administration of President  George W. Bush . He was elevated to
his current post as acting head of the independent regulator by
Obama in 2009, a job that was supposed to be temporary until a
permanent nominee could be confirmed.  DeMarco’s emphasis on protecting U.S. financial interests
has clashed at times with White House efforts to extend relief
to homeowners. It also has made him popular with Republicans.  “I don’t know of anybody who has been a more stellar
public servant,” Senator  Bob Corker , a Republican from
 Tennessee , said at today’s hearing.  DeMarco has blocked debt reductions for borrowers with
loans backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac whose homes have lost
value, saying there is no clear financial benefit to taxpayers.
That position has sparked a steady drumbeat of protest from
consumer groups who’ve called for his ouster.  Policy Shifts  It’s unlikely that major housing policy shifts would occur
if a new FHFA director is confirmed. The number of loans that
would be eligible for principal reduction is limited. At the
same time, DeMarco has hired deputies who are carrying out a
multiyear blueprint for gradually shrinking the enterprises in
the absence of broader action from lawmakers.  “I seriously doubt any candidate who would be confirmed by
the Senate would represent a dramatic change from current
policy,” Boltansky said.  Zandi, who served as an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain ’s 2008 presidential campaign, has called for the
enterprises to be dismantled. Watt serves on the House Financial
Services Committee, the panel that oversees housing policy.  Common Platform  With his tenure uncertain, DeMarco is continuing with long-
term plans including an effort to create a common mortgage
securitization platform that would serve as a utility to be used
by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and private securitizers. The agency
also is encouraging the companies to explore transactions in
which they share risk with private financiers.  All of this is a prelude to congressional action, DeMarco
said.  “Few of us could have imagined in 2008 that we would be
approaching the fifth anniversary of placing Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac (FMCC)  in conservatorship and that we have made little
meaningful progress to bring these government conservatorships
to an end,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  