-- Wind Leads Busiest Week of Europe Junk Bond Sales in Month
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-04-18T16:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/wind-leads-busiest-week-of-europe-junk-bond-sales-in-month-1-.html
Wind Acquisition Finance SA, a
subsidiary of  Italy ’s third-largest mobile provider, is selling
an equivalent $653 million of high-yield bonds, leading the
busiest week of European junk issuance in a month.  The financing arm of Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA joins Elior
SCA, a French catering firm owned by Charterhouse Capital
Partners LLP, and TeamSystem SpA, an Italian computer software
provider, in raising $1.5 billion, according to people familiar
with the deals. That makes this the busiest week of issuance
since the period beginning March 18, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Speculative-grade companies have sold 23.4 billion euros
($30.6 billion) of bonds this year, the busiest start to any
year, as yields hold near record lows. Junk bonds have returned
2.6 percent this year, compared to 1.4 percent for investment-
grade bonds, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “We are hearing of a significant pipeline for the month of
April for European high-yield deals,” said Steven Mitra, a
London-based partner at LNG Capital LLP who is investing in the
Wind and Elior deals. “Spreads are tighter and corporates are
making the most of this environment. Investors are definitely
cautious with the tighter pricing, but given where the global
environment is at present, corporate credit still offers one of
the best risk-adjusted returns amongst most asset classes.”  Yields on junk-rated non-financial company debt have fallen
to 5.5 percent, just above a record low of 5.4 percent reached
on Jan. 15, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro
Non-Financial High Yield Constrained Index.  Spreads Narrow  The extra yield investors demand to buy high-yield bonds
instead of government debt has fallen to 450 basis points, just
above a near two-year low of 425 reached on Jan. 14, the index
shows.  Wind, which is owned by  Russia ’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , is selling
at least $400 million of senior secured seven-year notes that
can be bought back by the company after three years, and at
least 150 million euros of floating-rate notes maturing in 2019
that are callable after one year, according to the people who
asked not to be identified because they’re not authorized to
speak about it. The two-part deal is expected to price tomorrow.  A spokesman for Wind Telecomunicazioni said the proceeds
will be used for general corporate purposes.  The Rome-based company is planning to spend 1 billion euros
in the next five years to build a high-speed mobile network,
hiring Huawei Technologies Co. and Sirti SpA to supply equipment
and infrastructure services, the companies announced last week.  Elior increased the size of its bond, which was issued
through its Elior Finance & Co. SCA unit, to 350 million euros
from 300 million euros. The senior secured notes, which mature
in seven years and are callable after three, were priced to
yield 6.5 percent, Bloomberg data show. The Paris-based company
will use the proceeds from the sale to repay existing debt,
according to people familiar. It recently raised a term loan of
453 million euros, Bloomberg reported yesterday.  TeamSystem raised 300 million euros in its first bond sale.
The Pesaro, Italy-based company sold senior secured seven-year
bonds callable after three years that were priced to yield 7.375
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  