-- Two ‘Best’ Planets for Life Found Orbiting Distant Star
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/two-earth-like-goldilocks-planets-found-orbiting-star.html
An international team of
astronomers using the Kepler satellite has found two planets
whose size and position suggest they may support life.  The planets orbit a star about 2,000 light-years away named
Kepler-62 at the right distance for liquid water and, thus, life
to exist, according to research published online by the journal
 Science .  Compared with Earth, the planets, named Kepler-62e and
Kepler-62f, are larger and receive 0.41 and 1.2 times the amount
of solar radiation. The planet hunters, led by  William Borucki 
of the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, say
they won’t know what the heavenly bodies look like or if they
are in fact habitable until they can further analyze their
atmospheres.  “We have found two planets in the habitable zone of
another star, and they are the best planets found to date” that
may support life, said Borucki, a space scientist at NASA’s Ames
Research Center in Moffett Field,  California .  One of the planets, Kepler-62f, may be a rocky celestial
body with polar ice caps, Borucki said. The other, Kepler-62e,
is believed to be warm and have lightning. While it’s too soon
to know for sure, it may even be a water world, the first of its
kind discovered, Borucki said.  “Kepler-62e probably has a very cloudy sky and is warm and
humid all the way to the polar regions,” Dimitar Sasselov, an
astronomer at the  Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and a co-author on the paper, said in
a statement yesterday announcing the discovery. “Kepler-62f
would be cooler, but still potentially life-friendly.”  Kepler Mission  The planets were discovered using  NASA ’s  Kepler  satellite,
a spacecraft launched in 2009 with a mission to discover Earth-
size and smaller celestial bodies in regions around their stars,
particularly those where liquid water may exist. The spacecraft
was launched in March 2009 and has found more than 2,700 planet
candidates.  Kepler detects planets that cross the face of their stars,
and gathers data that enables astronomers to estimate the sizes
and make suggestions about composition.  The Kepler planets have 1.41 and 1.61 the radius of the
Earth, according the researchers. Both planets may be solid,
with either rocky or icy compositions, the scientists said.  In 2011, the Kepler mission found its  first planet  in the
habitable zone, called Kepler-22b. That planet is larger than
Earth, and orbits a sun-like star every 290 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  