-- Won Falls Most in a Week on Global Economic Concerns; Bonds Rise
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-04-18T06:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/won-falls-most-in-a-week-on-global-economic-concerns-bonds-rise.html
South Korea’s won fell the most in
more than a week as overseas investors shunned riskier assets
amid concerns about weakness in the global economy. Government
bonds gained.  Asian stocks dropped as commodity prices retreated, driven
by speculation a deteriorating world outlook will cool raw
materials demand. South Korea’s Kospi index declined 1.2 percent
to the lowest close since Nov. 22 as foreign funds sold $3.8
billion more equities than they bought this year through
yesterday, exchange data show. China reported this week that
growth in gross domestic product and factory production missed
economists’ estimates.  “There are prevailing concerns the economies around the
world may not recover soon, driving the won lower as investors
seek safer assets like the dollar,” said Jeon Seung Ji, an
analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in  Seoul . “Speculation that
foreign investors are repatriating dividend income is also
weakening the won, while exporters selling proceeds may limit
further declines.”  The won slipped 0.5 percent to 1,123.69 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the biggest drop since
April 8. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the exchange rate used to price options, climbed seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.64 percent.  South Korea unveiled a 17.3 trillion won ($15.4 billion)
extra budget this week to revive an economy that grew last year
at the slowest pace since 2009.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of equities dropped, its third
daily decline this week. U.S. shares sank yesterday amid a
plunge in industrial metals and disappointing earnings, while
 European equities  fell for a fourth day.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due March 2018 dropped three basis points to 2.66 percent, the
lowest level in a week, according to prices from Korea Exchange
Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  