-- Woodside First-Quarter Sales Rise 21% After Pluto LNG Start
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-18T01:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/woodside-first-quarter-sales-rise-21-after-pluto-lng-start-1-.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,
 Australia ’s second-largest oil producer, said first-quarter
sales increased 21 percent, boosted by its A$15 billion ($15.5
billion) Pluto liquefied natural gas project.  Sales climbed to $1.45 billion in the three months ended
March 31, from $1.2 billion a year earlier, the Perth-based
company said today in a statement. That compares with UBS AG’s
estimate of $1.43 billion.  Woodside has increased production and sales following a
stronger-than-expected start a year ago at its Pluto LNG venture
in  Western Australia . The energy company, which is also planning
to develop the Browse and Sunrise LNG ventures to tap Asian
demand, is expanding overseas as the Australian industry faces
rising costs and competition.  Shares of Woodside  fell 1 percent to A$34.76 as of 10:50
a.m. Sydney time, while the benchmark index fell 0.5 percent.  The company ended talks with other owners of gas resources
to gain supplies for a Pluto expansion, the company said in the
statement. Woodside last year put a proposed second phase on
hold after its drilling campaign failed to find enough gas.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Scarborough field off Western Australia
with BHP Billiton Ltd. was seen as a potential source of supply
to expand Pluto, Citigroup Inc. said in an April 4 report. Exxon
now plans to develop a floating LNG project for Scarborough,
according to documents the company filed earlier this month with
the Australian government.  ’No Options’  “Pluto expansion has no other options without further
exploration success,”  Mark Greenwood , Citigroup’s Sydney-based
energy analyst, said in the report.  Woodside is “continuing in the pursuit of expansion gas”
and has further drilling planned in the region over the coming
years, according to its statement.  Production rose 55 percent to 21.9 million barrels of oil
equivalent from 14.1 million barrels a year earlier, the company
said. UBS forecast 21 million barrels.  Woodside will consider accelerating the return of cash to
shareholders after scrapping a plan to develop the Browse
project by building an onshore site in Western Australia at an
estimated cost of $46 billion, the company said last week.
Woodside said it will study alternatives, including floating LNG
and a pipeline to existing facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  