-- Xi Jinping’s Taxi to Nowhere
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-04-18T19:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/xi-jinping-s-taxi-to-nowhere.html
Beijing’s taxi drivers are most
notable for two characteristics. First, they know and love their
politics. Rightly or wrongly, they tend to consider themselves
among the city’s most astute analysts of what’s happening behind
the Communist Party’s many closed doors. Second, they have an
almost supernatural capacity to recognize gullible passengers
whom they can plunder with longer-than-necessary rides (while
telling tales of the city’s powerful).  Thus it comes to pass that Guo Lixin, formerly an anonymous
Beijing cabbie, set off a Chinese media firestorm on Thursday in
 China  by fooling two of the Communist Party’s most prominent
media outlets into believing that Chinese president Xi Jinping
waved down his taxi for a ride to a hotel.  As recounted by Guo to the Ta Kung Pao newspaper (the story
has since been deleted), the Chinese Communist Party’s
mouthpiece in  Hong Kong , Xi, accompanied by an unidentified man
(a guard perhaps), waved down Guo’s taxi far from his official
residence on March 1. He didn’t identify himself, but rather,
like any other civic-minded Beijinger, chatted with the driver
about the ever-present smog.  Guo smartly kept his eyes on the road, not his passengers,
but after some time  it dawned  on him that somebody familiar was
in his backseat. “Has anyone ever told you that you look like
General Secretary Xi?” he  asked . In response, Xi, with a
chuckle, conceded: “You are the first taxi driver to recognize
me.”  It was an answer a senior Chinese propaganda official could
only wish to have written. Xi (as channeled by Guo) not only
hinted at other populist taxi rides but also gave a coy nod in
the direction of the 18th-century  Emperor Qianlong , who was
 famous for going incognito  among his subjects. In recent years,
those incognito forays have become the subject of wildly popular
 films  and  television melodramas  in which Qianlong is depicted
uncovering the official corruption and rot that’s hidden from
him by his position and underlings. For Xi, the parallel would
have been a flattering one that enhances the corruption-fighting
man-of-the-people persona that he’s carefully cultivated during
the early months of his government.  But alas, it was a parallel -- and an entire story --
invented by the  taxi driver .  All morning in China, Guo’s story (as recounted in Ta Kung
Pao), trended on the top of Chinese social media platforms as
netizens busied themselves with an in-depth conversation on Xi’s
populist credentials and sympathies and on whether taxi rides
should be taken as sincere expressions of identification with
the lives of ordinary Chinese.  The story and the reaction was so convincingly favorable to
Xi and the Communist Party that later in the day, Xinhua, the
party’s cautious official newswire announced that it had
confirmed driver Guo’s story with the Beijing  transport
authorities . This was quite remarkable: Xinhua and other high-level Chinese news organizations don’t report on Xi or other top
leadership without vetting of the stories at the highest levels.  Perhaps editors at Xinhua and Ta Kung Pao assumed that the
story (or, from their perspective, the propaganda) was just too
professional not to have been approved by the relevant organs.
Unfortunately for them, it wasn’t, and by the end of the day
both organizations had  confirmed the story was fake , deleted
their accounts of it and -- in the case of Ta Kung Pao --
 apologized . No word, yet, on how Guo is being treated in the
aftermath. If the authorities have any sense at all, they’ll
send him to work at  Central Propaganda Department  immediately.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow him  on
Twitter.)
 