-- Xstrata’s Davis Says Peru Mine Sale Brings ‘Surprise, Sadness’
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-04-18T17:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/xstrata-s-davis-says-peru-mine-sale-brings-surprise-sadness-.html
Mick Davis , chief executive officer
of  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , said the sale of the Las Bambas copper mine, a
step required by  China  for the takeover by  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  to proceed, prompts “surprise and sadness.”  “It is hard for all those involved in its inception and
who would have liked to see the project ramp up into operation,
however it is a necessary step that we must accept,” Davis told
staff this week in a letter, seen by  Bloomberg News .  China’s Ministry of Commerce agreed April 16 to the
takeover on the condition the combined company sells Las Bambas.
The Zug, Switzerland-based company is building the mine at a
cost of $5.2 billion. The site is expected to produce 400,000
tons of copper a year starting 2015 for at least the first five
years.  This week’s clearance in Beijing removed the last obstacle
to completing the 14-month-old, $29-billion deal, allowing Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore to create the fourth-largest mining
company by adding coal, copper, nickel and zinc mines to its
commodities-trading empire.  “I appreciate that the relief that is felt across the
business that the merger is drawing to a close is tinged with
surprise and sadness that it has come at the price of the
divestment of a flagship project and the departure of the
majority of the Xstrata management team who have built the
company over the past decade,” Davis wrote.  The 55-year-old CEO won’t serve six months in the role at
the new company as previously announced, the companies said this
week. Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg will take control when the
acquisition is completed, expected on May 2.  Departing Executives  Senior Xstrata executives including  Charlie Sartain , head
of copper, nickel chief Ian Pearce and Loutjie Smit, interim CEO
of Xstrata alloys, will also leave. Strategy and corporate
affairs head Thras Moraitis and chief legal counsel Benny Levene
will depart after acting as consultants for six months.  Xstrata Chief Financial Officer Trevor Reid said in
December he won’t stay on at the combined company, while
Chairman  John Bond  said in November he won’t take on the role at
the new group as originally planned.  The agreement with China requires Glencore to pursue the
sale of Las Bambas to a buyer approved by MOFCOM by Sept. 30.  Should Glencore fail to sell Las Bambas, it would be
required to auction its interest in one of four projects --
Tampakan, Frieda River, El Pachon or Alumbrera  -- within three
months of Oct. 1, 2014. Glencore also agreed to supply China
with set amounts of copper, zinc and lead concentrate for eight
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  