-- Zambia $1 Billion Bonds No Threat to Finances as Yields Jump
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-04-19T14:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/zambia-1-billion-bonds-no-threat-to-debt-level-as-yields-climb.html
Zambia,  Africa ’s biggest copper-
producing nation, has room to borrow another $1 billion on
international markets while keeping debt levels in check, a
 Finance Ministry  official said.  Zambia plans to follow last year’s sale of $750 million of
overseas securities with a $500 million to $1 billion offering
in 2013 to help finance infrastructure projects, Deputy Finance
Minister Miles Sampa said in a telephone interview from the
capital, Lusaka. The country’s debt to gross domestic product
will remain under 40 percent, he said, compared with South
African debt forecast to peak at 40.3 percent of GDP in 2016 and
more than 100 percent for  Italy ,  Portugal  and Cyprus.  The land-locked nation, which had $2.7 billion of its
obligations forgiven by the  World Bank  in 2006, is seeking to
tap investor demand that enabled it to increase last year’s
offering by 50 percent and Tanzania to lure four times the
amount it sought last month. Zambia is considering the sale even
as its overseas borrowing costs rise faster than other sub-
Saharan African countries, and the kwacha drops.  “Sooner would be better than later,” Yvette Babb, an
Africa strategist at Johannesburg-based  Standard Bank Group
Ltd. (SBK) , the continent’s largest bank, said by phone April 16,
citing investor demand for international debt from the
continent. “There would be a concern from the investor
community at the pace that the government is raising debt.”  Higher Offering  Yields on Zambia’s dollar-denominated bonds due September
2022 have jumped 27 basis points since being issued in September
and reached 5.50 percent at 4:29 p.m. in Lusaka. The increase is
more than double the advance in rates on Senegal’s debt due in
May 2021, also rated B+ by  Standard & Poor’s . The average yield
on African dollar bonds has dropped nine basis points over the
period to 4.57 percent, while developing-nation debt on average
yields 4.9 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Zambia is seeking to fund road, rail and power projects to
help lift its 13 million citizens out of poverty. The kwacha
currency weakened 0.6 percent to 5.355 per dollar by 4:00 p.m.
in Lusaka, extending its decline this year to 3.1 percent.  Higher relative yields helped Zambia draw 24 times more
demand than it sought when marketing notes in September to
investors in  London  and the U.S., spurring other African
countries including Kenya, Angola and Tanzania to consider
international bond sales.  Rwanda , which started roadshows this
week for its debut Eurobond, may boost the size of its $400
million offering to meet demand, according to London-based
Exotix Ltd. Tanzania’s private sale of $600 million of bonds in
March was four times oversubscribed.  Open Window  “The international liquidity window is open and ripe and
may not be there forever,” Sampa said in the April 16
interview. “It’s a question of striking while the iron is still
hot.”  State-owned companies, including power utility Zesco Ltd.,
the Roads Development Agency and Zambia Railways Ltd. have said
they plan to sell their own bonds totaling as much as $4.5
billion. The finance ministry would rather raise the money on
behalf of the companies and then distribute it, Sampa said. “We
do not want a free for all.”  A debt level of 40 percent of GDP may be “somewhat
excessive” because of Zambia’s dependence on copper,  Razia Khan , the head of Africa economic research at Standard Chartered
Plc in London, said by phone on April 17. The country currently
has a debt to GDP level of about 30 percent, according to Sampa.  Political Risk  Investors may be under-estimating political risks, Eurasia
Group Ltd., a Washington-based consultancy, said in an April 11
report. President  Michael Sata ’s “mercurial and autocratic
governing style may present heightened policy risk in an
economic downturn or political crisis,” Eurasia analysts
including Clare Allenson said in the note.  “Swift changes in monetary policy and mining rules have
been rushed,” she said in an e-mailed reply to questions April
17. Zambia will probably pay a higher yield at its next sale,
Allenson said.  Sata fired the governor of the central bank and its board,
reversed a foreign takeover of a lender and halted mineral
exports within two weeks of taking office in September 2011.  Copper reached the lowest level in almost 18 months in
London yesterday on concern slowing growth from  China  to the
U.S. will curb demand. Zambia, which the  International Monetary
Fund  said April 16 will expand its economy by 7.8 percent in
2013, relies on copper exports for nearly 80 percent of its
foreign-currency earnings.  Currency Law  The government will probably implement a law allowing the
central bank to monitor and regulate foreign currency flows over
“the next few days,” Sampa said. The rules, which would
require exporters to bank foreign currency with Zambian lenders,
will cause the kwacha to strengthen to below 5 per dollar, he
said in an interview on March 20. .  The finance ministry will consider hedging contracts for
“a fraction” of future foreign-currency bonds, Sampa said.
It’s not planning hedges for existing debt and will start
putting dollars into a sinking fund once the nation’s Eurobonds
are in their third year, he said.  “Scenarios at the moment don’t warrant a  currency swap ,”
Sampa said.  “These concerns on the kwacha and copper are only
in the short-term, the prognosis looks good for copper and the
kwacha in medium- and long-term.”  Any new international debt sales would have to be approved
by cabinet and parliament, he said.  Putting in place a currency hedge on foreign-denominated
debt would be a “prudent strategy,” given fluctuations in the
kwacha and copper prices, said  Standard Bank ’s Babb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  