-- Zurich Mayor Renounces U.S. Citizenship Amid Tighter Tax Rules
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-04-18T13:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-18/zurich-mayor-renounces-u-s-citizenship-amid-tighter-tax-rules.html
The mayor of Zurich gave up U.S.
citizenship, one of a growing number of Americans to do so after
Switzerland agreed to implement tighter asset-disclosure rules.  Corine Mauch, 52, a member of the Socialist Party born in
 Iowa  City, Iowa, returned her passport to the U.S. Embassy as
she regards Switzerland as her home and doesn’t want to deal
with Internal Revenue Service paperwork, according to an e-
mailed statement from her office today.  “My relationship with the U.S. is limited to my very early
youth,” said Mauch, who retains Swiss citizenship. “Neither
the double taxation or any new directives on the taxation of
U.S. citizens outside the U.S. have affected this decision. But
I won’t miss the U.S. tax bureaucracy either.”  The U.S. is the only nation in the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development that taxes citizens
wherever they reside, including an estimated six million
expatriates. Americans are shunned by Swiss and German banks and
face tougher disclosure rules under the Foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act.  The 2010 Fatca law requires foreign banks to withhold 30
percent from “certain U.S.-connected payments” to some
accounts of American clients who don’t disclose enough
information to the IRS.  Switzerland  and the U.S. signed a
bilateral agreement in February to help implement the law.  Mauch began the citizenship-renunciation process late last
year and didn’t vote in the 2012 U.S. presidential elections,
Nat Baechtold, a spokesman for the mayor, said by phone.  Passports Returned  About 1,780 expatriates gave up their nationality at U.S.
embassies in 2011, up from 235 in 2008, according to figures
compiled last year by Geneva’s Overseas American Academy, citing
the U.S. government’s Federal Register.  The U.S., which created the Fatca law to discourage tax
cheats from using offshore centers, including Switzerland, is in
talks to resolve a  Department of Justice  probe of more than 11
Swiss financial firms that have provided cross-border  wealth
management  and private banking services to Americans.  The head of private banking at Bank Frey & Co. in Zurich
and a Swiss lawyer were charged on April 16 with conspiring to
help U.S. clients use offshore accounts to hide millions of
dollars from the IRS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  