-- ‘Godfather’ Author’s Son Files Counterclaim Against Paramount
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-14T12:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/-godfather-author-s-son-files-counterclaim-against-paramount.html
Paramount Pictures Corp.’s
interpretation of a 1969 agreement with “The Godfather” author
 Mario Puzo  is costing his estate more than $10 million, the
novelist’s son and estate executor said in court papers.  Paramount, a unit of New York-based  Viacom Inc. (VIA) , sued
Anthony Puzo last month to prevent the publication of a new
sequel to his father’s novel, “The Godfather,” which it says
wasn’t authorized. Anthony Puzo countersued Paramount, claiming
the movie studio interfered with a publishing contract and
breached its 1969 copyright agreement with his father.  Paramount sued “to disregard its contractual promises to
Mario Puzo,” Anthony Puzo said in a March 12 filing in
 Manhattan  federal court. He asked a judge to terminate
Paramount’s rights under the agreement and award additional
unspecified punitive damages.  “Paramount has tremendous respect and admiration for Mario
Puzo and his legacy,” the studio said in an e-mailed statement.
“We are only seeking to adhere to the terms of the deal that
were agreed upon by Mr. Puzo himself.”  The proposed sequel would be the third. Paramount claimed
in its complaint that after Puzo’s death in 1999, it agreed to
let  Bertelsmann AG (BTG) ’s Random House unit publish a single sequel,
“The Godfather Returns,” in 2004. The estate published another
novel, “The Godfather’s Revenge,” in 2006 without Paramount’s
approval, the film studio said in its complaint.  Anthony Puzo argued that the contract between Paramount and
his father excluded book publishing rights.  ‘Excluded Rights’  “Such excluded rights were reserved in the author, Mario
Puzo, including the right to publish a book that includes
characters from ‘The Godfather’ in new and different
situations,” Puzo said in the filing.  The estate repeatedly notified Paramount of the sequel,
which is to be published in May, Puzo said. The studio didn’t
protest until late last year after the publishing contract was
signed, according to Puzo.  The first film based on the original novel, a family saga
about  New York  gangsters, was released in 1972 and won Academy
Awards for best picture, actor and adapted screenplay. Puzo
shared credit for the screenplay.  Francis Ford Coppola  directed
the three “Godfather” movies.  The case is Paramount Pictures Corp. v. Puzo, 12-CV-1268,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  