-- Adidas Gets $654 Million in Year’s Largest Convertible Sale
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-03-14T16:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/adidas-gets-654-million-in-year-s-largest-convertible-sale-1-.html
Adidas AG (ADS) , the second-largest
sporting-goods maker, raised 500 million euros ($654 million)
from the biggest sale of convertible bonds in almost a year.  The bonds can be handed over for  stock  in the company when
the shares, which closed at a record 60 euros yesterday, rise 40
percent to 83.46 euros, Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Adidas
said in a statement today. The notes due June 2019 will pay 0.25
percent interest, and the proceeds will be used to refinance
debt and “optimize” its  capital structure , Adidas said.  “Given the recent performance of Adidas shares, along with
the high premium and low coupon, you need to really like Adidas
to buy this,” said Tom Wills, who manages about $1.5 billion in
equity-linked bonds at Morgan Stanley Investment Management in
 London . “That said, we’re certainly not complaining about the
issuance.”  Convertible bond investors have been starved of new deals
as companies benefit from record-low  interest rates  by selling
traditional bonds. The last issuer to bring an equity-linked
note of 500 million euros or more was  Abu Dhabi ’s Aabar, which
raised 1.25 billion euros in a bond exchangeable for shares of
carmaker Daimler AG.  Adidas has a 1.86 billion-euro revolving credit facility
that matures in October, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
company also has a 500 million-euro, 4.75 percent bond due 2014,
the data show.  High Grade  While rates are so low, issuance is likely to come from
either high-yield companies seeking to reduce interest expense
by selling investors an option on their stock, or investment-
grade companies whose stock has soared, Wills said.  Adidas isn’t rated, though investor “consensus” is it’s
in the low-to-middle part of the A category, according to a
report by UniCredit SpA, the global coordinator for the deal.  Adidas has the right to call the bonds after 5.25 years if
the shares trade at more than 30 percent above the conversion
price for a set period, according to UniCredit. That allows the
company to limit investors’ gains if the stock performs.
Bondholders have an option to sell the bonds back to Adidas
after the same period, protecting them if the shares fall,
according to Milan-based UniCredit.  Technip SA,  Europe ’s second-largest oilfield-services
provider and rated BBB+ at  Standard & Poor’s , sold 498 million
euros of 0.25 percent convertible bonds on Dec. 7.  UniCredit managed the transaction with Citigroup Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  