-- BofA, Madoff-Mets, News Corp., Credit Suisse in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-14T12:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/madoff-mets-news-corp-goldman-credit-suisse-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and three other banks agreed to pay $25 million to
 New York  to resolve some monetary claims over the use of a
mortgage database after reaching a $25 billion national
settlement over foreclosure practices.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  sued  Bank of
America , JPMorgan and Wells Fargo & Co. in February over their
use of the mortgage registry known as MERS, accusing the lenders
of deceiving homeowners and conducting improper foreclosures.  The agreement with the three banks, as well as  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , was filed yesterday in federal
court in  Washington . The five lenders agreed in February to a
$25 billion settlement with 49 states and the federal government
to resolve claims of abusive foreclosure practices. That
settlement requires a federal judge’s approval.  Bank of America, JPMorgan, Wells Fargo and Citigroup each
agreed to pay $5.9 million to New York, according to the court
filing. Ally agreed to pay $1.25 million. Ally and Citigroup
aren’t named in New York’s MERS lawsuit. The nationwide
foreclosure settlement preserves claims raised against the banks
in the New York case and any similar claims that may be asserted
against Citigroup and Ally, according to the court filing.  Danny Kanner, a spokesman for Schneiderman, said in a phone
interview that the agreement resolves some monetary claims
against the banks. The core claims of the lawsuit will proceed,
he said.  “We intend to aggressively litigate this case to finally
prohibit the widespread illegal and deceptive practices of the
banks set forth in our complaint,” Kanner said in an e-mailed
statement.  Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, and
Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, declined to
comment on the settlement.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New
York-based Citigroup, also declined to comment.  Representative of the other two lenders didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  The agreement precludes New York from seeking penalties of
$5,000 for each violation in exchange for the $25 million,
according to Kanner. The state will continue to pursue damages
incurred by New York homeowners as a result of the banks’ use of
the MERS system, he said. The state will also seek court-ordered
changes to it.  The national foreclosure settlement case is U.S. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 12-00361, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington). The New York case is People of the State
of New York v. JPMorgan Chase & Co. 2768-2012, New York State
Supreme Court (Brooklyn).  Trials/Appeals  Mets Owners to Call Sandy Koufax, Morgenthau at Madoff Trial  Hall of Fame pitcher Sandy Koufax and former  Manhattan 
District Attorney Robert Morgenthau will be called as witnesses
in a trial of whether the owners of the New York Mets can keep
$303 million they withdrew from  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  The trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm claims the owners,
Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, blinded themselves to evidence of
Madoff’s fraud and shouldn’t be allowed to keep the principal
they withdrew before the fraud became public in 2008. Wilpon and
Katz intend to use Koufax and Morgenthau to show the jury they
were unaware Madoff was a con man, they said in court papers
filed March 12.  “Mr. Koufax will testify about how he came to open his
account and the positive things Mr. Wilpon told him about
investing with Madoff Securities,” according to the filing.
“It strains credulity to think that Mr. Wilpon would expose his
oldest and closest friend to potential financial ruin -- for no
benefit to Mr. Wilpon himself -- if he subjectively believed
that Madoff Securities might be operating a Ponzi scheme.”  Koufax and Morgenthau were named on a list of 12 witnesses,
including Wilpon and Katz themselves, who the owners plan to
call at the trial. The disclosures came in a flurry of court
papers filed March 12 and yesterday, giving a preview of the
evidence both sides expect to present in the trial scheduled to
begin March 19 in Manhattan federal court.  The trustee, New York lawyer  Irving Picard , sued Wilpon and
Katz in 2010, along with dozens of family members, trusts and
related businesses, trying to get $1 billion in profits and
principal they withdrew from their Madoff accounts. In a series
of rulings, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff has limited the
amount Picard may claim.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, and is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in North
Carolina.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-GE Manager Not Guilty of Murder, His Lawyer Tells Jury  Hemy Neuman isn’t guilty of premeditated murder because he
was legally insane when he shot to death the husband of a co-
worker, a defense lawyer told jurors as a trial neared an end.  “Hemy Neuman on Nov. 18, 2010, did not have the mental
capacity to distinguish right from wrong,” defense attorney Bob
Rubin said yesterday in his closing arguments in Decatur,
Georgia. “In fact, he thought he was doing the right thing.”  Prosecutors waived their right to make their arguments
first. They will try later to convince the jury that Neuman, 49,
was legally sane when he shot to death Russell “Rusty”
Sneiderman, 36.  The defense hasn’t denied that Neuman intercepted and
killed Sneiderman in front of the Dunwoody Prep preschool, where
he had dropped off his 2-year-old son.  Sneiderman’s wife, Andrea, 35, worked with Neuman at GE
Energy in Atlanta. The couple had an emotional personal
relationship that may not have included sex, according to trial
testimony.  Andrea Sneiderman worked for Neuman in software systems
support at the company, where he was an engineer overseeing
5,000 people, according to evidence in court. She isn’t charged
with a crime.  The defense testimony was disputed by Pamela Crawford, a
forensic psychologist, and William Brickhouse, a psychiatrist
who’s the DeKalb County Jail mental health director.  Both testified that Neuman isn’t bipolar, depressed or
legally insane. Someone who is psychotic can’t plan and perform
a killing as Neuman did, Crawford said.  Neuman faces life in prison without parole if convicted of
murder or life without parole or parole after 30 years if
convicted of murder while mentally ill.  The case is State v. Neuman, 11CR1364-5, Georgia Superior
Court, DeKalb County (Decatur).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Banks Sued By North Carolina Official Over Mortgage Registry  Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  were among
companies sued by a North Carolina county official over
allegedly forged mortgage documents and the use of a mortgage
database under attack by states and counties.  The companies named in the lawsuit filed forged mortgage-
related documents, misled homeowners and impaired property
rights, according to a complaint filed yesterday by Jeff
Thigpen, the Guilford County Register of Deeds. The county
includes Greensboro.  “Our office uncovered an abundance of falsified, forged
and fraudulently executed mortgage documents,” Thigpen said in
a statement. “But our investigation only found the tip of the
iceberg. We need the banks to clean up their mess.”  Banks and Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc.
have been sued by attorneys general in Massachusetts and New
York over the MERS database. Delaware sued the company without
filing claims against banks. Texas counties, meanwhile, are also
pursuing claims against MERS.  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for Bank of America, and
Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, declined to comment
about the complaint. The lawsuit also names JPMorgan Chase &
Co.,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  and others as defendants.
Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for JPMorgan, and Kevin Heine, a
spokesman for BNY Mellon, declined to comment.  Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Merscorp Holdings Inc., said
in a statement that the complaint contains “a lot of political
rhetoric” and “misconstrues” the role of MERS.  The case is Guilford County ex rel. v. Lender Processing
Services, 12-CVS-4531, General Court of Justice, Superior Court
Division, Guilford County.  Daniel Och Sued by Ex-Employee Achache Over 2009 Termination  Daniel Och, founder of  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group
LLC (OCH) , was sued by a former employee, Arnaud Achache, who accused
Och of forcing him out to boost his own interest in the company.  Achache, a citizen of  France  who lives in Beverly Hills,
 California , filed the complaint March 9 in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan, seeking more than $50 million in
actual damages and more than $100 million in punitive damages.  Achache said he joined Och-Ziff in about July 2003 from
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and became a non-managing member of the
firm’s operating groups in January 2005, when he received a
1 percent ownership interest. Achache said he was terminated as
a limited partner in March 2009.  “The defendants, acting by and through Och for his direct
benefit, and to the detriment of plaintiffs, terminated Achache
as a limited partner of the Operating Group Entities in
violation of the Agreements of Limited Partnership, for the sole
purpose of gaining for himself a larger equity interest in
breach of his fiduciary duties,” according to the complaint.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for New York-based Och-
Ziff, declined to comment on the lawsuit yesterday in a phone
interview.  The case is Achache v. Och, 650737/2012, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  MBF Clearing Sued by CFTC, Accused of Not Segregating Funds  MBF Clearing Corp. was sued by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and accused of failing to properly segregate
customer accounts from its own and of violating the Commodity
Exchange Act.  MBF employees from September 2008 to March 2010 deposited
$30 million to $60 million in customer funds into a U.S.
government money market fund at JPMorgan Chase & Co. without
properly segregating them, the CFTC alleged March 12 in a
complaint in federal court in New York.  The funds weren’t properly titled, and redemption
provisions didn’t comply with  CFTC  regulations, the agency said.
Nor was there proper documentation for the account, it said. MBF
also allegedly failed to obtain customer segregation
acknowledgement letters on two accounts holding funds for
foreign customers from February 2007 to April 2010.  The CFTC asked for a court order barring MBF’s “unlawful
acts and practices” and unspecified civil penalties.  Mark B. Fisher, MBF’s president and founder, said in an
interview that the firm  “invested customer segregated money in
a U.S. government money market fund in the strongest bank in the
world, JPMorgan.”  The CFTC’s complaint acknowledges that MBF was informed by
JPMorgan on actual account statements that the account was
described as a “Commodity Customer Segregated Bank Account,”
Fisher said.  “What the complaint fails to say is that MBF Clearing
Corp. had placed its customer funds into the JPMorgan government
money market account two days after Lehman Brothers filed for
bankruptcy for the sole purpose of protecting its customers’
funds by depositing them in the safest bank in the world and in
the most secure investments, namely U.S. government
securities,” Fisher said.  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the largest bankruptcy
in U.S. history on Sept. 15, 2008.  As soon as MBF was notified the JPMorgan account might not
qualify for segregation, the firm “moved all of the customer
funds out of this account and reported what had occurred to its
designated self-regulatory agency, the CME Group Inc.,” Fisher
said.  “Not a nickel of customer money was lost,” Fisher said.
“We are disappointed that the CFTC has chosen to address this
matter through an enforcement proceeding.”  The case is CFTC v. MBF Clearing Corp., 12-cv-1830, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  AstraZeneca Sues FDA Over Generic Seroquel Warning Denial  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  sued the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
seeking to overturn the regulator’s denial of a request that
generic copies of its Seroquel antipsychotic come with warnings
about high blood sugar and suicidal tendencies.  AstraZeneca is seeking an injunction barring the FDA from
approving copies of Seroquel until Dec. 2, when exclusivity
expires on clinical trial data that show a link between Seroquel
and hyperglycemia, or until a federal court has a “meaningful
opportunity to review imminent FDA action,” the London-based
company said in a statement yesterday.  The FDA on March 7 denied two so-called Citizen Petitions
filed by the U.K. drugmaker on Sept. 9 that asked the regulator
to withhold final marketing approval for generic versions of
Seroquel, also known as quetiapine fumarate, that omit
mentioning the risks, AstraZeneca said.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Rebekah Brooks, Husband Said to Be Arrested in Hacking Probe  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publishing unit, was arrested a second time by
 London  police as the year-old phone-hacking probe turned to a
possible cover up, according to a person familiar with the
situation.  The Metropolitan Police said they arrested five men and a
43-year-old woman in a probe to investigate a potential
conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, without identifying
the suspects. Brooks’s husband Charlie, a former racehorse
trainer, was also arrested, the person said, declining to be
identified because the matter is confidential. Police also
detained Mark Hanna, who headed security for the News
International unit, according to a spokeswoman for the company.  The probe into the phone-hacking scandal at Rupert
Murdoch’s News of the World tabloid has continued to expand to
add an investigation into bribes to public officials and police.
More than 20 people have been arrested as part of Operation
Weeting, the phone-hacking investigation, and at least 10 have
been questioned since the beginning of the year in the bribery
probe. The police service said for the first time that it
consulted with prosecutors before making yesterday’s arrests.  Police can hold a suspect without filing charges for as
long as 36 hours. Perverting the course of justice carries a
maximum sentence of life imprisonment, according to the Crown
Prosecution Service’s website.  The CPS didn’t return a call and the MPS declined to
comment beyond the statement. David Wilson, a spokesman for the
43-year-old Brooks, declined to immediately comment and her
attorney, Stephen Parkinson, didn’t immediately return a call.  Also arrested yesterday in the early morning raids between
5 a.m. and 7 a.m. London time were a 46-year-old man in West
London, a 38-year-old man in Hertfordshire and a 48-year-old man
at an office address in East London. All were arrested as part
of Operation Weeting and a number of addresses are being
searched, the police said.  For more, click here.  Ex-Lehman Executive Jack’s $35 Million Estate Faces Tax Auction  The $35 million estate of Bradley H. Jack, the former
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  managing director who was arrested
twice for allegedly forging drug prescriptions, may be sold at a
municipal auction after he failed to pay property taxes since
July.  Jack owes $271,923 on his 20-acre (8-hectare), waterfront
compound in Fairfield, Connecticut, according to town tax
collector Stanley Gorzelany. It’s the town’s biggest overdue tax
bill on a residence.  “He is the most delinquent taxpayer,” Gorzelany said in a
telephone interview.  Jack, 53, turned himself in and was charged March 9 with
second-degree forgery for a November incident at a CVS pharmacy
in which he faked the date on a doctor’s prescription for a
controlled substance, according to Captain Sam Arciola of the
Westport Police Department. Jack was released on $5,000 bond and
has a March 21 court appearance.  In June, Jack was arrested after he allegedly tried to pass
forged prescriptions for 12 pills of the painkiller Oxycontin
and nine of Ritalin, a drug used to treat attention deficit
disorder, Fairfield police said.  Jack had received treatment for cancer, had had a valid
prescription in the past and had no prior criminal record, his
attorney, Robert G. Golger, said in court in August. Golger
didn’t immediately return a call yesterday seeking comment on
the tax sale.  Jack joined New York-based Lehman in 1984 and ran
investment banking from 1996 to 2002, when he became co-chief
operating officer. He decided to retire from New York-based
Lehman to pursue work in the nonprofit sector and spend time
with his family in June 2005.  For more, click here.  Citizens Bank, Customers Seek Mediation in Overdraft Suit  Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania and plaintiffs in a lawsuit
challenging overdraft fees asked for a delay in proceedings
while they pursue private mediation, according to a court
filing.  “The parties have agreed to engage in private mediation in
an effort to resolve this case without further litigation,” the
Pittsburgh-based bank and the customers said yesterday in a
filing in federal court in Miami. They agreed to suspend court
filings on whether to certify the case as a class-action, or
group, lawsuit. A mediation session is scheduled for April 17,
according to the filing.  At least 30 banks have cases before U.S. District Judge
James Lawrence King in Miami. The customers say the banks
reorder debit-card transactions in their computers to maximize
overdraft fees.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest U.S. bank by assets, has
reached a preliminary agreement to pay $110 million to settle
litigation. Bank of America Corp., the second-biggest U.S. bank
by assets, agreed last year to pay $410 million without
admitting liability.  Union Bank NA agreed to a $35 million settlement with
customers in November. An  Associated Banc-Corp. (ASBC)  unit, Associated
Bank, agreed in November to pay $13 million.  The case is In re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-md-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  AU Optronics, Two Executives Found Guilty of Price Fixing  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  and two of its executives were found
guilty yesterday of fixing prices for screens used in computers
and televisions. Two other company officials were found not
guilty by a federal jury in  San Francisco .  Prosecutors said executives of the Taiwan-based company met
with competitors secretly in hotel rooms and karaoke bars from
2001 to 2006 to set liquid crystal display prices in response to
an oversupply that pushed down prices by 40 percent.  Company president H.B. Chen was found guilty along with Hui
Hsiung, who was executive vice president during the alleged
conspiracy. The jury also said the amount of gain from all
conspirators in the case was more than $500 million.  L.J. Chen, a director of the company’s desktop display
group, and Hubert Lee, a senior manager for the group, were
found not guilty. The judge declared a mistrial on the fifth
company executive,  Steven Leung , who was also a senior manager
of the group.  AU Optronics is the only LCD maker charged with price-
fixing by the U.S. to take its case to trial. Since 2008, rivals
including  LG Display Co. (034220) ,  Chunghwa Picture Tubes (2475) ,  Chi Mei
Optoelectronics Corp. (3009)  and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  agreed to plead guilty and
pay more than $860 million in fines.  Dennis Riordan, an attorney who represents AU Optronics and
its U.S. unit, which was also found guilty yesterday, said the
defense will file motions for acquittal and a new trial. A fine
for the company, which would come at sentencing after those
motions are ruled on, may total as much as $1 billion, he said.
All five executives still work for the company, Riordan said.  “The magnitude of the possible fine, $1 billion, may shock
a lot of people. AUO has only provisioned for about one third of
that,” said Jamie Yeh, who rates the stock underweight at
Barclays Bank Plc in Taipei. “The fact that they lost the case
was expected” and may account for the share’s decline being
less than the daily limit.  “At every step, our lawyers and accountants have discussed
the appropriate provisions,” AU Optronics Chief Financial
Officer Andy Yang said yesterday. He declined to say how much
has already been provisioned or whether that figure will
increase after yesterday’s verdict.  “This case is just beginning,” Riordan said in an
interview after the verdict. “The most important question it
raises, which the jury didn’t get, is does the Sherman Act apply
to conduct that takes place on foreign soil?”  Peter Huston, a Justice Department attorney, declined to
comment after the verdict.  The case is U.S. v. Lin, 3:09-cr-00110, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  Goldman Sachs to Pay $7 Million Over CFTC Trading-Account Claims  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to pay $7 million to
resolve regulatory claims it failed to properly supervise
commodities trading accounts, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said.  The regulator accused the New York-based firm’s Goldman
Sachs Execution & Clearing LP unit of failing to supervise
subaccounts managed from 2007 to 2009 by a broker-dealer that
engaged in “questionable conduct,” the CFTC said in a
statement yesterday. Goldman Sachs agreed to disgorge $1.5
million in fees and commissions it had collected from the broker
and pay a $5.5 million civil penalty, the agency said.  “When registrants become aware of questionable activity,
they must not simply rely on assurances from interested parties
and their representatives, but instead must diligently
investigate,” David Meister, the CFTC’s enforcement chief, said
in a statement. “As this case indicates, the Commission will
hold registrants accountable if they fail in this regard.”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment on the settlement. The company resolved the
claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing, the CFTC said.  For more, click here.  Credit Suisse Banker Fined Over Bond Offering ‘Charades’  A  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  banker in London, Nicholas
Kyprios, was fined 210,000 pounds ($330,000) for disclosing
confidential client information to a  fund manager  in what
regulators called a “guessing game.”  Kyprios, head of European credit sales at the bank,
indicated to the manager that the bank’s client  Liberty Global
Inc. (LBTYA)  was close to issuing bonds to finance its acquisition of
German cable company UnityMedia GmbH, after the manager told
Kyprios he didn’t want information he couldn’t act on, the
Financial Services Authority said in a statement yesterday.  Credit Suisse was working for Liberty on the takeover and
also served as lead book runner for the 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3
billion) bond issue to partly finance the deal. In response to
questions during a November 2009 call about who was issuing the
bonds, Kyprios told the manager they could “play this game”
and “you’re going to be my charades partner.” Kyprios ruled
out possible issuers and signaled confirmation when the manager,
who the FSA didn’t identify, guessed UnityMedia.  Credit Suisse “deeply regrets” that one of its employees
has been sanctioned by the FSA, the Zurich-based bank said in a
statement. It “fully supports the FSA’s actions to ensure
information is properly controlled and has reinforced the FSA’s
decision by imposing its own financial penalty” on Kyprios.  When questioned by the regulator, Kyprios told them the
conversations were “banter” that didn’t disclose any
actionable information. He was fined for improper market conduct
and received the FSA’s standard 30 percent discount on the fine
for settling early.  Kyprios, who still works at the bank, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail request for comment.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Takeda Actos Judge Names Lead Attorneys in Cancer Suits  The judge overseeing lawsuits alleging  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s Actos diabetes medicine causes cancer
appointed 19 plaintiffs’ lawyers to manage litigation involving
U.S. claims.  Takeda,  Asia ’s biggest drugmaker, may face as many as
10,000 claims that Actos causes bladder cancer after U.S.
regulators found last year the drug was linked to the disease.
Federal lawsuits against the drugmaker were consolidated before
U.S. District Judge Rebecca Doherty in Lafayette, Louisiana, in
December. The first hearing on the cases is set for March 22,
according to court filings.  “The court has determined to effect the selection of lead
counsel, liaison counsel and plaintiffs’ executive and steering
committees before the March 22nd-23rd status conference,”
Doherty said in a  March 12 note  posted on the court’s website.  The lawsuits claim patients who use Actos, a prescription
drug approved to treat type 2 diabetes, face increased risks of
developing bladder cancer. The plaintiffs also claim that Takeda
and co-defendant Eli Lilly & Co., based in Indianapolis,
withheld information about the risk and failed to provide
adequate warnings.  “Given that litigation is pending, we can’t comment,”
Jocelyn Gerst, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Takeda, said in a
telephone interview about the selection of the plaintiffs’
group.  Doherty named attorneys Richard Arsenault and Paul Pennock
as lead plaintiffs’ counsel in the case and also appointed them
to the executive committee, along with lawyers Mark Robinson and
Hunter Shkolnik.  Arsenault, a products-liability lawyer based in Alexandria,
Louisiana, served as one of the leading lawyers in consolidated
cases filed against  Merck & Co. (MRK)  over its Vioxx painkiller that
resulted in a $4.85 billion settlement in November 2007.  Pennock, a New York-based attorney, was one of the lawyers
leading the consolidated suits against AstraZeneca Plc over its
Seroquel antipsychotic drug. The London-based drugmaker agreed
last year to pay a total of about $350 million to resolve
patients’ claims that the drug caused diabetes.  The Los Angeles-based Robinson, who has won multimillion-
dollar jury awards against carmakers such as Ford Motor Co., is
a co-lead counsel in sudden-acceleration lawsuits against  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)   Shkolnik, based in  New York City , served as a member of the
plaintiffs’ steering committee in lawsuits against  Medtronic
Inc. (MDT)  over flawed heart defibrillators. The cases later settled
for more than $114 million.  The lawsuits are consolidated in In Re: Actos Products
Liability Litigation, 11-2299, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Louisiana (Lafayette).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court News  Judicial Picks Will Get Senate Vote as Reid Decries Holdup  U.S. Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid said he will
require votes in coming days on 17 of President Barack Obama’s
judicial nominees, escalating a fight with Republicans over
confirmations.  “Republicans have prevented the Senate from doing its
constitutional duty,” Reid of Nevada said on the Senate floor
March 12. He said Republicans are holding up “consensus
nominees,” including some approved unanimously by the Senate
Judiciary Committee.  Reid’s decision follows failed talks with Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, over a slate of
nominees to put forward for a vote. The Senate this year has
confirmed seven federal judges.  Twenty-two judicial nominees are pending before the Senate,
and Reid is forcing votes on all of the 17 district court judges
on that list.  Nine of the lower-court nominees were approved last year by
voice vote in the Judiciary Committee. Of those approved by the
panel this year, all but two cleared the committee with only one
“no” vote.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 