-- Afghan Shooter’s Base Hunkers Down Under International Focus
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m ,   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-03-14T14:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/afghan-shooter-s-base-hunkers-down-under-international-attention.html
For the last two years,  Joint Base
Lewis-McChord  in  Washington  state has become accustomed to the
media’s glare, and not just for its contributions of thousands
of troops to the U.S. war efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan.  The sprawling installation between Mount Rainier and Puget
Sound, home to both Army and Air Force commands, has played a
critical role in the wars, providing everything from infantry
brigades built around Stryker armored vehicles, to giant
transport aircraft, to elite Special Forces and Rangers units.  Lewis-McChord, the biggest base on the U.S. West Coast,
also has been the focus of headlines and government inquiries
into suicides, deaths and crimes by soldiers based there. Now
it’s attracting international attention because a 38-year-old
Army staff sergeant deployed from the base is accused of killing
at least 16 civilians in  Afghanistan  villages.  “Every base has its own problems, but no other base has
had as much bad press as this base,” said Jorge Gonzalez, 32,
executive director of Coffee Strong, a veteran-run nonprofit
coffee shop in Lakewood adjacent to Interstate 5 near the base.  It’s an unfair rap, Washington’s governor said yesterday.  Leaders at the base care “very much about its returning
military personnel, and making sure that they are doing it
right,” Governor  Christine Gregoire , a Democrat, told reporters
in  Seattle . Base officials have learned the lessons from Vietnam
War veterans and are trying to help troops adjust to their jobs
and families, she said. “So I’m not here to say that some blame
goes to Fort Lewis.”  ‘Most Troubled Base’  Lewis-McChord was called the U.S. military’s “most
troubled base” in 2010 by the military’s  Stars and Stripes 
newspaper.  Among the cases cited by the newspaper was the killing of
three Afghans in separate incidents in 2010 involving troops
from the base. Four soldiers pleaded or were found guilty, and
seven others were convicted of lesser crimes from drug use to
assaulting soldiers, Army Major Christopher Ophardt said
yesterday in an e-mail.  Army spokesman George Wright at the Pentagon said in
response to an e-mail inquiry that he didn’t have details about
how crimes committed by soldiers based at Lewis-McChord compared
with those at other facilities.  Suicides at the base rose to 12 last year from nine each in
2009 and 2010, Ophardt said. The Army Medical Command is
investigating whether the base’s medical center improperly
reversed post-traumatic stress disorder diagnoses in soldiers.  Economic Contribution  Lewis-McChord, home to the Army’s I Corps, the Air Force’s
62nd Airlift Wing, and other units, employs 43,000 military
personnel and 15,000 civilians, according to Joe Piek, a base
spokesman.  The base supports 56,000 family members and contributes $4
billion a year to the  regional economy , he said yesterday in an
interview.  With multiple tours of duty for many of its troops, the
base has accounted for 115,000 deployments of active-duty,
reserve and National Guard personnel to  Iraq  and Afghanistan, he
said. Deaths of troops from the base include 201 in Iraq and 76
in Afghanistan.  “The problem is our military is getting tired,” said
state Senator  Mike Carrell , a Republican who represents
Lakewood. “We’ve been at war for 10 years. Some of these guys
have been deployed four or five times.”  Even then, most soldiers return to their lives
“seamlessly” after a deployment, Carrell said in an interview.  In a city such as Lakewood, with a population of 50,000,
and “you’ve one person that does a murder, does that reflect on
the whole city?” Carrell said.  Parking-Lot Shooting  Units belonging to the Army’s I Corps have a storied
history that includes liberating the  Philippines  from  Japan 
during World War II and guarding the Korean Demilitarized Zone
at the end of the  Korean War .  Reports of  trouble  at the base cited in Stars and Stripes
included the 2010 case of Army Specialist Brandon Barrett, 28, a
Lewis-McChord soldier who was shot dead in a Salt Lake City
parking lot after he shot and injured a police officer. In
September of that year, Robert Quinones, 29, a former soldier
who had been based at Lewis-McChord, held three people at
gunpoint at Fort Stewart,  Georgia , demanding mental-health
treatment.  In January, a former Lewis-McChord soldier, Benjamin Colton
Barnes, 24, killed a ranger at Mount Rainier National Park. He
had left military service in 2009, Ophardt said.  Hit Man Case  Yesterday, an Army lieutenant colonel assigned to Lewis-
McChord was arraigned after he told his girlfriend that he’d
paid $150,000 to a hit man to kill his superior officer and his
estranged wife, according to documents filed by prosecutors in
Pierce County Superior Court in Tacoma. Robert Underwood pleaded
not guilty to felony harassment, the  Associated Press  said.
Underwood didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the charges against him.  Gonzalez of Coffee Strong, an Army veteran who served in
Iraq from 2006 to 2007 in the same unit as the Afghan shooting
suspect, blames the incidents on the military, which he said is
not providing adequate access to mental- health services .  “A lot of chain-of-command does not like their soldiers to
be going out to seek health services, behavior health,” said
Gonzalez, whose store doubles as a gathering spot and
clearinghouse for soldiers seeking help. “They have that stigma
in the military where you’re seen as less of a soldier or a man
if you speak up and say there’s something wrong with you.”  ‘Traumatized Troops’  Gonzalez also cited repeated deployments of soldiers from
the base to Iraq and Afghanistan. The suspect in the killing had
served three tours in Iraq before he was sent to Afghanistan in
December.  “They are sending out traumatized troops,” said Ramon
Nacanaynay, a former  Air Force  staff sergeant, who stood in a
heavy downpour on a highway overpass in Lakewood outside Lewis-
McChord in what he said was a vigil for Afghans killed in war
and support for U.S. troops.  Nacanaynay, a teacher from Puyallup, Washington, spoke in
an interview March 12 on Freedom Bridge, an I-5 overpass whose
railing is lined with yellow ribbons near the entrance to the
base’s Madigan Army Medical Center.  Medical Center Inquiry  Questions about inadequate help for troubled soldiers were
reinforced last month when a psychiatrist at the medical center
was found to have cautioned against “rubber-stamping” troops
with a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder.  Soldiers with the condition may receive treatment costing
as much as $1.5 million during their lifetimes, which could
bankrupt the Army and Veterans Affairs Departments, according to
a memo from an Army ombudsman provided by the office of U.S.
Senator  Patty Murray  of Washington. The Army has suspended the
head of Madigan pending the investigation of whether the center
withheld PTSD diagnoses.  Murray, a Democrat and chairman of the Senate Veterans
Affairs Committee, called for the probe into Madigan’s mental-
health screening procedures. She said in an interview last month
that after 10 years of war, the military still has “no
consistent diagnosis, no consistent tools and different levels
of professionals” working on solutions.  Mental-Health Misdiagnosis  About 1,600 troops who were screened by the Madigan center
may have received a mental-health misdiagnosis and are being
reevaluated now, Matt McAlvanah, Murray’s spokesman, said in an
interview. About 285 troops whose PTSD diagnoses were changed
are being screened again, and the military is trying to locate
the rest, McAlvanah said.  Mental-health services offered at the base aren’t beyond
the reach of troops, if only they ask for help, said Brian
Welsh, 27, an Army sergeant stationed at Lewis-McChord who lives
in nearby Olympia. The base is no different from others, he
said.  “I’d say it’s more people not using the resources to get
help,” he said. “They just bury it, and then when they go
again they lose it.”  The Afghan shooting suspect trained as an infantryman and
was a qualified sniper, according to a U.S. defense official
familiar with the case. The alleged gunman’s job in Afghanistan
was providing “force protection” for a Special Forces
compound, said a second official. The officials spoke on
condition of anonymity because charges haven’t been filed.  Before his duty in Afghanistan, the soldier’s most recent
tour in Iraq ended in 2010, an official said.  Head Injury  The soldier suffered a head injury in Iraq due to a non-
combat vehicle rollover accident, recovered and was deemed fit
for deployment, one of the officials said.  Last weekend, the soldier hiked to a village 800 meters
(0.5 miles) south of his base near Kandahar city and then to
another village 500 meters north of the base to commit the
killings, the Army said in the memo to Congress.  The soldier’s wife and two children have been moved inside
Lewis-McChord from off-base housing for their safety, the
official said.  The Afghan killings worry Vinessa Scott, 22, an Army
specialist who’s awaiting her first deployment to Afghanistan,
she said yesterday.  “I’m really nervous,” Scott said in an interview at a
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  restaurant near the base. “We’re over there to
take out the bad people, not the good people. It’s scary. I
don’t know what to expect when I go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in Lakewood, Washington, at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  