-- Ageas’s Embedded Value Drops on Bond Spreads, Lower Returns
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-03-14T09:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/ageas-s-embedded-value-drops-on-bond-spreads-lower-returns-1-.html
Ageas (AGS)  said the embedded value of
its life insurance business fell last year because of a decline
in the value of  government bonds , a drop in risk-free rates and
lower returns on new contracts.  Embedded value, an estimate of a life insurer’s worth based
on its net assets and current sales, dropped to 3.69 billion
euros ($4.81 billion) from a restated 5.4 billion euros at the
start of the year, the insurer, based in Brussels and the Dutch
city of Utrecht, said today in a  statement . The value added by
new business declined 50 percent to 32 million euros.  Ageas calculates reinvestment yields by applying a
liquidity premium to risk-free rates for various maturities in
various currencies, which are derived from forward swap curves
and declined for maturities exceeding three years. The internal
rate of return on new contracts dropped to 8.2 percent last year
from 10.1 percent in 2010, led by declines in Portugal and  Hong
Kong .  The estimated embedded value excludes the value of Ageas’s
minority stakes in Taiping Life Insurance Co., Etiqa Insurance
Bhd., Muang Thai Life Assurance Co. and IDBI Federal Life
Insurance Co. The value of those holdings in  China , Malaysia,
 Thailand  and  India  was about 817 million euros at the end of
2010, Ageas said on Sept. 29.  Former Directors  Separately, Ageas said today it will ask shareholders’
approval in Brussels to take “any conservative measure”
including  judicial action  against former directors who were in
office during 2007 or 2008.  Ageas risks losing the right to file claims against former
directors in the future because of the five-year statute of
limitations. Some former directors have not granted a waiver of
the acquired time bar, Ageas said today in the invitation for
the annual meeting on April 25 in Brussels, without naming the
directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  