-- Malaysia’s Pension Fund Targets Overseas Assets to Make Up 30%
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-03-14T00:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/malaysia-s-pension-fund-targets-overseas-assets-to-make-up-30-.html
Malaysia ’s Employees Provident Fund,
the second-largest state-run pension system in the Asia-Pacific
region, plans to raise holdings of overseas investments to 30
percent by 2017 to boost returns.  The retirement  fund , with 470 billion ringgit ($155 billion)
in assets, is currently allowed to invest in foreign holdings as
much as 23 percent of its portfolio, said Chief Executive
Officer Azlan Zainol, who manages the fund. EPF’s investments
abroad now account for 13 percent and will need to be increased,
upon government approval, as the fund would be at least 600
billion ringgit to 700 billion ringgit in five to six years, he
said.  “We will continue to focus on areas that will give stable
returns for this year and the next few years to come,” Azlan
said in an interview in  Kuala Lumpur  yesterday. “These asset
allocations that we’ve been working on have done us well and
have contributed to our income reasonably well and have
mitigated all kinds of risks that we are facing.”  The Kuala Lumpur-based manager posted 27.2 billion ringgit
of gross income from investments last year, 13 percent more than
it earned in 2010, helped mainly by realized gains in domestic
and global equities, according to data published on its  website .  The fund outperformed  South Korea ’s National Pension
Service, with $305 billion, which posted a preliminary 2.3
percent return in 2011, according to the nation’s Ministry of
Health and Welfare. EPF was the second-largest sovereign pension
fund in Asia excluding  Japan , behind the Korean fund, according
to a  ranking  by consultants Towers Watson & Co. that was
released in September.  Buying Global Bonds  EPF will start a program to buy global bonds in the second
quarter to rebalance its overseas portfolio to be in line with
domestic investments, Azlan said. Stocks account for about 80
percent of the overseas investments compared with 35 percent in
the domestic market, he said.  The majority of EPF’s assets are currently invested onshore,
primarily in  government bonds . The yield on the nation’s
benchmark 10-year debt is about 1.5 percentage point above
similar-dated Treasuries.  “Technically, we can go up to 42 percent in equities but
we don’t want to,” Azlan said. “We will try and keep it within
35 percent -- even at 35 percent, I feel you’re walking at the
edge.”  EPF, which has been a net seller of domestic equities this
year, plans to increase its holdings of Malaysian stocks, Azlan
said. He said he likes banking, utilities, plantations and
companies with high-dividend payouts, strong management and that
are well-run.  “Generally, I am quite confident the market will be OK, but
from certain angles, I hope there will be some troughs,” Azlan
said, adding that the market’s valuations are “attractive.”  Indonesia, China  The fund’s focus will be on Southeast  Asia  with “the
strongest growth in  Indonesia  over the long term,” Azlan said.
EPF also has investments in the U.K., U.S., Japan and Australian
stock markets, while it will invest in  China  through Hong Kong,
he said. The fund has no plans to apply for an investment
manager license in China, he said.  EPF held 124.6 billion ringgit, or 27 percent of its assets,
in government  bonds  at the end of December, making it the single
largest shareholder in that asset class in Malaysia. It also
held 160.7 billion ringgit in loans and corporate bonds, 167.2
billion ringgit in stocks, 14.9 billion ringgit of money-market
bills and 1.8 billion ringgit in properties.  The fund paid out 24.5 billion ringgit to members in 2011,
equivalent to a 6 percent dividend rate, the most since 2000. It
paid 8.5 percent between 1983 and 1987, the highest since its
inception in 1952, according to data provided by EPF.  RHB Capital’s Takeover  EPF collects more than 2 billion ringgit on average every
month from its 13 million members, who make a compulsory 11
percent monthly contribution while employers add another 12
percent. Membership is mandatory for working Malaysian citizens,
or non-Malaysian citizens who are permanent residents.  Among the fund’s investments, Azlan expects RHB Capital
Bhd.’s proposed takeover of OSK Investment Bank Bhd. to be
completed by the middle of this year. The fund owns 45 percent
of RHB Capital. The acquisition will be financed via a
combination of new shares and cash and will reduce EPF’s stake
in RHB Capital to 41 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry in  Hong Kong  at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  