-- Aldar, Sorouh Gain a 5th Day on Merger Bets: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-03-14T13:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/aldar-sorouh-gain-a-5th-day-on-merger-bets-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh
Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  surged a fifth day, pushing Abu Dhabi’s index to
the highest in almost two weeks, on bets a potential merger may
bolster their businesses.  Aldar, the biggest developer in the United Arab Emirates
capital, rallied 6.6 percent to 1.45 dirhams, the highest since
May 15, at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. Sorouh, the second-
biggest developer, advanced 5.8 percent to 1.45 dirhams, the
highest since May 4. The stocks, the most traded in the index,
lifted the  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  up 0.3 percent. About 95 million
Aldar shares traded yesterday, the most on record.  Aldar and Sorouh, down 60 percent and 48 percent in 2011,
said in a joint statement on March 11 they set up a team to
study a possible merger with the “blessing” of the emirate’s
government. The team will present a plan in the next three
months. Government-owned Mubadala Development Co.  holds 49
percent  of Aldar, while the  Abu Dhabi  Investment Authority, a
sovereign wealth fund, has a  7 percent stake  in Sorouh.  “The rebound is somehow justified,” said Ahmed Talhaoui,
the Abu Dhabi-based head of investment and asset management at
Royal Capital PJSC. “It is not clear yet what the resulting
entity will look like, growth creation may not happen quickly.
Profit-taking may happen in the coming weeks.”  The U.A.E. property market is still fragile after property
prices in Abu Dhabi dropped by almost half since the market’s
peak in 2008 as that year’s global credit crisis forced banks to
curb lending and speculators fled. Rents in the emirate will
drop further in 2012 as property supply outstrips demand,
according to real-estate consultant CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.  Still, Aldar and Sorouh have rebounded this year after Abu
Dhabi, holder of most of the U.A.E.’s oil reserves, said it
plans to resume stalled projects including branches of the
Louvre and Guggenheim museums. Aldar is up  58 percent in 2012 
and Sorouh  has surged 71 percent  in the period. In the past five
trading sessions alone, both stocks soared 31 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  