-- Haldane Says Common Finance Language Would Lower Stability Risks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-14T12:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/haldane-says-common-finance-language-would-lower-stability-risks.html
Bank of England official  Andrew Haldane  said a common language for financial information would
help firms better assess the risks they face and improve
financial stability.  The lack of global standard practices for capturing data
prevents financial institutions from producing timely and
accurate assessments of their risk management, Haldane said in a
speech in  New York  today. For instance,  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  mistakenly excluded a $6 billion real-estate exposure in
reports to its board months before its collapse.  “Missing inventories and mistaken counterparties could be
all but eliminated if financial firms’ information systems spoke
in a common tongue,” said Haldane,  executive director  for
financial stability at the U.K. central bank. “Real-time,
consolidated data capture is still a distant aspiration. As long
as that is the case, real-time consolidated risk management
remains a pipe dream.”  The financial industry is a “laggard” in developing
common standards when compared with the global supply chain’s
use of product barcodes and the World Wide Web’s use of HTML
language, he said. The Financial Stability Board is overseeing
efforts to improve data collection, and the use of Legal Entity
Identifiers and Product Identifiers will help progress toward
“a consistent global method for financial product
identification.”  “The financial crisis exposed myriad weaknesses in those
risk management practices, especially among the larger and more
complex financial firms,” Haldane said, citing “defective”
governance of risk. “But underlying these high-level problems
was a set of lower-level deficiencies in data and risk capture.
IT infrastructure was often ill-suited to capturing these
risks.”  ‘Risk Countours’  Haldane, who wrote the paper with two bank colleagues,
Robleh Ali and Paul Nahai-Williamson, said there is “no reason
why, with the right data infrastructure captured in an common
language, technology could not be used to map and simulate the
risk contours of the global financial system.”  A world with such standards in place will help officials
address the risks posed by financial firms that are “too big to
fail.” It would also help bolster the safety of central
clearing houses, which regulators are relying upon to promote
transparency and stability in securities trading.  “If clearing houses are not themselves to become a new
manifestation of the too-big-to-fail problem, clearing house
risk management will need to be transformed,” he said. “Common
standards for data, LEIs and PIs,” will help them, for
instance, use real-time data on risk exposure to set margin
requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  