-- Alleged U.S. Shooter of Afghans Flown From Country
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-15T10:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/alleged-shooter-of-afghans-said-to-be-flown-out-of-country.html
The U.S. soldier who allegedly shot
and killed at least 16 Afghan civilians has been flown out of
the country, according to a Pentagon spokesman.  The staff sergeant was taken to a non-European country
other than the U.S., the spokesman, Navy Captain John Kirby,
said yesterday. While he declined to name the location, the
 Associated Press , citing an unnamed U.S. official, said the
destination was  Kuwait .  The soldier, whose name hasn’t been disclosed, was moved
“because we don’t have the type of detention facility in
Afghanistan to hold a U.S. service member for any length of
time,” Kirby said in an interview. “The detention facilities
in Afghanistan are intended for enemy combatants. Our own
regulations and policies don’t allow us to keep a U.S. service
member there.”  The Afghan civilians, including women and children, were
killed March 11 in attacks on two villages that threaten to
further erode already tense U.S.-Afghan relations, drain
remaining U.S. and European support for the war and add pressure
to speed troop withdrawals ahead of a security handover now set
for 2014.  The suspect had been confined to a small outpost that lacks
a detention facility since the shootings, Kirby said.  The Army Criminal Investigative Command is probing the
killings and seeking a motive. The soldier hasn’t yet been
charged, according to a U.S. official.  Obama, Cameron  The suspect is 38 years old and is married with two
children, according to a second U.S. official familiar with the
case. He was deployed to Afghanistan in December after having
previously served three tours of duty in  Iraq , the official
said. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because the
attacks remain under investigation.  In Washington, President  Barack Obama  touched on the
shootings yesterday, saying the U.S. and its allies in
Afghanistan will continue with plans to hand over security
responsibility to Afghan forces and finish the mission NATO set
out.  “The tragic events of recent days are a reminder that this
continues to be a very difficult mission,” Obama said at a news
conference with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , who was in
Washington for an official visit. “We’re going to complete this
mission and we’re going to do it responsibly.”  Cameron said, “We will not give up on this mission,
because Afghanistan must never again be a safe haven for al-
Qaeda to launch attacks against us.”  Pakistan Sanctuary  Lieutenant General Curtis Scaparrotti, who leads day-to-day
operations in Afghanistan, told reporters traveling with U.S.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  today in Kabul that he has raised
his assessment of Afghanistan’s security.  U.S. military officials previously have described the
situation as fragile. “I don’t see it as fragile,” Scaparrotti
said. The Afghan army and police “have stepped up” and
governance has improved, allowing Afghans to see a degree of
normalcy that’s “harder to reverse,” he said.  The Taliban’s ability to find sanctuary in  Pakistan  remains
“the greatest threat to the campaign’s success,” said
Scaparrotti, who previously served in Afghanistan in 2009 and
2010 as commander of the eastern region, with its mountainous
and porous border with Pakistan.  Karzai Meet  Visiting the U.S. Marine Corps’s Camp Leatherneck in
southern Afghanistan yesterday, Panetta also invoked the al-
Qaeda attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, in response to a soldier who
asked how he should explain his deployment to his wife and three
children.  “The reason you’re here is to make damn sure that never
happens again,” Panetta said. “Is there still a threat? You
bet there’s still a threat.”  Today, Panetta met with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , who
is pressing the U.S. military to end its practice of nighttime
raids on homes to capture militants. Karzai came into the
meeting having just negotiated an agreement for the U.S. to hand
over detention facilities to Afghan control, with the Americans
holding veto power over releases for a limited time.  Panetta said he assured Karzai that the U.S. would bring
the soldier suspected in the shootings to justice in a
“transparent process” and that it was important not to allow
frustrations to undermine the main goal of securing Afghanistan.  “If we do anything precipitous to back away from that,
that in my mind could very well jeopardize our mission,”
Panetta told reporters.  Night Raids  He said he’s confident the U.S. and  Afghanistan  will reach
an agreement on the night raids and an overall pact for a long-
term partnership after U.S. forces withdraw in 2014.  Most night raids already are led by Afghans and the
practice is critical to ensuring security, Marine Major General
Charles “Mark” Gurganus told reporters traveling with Panetta.  “I don’t know how much more accommodating we can be,”
said Gurganus, NATO’s International Security and Assistance
Force commander for the area that covers Helmand Province. Night
raids probably will lessen over time as the Afghan police become
more effective and military action is needed less, he said.  Obama has ordered the first 33,000 U.S. troops out of
Afghanistan by the end of September, leaving 68,000 behind, and
other nations are starting to exit as well. Obama said the next
stage in the transition to Afghan control will be determined
when North Atlantic Treaty Organization members meet in May in
 Chicago .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  