-- Ambac Financial Has Settlement With IRS, Court Papers Say
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-04-08T22:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/ambac-financial-wins-final-approval-of-reorganization-plan-1-.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the
bankrupt holding company for a failed bond insurer, will seek
court approval of a settlement with the  Internal Revenue Service 
that paves the way to finalize its bankruptcy.  The agreement, which still needs court approval, will give
the IRS a $120 million claim in Ambac’s Chapter 11 case,
according to court papers filed in  Manhattan  bankruptcy court
today.  “This settlement puts us in a favorable position to emerge
from bankruptcy and move forward with managing our existing
business and exploring new business opportunities,” Diana Adams, Ambac’s President and Chief Executive Officer, said in a
statement today.  It calls for Ambac to pay $1.9 million to the U.S., and its
Ambac Assurance unit to pay $100 million. The agreement also
limits Ambac’s ability to claim net operating losses for tax
purposes, reducing its aggregate claim by about $1.1 billion,
the company said in the statement.  A hearing on the proposed settlement is set for April 29.  In March 2012, Ambac won a judge’s final approval to
reorganize its $1.7 billion in debt. The plan relied on a
proposed settlement with the IRS.  Wisconsin Regulator  Ambac’s bankruptcy case relied on close work with a
Wisconsin regulator which has rehabilitated part of Ambac
Assurance, and mediation with the IRS  Ambac Financial, which relied on dividends from the
operating unit, filed for bankruptcy in November 2010, about two
years after Ambac Assurance stopped selling new policies in
2008.  At the outset of the bankruptcy, Ambac sued the IRS and the
IRS made a counter-claim, questioning how Ambac Financial used
$7.3 billion in net operating losses, or NOLs, to account for
its losses from credit default swaps.  Ambac Assurance was the second-largest bond insurer before
the 2008 financial crisis, when mounting defaults on mortgages
swamped the company with claims. It guaranteed about $256
billion of $1.4 trillion in insured municipal debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The holding company case is In re Ambac Financial Group
Inc., 10-15973,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  