-- Analyst Kinnucan Pleads Not Guilty to Insider Trading
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-14T18:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/analyst-kinnucan-pleads-not-guilty-to-insider-trading-1-.html
John Kinnucan, the Broadband
Research LLC founder who challenged authorities to arrest him
for more than 18 months, pleaded not guilty to insider-trading
charges and remains in custody because he’s unable to make bail.  The analyst entered his plea today before U.S. District
Judge  Deborah Batts  in New York.  Kinnucan was indicted Feb. 21 by a federal grand jury in
New York, accused of passing inside tips to hedge fund clients
about  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) ,  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  and other
companies. He was arrested Feb. 16 at his home in  Portland ,
 Oregon , by  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents.  He “befriended” employees of public technology companies,
obtained nonpublic information from them and passed it to his
fund manager clients, prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara allege.  Batts said last month that Kinnucan can be released on $5
million bail, rejecting government claims that he had engaged in
a “campaign” of threats against prosecutors and agents
handling his case.  The judge last week ordered him taken to  New York  to face
trial. Thomas Hester, a lawyer in Oregon who was representing
him, told Batts in a letter that Kinnucan couldn’t raise the
$100,000 in cash and property necessary to secure the bail. She
set the next hearing in the case for June 18.  Lawyers Appointed  The judge today appointed Jennifer Brown and Sarah Jane
Baumgartel, federal defenders in New York, to represent
Kinnucan. Both declined to comment after court on whether they
would seek his release pending trial.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman told Batts his office
expected to turn the government’s evidence over to Kinnucan’s
lawyers within the next month.  “There are wiretaps of thousands of telephone calls, tens
of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of documents produced
by public companies and the hedge fund clients of John
Kinnucan,” Weitzman said. “The discovery is voluminous and
should take defense counsel some time to read.”  Prosecutors argued at a Feb. 23 hearing that Kinnucan
should remain in custody because he posed a danger to the
community and to authorities handling his case. They pointed to
at least 24 menacing voice-mail messages on the office phones of
prosecutors and FBI agents, as well as at the homes of two
cooperating witnesses.  Bad Language  Batts said that while “the vile, filthy, inflammatory,
insulting language” Kinnucan used with prosecutors and agents
was “mind-boggling,” she ruled that she didn’t consider it a
direct threat.  Kinnucan announced in October 2010 to his hedge fund
clients that he had refused a request by FBI agents in New York
to wear a recording device and inform on his clients, which
presaged more than two dozen insider-trading arrests.  He sent an e-mail that month to about 20 hedge-fund and
mutual-fund clients, including SAC Capital Advisors LP and
Citadel Asset Management, alerting them about the government’s
insider-trading crackdown by Bharara’s office, the FBI and the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  He faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
 securities fraud .  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 