-- Hancock Said to Seek Up to A$7 Billion Debt for Roy Hill
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-03-14T08:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/hancock-said-to-hire-bnp-and-nab-as-advisers-for-roy-hill-debt.html
Hancock Prospecting Pty, controlled
by  Australia ’s richest woman Gina Rinehart, will seek as much as
A$7 billion ($7.36 billion) of debt to fund development of the
Roy Hill iron ore project, according to two people familiar with
the matter.  BNP Paribas SA and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  are
advising Hancock on the debt package, the people said, asking
not to be identified because the talks are private.  Rinehart, 58, is seeking to develop a number of iron ore
and coal projects in Australia to help feed growing demand for
the resources from countries including  China . The Roy Hill
project in Western Australia’s Pilbara, the biggest producing
region of the steelmaking raw material, contains more than 2.4
billion metric tons of  iron ore , according to information on the
resource explorer’s website. Hancock Prospecting is privately
held by Rinehart.  Rinehart’s fortune has doubled to $18 billion from last
year as Asian demand for coal and iron ore drove up the value of
assets in Western Australia and Queensland, Forbes magazine said
last month. She inherited her fortune from her father Lang, who
discovered the iron ore mines that today supply Asia’s steel
industry.  South Korea’s Posco, the world’s third-biggest steelmaker,
in January agreed to pay 1.78 trillion won ($1.6 billion) to
raise its stake in Roy Hill to 15 percent from 3.8 percent.
Rinehart, through Hancock, sold a 79 percent stake in two coal
projects in the state of Queensland to India’s  GVK Power &
Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP)  for $1.26 billion last year.  Rinehart may unveil more partners in the Roy Hill mine this
week, the Australian newspaper reported on March 13, without
citing anyone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  