-- Aneka, Buana Listya, Garuda, Pakuwon: Indonesia Equity Preview
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-03-14T01:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/aneka-buana-listya-garuda-pakuwon-indonesia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have  unusual  moves in  Indonesian trading . Stock symbols are
in parentheses, and share prices are as of the previous close.  The  Jakarta Composite index  rose 0.5 percent to 4,008.64.  PT Aneka Tambang (ANTM)  : PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara,
the state utility, will build steam and diesel powered plants in
Indonesia’s North Maluku province with a combined capacity of
230 megawatts and sell the electricity to Aneka, the Investor
Daily Indonesia reported, citing Murtaqi Syamsuddin, a director
for business and risk management at Listrik Negara. Aneka, the
nickel producer that is building a ferronickel smelter in
Halmahera, was unchanged at 1,870 rupiah.  PT Buana Listya Tama (BULL)  (BULL IJ): Parent company PT Berlian
Laju Tanker said it obtained an order from the  High Court  of
Singapore that will prevent its ships from being impounded while
it “puts in place a successful restructuring.” Buana, a
provider of freight transportation services, was unchanged at 67
rupiah.  PT Garuda Indonesia (GIAA)  (GIAA IJ): PT Danakreksa Sekuritas, PT
Bahana Securities and PT Mandiri Sekuritas will sell their
stakes in the national flag carrier this month at a 10 percent
premium to the market price, the  Bisnis Indonesia  reported,
citing State Enterprises Minister Dahlan Iskan. The three state
brokerages acquired Garuda shares when they underwrote the
airline’s initial public offering in February last year, the
report said. Garuda rose 3.5 percent to 590 rupiah.  PT Leo Investments (ITTG)  : The  investment company  will
spend 87.4 billion rupiah ($9.5 million), or 85 percent of the
proceeds from its planned rights offer, to develop a coal-bed
methane project, the Bisnis Indonesia reported, citing a company
document. Leo plans to raise 102.4 billion rupiah from selling
985 million shares at 104 rupiah each, the report said. The
stock climbed 1.1 percent to 91 rupiah.  PT Pakuwon Jati (PWON)  : The property developer plans a
four-for-one stock split to boost trading in its shares, the
Bisnis Indonesia reported, citing Irene Tedja, an investor
relations officer and director at the company. Pakuwon gained
1.2 percent to 840 rupiah.  PT Timah (TINS)  : Tin futures advanced 3.3 percent to
$24,250 a metric ton in  London  yesterday, the steepest gain
since Feb. 7. Timah, Indonesia’s largest producer of the metal,
was unchanged at 1,890 rupiah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  