-- Anglo’s Diamonds Seen as M&A Turnoff for Glencore: Commodities
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-03-14T16:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/anglo-s-diamonds-seen-as-m-a-turnoff-for-glencore-commodities.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s $5.1 billion
plan to almost double its diamond business and platinum mines
that are missing targets risk killing its allure as a takeover
candidate for a merged Glencore International Plc- Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   Anglo has agreed to buy an additional 40 percent of  De
Beers , the biggest producer of diamonds, a gem shunned by most
commodities companies because it only trades over the counter. A
takeover of Anglo would also give Botswana the option to
renegotiate De Beers’ access to the world’s most valuable
 diamond mines .  “De Beers almost becomes a poison pill,” said Charles Wyndham, a former sales director at De Beers and founder of WWW
International Diamond Consultants Ltd. “In Anglo’s books, De
Beers must be down for about $10 billion. That’s quite a chunk
of money to pay for something you might not want.”  Speculation of a bid for Anglo has been carried forward by
analysts after people familiar with the companies told Bloomberg
Anglo may draw interest from Glencore and Xstrata, which said
Feb. 7 they plan to combine as the fourth-largest mining
company. A suitor for Anglo, attracted by its copper, iron ore
and coal, may also be deterred by its platinum operations, which
the company said Feb. 17 it’s reviewing because returns “are
not acceptable.”  Neither Glencore, Xstrata nor competitor Vale SA mine
diamonds. While  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  has said it’s studying selling
its diamond business, the Melbourne-based resources company
could also be interested in Anglo, according to Lutetia Capital
and WallachBeth Capital.  Largest Platinum Miner  Spokesmen for Glencore and Anglo, and a spokeswoman for
Xstrata declined to comment.  Anglo fell 42.5 pence, or 1.6 percent, to 2,564 pence by
the close of trading in London today. Xstrata slipped 1.2
percent to 1,151 pence, while Glencore closed 1.2 percent lower
at 413.35 pence.  Anglo trades at about 8.5 times estimated annual profit,
compared with an average of 13 times in the past decade. The
company plans to increase its holding in De Beers to as much as
85 percent by buying the Oppenheimer family’s 40 percent stake
in the second half of this year, Anglo said in November.  Anglo operates its own platinum mines and owns 79 percent
of Anglo American Platinum Ltd., the largest producer.  Cynthia Carroll , chief executive officer of London-based Anglo, said on
Feb. 17 that output from the platinum business is “a far cry
from what it was.”  ‘Easier’ Without Platinum  Selling all of Anglo American Platinum would make Anglo
American an easier takeover target for parties including a
combined Glencore and Xstrata,  Clinton Duncan  of Johannesburg-
based Avior Research Pty said Feb. 20.  Glencore operates mines and smelters and supplements that
flow of commodities by trading with 8,000 other suppliers. From
its trading offices around the world Glencore gathers
information on its markets and moves cargoes by ship and rail to
arbitrage prices at different locations.  Diamonds may not conform to that model because pricing for
the stones isn’t uniform, their worth being determined by color,
quality and size.  “Diamonds are not necessarily a natural fit” for Glencore
and Xstrata, said  Jeff Largey , a mining analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd. in London. “Looking at Glencore and how they
operate, whether it’s bulks or even base metals, these materials
are easier for them to trade, to make premiums on and enhance
margins.”  ‘Decisive Role’  A merged Glencore-Xstrata “will play a decisive role in
industry consolidation,”  Mick Davis , Xstrata chief executive
officer, said on a Feb. 7 conference call hours after the deal
was announced.  Xstrata dropped a proposed 29.2 billion-pound ($46 billion)
offer to merge with Anglo in October 2009, five days before a
deadline to make a formal bid or walk away. Anglo, which had
turned down the merger plan in June of that year, rejected the
strategic rationale and “underwhelming valuation” of the
approach.  Deutsche Bank AG estimates that diamonds would contribute 8
percent of Anglo’s earnings before tax and interest in 2013
after the De Beers stake acquisition, Carroll’s biggest since
the purchase of the Minas Rio  iron-ore  project in  Brazil  for
about $5.5 billion in 2008.  Diamonds are less profitable than the metals that may lure
bidders to Anglo. They contributed 9.4 percent of sales in 2011
and 6 percent of operating profit.  Copper’s Contribution  Anglo’s copper division made up 14 percent of sales and 22
percent of profit, and iron ore 19 percent and 41 percent
respectively, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The diamond industry has sought to prevent the gems being
traded like a raw material, or commodities such as  cocoa beans 
or copper.  The Antwerp World Diamond Centre, which represents
operators in the Belgian city where about 85 percent of rough
diamonds trade, has said the stones have emotional and symbolic
value other commodities don’t. De Beers describes the stones as
a “fragment of eternity” and has said they shouldn’t be
treated as an investment like gold or other precious metals.  De Beers sells its diamonds at 10 events each year known as
sights. The stones are sold at a price set by De Beers in black
and yellow “sight boxes” to selected customers known as
sightholders who must satisfy rules on financial standing,
business reputation and marketing ability.  Botswana Agreement  Aside from opaque pricing, potential bidders for Anglo may
be deterred by a clause in De Beers’ sales agreement with
Botswana, the source of two-thirds of the carats it mined in
2011. The provision allows the country to renegotiate the
agreement should the ownership of De Beers change, according to
a person familiar with the contract who declined to be
identified as the information hasn’t been made public.  De Beers signed the 10-year deal with Botswana in September
to ensure its access to diamonds from the country, which
produces more of the gems by value than any other. As part of
the agreement, which took almost a year of negotiations, De
Beers agreed to shift its  London  operations to Botswana.  Botswana Ministry of Minerals spokesman Potso Thari said
the sales agreement with De Beers is confidential and the
ministry won’t release details. Thari also declined to comment
on speculation regarding a bid for Anglo.  “If you have to keep De Beers, it might put people off,”
said Des Kilalea, a London-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .
“If there is no impediment to listing De Beers and getting rid
of it that way, it might be quite attractive.”  ‘Good Business’  De Beers, which mines diamonds by itself and in joint
ventures in  South Africa ,  Canada , Botswana and  Namibia , reported
a 27 percent jump in sales last year on higher demand for the
luxury gems in the U.S.,  China  and  India . De Beers produced 31.3
million carats in 2011, 5.2 percent less than a year earlier.  “The diamond business properly run is a good business,”
said RBC’s Kilalea. “No mining company should have a problem
with De Beers if it is properly run.”  Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg “may not like it because it’s
not a traded commodity,” Kilalea said. “I don’t think Xstrata
would mind owning a diamond company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  