-- Apartment Loans by Agencies Creating Bubble, Chandan Says
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-03-14T12:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/apartment-loans-by-agencies-creating-bubble-chandan-says.html
Low-cost financing backed by the
U.S. government is inflating the values of apartment buildings
and threatening to create a bubble, according to a report by  Sam Chandan , a real estate economist.  Multifamily loans issued by government-sponsored agencies
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac are buoying the price of apartment
buildings to the point that buyers may not be able to refinance
once  interest rates  rise, according to the report by  New York- 
based  Chandan Economics LLC , released today.  Getting a new, pricier loan for an apartment property
bought at today’s prices would require an income increase
“stronger than what we think of as a sustainable level of rent
growth,” Chandan said in an interview. “Are we making loans
today that we are not able to easily finance when they mature?
The finding is yes.”  Investors are rushing to acquire U.S. apartment buildings
as the  homeownership rate  hovers near the lowest level since
1998 and government-supported mortgage companies provide record
levels of financing for multifamily properties.  The dollar volume of apartment loan originations by Fannie
Mae and  Freddie Mac  reached the highest level in at least 11
years, according to the  Mortgage Bankers Association . The
government-supported entities boosted lending by selling $33.9
billion of bonds tied to apartment buildings last year, an
increase from $21.6 billion in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Easy financing helped push sales of apartment buildings to
$3.8 billion in January, a 53 percent increase from a year
earlier, making it the best-performing type of commercial real
estate, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-
based research company.  Interest-Rate Decline  The interest rate for a 10-year, fixed multifamily loan
designated for purchase by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac was 4.1
percent on March 2, according to Cushman & Wakefield Sonnenblick
Goldman, a real estate investment banking firm in  New York . The
rate is for a mortgage that covers as much as 80 percent of a
property’s value. That same loan was 5.6 percent a year ago, the
company said.  “We see interest rate risk right now as the most
significant risk,” Chandan said.  Chandan Economics analyzed 1,594 apartment mortgages
originated in the third and fourth quarters of 2011, with an
aggregate original balance of $12.7 billion. For each loan, the
firm applied a “ stress test ” to see how much rents and
resulting cash flow would have to rise for the owner to be able
to refinance at a higher interest rate without adding equity.  “In scenarios where Treasury rates reverted to long term
averages by the point of maturity, cash flow growth consistent
with prevailing forecasts was generally insufficient to support
refinancing,” the firm said in the report.  Rising Rents  Apartment rents in the U.S. climbed 4.1 percent in the 12
months through December, according to Axiometrics Inc.
Multifamily landlords probably will have rental revenue growth
of 6.7 percent this year, as few new buildings come to market,
according to the Dallas-based research company.  Last year, 37,678 new apartment units were completed, the
lowest annual total in 31 years of data compiled by New York-
based  Reis Inc. (REIS)   “With so much attention focused on improving apartment
fundamentals as a rationale for competitive bidding, market
participants are at risk of underestimating the critical role of
low-cost financing fueling current apartment trends,” Chandan
Economics said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  