-- Apple May Climb Above $700 as IPad Sales Begin, Analysts Say
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-03-14T21:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/apple-may-climb-above-700-as-new-ipad-sales-begin-analysts-say.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , getting a boost from
anticipation of the new iPad, rose to a record today and may
climb 19 percent to $700, according to  analysts  who raised their
price targets for the stock.  At least four analysts, including Katy Huberty at Morgan
Stanley in  New York , have increased price targets to $700 or
higher in the past two weeks. Apple, based in Cupertino,
California,  rose  3.8 percent to $589.58 at the close in New York
and has gained 46 percent this year.  More are likely to boost targets as they quantify the
market share of the new iPad, said  Michael Walkley , an analyst
at Canaccord Genuity, who raised his target to $710 yesterday.
The average price target of 43 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is
$605, which could mean updates are lagging behind, he said.  “As they do their checks in the quarter and stronger
numbers come through, it leads to better earnings power than we
were seeing even six weeks ago,” Walkley said in an interview.
“Some analysts are behind the curve on estimates.”  Shares of some Apple competitors have languished as the
company takes market share.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , which has tried
competing with Apple through smartphones, tablets and personal
computers, has tumbled 41 percent in the past 12 months. Nokia
Oyj has fallen 40 percent. Research In Motion Ltd., the maker of
BlackBerry smartphones, has dropped 79 percent.  As of today, Apple gave investors a 555 percent return in
the past five years and has  outperformed  the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index by 543 percent. Since 2007, investors paid an average
43 percent  premium  for Apple’s earnings compared with the S&P
500’s earnings.  IPad Upgrade  The new iPad, set to go on sale March 16, has been upgraded
with a sharper screen and faster chip as Apple Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  seeks to widen the company’s lead in tablets
over  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Microsoft Corp. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Slashing
the price of the older iPad by $100 also helps cut into
competition, said Huberty, who raised her price target to $720
yesterday.  Huberty also cited the company’s expansion in emerging
markets such as  China  and Brazil and a new TV product as reasons
to lift her price target.  “Apple’s earnings power is potentially far greater than
investors believe and our prior bull case model suggested,”
Huberty said in a note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  