-- Harry Winston, KKR, Apollo Said to Consider Bids for BHP
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-03-15T01:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/harry-winston-kkr-apollo-said-to-consider-bids-for-bhp-mine.html
Harry Winston Diamond Corp. (HW)  and
groups led by KKR & Co. and Apollo Global Management LLC are in
talks to buy  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s Ekati diamond mine in Canada,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The sale may fetch $500 million to $750 million and an
agreement could be struck in about a month, said the people, who
declined to be identified as the process is private. Apollo has
teamed up with former  Stornoway Diamond Corp. (SWY)  Chairman Eira Thomas to pursue Ekati, the people said.  The  Northwest Territories ’ Ekati project, which produces
about 11 percent of the world’s diamonds by value, according to
BHP’s website, is near the Diavik mine, 40 percent-owned by
 Harry Winston . The prices of the gems prices jumped 22 percent
last year, as measured by the Rapaport Diamond Trade Index.  “You’d expect to see someone like Harry Winston, who has
previously bought into projects, to be one of the more likely
buyers of Ekati,” Hayden Bairstow, a Sydney-based resources
analyst with CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said in a phone
interview. “You really need to have a pretty big downstream
presence, because it’s such an opaque market in terms of pricing,
which BHP doesn’t really have.”  BHP’s Sydney-traded shares dropped 1.8 percent to A$34.98
at 12:22 p.m. local time. Harry Winston, which sells luxury
jewelry and watches through a separate retail division, fell 2.7
percent to close yesterday at C$13.84 in Toronto.  ‘Limited Growth’  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, said Nov. 30 it
may sell some or all of its diamond operations, saying they have
limited growth. The Ekati mine, which is 80 percent-owned by BHP,
is valued at $300 million to $500 million, Tim Gerrard, a
Sydney-based analyst at Investec Securities Ltd., said Jan. 6.  Harry Winston Chief Executive Officer Bob Gannicott said on
a Dec. 9 conference call that the Ekati mine was “of some
interest,” adding that the asset “is close to the end of its
existing life.”  Stornoway’s Thomas, a geologist who is also a director of
Vancouver-based Lucara Diamond Corp., led the exploration team
at her father Grenville Thomas’s company, Aber Diamond Corp.,
that discovered Diavik in 1994.  KKR (KKR)  and Apollo, both based in  New York , have made
investments in natural resources in recent months. A group led
by KKR last year paid $7.2 billion for Oklahoma-based oil
company Samson Investment Co. while Apollo agreed last month to
acquire  El Paso Corp. (EP) ’s oil- and gas-exploration unit for $7.15
billion.  Melbourne-based BHP is being advised by  CIBC World Markets ,
the people said. It wasn’t clear who KKR had teamed up with to
bid for the Ekati mine.  Luxury Gems  Spokesmen for BHP, KKR, Apollo and CIBC World Markets
declined to comment. Laura Kiernan, director of  investor
relations  for Harry Winston, declined to comment by phone on
March 13, citing company policy. Thomas couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  De Beers , the supplier of about a third of the world’s
rough diamonds, reported a 27 percent increase in sales
last year on higher demand for the luxury gems in the U.S.,
 China  and  India . China may overtake the U.S. to become the
world’s largest market by end-2015, according to the Antwerp
World Diamond Center.  ‘Tough Asset’  BHP’s diamond and specialty products division had an asset
value of $2.8 billion as of June 30, compared with $18.6 billion
for its petroleum business, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The unit’s first-half underlying earnings dropped 61
percent.  “Ekati is a pretty tough asset, it has made reasonable
money at times but it’s pretty up and down, and it’s all BHP
have in diamonds,” said CLSA’s Bairstow.  BHP said in January that a review of its diamond business
could extend through to the first half of 2012. Chief Executive
Officer  Marius Kloppers  said Feb. 8 there was no update on the
sale and, in the absence of a buyer, BHP would “probably run
that mine to closure ourselves in a manner responsible to the
environment and community.”  BHP in December agreed to sell its 51 percent interest in
the Chidliak diamond project in  Canada  and its regional diamond
exploration database to its partner Peregrine Diamonds Ltd. Rio
Tinto Group, which owns the balance of the Diavik mine, wrote
down the value of its diamond business by $344 million in its
second-half results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  