-- Ashley Judd Goes Rogue in ‘Missing;’ Kiefer’s ‘Touch’: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/ashley-judd-goes-rogue-in-missing-kiefer-s-touch-tv.html
Becca Winstone, the skinny-jeaned
heroine played by Ashley Judd on ABC’s new thriller series
“Missing,” is a PTA-going suburban widow who arranges flowers
for a living.  Threaten her kid, though, and she turns into Batmom.  “Missing” is ludicrous, implausible and more than a
little fun -- a throwback to those old on-the-run dramas of
high-stakes peril. It’s “The Fugitive” starring a soccer mom.  An ex-CIA agent, Becca, is on the trail of a shadowy,
international organization that has kidnapped her college-age
son.  In the flashback that opens the series, a car bomb kills
Becca’s husband and fellow CIA operative (Sean Bean), prompting
the now-single mother to ditch the spy life and settle down with
eight-year-old son Michael.  Ten years later, Michael (Nick Eversman) heads off to
college in  Rome , where he soon disappears.  Suspecting foul play but with only a few clues and some
long-dormant skills, Becca goes rogue, kicking, shooting and
motorcycling her way through Rome and, in the second episode,
Paris, searching for her boy while eluding the evil-doers and
her old CIA cohorts.  “I am not CIA!” Becca protests to anyone who’ll listen.
“I am a mother looking for her son!”  Judd, an appealing actress, lurches from 007 cool to
sobbing grief with nothing in between. If she can find a more
shaded approach, her mission impossible would be an even less-
guilty pleasure.  “Missing” airs Thursday on ABC at 8 p.m.  New York  time.
Rating: **1/2  ‘Touch’  Kiefer Sutherland  abandons the post-9/11 vengeance of
“24” for a brand New Age of spiritual hokum in “Touch,” a
mid-season  Fox (NWSA)  drama.  The former Jack Bauer plays Martin Bohm, a Kennedy Airport
baggage handler and single father (his wife died on 9/11) of 11-
year-old Jake (David Mazouz), a seemingly autistic boy obsessed
with numbers and the lost cell phones his dad brings home from
the airport.  The boy won’t talk, fills notebook after notebook with long
streams of digits, and climbs cell phone towers where his brain
gets better reception than most New Yorkers’ smart phones.  Somehow, he’s able to discern the invisible connections
between random people and events, and can predict the future.  If only dad could figure out what those numbers mean, any
number of tragedies -- a school bus crash, a suicide bombing --
might be averted.  Enter Danny Glover as an eccentric professor who prattles
about “quantum entanglement” and guides Martin to
enlightenment.  Created by Tim Kring (“Heroes,” “Crossing Jordan”),
“Touch” is nonsense, however earnest.  “Touch” airs Thursday on Fox at 9 p.m. New York time.
Rating: *1/2  
( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 