-- Asian Stocks Gain on U.S. Retail Sales, Fed U.S. Outlook
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-03-14T12:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/asian-stocks-gain-on-u-s-retail-sales-fed-u-s-outlook.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a second day
after U.S. retail sales jumped and the  Federal Reserve  raised
its assessment of the world’s biggest economy. Shares pared
gains after Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said home prices are
still too high.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  rose 2.1 percent in Tokyo. HSBC Holdings
Plc and other lenders rose after the Fed said most of the
largest U.S. bank have enough capital to weather another
recession. Samsung Electronics Co. climbed 2.4 percent in Seoul
after saying it will supply screens for Apple Inc.’s new iPad.
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd., a mainland developer, fell
1.7 percent in  Hong Kong .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.4 percent to 127.41 as
of 9:27 p.m. in Tokyo, paring an earlier advance of as much as
1.2 percent. About three stocks rose for each that fell as the
gauge headed for its highest close since March 2. The index
gained 11 percent this year through yesterday amid signs the
 U.S. economy  is recovering and as  China  eased lending curbs.  “Asia is obviously benefiting from strengthening in the
U.S.,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of strategy at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under
management. “It’s also being helped by interest rate cuts and
monetary easing across the region from India to China.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  advanced 1.5 percent.
South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 1 percent and Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index increased 0.9 percent.  Stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index were valued at 14.9
times estimated earnings on average at yesterday’s close,
compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500 and 11.2 times for the
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  ‘Chaos in Housing’  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.2 percent, reversing
gains of as much as 1.4 percent, after Wen said loosening
property controls risks “chaos in China’s housing sector.” The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, dropped 2.6 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  were little
changed today. The gauge advanced 1.8 percent in  New York 
yesterday after a report showed U.S.  retail sales  increased the
most in five months and the Fed lifted its assessment of the
economy, citing an improving labor market.  Toyota gained 2.1 percent to 3,485 yen in Tokyo.  James
Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , an Australian supplier of building
materials that gets more than half of its sales from the U.S.,
climbed 2.4 percent to A$7.80 in Sydney.  Financial shares rose after the Fed yesterday said 15 of
the 19 largest U.S. lenders could weather another recession.  Banks Climb  HSBC Holdings, Europe’s biggest bank by market value, rose
2.3 percent to HK$69.30 in Hong Kong, while  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s top bank by market value,
increased 2.6 percent to 433 yen.  Samsung Electronics increased 2.4 percent to 1.25 million
won. The company will supply Apple with iPad screens after LG
Display Co. and Sharp Corp. didn’t meet the U.S. tech company’s
quality requirements, according to an analyst at research firm
iSuppli.  Mining shares advanced after the London Metal Exchange
Index of prices for six industrial metals rose 1.4 percent
yesterday. BHP Billiton Ltd. rose 1.3 percent to A$35.61, while
Rio Tinto Group gained 1.5 percent to A$65.30 in Sydney.  Far From Reasonable  Mainland developers dropped after China’s Wen said  home
prices  are still far from reasonable levels after two years of
property controls, The government wants to ensure long-term,
stable growth in the real estate market, he said at the end of
the annual National People’s Congress.  Evergrande Real Estate, China’s second-largest homebuilder
by sales, dropped 1.7 percent to HK$4.57. Soho China Ltd., a
Beijing and Shanghai developer, fell 2.9 percent to HK$5.29.  Wen’s comments “prompted a sell-off in developers as
obviously there will not be an easing of current restrictions,”
said Andrew Sullivan, principal sales trader at Piper Jaffray
Asia Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Developers will face tough
times for the foreseeable future.’  Among other share that declined, United Co. Rusal sank 4.1
percent to HK$5.87 in Hong Kong after Victor Vekselberg quit as
chairman, citing disagreements about dividends and asset sales
with Oleg Deripaska, the chief executive officer and controlling
shareholder. The debt-laden aluminum producer was suspended from
trading at the Hong Kong bourse yesterday at the company’s
request.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 