-- Asian Currencies Fall; Yuan Drops After Fed Refrains From Easing
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-03-14T08:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/asian-currencies-fall-yuan-drops-after-fed-refrains-from-easing.html
Asian currencies fell after U.S.
policy makers refrained from additional monetary easing, a move
that would have made more money available for investing in
higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar  Index (ADXY)  lost 0.2 percent
as the yuan headed for its biggest three-day decline since
November. The  Federal Reserve  raised its assessment of the
world’s largest economy yesterday as a government report showed
U.S. retail sales increased by the most in five months. The
 Dollar Index (DXY)  traded on ICE Futures in  New York , which compares
the currency to those of six trading partners, extended gains to
an eight-week high.  “The dollar got support as expectations of further
quantitative easing are receding,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a trader
at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “On the other
hand, sound data out of the U.S. and the better economic outlook
means that the trend of fund inflows to Asia will remain intact.
Sandwiched by those reasons, the currencies may remain in a
tight range.”  The yuan declined 0.15 percent to 6.3367 per dollar as of
3:50 p.m. in  Shanghai , Indonesia’s rupiah dropped 0.3 percent to
9,198, while South  Korea ’s won declined 0.4 percent to 1,126.25.
The Malaysian ringgit weakened 0.4 percent to 3.0490 per dollar,
while the Thai baht lost 0.3 percent to 30.74.  U.S. retail sales rose 1.1 percent in February, following a
0.6 percent increase in January. “The  unemployment rate  has
declined notably in recent months but remains elevated,” the
Fed said in a statement after a meeting in  Washington .  China Slowing  The People’s Bank of  China  set the yuan’s fixing 0.1
percent weaker at 6.3328 per dollar today. The world’s second-
largest economy had the biggest trade deficit in at least 22
years last month and the smallest increase in January-February
factory output since 2009, government data showed last week.  “There’s an assessment the weak trade numbers reported
over the weekend will prompt policy makers to limit yuan
appreciation,” said  Brian Jackson , a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong . “I don’t expect the yuan to
weaken significantly on a sustained basis. We expect exports to
pick up again.”  The rupiah dropped on concern government plans to raise
subsidized fuel prices will stoke inflation and erode returns on
the nation’s debt.  Inflation Expectation  Overseas funds  pared their holdings of local bonds this
month through March 9 by 1.1 trillion rupiah ($120 million) to
226 trillion rupiah, data from the finance ministry showed. The
government has proposed adjusting its inflation target in the
revised 2012 state budget to 7 percent from 5.3 percent.  “Higher inflation expectation is a major concern for
investors, which weighs on the bond markets,” said Apressyanti
Senthaury, a Jakarta-based treasury analyst at PT Bank Negara
 Indonesia . “The rupiah is unlikely to weaken beyond 9,200 per
dollar. It’s difficult for Bank Indonesia to maintain the
currency at a stronger level than that considering global
factors like the stronger dollar.”  One-month implied volatility in the rupiah, which measures
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell to a one-month
low today at 8.25 percent. The central bank will continue to
observe and intervene in the foreign-exchange and secondary bond
markets to stabilize the currency, according to a note posted on
its website last week.  The won fell to a one-week low after Korea’s unemployment
rate unexpectedly rose to an 11-month high of 3.7 percent in
February, the government said today. Economists predicted no
change from January’s 3.2 percent level, according to a
Bloomberg survey. One-month implied volatility in the won was
little changed at 8.76 percent.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso slid 0.5 percent to 42.88
per dollar and  India ’s rupee traded at 49.965 versus 49.98
yesterday. Taiwan’s dollar weakened 0.1 percent to NT$29.549.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  