-- Asset Managers Say Money Funds Safe Without New SEC Rules
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-03-14T20:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/asset-managers-say-money-funds-safe-without-new-sec-rules.html
The $2.6 trillion money market fund
business doesn’t need additional reforms being mulled by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according to executives
of top asset managers.  “We are concerned that these changes will eliminate the
utility of  money market funds  for most investors,” the
executive committee of the  Investment Company Institute  said
today in a statement. The committee said rule changes made by
the SEC in 2010 were sufficient to safeguard funds.  Regulators and asset managers have been debating steps to
make money funds safer since the September 2008 collapse of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its closing triggered a run
on prime money funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  The SEC is working on two proposals. The first would strip
money funds of their traditional fixed $1 share price,
substituting a floating value. The second would impose  capital
requirements  and restrict redemptions.  The Washington-based ICI’s executive committee is
responsible for evaluating policy alternatives for the group’s
board of governors. Its members include executives from Vanguard
Group Inc., Legg Mason Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., according
to the trade group’s website.  The committee doesn’t include any representative from
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager. BlackRock
said on March 2 that money funds could survive without their
stable $1 share price if the plan included key additions.  Rather than fight the SEC, money managers should work with
the agency to develop the best possible version of the reform
proposal, the New York-based company said.  The SEC is expected to make its proposals public this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  