-- AT&T May Terminate IPhone User’s Service as It Seeks Settlement
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/at-t-may-terminate-iphone-user-s-service-as-it-seeks-settlement.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S.
wireless carrier, may terminate its service to an iPhone user
who it says violated his agreement by tethering his device,
unless he keeps settlement talks with the company confidential.  On March 9, Eagan Avenatti LLP, a  law firm  representing
AT&T Mobility, the wireless unit of AT&T, sent a letter to
Matthew Spaccarelli, saying it is interested in discussing his
concerns about data usage provided settlement talks remain
private, according to the letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  AT&T’s decision to set caps on heavy users of wireless data
is infuriating some customers. Spaccarelli, who has become
something of a spokesman for customers unsatisfied with
restrictions imposed by wireless carriers, sued AT&T for
throttling his data usage and said he won the case in a small
claims court in Simi Valley,  California , in February. He has
been posting documents related to his case on his  website ,
arguing that AT&T had no right to slow down his service.  “I just feel like they are trying to strong-arm me into
shutting up,” Spaccarelli said yesterday in a telephone
interview. Spaccarelli said he has recently bought a prepaid
mobile phone, just in case AT&T cancels his service.  Spaccarelli said he contacted an AT&T legal representative
in order to receive the $850 payment he won against the carrier
in the small claims court rather than to discuss a settlement.  Spaccarelli violated his customer agreement with AT&T by
tethering, or sharing his connection with other devices, and
under the terms of the agreement AT&T has the right to terminate
its service, Eagan Avenatti said in the letter.  Unlimited Data  “Mr. Spaccarelli reached out to us to initiate a
discussion, and naturally, we responded to him to hear what was
on his mind and discuss his data usage,”  Mark Siegel , a
spokesman for the Dallas-based carrier, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “Mr. Spaccarelli has said he tethers a
second device to his smartphone, which is something that our
unlimited data plans don’t allow. For customers who tether, we
have plans that allow them to do just that.”  Siegel declined to comment on the letter from Eagan
Avenatti.  Many wireless carriers are ratcheting up their rates and
capping usage in response to skyrocketing mobile data use, which
is putting pressure on their networks. The strain on the global
mobile networks more than doubled last year, as consumers began
watching more mobile video and using tablets, according to
networking-equipment maker  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   AT&T said on March 1 it will start slowing the data speeds
of customers with unlimited wireless plans once they reach a
certain threshold. Customers will experience slower access
speeds if their data usage exceeds 3 gigabytes a month. For
customers with so-called long term evolution, or LTE, devices,
the limit is 5 gigabytes a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 Tgiles5@bloomberg.net  