-- Australia Recalls Beer, Picks Wade, Forrest in Test Squad
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-14T05:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/australia-names-16-man-test-squad-for-west-indies-cricket-tour.html
Australia recalled spin bowler
 Michael Beer  and named two wicketkeepers in a 16-man squad for
next month’s Test cricket series against the West Indies.  Beer, who played his only Test against England 14 months
ago, will provide backup to first-choice spinner Nathan Lyon.
Batsman Peter Forrest was included in the Test squad for the
first time with Matthew Wade, who was picked alongside fellow
gloveman  Brad Haddin .  Michael Clarke was named as captain and is expected to have
“fully recovered” from the hamstring injury that ruled him out
of the one-day contest between the teams starting March 16, head
selector John Inverarity said. The first Test begins April 7 in
Barbados, with matches in Trinidad and Dominica to follow.  “The inclusion of five fast bowlers, two spinners and two
wicketkeepers will provide important flexibility and cover for
any injuries that may occur in a country that is not easily
accessible by replacement or standby players,” Inverarity said
in an e-mailed statement.  Clarke said on his  Twitter account  today that his
rehabilitation from a left hamstring strain was “going really
well” and that he should be ready to join up with the squad
“in the coming weeks.”  Shane Watson , who missed the home Test series against  New
Zealand  and  India  because of injuries, is likely to fill the No.
3 batting spot left open by Shaun Marsh’s omission, Inverarity
said.  AUSTRALIA SQUAD: Michael Clarke (captain), Shane Watson,
(vice-captain), Michael Beer, Ed Cowan, Peter Forrest, Brad
Haddin, Ryan Harris, Ben Hilfenhaus, Mike Hussey, Nathan Lyon,
James Pattinson, Ricky Ponting, Peter Siddle, Mitchell Starc,
Matthew Wade, David Warner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  