-- Automatic Pentagon Cuts Must Be Stopped, Lockheed Chief Says
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-03-14T19:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/automatic-pentagon-cuts-must-be-stopped-lockheed-chief-says-1-.html
Automatic Pentagon budget cuts that
would take effect next year must be reversed by November,
 Lockheed (LMT)  Martin Corp. chief Robert Stevens said.  The prospect of cuts is having a “chilling effect” on the
defense industry, and Lockheed and other companies may stop
hiring and training, Stevens, chairman and chief executive of
the world’s largest defense contractor, said today at a
conference in Washington.  The possibility of about another $55 billion in cuts
starting in January “is a huge disruption to our business,”
Stevens said at an event on  Capitol Hill  organized by the
Aerospace Industries Association.  “We are not going to hire,” Stevens said. “We are not
going to make speculative investments. We are not going to lean
forward. We are not going to invest in incremental training.”  The Bethesda, Maryland-based company already has been
paring back for an era of reduced defense spending. In July, it
offered a voluntary separation plan to all 6,500 employees on
its salaried U.S. corporate staff, predicting about 2 percent
would take the offer. Lockheed previously had announced 3,850
job cuts starting in 2010.  Lockheed had about 123,000 employees at the end of last
year, according to a company filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The Obama administration’s budget plans call for $487
billion in cuts over 10 years from previous projections.
Lawmakers have deadlocked so far on efforts to avert an
additional $500 billion in automatic defense cuts over a decade.  Those cuts would begin in January because a congressional
supercommittee failed to meet deficit-reduction goals.  Lockheed Martin and other defense contractors have signed
“thousands of contracts that have terms and conditions,”
Stevens said.  Those contracts will be abrogated when funding stops, “and
there will be thousands of claims'' from small businesses,
Stevens said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  