-- Ayala Plans Record Home-Building, Entry Into Airports, Rail
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-03-14T04:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/ayala-plans-record-home-building-entry-into-airports-rail-1-.html
Ayala Corp. (AC) , the  Philippines ’
biggest property developer, plans to build a record number of
homes in 2012 and expand into airports and railways, Chief
Executive Officer Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala said.  “We have committed the highest  capital spending  ever in
our history,” Zobel, 53, also chairman and son of billionaire
Jaime Zobel De Ayala, said in a March 9 interview in Manila.
“Ayala Corp. a hundred years ago is different from today. We’re
open to change.”  Zobel plans to boost capital spending by 38 percent this
year to a record 91 billion pesos ($2.1 billion), 75 percent of
which is set for property unit  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI)  and  Globe Telecom
Inc. (GLO)  While the company has diversified interests to include
banking, its expansion pace has lagged behind rivals such as  San
Miguel Corp. (SMC) , which moved beyond its roots as a brewer to become
the largest power producer in Philippines.  “They have been criticized before for being conservative
even on the property side,” said Richard Laneda, an analyst at
Manila-based CitisecOnline.com. “The group has turned more
aggressive with investments in its core interests while trying
to move fast in other ventures like energy and infrastructure.”  Ayala Corp. advanced 0.9 percent to 416.60 pesos as of the
mid-day break in Manila trading. Ayala Land rose 2.7 percent to
21.20 pesos, and Globe Telecom was unchanged at 1,200 pesos.  Gin, Rum Traders  Zobel’s family started as traders and gin and rum
distillers almost 180 years ago. The family expanded its
businesses after World War II and helped develop  Manila ’s main
financial district of Makati, which includes the national stock
exchange on Ayala Avenue.  The company took its first step into the power industry
last year when it bought 50 percent of a wind farm.  “Ayala’s core businesses are at a mature stage,” said
Laneda, who has a “buy”  rating  on Ayala Corp., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. “It has to go outside of these
areas and seek new ventures to provide it with another source of
growth,”  Ayala Land plans to start construction of almost 25,000
units in 2012, 20 percent more than last year, Zobel said.  “In real estate, we have more projects going on line than
ever in our history,” the CEO said. “We’ve signaled our strong
interest in the infrastructure projects of the government.”  Ayala Land  won the first road project offered by President
 Benigno Aquino ’s administration to investors in December and
wants to invest in airports and rail projects, especially in
areas where it can build more homes and malls, Zobel said.  Economic Boost  The government plans to offer as many as 18 projects worth
more than 200 billion pesos to investors this year as Aquino
seeks to create jobs and spur the $200 billion economy after
growth slowed to a two-year low in 2011.  Ayala Corp. has flexibility to fund investments in power
and transportation, sustain  dividends  and buy back shares of the
company and its units on an “opportunistic basis,” according
to a  company presentation  dated March 9. It had more than $1.6
billion in cash and short-term investments as of September,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “With  interest rates  low and a system awash with cash,
it’s a good time for Ayala to be aggressive with expansion,”
Laneda said.  Ayala Corp. has said it will build 1,000 megawatts of power
capacity over five years.  San Miguel  has capacity of 3,148
megawatts.  Record Earnings  Ayala Land and lending arm  Bank of the Philippine Islands ,
known as BPI, posted record profit in 2011 while Globe’s revenue
was at an all-time high.  “In 2012, we should continue that trend,” Zobel said.
Ayala Corp.’s  net income  fell 16 percent last year after 2010
profit was boosted by a one-time gain. Stripping out one-time
items, earnings rose 16 percent and that trend should continue,
he said.  Globe, 30 percent owned by Ayala and 47 percent held by
 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , plans capital spending of as
much as $800 million this year as it expands and modernizes its
mobile-phone network.  Ayala Land and Globe have announced plans to sell at least
10 billion pesos of bonds this year. BPI has sufficient capital
to meet the requirements of the Basel III accord, Zobel said.  Ayala Corp. has  gained  34 percent in Manila trading this
year, Ayala Land has advanced 40 percent and BPI has climbed 37
percent. All three have outperformed the benchmark  stock index .
Globe Telecom has risen 6 percent so far in 2012.  Ayala’s Philosophy  “It’s not within Ayala’s philosophy to invest or take over
a company with the intention of fixing its problems,” said
Jomar Lacson, an analyst at brokerage Campos Lanuza & Co. Inc.
“It’s their nature to be conservative.”  The Zobel family traces its roots to Juan Valentin de
Ayala, who settled in the Philippines in 1795 from the Basque
region of  Spain . In 1834, Antonio de Ayala and businessman
Domingo Roxas founded Casa Roxas to engage in agricultural
trading and later began distilling liquor.  Unlike San Miguel’s Ramon Ang and  Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Co. (TEL)  Chairman Manuel Pangilinan, Zobel prefers to build
existing businesses, limiting mergers and acquisitions to when
there are cheap opportunities.  “The Ayala group is moving aggressively through organic
growth,” Zobel said. “M&A in a hot market like this; you’re
paying a lot and giving that value to somebody else.  ‘‘The best time for M&A is when the market is down.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net  