-- BCI Aircraft Leasing Owner Guilty in $50 Million Fraud Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-14T23:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/bci-aircraft-leasing-owner-guilty-in-50-million-fraud-case-1-.html
BCI Aircraft Leasing Inc. and its
principal, Brian Hollnagel, were found guilty by a federal court
jury of engaging in a fraudulent $50 million financing scheme,
 Chicago  U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald said.  The jury returned its verdict today following nine days of
deliberations after a seven-week trial, the prosecutor said in a
statement. Hollnagel and his business were found guilty of six
wire fraud counts and one count of obstructing a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission probe. Jurors deadlocked on a second
obstruction count.  “Hollnagel and BCI raised or otherwise obtained more than
$50 million, commingled those funds and misappropriated some of
the funds for their own use,” Fitzgerald said. They also
provided false information in connection with an SEC lawsuit, he
said.  BCI had been a provider of aircraft to  U.S. Airways Group
Inc. (LCC)  and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  The SEC sued in 2007, alleging
the business was a  Ponzi scheme  in which early investors were
repaid with money taken from those who followed.  Hollnagel was indicted in March 2010. The company and other
defendants were added in a revised charging document in
September of that year.  He faces as long as 30 years imprisonment on each wire-
fraud count, plus a $1 million fine and as long as 20 years in
prison for obstruction.  Three co-defendants pleaded guilty, two of whom testified
against Hollnagel at trial, Fitzgerald said. Jurors failed to
reach a verdict on any of three wire-fraud counts against
another individual defendant who had worked at the company.  Paula Junghans, an attorney at Washington-based  Zuckerman
Spaeder LLP (675191L) , represented Hollnagel and the company. She didn’t
immediately return voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the verdicts.  The case is U.S. v. Hollnagel, 10-cr-00195, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  