-- Bernanke: ‘Frustratingly Slow’ Growth Impedes Lending
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-14T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/bernanke-says-frustratingly-slow-u-s-growth-impedes-lending.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the weak  U.S. economy  impedes efforts by banks to
make profitable loans.  “Despite some recent signs of improvement, the recovery
has been frustratingly slow, constraining opportunities for
profitable lending,” Bernanke said today in remarks recorded
for delivery at the Independent Community Bankers of America
National Convention and Techworld in Nashville,  Tennessee .  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said yesterday that
economic conditions would still warrant holding the benchmark
 interest rate  near zero at least through late 2014.  Community banks are “facing difficult challenges,”
Bernanke said. “Their close ties to local economies are, on
balance, a source of strength, but a drawback of those ties is
that the fortunes of communities and their banks tend to rise
and fall together.”  The best six-month streak of job growth since 2006 prompted
Bernanke yesterday to acknowledge an improved path for the
economy, even as policy makers repeated that unemployment is
“elevated” and that strains in global markets “continue to
pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook.”  Bernanke said that “together with economic conditions,
regulation and supervision are among the top concerns for
community banks.”  Bernanke’s remarks were similar to a Feb. 16 speech on
community banking that he delivered at a conference sponsored by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Tougher Supervision  U.S. banks face higher costs under tougher supervision
including the Dodd-Frank Act. The firms have watched the gap
shrink between their interest earned and interest paid out as
the Fed pushed down long-term interest rates by purchasing $2.3
trillion in bonds and lengthened the average duration of the
securities in its portfolio.  Community banks are exempt from some of the most rigorous
new regulations, such as the “ stress test ” focused on the
largest U.S. banks.  The Fed released results of the test yesterday, saying 15
of 19 banks would be able to maintain capital levels above a
regulatory minimum in an “extremely adverse” economic
scenario, even while continuing to pay dividends and
repurchasing stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  