-- Bernanke Keeps Easing Option While Signaling Economy Improving
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/bernanke-keeps-easing-option-while-signaling-economy-improving.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is keeping additional easing on the policy-making table
even after upgrading his view on the U.S. expansion.  Stocks rose and Treasuries fell after the Federal Open
Market Committee yesterday improved its outlook for growth,
reducing expectations the central bank will begin a third round
of bond buying. At the same time, the FOMC reiterated in a post-
meeting statement that the joblessness rate is “elevated” and
“significant downside risks” remain.  Even after the most robust six-month period of job growth
since 2006, unemployment persists at 8.3 percent and Bernanke is
holding to his plan to keep the benchmark interest rate close to
zero through at least late 2014.  “The way the statement was crafted was to keep their
options open,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “What they’re
trying to tell us is ‘Hey, don’t change your policy outlook
because we’re not ready to say things have changed enough’”
that no more stimulus is needed.  The Fed has kept its benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008, and in January extended a previous pledge to keep
rates low through mid-2013. It has also bought $2.3 trillion of
bonds in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing.  Unemployment will “decline gradually” toward Fed goals
and the inflation outlook is “subdued,” the FOMC said. Policy
makers said they expect “moderate economic growth,” compared
with a prediction of a “modest” expansion after their January
meeting.  Shifting Stance  “The FOMC is clearly shifting its stance away from blanket
gloom to something more realistic, but they have a long way to
go,” said  Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S. economist at High
Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, New York. “The data will
force their hand.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.8 percent to
1,395.95 at 4 p.m. in New York, and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  reached the highest level since 2007. Yields on 10-year
Treasuries rose to 2.13 percent from 2.03 percent on March 12.  Treasury yields are climbing as the economy strengthens and
the Fed may be forced to raise its benchmark rate before late
2014, said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. The 10-year Treasury note yield has
increased from 1.8 percent on Jan. 31.  “Yields are rising with the tide of a stronger economy,”
said Rupkey, who predicts the Fed will need to tighten monetary
policy in 2013. “They should really welcome it. Higher yields
mean the many unorthodox monetary policy measures are starting
to bear fruit.”  No Welcome  Fed officials probably don’t welcome the rise in  interest
rates  and likely want to keep stimulus options open so as not to
see “the market re-price the policy outlook prematurely,”
Stanley said.  A government report yesterday showed retail sales advanced
1.1 percent in February for the most in five months. The gain
followed a 0.6 percent increase in January that was larger than
previously estimated. Demand improved in 11 of 13 industry
categories, including auto dealers and clothing stores.  The odds of additional stimulus were decreasing before the
FOMC statement. Sixty-one percent of economists in a March 9-12
poll by Bloomberg News said Bernanke will refrain from any
action to expand the Fed’s $2.89 trillion balance sheet this
year. In January, 50 percent of those surveyed predicted more
bond buying.  Economists were split over whether the Fed, if it chooses
to ease further, would purchase bonds while taking steps to
ensure its move doesn’t increase inflation pressures. Thirty
percent of economists say the Fed would “sterilize” the impact
of its purchases by using repurchase agreements and term
deposits to prevent new money from entering the economy.  No Suggestion  “There is nothing here to suggest it would happen anytime
soon,” said  Jay Bryson , senior global economist with  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  “You would need to have the economy hitting another soft
path” for more stimulus, he said. Still, “they are not
slamming the door on more QE.”  The FOMC’s meetings in April and June would be “good
opportunities for the Fed to do something” if policy makers see
additional stimulus as needed, Roberto Perli, a managing
director at International Strategy and Investment Group Inc. in
 Washington  said in a Bloomberg Radio interview.  “They want to keep their powder dry in case they need to
take further action later in the year,” said Bill Hampel, chief
economist for the Washington-based  Credit Union National
Association . The organization represents 8,000 member-owned co-
operatives with $961.8 billion in assets.  “In case they need to do a QE3, this is giving them leeway
to do it if they think it’s necessary later in the year,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  