-- HBO Ends Thoroughbred Racing Show ‘Luck’ After Third Horse Dies
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-03-15T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/hbo-ends-production-of-luck-in-wake-of-third-horse-s-death.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  HBO  canceled
production of the series “Luck,” citing safety concerns after
the death of a third horse working on the show, which was built
on characters involved in thoroughbred racing.  No matter how many precautions are taken, the potential for
future accidents can’t be eliminated, New York-based HBO said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Cancellation of the series, starring  Dustin Hoffman  and
 Nick Nolte , follows the euthanization on March 13 of an injured
horse that had reared, fallen backward and hit its head. The
show had suspended filming with the animals pending an inquiry.
The decision was made yesterday to end the show permanently.  “The two of us loved this series, loved the cast, crew and
writers,” executive producers Michael Mann and David Milch said
in the statement. “This has been a tremendous collaboration and
one that we plan to continue in the future.”  The inquiry into the third horse’s death, including a
postmortem examination and toxicology test, will continue, the
 California  Horse Racing Board said in a statement.  “Luck,” filmed at  Santa Anita Park  in Arcadia,
California, had drawn criticism following the death of two
horses in 2010 and 2011, leading to one prior halt in shooting
and added safety measures.  The network has aired seven of the first season’s nine
episodes. HBO ordered a 10-episode second season in January
after the pilot was watched by a total of 3.3 million viewers.  Horses’ Safety  Hoffman, in his first starring role on as TV series, plays
Chester “Ace” Bernstein, a wealthy businessman with murky ties
to organized crime, who has just been released from prison. He
seeks to take over the racetrack and add casino gambling, and in
the process gain revenge on a partner he blames for his
incarceration.  Bloomberg critic  Greg Evans  wrote that “Luck” is “loaded
with the teasing, tension-filled plots and weirdly convoluted
dialogue that’s marked every Milch show since ‘N.Y.P.D. Blue.’”  The latest horse to die wasn’t involved in filming at the
time of the accident. It had received an exam prior to scheduled
shooting later in the day and was being walked to the stable
when it reared, HBO said.  A representative of the American Humane Association, which
monitors animal safety on films and television shows, was on the
set when the accident occurred, and all safety precautions were
in place, HBO said.  “While we maintained the highest safety standards
possible, accidents unfortunately happen and it is impossible to
guarantee they won’t in the future,” the network said.
“Accordingly, we have reached this difficult decision.”  Stock Footage  People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, a Norfolk,
Virginia-based advocacy group seeking a law-enforcement
 investigation  into the horses’ treatment on the show, welcomed
the decision and said in a statement that stock racing footage
should be used if it was resumed.  Canceling the show was the best decision HBO could make,
American Human Association said yesterday in a statement. The
organization said it will reach out to HBO about the
“disposition of the horses in the ‘Luck’ barn and ensure that
they are retired properly.”  Time Warner, based in  New York , fell 1.5 percent to $35.98
yesterday at the close. The shares are little changed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  