-- HBO’s ‘Luck’ Stops Filming Horse Scenes After Third Death
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-03-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/hbo-s-luck-stops-filming-horse-scenes-after-third-death.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO suspended
filming scenes with horses in its “Luck” television series
after a third animal died working on the show.  A horse was euthanized yesterday at the Santa Anita
Racetrack in Arcadia, California, after it reared, fell backward
and hit its head, the Washington-based American Humane
Association said in a statement. The horse had just received an
exam and was scheduled to be filmed later in the day.  The show, starring  Dustin Hoffman  and  Nick Nolte  and
centered around thoroughbred racing, has drawn criticism for its
treatment of horses used in filming. The first two horses died
in 2010 and 2011, leading to one prior halt in shooting and
added safety measures. The current suspension will last until an
inquiry into the latest death is completed,  HBO  said.  “HBO and everyone involved with the production are deeply
saddened,” the network said in an e-mailed statement, pledging
“full cooperation” with the investigation by the humane
association, which monitors animal safety on film and TV sets,
and the  California Horse Racing Board .  HBO is shooting early episodes of the show’s second season.
The network said it will continue filming scenes that don’t
involve horses.  The deaths could have been avoided, People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals, a Norfolk, Virginia-based advocacy group,
said in an e-mailed statement. The organization said it has
asked law enforcement agencies to investigate.  Oversight Questioned  “Three horses have now died, and all the evidence we have
gathered points to sloppy oversight, the use of unfit or injured
horses, and disregard for the treatment of racehorses,” Kathy
Guillermo, PETA’s vice president of laboratory investigations,
said in the e-mailed statement.  HBO said an American Humane Association safety
representative was on the set today when the accident occurred,
and that all safety precautions were in place.  “Recent assertions of lax attitudes or negligence could
not be further from the truth,” HBO said in its statement.  A necropsy will be conducted, Dr. Rick Arthur, equine
medical director for the  California  Horse Racing Board, said in
HBO’s statement.  “Unfortunately, we see several of these injuries in the
stable area every year,” Arthur said. “They are more common
than people realize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  