-- Boeing Disputes India Report of $500 Million 787 Payment
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-03-14T18:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/boeing-to-pay-air-india-500-million-on-787-delays-india-says.html
A  Boeing Co. (BA)  executive disputed the
Indian government’s statement that the planemaker agreed to pay
state-owned Air  India  Ltd. $500 million in compensation because
of delays delivering 27 composite-plastic Dreamliners.  “I think if we settled for $500 million, somebody would
have told me,”  Jim Albaugh , president of Boeing’s commercial
aircraft unit, said today at the JPMorgan Chase & Co. aviation,
transportation and defense conference in  New York . “We don’t
comment on deals that we’ve done, but I can tell you that we’re
not writing anybody a check for $500 million.”  Airlines sign up for delivery slots when they place orders,
and Boeing faces penalties for late planes such as the 787
Dreamliner. The aircraft was about three years behind schedule
when it was turned over to its first customer last year.  “Mitigation is tailored to meet the needs of our customers
and can take on many different forms,”  Marc Birtel , a Boeing
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today. The planemaker
is “working with customers on addressing the contractual
requirements as they take delivery of their airplanes,” he said
without elaborating.  Prashant Sukul, a joint secretary at India’s Civil Aviation
Ministry, told reporters at the country’s Hyderabad air show
today that the planemaker agreed to the payment two weeks ago.
Air India may get further compensation as it previously asked
for $840 million and it has since asked for more because of
further delays, he said.  May Delivery  The carrier will get its first 787 in May and it will no
longer be the second operator of the plane, Sukul said. Delivery
was delayed from last year because Boeing is still working with
the carrier on certification, pilot training and introduction
plans, said Dinesh Keskar, the planemaker’s India head. He
declined to comment on compensation.  All Nippon Airways Co. received the first 787 in September,
ending years of delays caused by struggles with new production
techniques and materials.  Air India  is separately getting a 67 billion rupees ($1.3
billion) state bailout because of losses, Chairman Rohit Nandan
said today at the Hyderabad show, which features a 787 in the
carrier’s colors. The unprofitable airline has already received
32 billion rupees in government bailouts since April 2009 as it
struggles with fuel and loan costs.  Production of 787s has risen to 3.5 a month ahead of
schedule, as Boeing works toward a goal of making 10 a month by
the end of next year. The Chicago-based planemaker didn’t hand
over any Dreamliners in February as it worked on replacing
improperly installed shims. The shims are patches about the size
and thickness of two sheets of legal paper, used to fill gaps in
the aircraft’s plastic fuselage.  Boeing had delivered a total of five 787s by the end of
last month, all to Tokyo-based ANA. It had won a total of 868
Dreamliner orders, according to data on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 