-- Brain-Damaged Emma Finds a Voice With Grassroots IPad App
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-14T16:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/brain-damaged-emma-finds-a-voice-with-grassroots-ipad-app.html
Emma Edwards, 26, has no control
over the fine motor muscles in her hands, which stay tightly and
awkwardly clenched. She also can’t talk, walk or move her arms
more than 20 inches at a time.  Edwards, who suffered a traumatic brain injury in 2001, can
write e-mails, though, and she’s revisiting a favorite pastime,
sketching, for the first time in a decade, thanks to her iPad
and software applications that can cost as little as $7.  That’s a switch from the $15,000  communication device  she
had tried, a 9-pound machine approved by her insurer that tracks
eye movement on a special grid corresponding to the alphabet.
That device kept her tied to those in the room around her. The
iPad, along with several other consumer-driven apps, has
reopened the world to her.  “You see the joy on her face” when she’s using it, said
her mother, Jill. “It represents freedom for her.”  Edwards, of Rochester,  Minnesota , is part of a grassroots
movement sweeping the $1 billion-a-year assistive-technology
market. While Pittsburgh-based  DynaVox Inc. (DVOX) , closely held Tobii
Technology from  Stockholm  and Prentke Romich GmbH of Kassel,
 Germany , dominate the field, the advent of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and
an open operating system that enables anyone to create software
is changing the way thousands of disabled people communicate and
take care of their daily lives.  Industry Switch  About 125,000 adults, including stroke patients and those
with traumatic brain injuries, may benefit from assistive
communication devices each year, according to Thomas Gunderson,
an industry analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co. in Minneapolis.  RJ Cooper & Associates, a closely held maker of software,
accessories and applications for disabled people, has seen 85
percent of its business switch to the iPad in the past two years
since Cupertino, California-based Apple introduced the tablet,
according to R.J. Cooper, the Laguna Niguel, California-based
 company ’s founder.  “The consumers took the lead this time,” Cooper said in a
telephone interview. “Parents are hiring people to create apps
because they’re sick and tired of what’s available: 20-pound
devices they can’t take to the playground.”  IPads and similar devices “have moved from the mainstream
to special needs,” he said. “And what a crossover it’s been.
The hubbub isn’t even nearly over. People are still jumping on
the train.”  Struggling to Communicate  Emma Edwards was 16 in 2001 when she crashed her car in a
rainstorm, just two months after getting her driver’s license.
The accident left her with permanent damage in the portion of
her brain that controls voluntary movement. Her brain sends
constant messages telling her muscles to clench, creating
 spasticity  that contorts her hands and feet, bends her joints
and reduces her range of motion.  “When she first had her accident, we couldn’t communicate
at all,” Jill Edwards said in an interview. “I knew she
understood, but nobody had figured out a way to break through.”  The Edwards’ insurer approved the eye-gaze technology for
Emma, but the machine needed to be recalibrated when it was
moved, was bulky and couldn’t be used outside, Jill Edwards
said. That limited its usefulness.  Emma underwent a series of operations and last year sank
into major depression, according to Tammy Vos-Draper, her
occupational therapist at the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester. An iPad
from her mother and a $6.99 art application Vos-Draper found on
iTunes helped pull her out of it, along with programs like e-
mail and Facebook, the therapist said.  Simple and Inexpensive  “Something inexpensive and simple that’s accessible to
everyone -- you don’t need a prescription, you don’t need to
spend thousands of dollars -- has dramatically changed her
life,” Vos-Draper said in an interview.  Emma has a special stylus that a caretaker slides between
her fingers that she uses to laboriously type e-mail. She had
moved out of her parents’ home several years ago and into a
group house near the  Mayo Clinic , where she receives
occupational therapy.  While typos and repeat letters caused by holding down a key
too long are common, the direct connection is invaluable, said
her mother.  “It’s so fun to get an e-mail from her,” Jill Edwards
said. “There will be mistakes because of the physical struggles
that she has, like two Ms in a row if she holds down the key for
too long. But for her to be able to communicate directly with
me, it’s rare. There is just something really personal about
it.”  Talk to Me  While Emma can’t talk, she can converse through an iPad
application called Talk to Me that lets users type out or touch
words on a screen, then converts them into a physical voice.  The iPad, Emma said using Talk to Me, “has given me the
ability to not only communicate more independently but to also
share my artistic abilities once again.”  She sketches using a special paintbrush designed to work
with the iPad and a $6.99 application known as  ArtRage , from
closely held Ambient Design Ltd. in Auckland,  New Zealand .  Emma’s range was limited to a tiny portion of the 7-inch by
9-inch screen when she started using the program four months
ago, Vos-Draper said. The woman’s determination, along with
hours of practice, now has her filling the entire space.  Emma’s drive to create art has reaped other benefits, Vos-
Draper said. The movements work like  occupational therapy , and
now she can brush her teeth, feed herself and smooth down the
front of her hair.  Drawing Again  “One of the things that was most dear to her was her
ability to draw,” Jill Edwards said. “From the very beginning,
with every surgery, she would hope she would be able to use her
hands to draw again,” a pastime that had won her accolades in
high school and community awards.  Emma has done a dozen drawings, with names including
“Starry Night” and “Blue Elephant.” While they aren’t the
realistic renditions that Emma previously drew, “it’s huge for
her,” her mother said.  Emma’s iPad is fastened to her wheelchair with photography
and automotive equipment, which was built by Jeff Boyer of
Houston. Boyer’s mother, Jeanette, suffered a stroke that left
her unable to speak clearly. He set his mother up with Skype so
he could communicate with her visually from her home in
Rochester. After two broken iPads, he realized she needed a
sturdier way to attach the device to her wheelchair.  Do-It-Yourself  He started building the contraption himself and, with the
encouragement of the Mayo Clinic staff, selling copies online.
He has also crafted funny vignettes for Jeanette’s speech
program to read -- such as “My name is Jeanette. I really like
driving my wheelchair around at speed level” -- as well as
shopping lists that enable her to click on favorite foods and an
address book that includes her family.  “We’re making this stuff up as we go along,” Boyer said
in an interview. Jeanette, meanwhile, can now shop by herself.  Apple builds features like the ability to zoom into a
certain area or to enlarge text into all its products to improve
accessibility, said  Trudy Muller , a company spokeswoman.
“Assistive technologies are deeply important to us,” she said.  About half of new patients arriving at the  University of
Central Florida’s Communication Disorders Clinic  bring some type
of home-used technology, said Janet Whiteside, chairman of the
board of clinical educators.  Using the Technology  It’s not just e-mail, she said. Patients have global
positioning systems, one-touch planners that show pictures of
their next activity and alarms that remind them verbally and in
writing of appointments and what medicines to take.  Gunderson, the Piper Jaffray analyst in Minneapolis, said
the popularity of the devices is increasing the market for
technology that meets the special needs of people. It’s also
bringing down the size and the cost of the devices, he said.  “The latest product from DynaVox is more iPad-like, but
has more beef behind it that’s directed at people who have
coordination problems,” he said.  Emma is seeing success of her own.  “People on the outside look at Emma and think what a
shame,” Jill Edwards said. “But I tell her, if she was able to
walk and talk but I had lost her mentally, if she wasn’t able to
think, I would have really lost her. Her personality is the
same. On the inside, she is still the same Emma. We can
communicate. We still have her. For that we are very blessed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  