-- Brazilian Real Weakens as Fed Comments Dim Outlook for Inflows
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-14T21:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/brazilian-real-weakens-as-fed-comments-dim-outlook-for-inflows.html
Brazil’s real weakened after
 Federal Reserve  policy makers raised their outlook for U.S.
growth, quelling speculation they will begin a third round of
bond buying that would further depreciate the dollar.  The real declined 0.7 percent to 1.8044 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1.7922 yesterday. The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate
futures contract due in January 2013 dropped three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.67 percent.  Brazil’s real weakened with most other emerging-market
currencies after the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
yesterday it expects “moderate economic growth” and predicted
the U.S. unemployment rate “will decline gradually.” The
comments reduced speculation the central bank will resume buying
bonds to stimulate the world’s largest economy, which would
increase the dollar supply and fuel demand for higher-yielding
assets.  “The Fed improved the scenario for the U.S. and for the
global economy,” said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency
strategist with RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“With a stronger dollar in the world, this could reduce the
appreciation of risk assets like commodities and riskier
currencies.”  Gross domestic product in the U.S. will climb at a 2.5
percent annual rate in the final three months of the year, up
from 2 percent this quarter, according to the median forecast of
71 economists surveyed from March 9 to March 13. For all of
2012, the U.S. may expand 2.2 percent, accelerating from 1.7
percent growth last year.  Brazilian Rate Futures  The Federal Reserve kept its benchmark interest rate target
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since
December 2008.  Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts
maturing in July 2013 or sooner fell after Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said yesterday in Senate testimony that the
benchmark rate will converge toward the country’s long-term
interest rate, which is used by the national  development bank  to
provide subsidized loans to companies. The so-called  TJLP (BZTJLP)  is
currently at a record low 6 percent.  Mantega’s comments bolstered speculation the central bank
will aggressively cut borrowing costs in coming months,
according to Ram Bala Chandran, a Latin America currency and
rates strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  Central bankers led by President Alexandre Tombini stepped
up the pace of interest-rate cuts to 75 basis points on March 7,
reducing the benchmark overnight rate to 9.75 percent, to help
spur growth and diminish the allure of the country’s fixed-
income assets. Policy makers have lowered the rate 275 basis
points since August.  Interest-Rate Outlook  Longer-term yields rose as signs the global economy is
recovering boosted wagers that inflation may limit the length of
the interest-rate cutting cycle, Cattan-Naslausky said.  “Just like the Fed has done, at some moment  Brazil ’s Copom
will have to recognize the better environment,” she said.
“This would give a better signal about the end of this cycle of
monetary easing.”  Traders are anticipating Tombini will reduce the Selic rate
by 50 basis points in April and to as low as 8.5 percent by
July, according to rate futures yields.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Josue Leonel} in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
{Gabrielle Coppola} in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  