-- Brazil to Issue Regulations Supporting Solar Energy, Aneel Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-03-14T16:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/brazil-to-issue-regulations-supporting-solar-energy-aneel-says.html
Brazil , which has a single utility-
scale solar plant, will issue within two weeks a pair of
regulations designed to promote the use of power generated from
sunshine, the country’s electricity regulator  Agencia Nacional
de Energia Eletrica  said.  The two-pronged policy push offers tax breaks to utilities
and will let consumers and businesses sell electricity generated
from renewable sources to the grid, according to Ivan Marques de
Toledo Camargo, Aneel’s director of regulation for distribution
services.  Brazil has organized power auctions that made wind power
cheaper than energy generated from fossil fuels and is the
world’s second-largest ethanol producer. The country is now
seeking to boost the use of solar energy, Camargo said.  “Brazil is supporting solar a lot,” he said today at a
conference in Campinas, Brazil. “We’re clarifying the rules.
The market will determine how much  solar energy  will be
developed.”  Under the new regulations, utilities will be eligible for
an 80 percent discount on taxes paid for distributing
electricity generated by large solar projects.  A net-metering regulation will permit homeowners and
businesses to feed electricity generated by systems such as
rooftop solar panels into the  power grid .  The amount these systems produce will be subtracted from
the power consumed by their owners, who will be billed only for
the difference, Camargo said.  The country’s only large-scale solar farm is a 1 megawatt
plant in Taua, in the northeastern state of Ceara, operated by
Rio de Janeiro-based  MPX Energia SA. (MPXE3)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  