-- Buffett, Branson, Clooney, Among Guest for Cameron State Dinner
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-14T23:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/buffett-branson-clooney-among-guest-for-cameron-state-dinner.html
Billionaires  Warren Buffett  and
 Richard Branson  and actor  George Clooney  are among the guests
invited by President Barack Obama to a state dinner honoring
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron.  The guest list released by the White House before tonight’s
dinner includes business executives, government officials,
entertainers and Obama political allies and donors.  Joining Buffett, the chairman of Omaha, Nebraska-based
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , and Branson, founder of Virgin Group
Ltd., are Blackstone Group LP President Tony James, Orin Kramer of Boston Provident Partners LP, movie producer Harvey Weinstein and Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia.  It also includes Obama supporters such as Matthew Barzun, a
former CNET Networks Inc. executive, who is leading fundraising
for the president’s re-election campaign and Terry McAuliffe, a
former Democratic National Committee chairman, and Neil Bluhm, a
Chicago billionaire and co-chairman of  Urban Shopping Centers Inc. (URB) ,
who is an Obama fundraiser.  The guests will dine on three courses and dessert, starting
out with crisped halibut with potato crust, according the menu
released by the White House. The main course is bison
Wellington, which the menu describes as “a perfect pairing of
U.S. and U.K. cultures.”  As with the last two state dinners, the menu notes only
that “an American wine will be paired with each course.”  The White House hasn’t listed the wines on menus since
Obama’s dinner in January 2011 for Chinese President  Hu Jintao .
One of the wines served then was a top-rated 2005 Cabernet
Sauvignon from Washington state that originally sold for $115 a
bottle and went for as much as $399 by the time of the dinner.  While the White House paid a price closer to the $115
price, according to the vintner, some Obama critics highlighted
the higher price as an extravagance.  The evening’s entertainment will be provided by the British
folk-rock band Mumford and Sons and singer-songwriter  John Legend .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  