-- Buybacks May Pressure Drugmaker Credit Ratings, Moody’s Says
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-03-14T17:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/buybacks-may-pressure-drugmakers-credit-ratings-moody-s-says.html
The ratings of European drugmakers
may come under pressure after the resumption of share buybacks
following a period of “intense” consolidation in 2009 and
2010, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Stock repurchases by  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and Sanofi probably will
be smaller and more opportunistic than those announced by
AstraZeneca Plc and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , Moody’s said. The
levels of those buybacks may be lower if the companies make
acquisitions, Moody’s said.  Pharmaceutical companies are returning cash to investors
after spending on deals such as Novartis’s $50 billion Alcon
purchase and Sanofi’s $20.1 billion Genzyme acquisition.
Buybacks reward stockholders by increasing earnings per share at
a time when best-selling medicines such as AstraZeneca’s Nexium
ulcer pill and Glaxo’s Valtrex antiviral face generic
competition that are crimping sales, Moody’s analysts said.  “If companies make share buybacks in excess of their free
 cash flow  generation, and their cash flows are not growing,
their credit metrics will weaken as a result, since they will
either need to raise debt or use cash on their balance sheets to
fund these transactions,” Moody’s said.  Large buybacks are unlikely because most companies want to
maintain ratings that provide easy access to the debt markets,
the analysts said.  Prime-1 Rating  “Because a Prime-1 rating hinges on an issuer’s ability to
maintain a long-term rating of at least A2 or higher, we would
not expect companies to undertake substantial share repurchases
that could potentially jeopardize this,” Moody’s analysts wrote
in the report.  London-based  AstraZeneca (AZN) , which Moody’s rates as A1 stable,
plans to buy back $4.5 billion in stock this year. That amount
exceeds the $2.5 billion Moody’s expects for post-dividend free
cash flow generation in 2012.  “Negative pressure on AstraZeneca’s rating or outlook
could build if sizeable buybacks combined with earnings erosion
lead its financial profile to weaken,” said Marie Fischer- Sabatie, a Paris-based senior credit officer in Moody’s
Corporate Finance Group, said in the statement.  Glaxo, based in London, said in February that it will buy 1
billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to 2 billion pounds of its stock
this year after repurchasing 2.2 billion shares in 2011, its
first buyback since 2008.  Free Cash Flow  The company’s free cash flow probably will cover that cost,
though Glaxo is also facing legal expenses, Moody’s said. Glaxo
agreed last year to pay $3 billion to resolve U.S. criminal and
civil investigations into whether it marketed drugs for
unapproved uses and other matters. Moody’s rates the company A1
stable.  “Share buybacks combined with other large cash outflows
could potentially lead GSK’s financial profile to weaken,
resulting in rating pressure,” Fischer-Sabatie said. “However,
GSK has provided a monetary range for its repurchases, enabling
it to retain a degree of flexibility if conditions change.”  Sanofi (SAN)  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  has said
the Paris-based company plans to stick to “opportunistic”
buybacks, and that he doesn’t favor sizeable repurchase plans
right now.  “In general, our preference is to have an aggressive
dividend policy,” Viehbacher said during a Jan. 10 presentation
in  San Francisco . Moody’s rates Sanofi A2 stable.  Novartis has about $7 billion remaining of a $10 billion
buyback plan first announced in 2008, Chief Financial Officer
Jon Symonds said in January.  “We are definitely not saying there are no buybacks; we’re
just not announcing a structured program that has a defined
limit to it,” Symonds told analysts and investors on a
conference call at the time.  The Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker has an Aa2 negative
rating, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Trista Kelley in  London  at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  