-- Brown Reaches Deal With Union to Compromise on Tax Increase
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-03-14T21:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/california-union-brown-working-on-compromise-tax-increase-plan.html
California (STOCA1)  Governor  Jerry Brown ,
who wants to close a $9.2 billion deficit with higher taxes,
agreed to join forces with the state’s second-largest teachers’
union, which backed a competing measure to put more of the
burden on top earners.  Brown’s agreement with the California Federation of
Teachers will ask voters to raise income taxes higher than he
initially sought for those making more than $300,000 a year, and
seek a lower increase in sales levies, Senate President Darrell Steinberg, the chamber’s leading Democrat, said today.  Brown’s plan had been vying for a spot on the November
ballot with the teachers’ union’s proposal and a third tax
measure championed by Molly Munger, the daughter of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s vice chairman, Charles Munger. Brown and fellow
Democrats had warned that voters confronted by three measures
might reject them all.  “The governor and the federation of teachers have come
together and joined forces in such a way that that dramatically
increases our chances of success,” Steinberg said of the
compromise.  The proposal would raise $2 billion more than Brown had
said his measure would generate in the fiscal year starting in
July, Steinberg said. The governor had estimated his proposal
would raise $6.9 billion a year.  Second-Largest Union  The federation, representing 120,000 school employees, is
California’s second-largest educators’ union after the
 California Teachers Association , with 325,000 members. The
larger union had endorsed Brown’s plan.  Under the new measure, those making more than $250,000 a
year would see their income tax rates increase by 1 percentage
point. Those making more than $300,000 would see an increase of
2 percentage points, instead of the 1.5 percentage points in
Brown’s initial plan. Earnings of more than $500,000 would be
taxed 3 percentage points higher, instead of the 2 percentage
points sought by Brown.  The increases would expire in seven years, instead of five
under Brown’s proposal. Sales taxes would rise by a quarter of a
cent instead of a half cent under Brown’s measure, to 7.5
percent instead of 7.75 percent, and would expire in four years.  “We have been trying to make the governor’s proposal more
progressive,” Fred Glass, a spokesman for the federation, said
today in a telephone interview. “The polling backs our
position.”  New Filing  Brown and the federation will have to file a new initiative
and present more than 800,000 valid signatures to county
elections officials around April 20 to qualify for the November
ballot, according to the  Secretary of State ’s office. Signatures
already collected for Brown and the union’s separate measures
won’t count.  Just over half of  California ’s likely voters backed Brown’s
plan in a poll released March 7 by the  Public Policy Institute
of California (85265MF) . Support had diminished due to the competition,
said  Mark Baldassare , president of the nonpartisan institute.  Brown’s office referred requests for comment on the matter
to his political strategist,  Steve Glazer . When asked about a
compromise, Glazer said today in an e-mail, “Stay tuned.”  The agreement leaves proponents competing with a similar
measure being pursued by Munger, a Los Angeles civil rights
attorney. That initiative would generate about $10 billion by
raising income taxes on most Californians and dedicate the extra
money to schools.  Steinberg said talks continued in an effort to persuade
Munger to drop her proposal.  “We don’t anticipate that it will change our plans,” the
Munger measure’s campaign manager, Addisu Demissie, said in a
statement. “We have an open line of communication with the
governor’s office and we look forward to continuing the
dialogue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  