-- Calstrs Opposed Disney’s Pay Plan, Iger’s Chairman Role
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-14T21:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/calstrs-opposed-disney-s-pay-plan-joining-chairman-ceo.html
The California State Teachers’
Retirement System, the second-largest U.S. public pension fund,
opposed  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s executive-pay plan and the decision to
combine the roles of chairman and chief executive officer.  Keeping the top jobs separate is in the best interest of
the company and shareholders, Calstrs Director of Corporate
Governance Anne Sheehan said in a statement today. The media
company’s performance is disconnected from its pay practices,
the West Sacramento, California-based pension fund said.  Calstrs’s opposition put it among 43 percent of holders
that voted against the compensation package, based on a
preliminary count supplied by Burbank, California-based Disney.
Investors approved all 10 nominees at yesterday’s annual
meeting, including CEO  Robert Iger , who also became chairman. He
was re-elected with 97 percent approval, the company said.  Calstrs, with $149 billion in assets, is second to the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  among U.S.
pension funds. The teachers’ fund holds about 5 million Disney
shares, worth $191 million, its statement said.  No board nominees got less than 73 percent support from
shareholders, the company said yesterday.  Calpers supported all Disney nominees and its pay plan,
according to  Wayne Davis , a spokesman. The fund owns 5.7 million
shares, said  Brad Pacheco , another spokesman.  Disney, the world’s biggest theme-park operator and owner
of Pixar, ABC and ESPN, hasn’t had a single person with both
titles since 2004, when then-CEO  Michael Eisner  gave up the
chairman position under pressure from shareholders.  Iger’s Pay  Iger received $33.4 million in total compensation last
year, according to company filings.  Six percent of Standard & Poor’s 500 companies garnered
less than 60 percent support for executive-pay plans last year,
according to  Say-on-Pay.com , a website about shareholder issues.  Executive pay is “entirely in line with” peers including
 CBS Corp. (CBS)  and Comcast Corp., Disney said in a March 1 filing.
Naming Iger chairman will “enable a healthy mentoring process”
for succession, the company said.  Disney lost 1.2 percent to $43.48 at the close in New York
today. The shares have gained 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  