-- Canada Fourth Quarter Capacity Utilization Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-14T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/canada-fourth-quarter-capacity-utilization-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s capacity utilization report for the fourth quarter
released by  Statistics Canada .  Canadian industries operated at 80.5% of their production
capacity in the fourth quarter, up slightly from the 80.0%
posted in the third quarter. The increase would have been
greater if not for the slight decline in the non-manufacturing
sector.  With the exception of the second quarter of 2011, which saw a
decrease in the capacity utilization rate, the rate has
increased steadily since the second quarter of 2009. However,
the rate of 80.5% was below that of 83.4% posted in the first
quarter of 2007.  The gain of 1.4 percentage points in the fourth quarter for
all manufacturing industries was offset by the slight decline
posted by the non-manufacturing sector.  Continued upward trend in capacity utilization rate  Manufacturing: Transportation equipment and machinery industries
are contributing the most to the rise in capacity utilization  The manufacturing industry operated at 80.4% of its capacity
in the fourth quarter, up 1.4 percentage points from 79.0% in
the previous quarter. The upward trend continued, but the rate
of 80.4% reached in the fourth quarter was below the 84.3% rate
recorded in the first quarter of 2007.  Strength in the manufacturing industry  The capacity utilization rate rose in the fourth quarter in
12 of the 21 major manufacturing industries, declined in 7 and
remained relatively stable in 2.  Among the industries reporting increases, the transportation
equipment, machinery, chemical products, plastic products and
metal products industries contributed the most to this growth.
Capacity use declined in some industries, particularly the paper
manufacturing industry and, to a lesser extent, the food,
printing and related support activities, and petroleum and coal
products industries.  Capacity use in the transportation equipment industry rose
from 83.6% in the third quarter to 88.5% in the fourth quarter.
This rise is mainly the result of  motor vehicle  and motor
vehicle parts manufacturing and also of aerospace product and
parts manufacturing.  Higher production of agricultural, construction, and mining
and oil and gas field machinery drove up the capacity use rate
in the machinery industry by 3.7 percentage points to 82.3%.  The capacity use rate for the chemical products industry was
up from 77.2% in the third quarter to 78.8% in the fourth
quarter, mostly as a result of the increase in pharmaceutical
and medicine manufacturing.  The plastic products industry operated at 74.9% of its
capacity, up 3.2 percentage points from the third quarter. The
rise was primarily the result of increased production of plastic
parts for motor vehicles.  In the metal products manufacturing industry, capacity use
rose from 77.3% to 78.8% as a result of increased architectural
and structural metals manufacturing.  Lower production in pulp, paper and paperboard mills reduced
capacity use in the paper manufacturing industry from 89.9% to
86.4% from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.  Non-manufacturing sector: Slight decline  In the non-manufacturing sector, the oil and gas extraction
industry was the only one to experience increased capacity use
in the fourth quarter, with its rate rising from 88.2% to 90.3%.
The  construction industry  operated at 77.4% of its capacity,
unchanged from the third quarter. Capacity use declined in the
electric power generation, transmission and distribution
industry and in the mining and quarrying industry.  Increased natural gas extraction is the primary reason for
the 2.1 percentage point rise in the capacity utilization rate
of the oil and gas extraction industry to 90.3%.  The 2.9 percentage point decline in the capacity utilization
rate in the electric power generation, transmission and
distribution industry can be traced to reduced demand for
electricity.  Note to readers  The industrial capacity utilization rate is the ratio of an
industry’s actual output to its estimated potential output. For
most industries, the annual estimates are obtained from the
Capital and Repair Expenditures Survey while the quarterly
pattern is derived from output-to-capital ratio series, the
output being the real gross domestic product at factor cost,
seasonally adjusted, by industry.  This program covers all manufacturing and selected non-
manufacturing industries.  At the time of this release, rates have been revised back to
the first quarter of 2009 to reflect updated source data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  