-- Canada Loosens Foreign Ownership Rules for Telecom Firms
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s ,   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-14T23:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/canada-to-loosen-telecom-foreign-ownership-limit-sell-spectrum.html
Canada  will loosen restrictions on
foreign ownership in the telecommunications industry and reserve
new airwaves for small carriers to attract investment from
outside the country and spur competition.  Canada will allow foreign  companies (STTELS)  to buy operators with
less than 10 percent of market share by revenue, Industry
Minister Christian Paradis told reporters outside Ottawa today,
and let those companies grow market share beyond that level
without merging with or acquiring rivals. The move, which
applies to new entrants like Public Mobile Inc. and  Mobilicity ,
will “remove a barrier to investment for companies that need it
most,” Paradis said.  Paradis also said the government will reserve wireless
spectrum for small phone companies at an auction next year and
cap at 75 percent the amount of what it calls “prime” spectrum
that the country’s three big phone companies --  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and  Telus Corp. (T)  -- will be allowed to buy.  The move is an effort by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
government to respond to calls from new entrants for help to
remain in business without undermining the ability of the major
incumbents to service growing demand for data services.  “It’s an attempt to keep all constituents happy,” said
Neeraj Monga, an analyst at Veritas Research in Toronto. “Those
who wanted a set-aside got it and those who wanted a cap, got
that.”  While the government had said it would consider scrapping
foreign ownership restrictions altogether, the more modest
change announced today will do little to entice foreign carriers
to invest in Canada, said Monga.  Nobody in Play  “ I don’t think there’s any urgency on the part of any
foreign players to enter Canada because of these changes,”
Monga said in a phone interview. “I don’t believe it puts
anyone in play.”  Montreal-based BCE fell 1.5 percent, Toronto-based Rogers
dropped 1.6 percent and Vancouver-based Telus lost 1.4 percent
before the announcement was made after Toronto stocks closed at
4 p.m.  “We’ve always said a fair and open auction is the best way
to ensure Canadians have access to the best and latest
technology,” said Rogers spokeswoman Patricia Trott in an e-
mail. “This is an important announcement and we’re taking the
time to review the decision and what it will mean.”  Anthony Lacavera, chairman of recent entrant Globalive
Holdings, said the decision “creates the illusion of a
competitive framework.”  Insufficient Spectrum  “The way those frequency blocks are broken down, new
entrants are just not going to be able to acquire sufficient
spectrum” to compete with the incumbents, Lacavera said by
telephone.  Telus is studying the details of the government’s
announcement and did not have any immediate comment, said Amelie
Cliche, a spokeswoman for the Vancouver-based firm. A spokesman
for BCE did not immediately return requests for comment.  The government will limit the amount of purchases that
companies like BCE and Telus can make. It is dividing the
spectrum to be sold into four of the most commercially valuable
blocks and capping the amount each major incumbent can acquire
to one block. That ensures at least 25 percent of the prime
spectrum will be reserved for new entrants.  No-frills Service  After buying reserved spectrum in 2008, Public Mobile,
Mobilicity, Wind Mobile and  Quebecor Inc.’s (QBR/B)  Videotron have all
begun offering mobile service in the past two years, targeting
Canadians with no-frills services often not tied to contracts.  “It gives the Mobilicities and the Winds,” opportunity to
grow some share,’’ said Brownlee Thomas, an analyst at  Forrester
Research Inc. (FORR)  in  Montreal . “Maybe it’s an advantage to the
likes of Videotron.”  The auction for the 700 megahertz band will take place in
the first half of 2013. The government will also auction
spectrum in the 2500 megahertz band one year later, according to
the statement.  The last spectrum auction in 2008 raised C$4.25 billion
($4.27 billion) for the government, which has promised to
eliminate its C$31 billion  budget deficit  by the fiscal year
starting April 2015.  The 700 Megahertz band is coveted by wireless providers
because devices using that frequency are better able to receive
signals inside buildings and in rural areas.  Data-hungry Devices  Companies (STTELS)  like BCE and Rogers say that they need the
spectrum to feed data-hungry smart phones and tablets, a market
where new entrants have little presence, and that they are the
only carriers with the scale to build the faster networks
consumers are demanding. The announcement comes as the
Conservatives look for business investment to drive the economic
recovery and boost productivity.  “Today’s announcement will not lead to cheaper cell phone
bills or better rural service,” said Geoff Regan, a lawmaker
and spokesman for industry issues with the opposition  Liberal
Party . “Without a competitive telecom market, Canadians will
continue to pay some of the highest prices for voice and data in
the developed world.”  The government pledged in March 2010 to relax foreign
ownership rules, which prohibit foreign investors from having
majority stakes in telecommunications companies. Today’s
decision is “taking the lid” off the issue of foreign
ownership restrictions, which should eventually disappear, said
Thomas.  “I would expect they would eliminate all restrictions on
foreign ownership, given there’s a tremendous oligarchy in
Canada which has a very bad impact on prices,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  