-- Carlyle Seeks Allison Transmission IPO at Triple 2007 Value
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-03-14T13:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/carlyle-seeks-ipo-for-allison-transmission-at-triple-2007-value.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and  Onex Corp. (OCX)  are
seeking to take  Allison Transmission Holdings Inc. (ALSN)  public at a
valuation that’s almost triple what they paid for the auto-parts
maker in the last buyout boom.  Allison plans to offer 21.7 million shares for $22 to $24
apiece today, a sale that would raise as much as $522 million
for the private-equity firms and cut their stakes to 44 percent
each, according to the  prospectus . The midpoint would give
Allison a market value of about $4.2 billion. That compares with
a $1.53 billion equity value when Carlyle and Onex bought the
company from General Motors Corp. in 2007, based on documents
Carlyle sent to investors.  The initial public offering would make Indianapolis-based
Allison twice as expensive as former GM units  Delphi Automotive
Plc (DLPH)  and  Remy International Inc. (RMYI) , based on last year’s earnings,
just as analysts predict slowing growth in U.S. truck sales.
While Allison’s profit more than tripled in 2011, the IPO price
leaves little room for further gains, said  Peter Sorrentino  of
Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati.  “That’s a stiff valuation for a company that probably will
struggle to deliver a whole lot more to the upside,” said
Sorrentino, who helps oversee $14.6 billion as a senior
portfolio manager. “We’ve had a pretty decent rebound in terms
of vehicle demand and in transportation equipment, so it’s a
little late in the cycle to be paying a premium.”  Ex-GM Units  Including net debt, Allison would be valued at $7.2 billion
at the midpoint of its  price range , or about 11 times last
year’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. Delphi, the car-parts maker formerly owned by GM
that went public last year, has an enterprise value-to-Ebitda
multiple of about 5.5, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Remy,
the former GM unit that exited bankruptcy in 2007, has an
enterprise value of about 5.4 times Ebitda, the data show.  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , a Cleveland-based company that Allison names
as a competitor, has an enterprise value of $19.5 billion, or
about 8.9 times Ebitda of $2.2 billion in the past 12 months.  Allison’s stock will start trading tomorrow on the  New York
Stock Exchange (NYX)  under the symbol ALSN. Melissa Sauer, a
spokeswoman for Allison, declined to comment. A spokesperson for
Toronto-based Onex didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.
 Chris Ullman , a spokesman at Washington-based Carlyle, declined
to comment.  Buyout Boom  Carlyle and Onex bought Allison at the tail end of a
private-equity buying spree from 2005 to 2007, when about $1.6
trillion in leveraged buyouts were completed, according to
Preqin Ltd., a London-based research firm. Private-equity firms
are facing pressure from clients to sell holdings and return
capital after economic concerns prevented them from exiting
investments during the second half of 2011. Carlyle is also
raising funds as it pursues its own public offering.  “They probably got it well before the bottom in terms of
valuation, so they’re trying to wring all the value they can out
of it,” said  Kevin Tynan , a Bloomberg Industries analyst based
in Princeton,  New Jersey .  Allison will get no proceeds from the IPO. The company took
on $4.2 billion of debt in connection with the buyout and still
carries about $3.4 billion, it said in its filing. Moody’s
Investors Service raised its rating on Allison’s secured bank
credit facilities to Ba3 from B1, saying in a March 8 statement
it expected “modest revenue growth over the near term.”  Truck Sales  The company has benefited from a surge in truck sales,
reporting net income of $103 million last year after returning
to profit in 2010. Allison got 34 percent of its 2011 revenue,
or $727 million, from parts for on-highway vehicles in  North
America , the filing shows.  Growth in North American sales of vehicles from delivery
vans to 18-wheelers jumped 54 percent in 2011 and may slow to a
14 percent rate this year, according to Bloomberg Industries.
Growth may shrink further to 3.1 percent from 2013 to 2014,
Allison said in its prospectus, citing ACT Research.  “I have a little more reservation about what the next two
years might look like,” said Basili Alukos, an analyst at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  who projects 6 percent annual sales growth in
2012 and 2013. “We’re at normalized demand right now. We don’t
expect a huge surge in truck purchases.”  Allison says it has 62 percent of the global market for
medium- and heavy-duty trucks driven on highways. It’s also the
market leader in North America for school buses and hybrid
transit buses, and the top supplier of transmissions to the U.S.
military, according to its filing. The company’s chief executive
officer, Lawrence Dewey, has worked at the company since 1989.  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  are leading the offering. Allison traces its roots to Jim Allison, who was a co-founder of Indianapolis Motor Speedway,
home of the Indianapolis 500 auto race, a track built to test
race car parts. GM bought the company in 1929 after Allison’s
death.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  