-- Carlyle Offers Clients Option to Exit Fund Stakes Early
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-03-14T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/carlyle-offers-clients-option-to-exit-fund-stakes-early.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the private
equity firm planning to go public this year, is making its next
fund more liquid by offering to help investors exit their stakes
early if they wish.  The firm, based in  Washington , will give clients the chance
twice a year to sell all or part of their stakes in Carlyle
Partners VI LP, according to a private placement memorandum, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. The firm is
attempting to raise $10 billion for the fund.  Investors in private equity, who typically agree to have
their money locked up for 10 years or longer, are focusing more
on liquidity since the 2008 global financial crisis froze credit
markets. Stock market declines that year sent less-liquid
private equity holdings over investors’ target allocations,
making it more difficult for them to meet capital calls from
fund managers.  “Two big concerns of investors today are liquidity and
management fees,” said Rob Parkinson, an associate partner at
Hewitt EnnisKnupp, a consulting firm in  Chicago .  Backers who put up $500 million or more for Carlyle
Partners VI will pay a discounted management fee of 1.1 percent
on committed capital, while smaller investors will be charged as
much as 1.5 percent, depending on the size of their commitment.
The life of Carlyle’s sixth fund is 10 years.  Chris Ullman , a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to comment
on fundraising.  Secondary Buyers  Five secondary buyers, or firms that purchase existing
private equity interests, have agreed to provide bids, according
to Carlyle’s sales material. They are Goldman Sachs Private
Equity Group, Credit Suisse Group AG, Coller Capital Ltd.,
Landmark Partners and Partners Group AG. Carlyle may also
purchase as much as 33 percent of each available interest, the
firm said.  Many private equity firms don’t get involved in their
limited partners’ use of the secondary market beyond making sure
that any potential buyer is acceptable to them. A few firms,
such as Sun Capital Partners Inc. and Bain Capital LLC, have
offered qualified matching services to their limited partners,
in which they pre-qualify potential buyers. Such services are
usually more hands-off than Carlyle’s approach.  The matching program will begin at least six months after
the final close of the sixth fund, which officially started
raising money in February.  Matching System  Twice a year, Carlyle will come up with the final price on
interests by taking the average weighted price of all bids
required to meet the supply of available interests. The highest-
priced bids will be matched first with the available interests
to determine the final price.  The firm “cannot provide any assurance whatsoever” that
it will be able to implement the program effectively, according
to the memorandum.  Secondary buyers can exit the program any time, and Carlyle
can terminate it at any point, the firm said.  The matching program limits the amount of interests that
can be sold in any six-month period to 5 percent of the fund’s
commitments. Buyers can hold no more than 15 percent of
commitments to the fund, and sellers are required to pay an
administrative fee to Carlyle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  