-- Knicks’ Carmelo Anthony Says NBA Trade Talk Is Making Him Sick
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-14T17:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/carmelo-anthony-wants-trade-because-of-d-antoni-n-y-post-says.html
Carmelo Anthony  said he doesn’t
want to be traded from the  New York Knicks  and that talk about a
deal is making him sick.  Anthony denied a report in today’s New York Post that he
had told an unidentified person that he wanted to be sent to
another team by tomorrow’s  National Basketball Association  trade
deadline.  He also told reporters following today’s practice in
Greenburgh, New York, that there is no rift between him and
Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni , as the Post reported. The All-Star
forward then took to Twitter to say he wants to remain with the
Knicks, who have lost six straight games to put their playoff
chances in jeopardy.  “Alright, enough with all this trade talk,” Anthony wrote
on his  Twitter account . “It’s making me sick to my stomach to
hear that I wanna leave NY.”  The Post said Anthony expressed a desire to be traded after
a 104-99 loss in  Chicago  two days ago. Anthony’s discontent in
New York stems from a belief that D’Antoni and interim General
Manager Glen Grunwald don’t trust him, and that he hasn’t been
asked for more input on personnel decisions, the Post said.  The headline on the back page of today’s newspaper said,
“Melo Wants Out!”  “I don’t know where that came from,” Anthony, 27, told
reporters today, according to ESPN. “I’m tired of hearing it.
I’m tired of anonymous sources. I don’t want to be traded. I
don’t know where that foolishness came from, so let’s put a cap
on that and make this the last time I hear about that.”  The Knicks have lost eight of 10 games since Anthony
returned from a groin injury, falling into a tie with Milwaukee
for eighth place in the Eastern Conference at 18-24. Anthony
joined the Knicks in a February 2011 trade with the  Denver
Nuggets  and has averaged 21.3 points a game this season.  The Knicks play tonight at home against the  Portland Trail
Blazers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  