-- Cathay Pacific Falls on Profit Drop, ‘Challenging’ Outlook
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-03-14T11:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/cathay-pacific-s-annual-profit-slumps-61-on-cargo-fuel-prices.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  was the
biggest decliner in Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  after predicting
a “challenging” year and suffering a 63 percent drop in
second-half profit.  Economic uncertainties will probably dent passenger and
freight sales in 2012, while fuel prices are continuing to rise,
the Hong Kong-based carrier said in a statement today. Net
income at  Asia ’s biggest international airline dropped to HK$2.7
billion ($348 million) in the six months ended in December from
HK$7.2 billion a year earlier, according to calculations based
on  annual results .  Cathay Pacific’s freight volumes fell 8.6 percent last
year, and it filled a smaller percentage of seats, as the
economic slowdown sapped demand in  Europe  and the U.S. for
Asian-made goods.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  also had a drop in
profit in 2011 because of the slowdown and a 40 percent jump in
fuel prices.  “This year doesn’t look really rosy,” said Tim Bacchus,
an analyst with CCB International Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“The first half is not going to be good for cargo, but I am
counting on some kind of rebound in the second half.”  Cathay  fell  2.8 percent, reversing earlier gains, to
HK$15.14 at close of trading in Hong Kong. The benchmark Hang
Seng Index dropped 0.2 percent.  Dividend Drop  The carrier cut its year-end dividend to 34 Hong Kong cents
from 78 HK cents a year earlier. Full-year net income fell 61
percent to HK$5.5 billion, missing the HK$5.8 billion average of
nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Excluding year-earlier one-time gains, the decline in
annual profit was 50 percent, Cathay said. Sales for the year
rose 9.9 percent to HK$98.4 billion.  “Last year’s economic uncertainties have continued into
the first half of this year,” Chairman Christopher Pratt told
reporters today in Hong Kong. “2012 looks set to be even more
challenging than 2011.”  The company booked fuel-hedging gains of HK$2.25 billion
last year, compared with HK$959 million a year earlier. That
includes unrealized gains. Disregarding hedging, fuel costs
increased 44 percent because of higher prices and increased
flying, the carrier said.  The airline filled 67.2 percent of cargo space last year, a
decline of 8.5 percentage points. The carrier and Singapore
Airlines have both pared freight capacity because of waning
shipments. Demand may pick up later this year helped by the
introduction of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPad, Nomura Holdings Inc.
analysts  Jim Wong  and Shirley Lam said in a March 12 note.  Cargo Outlook  “The outlook for air cargo business in the next few months
is still quite weak,” Chief Operating Officer Ivan Chu told
reporters. “So we are still predicting some softness in the
market.”  Cathay filled 80.4 percent of seats in 2011, a drop of 3
percentage points from a year earlier. Traveler numbers rose 2.9
percent to 27.6 million. The figures include unit Hong Kong
Dragon Airlines Ltd.  The carrier faces increasing competition in its home market
from Hong Kong Airlines Ltd., which introduced an all-business
class service to  London  this month. Rivals including Korean Air
Lines Co.,  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  and Singapore Air also
serve Hong Kong with Airbus SAS A380s.  Cathay is rolling out new business-class cabins to lure
lucrative corporate travelers, as well as introducing premium-
economy seating. It last month took delivery of its first  Boeing
Co. (BA)  777-300ER fitted with a premium-economy cabin and with new
long-haul coach seats.  Premium-Economy Seats  The airline has so far sold more than 5,000 premium-economy
seats which are as much as 80 percent higher in fares, Chu said.
Hong Kong, London and Toronto as the most popular markets for
the product, he said.  The airline plans to boost both cargo and passenger
capacity by “single digit percent” this year, according to
Chief Executive Officer John Slosar.  The company is due to receive 15 new planes at its main
unit this year, comprising 11 passenger aircraft and four
freighters. Dragonair received two single-aisle Airbus planes
last month. Another two A320s will arrive in November and
December. The group fleet, including a freight venture with DHL,
totaled 175 planes at the end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  