-- CBS Says ‘Big Bang Theory’ Among 18 Shows Renewed Next Season
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-03-14T19:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/cbs-says-big-bang-theory-among-18-shows-renewed-next-season.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-
watched U.S. television network, renewed 18 programs for next
season including “The Big Bang Theory.”  Four comedies, nine dramas, three reality series and two
newsmagazine shows will return for the 2012-2013 television
season that starts in September, New York-based CBS said today
in a statement.  CBS renewed more than three-quarters of its prime-time
schedule before executives in May pitch their biggest
advertisers on buying commercial time ahead of next season. The
network will obtain “double-digit” price increases and lead
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
in gains, Chief Executive Officer Leslie Moonves forecast March
10 at a conference at the University of California, Los Angeles.  The network is in “preliminary discussions” with  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. Television studio about future
seasons of “Two and a Half Men,” CBS said. Returning comedies
include “How I Met Your Mother,” “Two Broke Girls” and
“Mike & Molly.”  CBS will bring back dramas “NCIS” and “NCIS: Los
Angeles,” and “Hawaii Five-O,” said the network, which also
ordered new seasons of “The Mentalist,” ”Criminal Minds” and
“Person of Interest.” Reality shows “The Amazing Race,”
“Undercover Boss” and “Survivor” will also return.  Viewership is averaging 12 million viewers this season, a 1
percent gain from last season and more than any of its
competitors, CBS said. The network ranks second to Fox in
viewers ages 18 to 49, a group targeted by advertisers.  In addition to “Two and a Half Men,” CBS hasn’t
determined whether to order additional seasons of
“Unforgettable,” “Rob!,” “Rules of Engagement,” “A Gifted
Man,” “CSI: New York” and “CSI: Miami.”  CBS, controlled by Chairman Sumner Redstone, climbed 0.5
percent to $31.48 at 2:51 p.m. in New York trading. Before today
the  stock  had gained 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  