-- LCH.Clearnet May Join NYSE Effort to Take On CME Group on Rates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-03-14T17:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/lch-clearnet-may-join-nyse-effort-to-take-on-cme-group-on-rates.html
NYSE Euronext’s (NYX)  venture to take on
 CME Group Inc. (CME)  in interest-rate trading is in discussions with
LCH.Clearnet Ltd. to add swaps to the types of trades it will
allow to lower margin costs.  The joint venture between NYSE and the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp., known as  New York  Portfolio Clearing, may
include interest-rate swaps backed by the U.S. operations of
LCH.Clearnet, the companies said in a statement today. That
would add swaps to the interest-rate futures and U.S. Treasury
securities that New York Portfolio Clearing offset against each
other to offer lower margin payments to customers.  Users of the offering have saved about 30 percent on
average since the service began a year ago, Murray Pozmanter,
interim chief executive officer of NYPC, said in an interview
today at the Futures Industry Association conference in  Boca
Raton ,  Florida . It’s too early to quantify how much additional
margin would be reduced by adding swaps, said Dan Maguire, the
head of LCH.Clearnet’s U.S. operations.  “There will be substantial savings is what we expect,” he
said.  CME Group, the world’s largest futures exchange, said
yesterday that it will offer similar margin offsets between its
interest-rate futures and swaps cleared by the company.  Long, Short  The cost savings for banks such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. that are active in these markets come
from combining positions in Eurodollar and Treasury futures with
interest-rate swaps to allow long and short positions to cancel
each other out. The lower risk of that entire position leads to
less margin having to be pledged to back the trades.  NYPC and LCH.Clearnet signed a memorandum of understanding
concerning the swaps expansion, the companies said today. It
would require approval from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission and the  Federal
Reserve  in the U.S. and the Financial Services Authority in the
U.K., Pozmanter and Maguire said.  The clearing venture is still discussing how to manage
risks from customers’ trades that are spread across securities,
futures and swaps markets, Pozmanter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 