-- LCH.Clearnet Wants NYSE to Remain a Client, Axe Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-03-14T00:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/lch-clearnet-wants-nyse-to-remain-a-client-axe-says.html
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the
clearinghouse that is selling as much as 60 percent of itself to
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , wants NYSE Euronext to remain
an owner and client, Chief Executive Officer Ian Axe said.  LSE agreed to buy a majority stake in London-based
LCH.Clearnet for 463 million euros ($605 million) to expand its
post-trade services, the exchange operator said in a statement
on March 9. LCH.Clearnet, the world’s biggest swaps
clearinghouse, is seeking to expand its post-trade and risk
management offerings in the U.S. and  Asia , Axe said on March 12.  NYSE Euronext, owner of the New York Stock Exchange, has
said it would stop using LCH.Clearnet’s post-trade services for
European securities and derivatives in 2012. It extended that
until 2013 last year as it worked to build support for its
merger with Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse  AG, which European
antitrust regulations blocked last month. While  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s
Liffe operation said it planned to cease using LCH.Clearnet’s
post-trade services for its London-based derivatives business,
it never issued a written termination notice.  “NYSE Euronext is an immensely important client,” Axe
said. There will be “lots of opportunities with NYSE in listed
derivatives and other areas,” he said during an interview in
 Boca Raton ,  Florida , where he was attending a Futures Industry
Association conference.  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default. The
businesses have become more attractive as regulators globally
seek more central clearing of derivatives currently traded by
individual counterparties away from exchanges.  Banks, Brokers  LCH.Clearnet shareholders, which include banks and brokers
that use its services, will retain at least 40 percent
ownership. LSE wanted to purchase 51 percent of LCH.Clearnet and
said it would go as high as 60 percent depending on how many
shares are tendered. NYSE Euronext had a 9.1 percent stake in
LCH.Clearnet and the right to appoint a director at the end of
2011, according to a regulatory filing.  The LSE offer values LCH.Clearnet at 813 million euros,
according to the March statement. Shareholders of LCH.Clearnet
will get 19 euros a share in cash plus 1 euro a share from a
special dividend, LSE said.  LCH.Clearnet, whose SwapClear service began clearing
interest-rate contracts traded between banks in 1999, has seen
its market share in equities eroded by new entrants. Its biggest
customers, such as NYSE Euronext and the London Metal Exchange,
are considering clearing their own trades and two chief
executive officers have departed in less than six years.  Axe 
joined in April from Barclays Plc where he had been chief
operating officer for  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa .  Product Governance Boards  LSE intends to  entice  rival exchanges to continue using
LCH.Clearnet’s post-trade services, Axe said. The company may
establish product governance boards that include users and
representatives from venues in European equities and exchange-
listed derivatives, he said. The boards will give participants a
say in matters such as fees, replicating setups in
LCH.Clearnet’s SwapClear and other over-the-counter derivatives
clearing businesses, he said.  “If a competing trading venue were to play in product
governance, they’d have as much control over the product
governance as LSE,” Axe said. “They’d have equal say in
pricing, technology and risk management.”  That would give other trading venues incentives to process
financial or other products through the clearinghouse, Axe said.
He said the LSE is committed to the arrangement.  Remain Shareholder  While the idea of sharing control of the product governance
committee may appeal to a “start-up” exchange, it’s not as
likely to interest Liffe, NYSE’s London-based derivatives
market, Richard Perrott, an exchange analyst at Berenberg Bank
in  London , said in a phone interview. NYSE Euronext may remain a
shareholder since “it gives them a share of LCH’s profits, but
their primary driver is their own derivatives clearing strategy
and how to execute,” he said.  LSE had been in talks with the London-based clearinghouse
for more than six months. LCH.Clearnet had also attracted
interest from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and NYSE Euronext, which
planned to bid in partnership with Markit Group Ltd.  Axe said the LSE deal will offer LCH.Clearnet opportunities
for geographic expansion and growth across asset classes. The
exchange’s support of a horizontal model, in which the
clearinghouse offers services to multiple venues instead of
mainly those owned by the same company, as is the case with
Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex Clearing and Chicago-based  CME Group
Inc. (CME) ’s post-trade business, may draw business from new markets,
he said.  Rate Swaps  LCH.Clearnet plans to expand its U.S. business around
interest rate swaps and may then consider foreign exchange
offerings, Axe said. The company also wants to extend its post-
trade equities services to Asian markets and LSE’s index
business may provide opportunities in that region, he said.  LSE agreed in December to buy the 50 percent of FTSE
International Ltd. it didn’t already own from Pearson Plc for
450 million pounds ($706 million) in cash as it seeks to expand
in derivatives. The acquisition of FTSE International, which
publishes the U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 100 Index and more than
200,000 other gauges, is expected to be completed in the first
quarter of this year, the two companies said in December.  The deal between LSE and LCH.Clearnet, which is expected to
be completed by the fourth quarter, is subject to shareholder
votes at both companies and antitrust reviews, according to the
March 9 notice.  “There are no great concerns on the antitrust side,”
Perrott said. “Unlike the Deutsche Boerse-NYSE deal, the users
seem to be actively behind this one and that ultimately makes
for fewer competition concerns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  