-- Chinese Economy Already in ‘Hard Landing,’ JPMorgan’s Mowat Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-03-15T07:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/chinese-economy-already-in-hard-landing-jpmorgan-says.html
China’s economy  is already in a so-
called “ hard landing ,” according to  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s chief Asian and emerging-market strategist.  “If you look at the Chinese data, you should stop debating
about a hard landing,” Mowat, who is based in  Hong Kong , said
at a conference in Singapore yesterday. “China is in a hard
landing. Car sales are down, cement production is down, steel
production is down, construction stocks are down. It’s not a
debate anymore, it’s a fact.” His team was a runner-up for best
Asian equity strategists in a 2011 Institutional Investor
magazine poll.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.6 percent yesterday,
the most since Nov. 30, after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said  home
prices  are still “far from a reasonable level.” His comments
fueled concern the government will maintain restrictions on the
 property market  for an extended period even as the curbs
threaten to slow economic growth.  Wen announced at the beginning of a national lawmakers’
congress on March 5 an economic growth target of 7.5 percent for
this year, down from 8 percent over the past seven years. Data
last week showed  China ’s  factory output  in the first two months
of the year rose the least since 2009, while retail sales
increased less than economists predicted and inflation eased to
the slowest pace in 20 months. A report today showed foreign
direct investment in China fell in February.  Mowat said in May the risk of a hard landing was building
in China as fixed-asset investment in real estate had increased
even as property demand remained weak. That meant residential
inventories will increase and lead to a contraction in
construction activity, he said in a May 17 interview.  Excessive Decline  “One should be concerned about what’s happening in the
China property market,” Mowat said at yesterday’s conference.
“People are too complacent that the government can turn what’s
going on in this market.”  The slump in Chinese stocks to Wen’s speech yesterday was
“overdone” as his comments on property were only a reiteration
and don’t reflect consensus in the government, Jason Todd,
global head of equity strategy at Religare Capital Markets Ltd.,
wrote in a report. The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  slid 0.7 percent today
for the biggest two-day loss since August.  Wen, set to leave office next year after a decade in power,
also said yesterday his nation must adopt political change to
support an economic transformation that has produced rapid
development at the cost of a widening wealth gap.  ‘Vastly Overblown’  Gary Shilling, president of A. Gary Shilling & Co., a
Springfield, New Jersey-based consultancy firm, said on Feb. 2
that China’s economy is headed for a “hard landing” this year
as weaker demand overseas chokes off exports. Shilling, who
correctly forecast the U.S. recession that began in December
2007, defines a hard landing as a growth rate below 6 percent.  Shilling and Mowat’s views are in contrast with Yale
University Professor  Stephen Roach , a former non-executive
chairman for Morgan Stanley in  Asia , who said on March 8 that
concerns China will enter a hard landing are “vastly
overblown.”  “I don’t think the banking system will collapse and the
property bubble will burst,” Roach said at a conference in
 Shanghai . “These are all exaggerations.”  China is easing restrictions on lending capacity at three
of the nation’s four  biggest banks  after new loans dropped to a
four-year low, officials at the banks with knowledge of the
matter said. The government’s two-year effort to control the
property market helped spur a 25 percent drop in  home sales  in
the first two months of the year after surging 26 percent in
January and February of 2011.  “What you can look forward to is to see a pickup in
property demand that will clear up the inventory; that doesn’t
appear likely,” Mowat said in an interview after the conference
yesterday. “I don’t see any evidence of a policy move that will
cause the economy to reaccelerate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  