-- China Said to Ease Lending Capacity Constraints for Banks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-14T16:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/china-said-to-ease-lending-capacity-constraints-for-banks.html
China  is easing restrictions on
lending capacity at three of the nation’s  four biggest banks 
after new loans dropped to a four-year low, officials at the
banks with knowledge of the matter said.  The regulator is letting the lenders use more of their
deposits to make loans, the bank officials said, after China’s
 exports , industrial production and retail sales declined in the
first two months.  Loan growth  has slowed this year as depositors
seeking higher returns removed money from  savings accounts  and
the economy’s expansion at the smallest pace in 10 quarters
curtailed demand.  The banking regulator is increasing the 2012 loan-to-
deposit ratio target for  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd.  to 63 percent, an official at the Beijing-based lender
said, declining to be identified as the matter is private and
yet to be finalized. He declined to provide last year’s figure.
The measure was also raised at two rivals, officials at those
banks said, declining to provide their 2012 targets.  “Deposit growth has been sluggish since late 2011 and
severely constrained banks’ lending capacity this year,” said
James Liu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at CIMB Securities HK Ltd.
“The regulator wants to alleviate the problem by giving banks
adequate resources to lend.”  China’s factory output in the first two months rose the
least since 2009, while retail sales increased less than
economists predicted and  inflation  eased to the slowest pace in
20 months, data showed last week. That builds the case for
Premier  Wen Jiabao  to accelerate stimulus measures in the
world’s second-biggest economy.  Property Curbs Remain  The government is keeping restrictions on the real estate
market, with Wen saying yesterday a relaxation of the curbs
would lead to “chaos.” A gauge tracking  property stocks  sank
3.7 percent after his comments at a news conference in Beijing
and the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  erased earlier gains to drop 0.2
percent. ICBC dropped 1.1 percent to HK$5.33.  Chinese laws restrict lending to no more than 75 percent of
deposits. The banking regulator last year began imposing even
more stringent rules for the largest lenders after a record $2.7
trillion credit boom over the two years to December 2010
threatened to trigger a wave of defaults. The CBRC in 2011 gave
the lenders separate targets on key metrics such as loan-to-
deposit, capital adequacy and bad loan-coverage ratios.  The four biggest banks had 39.5 trillion yuan ($6.2
trillion) of deposits as of the end of September, according to
their third-quarter earnings statements. At that level, a one
percentage point increase in the loan-to-deposit ratio would
allow them to lend 395 billion yuan more.  Targets Under Review  The limits were eased at  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and
 Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , an official at each bank said, citing
targets provided by  China Banking Regulatory Commission 
officials at meetings last week. The targets are being reviewed
by the lenders and may change, the people said.  At  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the country’s third-
largest lender by assets, the 2012 loan-to-deposit ratio target
was lowered last week to 59 percent, a bank official who
declined to be named and a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said. The Beijing-based lender had ended last year at
more than 56 percent, they said.  ICBC’s Ratio  ICBC, which is also based in Beijing, has a loan-to-deposit
ratio of about 60 percent, President Yang Kaisheng told
reporters earlier this month. The measure was 65.14 percent at
Construction Bank, which was ranked No. 2, as of Sept. 30,
according to its third-quarter statement. China’s biggest banks
are scheduled to report fourth-quarter results later this month.  A press official at the banking watchdog, who can’t be
identified due to the agency’s rules, and spokesmen at ICBC and
Construction Bank declined to comment. Press officers at  Bank of
China  and Agricultural Bank didn’t return calls to their
offices.  The CBRC also raised the capital adequacy ratio target,
which measures how much capital is needed to support risky
assets, for ICBC to 12 percent for 2012 from 11.8 percent, the
official at the bank said. Construction Bank was left unchanged
at 11.8 percent, and for Agricultural Bank at 11.7 percent,
executives at those banks said. Bank of China declined to
provide its target.  Penalties for Banks  Banks that fail to meet the regulatory requirements will be
given a three-month grace period before facing penalties such as
restrictions on businesses and cuts in executives’
compensations, three of the bank officials said.  The  People’s Bank of China  last month reduced the amount of
deposits that lenders must set aside as  reserves  to ease funding
constraints and bolster credit growth. New loans fell to 1.45
trillion yuan in the first two months of the year, the lowest
since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The banks’ competition for deposits has also intensified
after negative real rates of return on savings triggered a
diversion of money to higher-yield investment products.
Depositors in January pulled 800 billion yuan from  savings 
accounts, central bank data showed, the largest monthly decline
in at least 12 years. Deposits climbed by 1.6 trillion yuan in
February.  “Tepid deposit growth and a stringent regulatory cap on
the loan-to-deposit ratio have constrained banks’ capacity to
lend further,” Liao Qiang, a Beijing-based analyst at  Standard
& Poor’s , told reporters March 13. “Easing will continue this
year as inflation is down.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  