-- China’s Stocks Fall Most in Three Months on Wen’s Speech
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-14T08:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-as-u-s-data-bolster-outlook.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index down the most in more than three months, after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said  home prices  are still far from
reasonable levels.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slumped 2.6 percent at the
close, reversing an earlier 0.8 percent gain. A relaxation of
curbs on the  property market  would lead to “chaos,” Wen said
at a press conference in Beijing today. A gauge tracking
property stocks sank 3.7 percent, led by Poly Real Estate Group
Co., while Anhui Conch Cement Co. paced losses by building-
material companies.  “Wen’s speech has raised concern that property curbs may
be kept in place for longer than previously expected,” said
 Zhang Ling , general manager at Shanghai River Fund Management
Co. “Property accounts for a significant part of the economy.”  The Shanghai Composite had rallied 12 percent in 2012
through yesterday following two years of losses on speculation
the central bank would add to a Feb. 18 cut in lenders’ reserve
requirements to bolster economic growth. The government’s two-
year effort to control the property market helped spur a 26
percent drop in home sales in the first two months of the year.  The Shanghai stock gauge closed 64.57 points lower at
2,391.23, the biggest loss since Nov. 30. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
retreated 2.8 percent to 2,605.11. The Bloomberg China-US 55
Index, the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, added 2.1 percent in  New York  yesterday.  Equity Valuations  Stocks in the Shanghai index  trade  at 9.9 times estimated
profit, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6,
weekly data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “We must not slacken our efforts in regulating the housing
sector,” Wen said, according to an English translation. A
bursting property bubble would hurt the entire economy, and the
government wants “long-term steady and sound growth” in
housing, he said.  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index retreated the
most since Sept. 22. Poly Real Estate,  China ’s second-largest
developer by market value, dropped 3 percent to 11 yuan. China
Vanke Co., the biggest, lost 2.7 percent to 8.20 yuan.  Gemdale
Corp. (600383) , the fourth largest, slumped 5.9 percent to 5.88 yuan.  “As long as policies remain restrictive, it is difficult
for property stocks to continue to perform well,” Timothy Moe,
a Hong Kong-based strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said
at a conference in  Singapore  today.  Building-material makers retreated as falling property
sales may curb demand for cement. Anhui Conch, China’s biggest
cement maker, slid 3.3 percent to 16.72 yuan. Huaxin Cement Co.,
the Chinese affiliate of Holcim Ltd., plunged 6.2 percent to
15.25 yuan.  Economic Slowdown  Wen’s comments came after data last week showed China’s
factory output in the first two months rose the least since
2009, while retail sales increased less than economists
predicted and inflation eased to the slowest pace in 20 months.
The government also lowered its 2012 economic growth target to
7.5 percent on March 5 from 8 percent over the past seven years.  “Wen’s speech gave no indication of further stimulus or
policy easing such as a cut in reserve ratios which disappointed
investors,” River Fund’s Zhang said. “Investors are taking
profit.”  A measure of consumer discretionary stocks in the CSI 300
slid 3.9 percent, paring its gain this year to 13 percent. Pang
Da Automobile Trade Co., China’s biggest listed auto dealer,
tumbled 9.6 percent to 9.28 yuan. SAIC Motor Corp., the nation’s
largest carmaker, lost 3.8 percent to 15.22 yuan.  Bank Lending  In a sign that the government may be taking more steps to
support growth, China is easing restrictions on lending capacity
at three of the nation’s four biggest banks, officials at the
lenders with knowledge of the matter said.  China’s economic stimulus since 2008 has failed to spur
lasting gains in  equity valuations  even after gross domestic
product rose more than 30 times faster than the world’s biggest
economies.  The price-to-book ratio of the  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  has declined 21 percent since the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, reversing an increase
of as much as 26 percent in 2009. The drop in China is the
biggest among equity indexes in the four largest economies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wen also said that the yuan may be near an equilibrium
value and that policy makers will allow greater movement in the
 exchange rate . The currency is down 0.6 percent this year
against the dollar after gaining 4.7 percent in 2011.  --Richard Frost, Zhang Shidong. Editor: Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Richard Frost in  Hong Kong  at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  