-- China Trade Hub Guangzhou Booms as New Area Rises From Dirt
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-03-15T06:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/china-trade-hub-guangzhou-booms-as-new-district-rises-from-dirt.html
Guangzhou , a trading hub for China
since the Ming Dynasty in the 16th century, is in the midst of
the biggest commercial real estate boom in its history.  Developers including  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. (2777)  and  Poly
Real Estate Group Co. (600048)  plan to add more than 1.7 million square
meters (18.3 million square feet) of prime office space to the
city this year -- enough for about 120,000 workers. Almost 90
percent of the new space will be built in Zhujiang Xincheng, a
zone twice the size of the  City of London  that Guangzhou’s
government earmarked as its new central business district almost
a decade ago, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  “Back in 2004, out there it was all just dirt,” said
Adrian Chan, assistant to the chairman at Guangzhou R&F, which
has completed five office projects in the area since then,
including the 160,000-square-meter, 54-story R&F Center, where
the interview took place. “Today, it turns out to be a good
winner.”  Guangzhou R&F and its rivals will be seeking to fill the
space at a time of slowing economic growth, with the nation’s
expansion target for 2012 this month set at 7.5 percent, down
from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005.  China  last week
reported its biggest trade deficit in at least 22 years, the
weakest January-February factory-production gain since 2009, and
retail sales that trailed the median of economist estimates.  The new developments may push the prime office vacancy rate
in the city to above 20 percent by 2015, from 12 percent now,
according to Chicago-based Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  “With that amount of new supply coming in, I don’t care
how fast the absorption rate is, it will pull up vacancy,” said
Alvin Lau, managing director for Southern China at CBRE Group
Inc. “And if there isn’t enough demand, then rents will fall,
though I don’t think there’ll be a crash.”  Opium Trade  Guangzhou, named Canton by Portuguese traders in the 16th
century, hosts the China Import and Export Fair, or Canton Fair,
in April every year. In the 19th century, British traders
imported opium into China through the city until the Chinese
government sought to ban it, triggering the Opium War that
resulted in the ceding of Hong Kong.  Guangzhou’s government in 2003 decided to turn the Zhujiang
Xincheng district into a financial center rivaling Shanghai and
Shenzhen. That was followed two years later by a 200 billion
yuan ($32 billion) plan to upgrade the whole city’s
infrastructure.  GM, Tesco  While finance firms didn’t respond, export and domestic-
industrial companies have. The 6.6 square kilometer-district
features the regional headquarters of China Mobile Ltd., the
world’s biggest phone carrier by users, General Motors Co., the
largest foreign automaker in China, and Tesco Plc, the U.K.’s
biggest retailer.  “It was never going to work as Guangzhou doesn’t even have
a  capital market ,” said Eric Lam, managing director for
Southern China at property adviser Colliers International. “The
ones who ended up here are the South China or regional
headquarters of companies, not banks. At the end it was the
market that directed the district’s positioning.”  Even with the new office supply, Lam said rents in top tier
buildings will rise because of “very strong” demand.  Average monthly rent at Zhujiang Xincheng was 279 yuan per
square meter in the fourth quarter, compared with 255 yuan a
square meter at Tianhe, Guangzhou’s former central business
district, New York-based Cushman said. That compares with 507
yuan in Beijing and 414 yuan in Shanghai.  Trading Hub  China will overtake the U.S. as the world’s biggest trading
nation by 2016 as intra- Asia  commerce and rising demand from
emerging markets boosts shipments, according to a report from
HSBC Holdings Plc last month.  “The government has always wanted to create a hub for
trade operators,” said Donald Choi, managing director of Hong
Kong-based Nan Fung Development Ltd., which is spending 6
billion yuan building commercial projects in the city. “So
everything here, the excellent infrastructure, the policies, are
all being backed by the government.”  Zhujiang Xincheng, which means Pearl River New Town in
Mandarin, is home to the Guangzhou Opera House, the biggest
performing center in Southern China, and the 1,969-foot Canton
Tower, an observation tower that was the world’s tallest when it
was completed in 2010.  Guangzhou, with a population of more than 12 million, is
China’s third-largest city behind  Shanghai  and Beijing and is
the capital of the  Guangdong province . Nearby Foshan was
identified by the  World Health Organization  as the probable
source of outbreak of the 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
epidemic, or SARS.  Recovery Project  While its economy was recovering from that outbreak,
Guangzhou’s government began awarding land in Zhujiang Xincheng
to developers including Guangzhou R&F, with the aim of building
a financial hub that could replace the city’s existing downtown
area of Tianhe.  To encourage investment from developers, Guangzhou, a two-
hour train ride north of Hong Kong, went on to spend about 200
billion yuan to build roads and subways in Zhujiang Xincheng and
the city. That includes a nine-stop, 4-kilometer long automated
people mover similar to the light-rail system in  Singapore .  “If some guys say they’re going to put in $10 and ask you
to put in only $2, that’s a good bargain,” said Guangzhou R&F’s
Chan. “They were drilling all these subways and roads and they
ask whether you want to be part of this. And we said OK, though
back then it was a pretty big risk to take.”  Guangzhou R&F’s shares have risen 61 percent in  Hong Kong 
this year, while Poly Real Estate has advanced 8 percent in
Shanghai.  Zhujiang Xincheng  Investment in real estate in Guangzhou jumped about 40
percent last year, according to estimates by Cushman.
Guangzhou’s gross domestic product grew 11 percent in 2011 to
1.24 trillion yuan, ranking it third among all Chinese cities,
according to the city government’s website.  Guangzhou heeded central government calls in late 2010 to
restrict foreigners from buying homes and offices in the city.
It said this month the curbs on foreigners purchasing retail
real estate remained in place, according to Zhai Zhongqi, a
Centaline Property Agency Ltd. analyst based in the city.  Almost 80 percent of the 2.8 million square meters of prime
 office space  already under construction in Guangzhou is at
Zhujiang Xincheng, Cushman said. The district had prime office
space of about 1.2 million square meters at the end of 2011,
over 50 percent more than the Tianhe district.  Beijing-Style Boom  “If domestic companies’ expansion continues, rental growth
will probably be stable over the next few years,” said Marcos Chan, head of research for Greater Pearl River Delta at Jones
Lang, the world’s second-biggest commercial broker by market
value. “We’re talking about a market that hasn’t seen anything
like this before. So when the new buildings are all in place, we
may see a boom like what happened in Beijing last year.”  Beijing’s central business district’s prime office rent
surged 73 percent in 2011 to be Asia’s third most-expensive
office market after Hong Kong and  Tokyo , according to Cushman.  Government-led commercial districts in some of China’s
second-tier cities, including Chengdu and Hangzhou, “may face a
market supply glut” because of over-building fueled by
developers wanting to diversify from residential development,
according to Cushman.  Pazhou District  The expectation of growing demand for office space in
Zhujiang Xincheng has prompted the government to plan the
development of another business district in Guangzhou’s Pazhou,
the district where the venue of the Canton Fair is. Companies
including Nan Fung are building at least 4.5 million square
meters of commercial space there in addition to the 335,000
square meters already there.  “Guangzhou’s market for convention and exhibition is still
developing,” said Nan Fung’s Choi. “It’s the center of trading
of southern China and we’re very confident in its future.”  The company, one of Hong Kong’s two biggest closely held
builders, is investing at least HK$6 billion ($773 million)
building a hotel, exhibition venue, and an office building in
the district.  “The next five years in Pazhou will be like Zhujiang
Xincheng five years ago,” said Colliers’ Lam. “At the moment
there’ll still land available, but that’ll change fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  