-- China One-Year Swap Rises for Second Day on U.S. Recovery Signs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-14T09:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/china-one-year-swap-rises-for-second-day-on-u-s-recovery-signs.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
climbed for a second day on speculation the U.S. economic
recovery will bolster demand for exports, lessening the need for
monetary easing in  Asia ’s biggest economy.  The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday it expects “moderate
economic growth” and predicted the  unemployment rate  will
decline gradually. U.S. retail sales rose 1.1 percent in
February, the biggest increase in five months, figures showed.
China’s  overseas sales  climbed 18.4 percent in February after a
0.5 percent slide in January, the customs bureau said March 11.  “The good news from the U.S. is helping boost risk
appetite in the swap market,” said Guo Caomin, a bond analyst
at Industrial Bank Co. in  Shanghai .  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose three basis
points to 3.18 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  repo rate , which measures
interbank funding availability, was unchanged at 3 percent in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average rate compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t gauge demand for bill
sales today, a sign it won’t resume sales tomorrow, according to
a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.
The monetary authority has refrained from issuing three- and 12-
month bills this year to help ease a cash crunch in the banking
system.  The yield on the 3.99 percent government bond due January
2021 gained six basis points to 3.54 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: James Regan, Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 