-- China Gas Valuation Tempts Richer Takeover Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n ,   G u o   A i b i n g   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-03-15T09:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/china-gas-at-2006-valuation-tempts-richer-takeover-bid-real-m-a.html
Investors are betting that a
takeover offer for  China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384) , already the most
expensive in the pipeline and gas distribution industries since
the 2006 buyout boom, will need to get even richer to succeed.  China Gas, a one-time fashion retailer that delivers gas in
the world’s second-largest economy, is trading 10 percent above
the HK$3.50 a share bid from  ENN Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688)  and  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , known as Sinopec. That’s the most
for any deal of more than $100 million in  Asia ’s developed
markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Including net
debt, the HK$25.5-billion ($3.3 billion) offer values Hong Kong-
based China Gas at 11.3 times earnings, the highest since 2006
for a cash acquisition of a pipeline or gas distributor.  While many traders are wagering ENN and  Sinopec (386)  will raise
their bid, CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and Nomura Holdings Inc. are
advising  shareholders  to sell China Gas. Boosting the offer
would be a mistake for Sinopec with the purchase likely to add
less than half a percent to its earnings, according to Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. Meanwhile, ENN is facing a downgrade to junk
status over a potential increase in its debt from the deal.  “I am negative on this deal,” Alick Wong, a research
analyst at Louis Capital Markets in  Hong Kong  who specializes in
merger arbitrage, said in a telephone interview. “It’s too
risky. If they are going to raise their offer, the increase may
be small. If they don’t raise their offer, then the deal will
collapse.”  China  Gas fell 1.6 percent, its biggest decline in a week,
to HK$3.79 today. ENN rose 0.2 percent to HK$26.15, while
Sinopec fell 0.3 percent to HK$8.86.  Fashion Retailer  The offer price represents a “fair valuation” for China
Gas, an external spokesman for the bidders wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions. A spokesman for China Gas didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  China Gas evolved out of a fashion retailer called  eBiz.com
Ltd. , which was renamed Hai Xia Holdings Ltd. in 2001 and then
 China Gas  the following year when it began to acquire natural-
gas projects in China.  The company now sells gas to 6.6 million residential
customers and about 42,000 industrial and commercial users, and
owns 112 natural gas refilling stations, according to its
results for the six months through September. In that period
China Gas generated about 43 percent of its revenue from sales
of piped natural gas, and another  39 percent  from liquefied
petroleum gas that is sold in canisters.  Highest Multiple  With China Gas’s market capitalization down  25 percent  to
HK$12.3 billion in the twelve months before its shares were
halted on Dec. 7, ENN and Sinopec offered to pay HK$14.6 billion
for 95 percent of the company, saying a combination would
increase ENN’s share of the natural gas distribution market and
allow Sinopec to “expand its businesses.” Sinopec already owns
 5 percent  of China Gas.  While a deal would give Sinopec increased  market access ,
buying China Gas jointly with ENN, “will make it difficult to
restructure the company and derive some of the cost savings that
would be required to make this acquisition more attractive,”
 Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, wrote in an e-mailed reply to questions. “At the
current valuation, we see this as value dilutive.”  Including net debt, the HK$3.50 bid values China Gas at
11.3 times its  earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the highest multiple for any all-cash acquisition of a pipeline
or gas distribution company worth more than $1 billion since a
group led by  Richard Kinder  offered to buy Houston-based Kinder
Morgan Inc. in May 2006 for 27.4 times Ebitda in a $27 billion
deal, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit Crisis  That takeover was completed during the 2005 to 2007
leveraged buyout spree, when about $1.6 trillion in LBOs were
completed, according to Preqin Ltd., a London-based research
firm. Dealmaking then ground to a halt as the collapse of
subprime mortgages and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008
bankruptcy froze credit markets and spurred the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  Excluding net debt, the offer from ENN and Sinopec valued
China Gas at 24.5 times net income. That’s more expensive than
every publicly traded utility network in Hong Kong with a market
capitalization of more than $500 million except for  Hong Kong &
China Gas Co. (3) , data compiled by Bloomberg show. Those nine
companies generated an average profit margin of 23 percent in
the past year, compared with 5.3 percent for China Gas.  “China Gas’s fundamentals do not support such a high
price,” said Shi Yan, a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian
Ltd. “A higher offer from ENN and Sinopec looks more and more
unrealistic with the price at current levels.”  ENN, Sinopec  ENN, which supplies customers with fuel via a  17,000-
kilometer  gas pipeline network, will fund 55 percent of the
deal, while Beijing-based Sinopec would finance the rest, the
companies said. ENN, based in  Hebei province  in northern China,
and Sinopec plan to leave 25 percent of China Gas in public
investors’ hands to maintain its listing in Hong Kong, and may
sell back some shares after the purchase to do so.  China Gas on Dec. 14 rebuffed the bid from ENN and Sinopec
and last month said almost 4,000 employees signed letters
opposing the offer. The workers are concerned the takeover may
hurt the operations of the company and the development of the
gas industry in China, according to a Feb. 3 filing to Hong
Kong’s stock exchange.  Fortune Oil  The company’s shares closed above HK$3.50 on Dec. 20, and
rose another 11 percent to reach a  fifteen-month high  of HK$3.88
on March 5. Purchases by China Gas’s largest shareholders,
including former managing director Liu Ming Hui, who was removed
from the company’s board last April after being detained by
Shenzhen police the year before, have contributed to the recent
surge in China Gas shares, according to Bank of China
International Ltd. analyst Wang Pei.  Some speculators are betting on a higher price in part
because of the buying by Liu and London-listed  Fortune Oil Plc (FTO) ,
which invests in Chinese infrastructure, according to CIMB
analyst Mike Yip.  As of March 13, Liu and Fortune, and an entity controlled
by a Fortune director, held a combined stake of about  14 percent 
in China Gas, up from about 10 percent at the start of 2012,
according to filings with Hong Kong’s  Securities and Futures
Commission .  The parties, which have together bought more than 160
million shares of China Gas this year, haven’t publicly cited a
reason for their purchases. Only one purchase, of 500,000 shares
on Jan. 19, was for less than HK$3.50, the filings show.  Tee Kiam Poon, Fortune Oil’s chief executive officer,
didn’t return calls to his office in Hong Kong. Calls and e-
mails to China Gas’s Eric Leung outside of normal business hours
requesting to speak with Liu weren’t immediately returned.  ‘Price Comes Right’  “They want to increase the price,” said CIMB’s Yip. “If
the price comes right they can tender their shares, if not
they’ll stay the largest shareholders.”  Yip has an  underperform  rating and a HK$2.04 price estimate
for China Gas, which he says reflects the dim prospects for its
LPG business with the Chinese government championing sales of
the safer and cleaner burning natural gas.  While ENN had  5.7 billion yuan  ($899 million) in cash and
equivalents at the end of June, its shares suffered a four-day,
 14-percent slump  after the bid as Moody’s Investors Services put
the company’s debt on review for a downgrade to below investment
grade. Moody’s cited the likelihood that the offer would
“significantly increase” ENN’s debt position, while adding
only a “minimal amount of  cash flow .”  “Our fear is any increase in offer price will definitely
mean higher gearing, and potential rights issues or placement of
shares,” said Nicholas Yeo, the Hong Kong-based head of China
and Hong Kong at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which sold its
14 million shares in ENN after news of the bid. Aberdeen
oversees about $265 billion in assets globally.  ‘No Discipline’  “Investors want to see discipline in pricing in all
acquisitions,” Yeo said. “If there’s no discipline, then
that’s going to be very negative for ENN.”  The acquisition requires approval from ENN’s shareholders,
which will be difficult to get if the price is raised too high,
according to Nomura Holdings.  “We advise investors to take profit” in China Gas, Nomura
said in a Feb. 28 research note. It has a price estimate of
HK$3.32 on China Gas, 14 percent below yesterday’s close.  Even if ENN can’t afford to pay more, Sinopec, with a
market value of $102 billion, may be able to take a larger share
of the bid, according to BOCI’s Wang.  “ENN may have to settle for a minority share in the
sweetened offer since ENN cannot afford to raise its debt level
too high,” said Wang, who has a price estimate of HK$3.42 on
China Gas.  ‘Impossible’  ENN plans to send shareholders details of the offer by
March 31, a month later than the initial proposal indicated. On
March 6, ENN’s Chairman Wang Yusuo told reporters in Beijing a
higher bid was “impossible.”  The next day, ENN and Sinopec said Wang’s comments
reflected his own opinion and the bidders weren’t bound by his
words. China’s  Ministry of Commerce  has started to review the
proposal for clearance under anti-monopoly laws, ENN and Sinopec
said in a statement.  The risk for traders now is that the bid won’t be raised
enough to spur China Gas’s shareholders into accepting, said
UOB-Kay Hian’s Shi, who has a price estimate of HK$3.80 for the
shares. A breakdown of the deal would “wipe out any gains
investors have made” as the stock falls back to pre-deal
levels, she said.  “There may be a chance for the offer to be sweetened up a
bit, but the downside risk is too high,” Shi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Guo Aibing in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 