-- Citigroup Committed Error With Dividend Comment, Mayo Says
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-03-14T19:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/citigroup-vows-to-try-again-as-some-lenders-fail-fed-test.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the largest  U.S.
bank  to miss Federal Reserve capital requirements, erred when
signaling that it would boost payouts before winning regulatory
approval, said Michael Mayo, an analyst at CLSA Ltd.  “One would think Citi would operate beyond reproach,
whether it is with accounting conservatism, adherence with
regulations, executive compensation or items such as the
announcement of a return of capital before authority is
granted,” Mayo wrote in a note to clients today. “The capital
mishap is one more sign that the culture has not changed.”  The Fed objected yesterday to Citigroup’s plan, prompting
the bank to say it will submit a revised version this year.
Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  had said the company was
ready to return more capital to shareholders after cutting
dividends during the financial crisis. Firms need clearance from
the Fed before boosting payouts or buying back shares.  “Citi gave signals that it would return more capital this
year and then got denied, leading us to question why Citi yet
again operates in a gray area such as this,” said Mayo, who has
an “underperform” rating on the stock and has criticized the
New York-based firm’s corporate governance.  The central bank estimated that Citigroup’s proposal would
have caused capital to fall below a minimum requirement in a
severe economic slump. The Fed didn’t object to the company’s
current dividend levels.  Pandit, 55, had said in September of last year that any
dividend increases or share buybacks would be done “in
conjunction with the regulators.”  The CEO, after yesterday’s finding, wrote a memo to
employees saying the bank still has capacity to disburse capital
and will seek clearance for a “meaningful” payout. The firm
“remains among the best capitalized large banks in world,”
Citigroup said in a statement. Without taking proposed capital
measures, it met the Fed’s requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 