-- Clearwire Wins ‘Milestone’ Wireless Contract With Leap
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-03-14T20:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/clearwire-wins-contract-to-provide-network-for-leap-s-4g-service.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  added  Leap Wireless
International Inc. (LEAP)  as its second wholesale customer, in a sign
it may be benefiting as LightSquared Inc. faces regulatory
troubles.  “Leap is another milestone and it’s not going to stop
here,” Erik Prusch, Clearwire’s CEO, said in a telephone
interview today.  The deal will see Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire
supplement Leap’s own network using so-called fourth-generation
long-term evolution technology over five years, according to a
statement. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Clearwire is seeking new partners as it transfers to LTE
from older WiMAX technology. Regulators have grounded  Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared mobile-broadband venture and temporarily
denied Dish’s request to convert satellite spectrum for use in
ground-based high-speed wireless networks, which benefits
Clearwire, Kevin Smithen an analyst with Macquarie Capital USA
Inc., said.  “Clearwire has the most readily available spectrum on the
market,” said Smithen, who has a neutral rating on the stock.  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission last month
blocked LightSquared Inc.’s mobile-broadband venture over
potential signal-interference issues with global-navigation
systems. Leap entered a long-term  agreement  with LightSquared a
year ago.  ‘Unique Position’  On March 2, the FCC let Dish buy airwaves while denying 
waivers it needs to quickly offer the service request to convert
satellite spectrum, so new permanent rules for such requests
could be written.  There’s “a spectrum crunch” in the industry, Prusch said.
“Everyone needs it and we are in a unique position to provide
it.”  There isn’t a “direct association” with LightSquared’s
troubles, Prusch said of the Leap deal.  “We have a network
that’s in operation,” he said. Mike DiGioia, a Clearwire
spokesman, declined to comment on benefits the company may be
seeing from Dish’s stalled broadband plan in an e-mailed
statement.  Clearwire  added  2.1 percent to $2.19 at the close of
trading in  New York . The shares have risen 13 percent this year.
Leap, based in  San Diego , fell 3.8 percent to $9.41.  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , the Richardson, Texas-based
pay-as-you-go operator, “may also be considering a more formal
relationship with Clearwire,”  Jennifer Fritzsche , a Wells Fargo
Securities analyst, wrote in a note.  MetroPCS has told investors that it would look to Clearwire
for spectrum.  ‘Another Option’  Leap, which sells its service under the Cricket name, has
always said it would explore additional 4G partners, Amy Wakeham, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Fourth-generation technology provides faster network speed
for wireless operators.  “The Clearwire agreement provides us with another option
for supplementing our own 4G LTE roll-out and for roaming in
non-Cricket markets,” she said.  In December, Clearwire’s majority owner  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
signed a four-year wholesale-network sharing agreement with
Clearwire worth about $1.6 billion.  Prusch declined to share any financial terms or impact from
the Leap deal. Generally “when we add revenue on top of a fixed
cost base it is very accretive,” he said.  Clearwire, said last month that it may need new capital to
fund operations beyond next year as losses widened in the fourth
quarter.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  