-- Climate-Change Lessons From Down Under for the Republicans: The Ticker
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2012-03-14T21:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/climate-change-lessons-from-down-under-for-the-republicans-the-ticker.html
As Republicans head toward a showdown in the presidential primary race, the
two main protagonists have something in common: They both reject anthropogenic
 climate change . Mitt Romney  did a  policy about-face  in October last year when he said: "My
view is that we don't know what's causing climate change on this planet. And the
idea of spending trillions and trillions of dollars to try to reduce CO2
emissions is not the right course for us." This was after he had told a New
Hampshire audience four months earlier that global warming was man-made and that
reducing greenhouse gases was important. Rick Santorum , for his part, has been consistently unapologetic about his
climate skepticism. "The apostles of this pseudo-religion believe that America
and its people are the source of the Earth's temperature. I do not," he  wrote
last week . He claimed to be the only Republican candidate not to have bowed to
"this liberal orthodoxy." So as March temperatures are forecast to reach  more than 80 degrees
Fahrenheit  in some parts of the U.S. next week, well above average for this
season, it's timely to consider a government study from a nation that has the
most to lose from rising global temperatures.  Australia  -- the world's driest
inhabited continent, whose two-decade economic expansion can be largely
attributed to the mining of fossil fuels -- has just released its review of
 greenhouse gases . The results leave little wiggle room for climate skeptics. Greenhouse gases have risen to their highest level since modern humans
evolved and emissions from human activity were increasingly affecting the
country's temperatures. "Multiple lines of evidence show that global warming
continues and that human activities are mainly responsible," said the  State of
the Climate 2012  report from the CSIRO, the national science agency, and the
Bureau of Meteorology. Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere was measured at 390
parts per million last year, it said, the highest level in 800,000 years. This is a grim warning from the CSIRO, which was  accused in the Australian
press  of having compromising ties to the coal industry as recently as two years
ago. If those claims were true, the agency has just done an about-face as
impressive as the former Massachusetts governor's. When Romney or Santorum turns to the climate debate during the general
election campaign against President  Barack Obama  this year, he will be thinking
about the next four years. Maybe that's the main reason voters shouldn't believe
a word they're saying. ( David Henry  is an editor for Bloomberg View.) For more quick commentary from Bloomberg View, go to  the Ticker .  