-- Soybeans Climb to Six-Month High on Chinese Demand; Corn Slides
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-03-14T19:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/corn-drops-as-warm-weather-may-spur-early-planting-soy-steady.html
Soybean futures rose to a six-month
high on signs of increasing demand from  China  and limited
supplies from the U.S., where farmers may shift more land to
growing corn and wheat. Corn prices fell.  The U.S. inspected 15.07 million bushels of soybeans for
export to China in the week ended March 8, almost seven times
more than the same week last year, the government said March 12.
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture , which will update acreage
estimates on March 30, said last month that soybean planting may
be unchanged this year, while farmers boost corn seeding by 2.3
percent and wheat by 6.6 percent.  “Demand has been relatively good coming out of China, and
it looks like beans will get cheated on the acres this year,”
Frank J. Cholly, a senior commodities broker at RJO Futures in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “Corn right now is
still a more profitable crop.”  Soybean futures for May delivery climbed 0.1 percent to
settle at $13.5025 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, after touching $13.6075, the highest for a most-active
contract since Sept. 16. Futures have jumped 12 percent this
year as dry weather threatened crops in  South America .  Corn futures for May delivery slid 0.5 percent to $6.5875 a
bushel in Chicago, capping the first drop in four sessions. The
most-active contract is still up 1.9 percent this year.  Warm Weather  Warm, sunny weather in the U.S. may encourage farmers to
speed up spring fieldwork in preparation for an earlier-than-
usual planting season, said  Jason Britt , the president of
brokerage Central States Commodities Inc. in  Kansas City ,
 Missouri .  Midwest temperatures this week topped 80 degrees Fahrenheit
(27 degrees Celsius) and may be “well above normal” during the
next 10 days, Telvent DTN forecast. While most farmers begin
planting corn in mid-April,  Louisiana  had sown 23 percent of its
crop as of March 11, compared with 6 percent normally, the USDA
said.  “It will not be long that someone will test the waters”
and begin planting in the Midwest, Britt said in a telephone
interview. “If we plant 94 or 95 million acres and get trend-
line yields, a lot of this tightness in the corn situation is
going to be alleviated.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  