-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Decrease to Lowest Level Since July
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-14T21:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-decrease-to-lowest-level-since-july.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit
risk dropped for a sixth straight day in the longest stretch of
declines since December after the  Federal Reserve  raised its
assessment of the world’s largest economy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 1.1 basis points to a mid-price of 90.9 basis points at
4:44 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd. Credit-
default swaps on  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s subordinated debt fell to the
lowest level since August.  The swaps gauge slid to an eight-month low a day after the
Fed said yesterday that the U.S. labor market is gathering
strength and refrained from new actions to lower borrowing
costs. The central bank also said that 15 of the 19 largest U.S.
banks could maintain adequate capital levels even in a severe
recession.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched 90.8 basis
points, the lowest level since July 8.  Credit-default swaps tied to Citigroup’s subordinated debt
declined, easing 15.1 basis points to 260 basis points,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Subordinated debt falls lower in a company’s
capital structure and is paid after senior debt in a bankruptcy.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  Stress Tests  The Fed objected yesterday to New York-based Citigroup’s
capital plan, which may have included a request for a higher
dividend, in a test of how 19 of the nation’s biggest lenders
would fare in a severe economic slump.  “The company can weather a pretty drastic  stress test  and
still come out relatively unscathed,” said Adam Steer, an
analyst at Brookfield Investment Management Inc., whose parent,
Brookfield Asset Management Inc., oversees about $150 billion in
assets. “They’re not going to be allowed to return as much
wealth to shareholders that could otherwise be used to benefit
bondholders.”  Contracts on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  senior debt declined
8.8 basis points to 221.3, and those on  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
decreased 4.5 basis points to 80.5, CMA data show. Credit-
default swaps on  Morgan Stanley (MS)  fell 13.4 basis points to 297.6.
Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  “If regulatory handcuffs prevent Citi from paying
dividends to stockholders, bondholders should rejoice,” said
Bonnie Baha, head of the global developed credit group at
DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  