-- Currency Intervention Is Like a Breakwater, JBIC’s Watanabe Says
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2012-03-14T07:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/currency-intervention-is-like-a-breakwater-jbic-s-watanabe-says.html
Hiroshi Watanabe, a former top
currency official of the Japanese government and now chief
executive officer of the  Japan  Bank for International
Cooperation, comments on the policy of currency intervention.  He made the remarks in an interview in Tokyo yesterday.  On the effectiveness of currency interventions:  “Interventions play a role similar to a breakwater, which
block waves caused when something is dropped into the water,
calming the waves and preventing them from hitting the shore.  ‘‘It couldn’t stop a flood should the ice in the Arctic
melt and sea-levels surge.’’  On the legitimacy of interventions:  ‘‘It’s necessary for the government to indicate its
thoughts’’ through interventions, should the fundamentals of the
Japanese economy and the direction of foreign-exchange rates be
mismatched.  The Japanese authorities ‘‘don’t set specific currency
target levels’’ through intervention.  On stopping yen-selling interventions in 2004:  Watanabe refrained from intervening in the  currency markets 
during his tenure from 2004 and 2007 after his predecessor
Zembei Mizoguchi sold 35.2 trillion yen ($423 billion) in the
market during his 18-month stint.  ‘‘We had to consider the impact on Japan’s short-term money
market,’’ which had been flooded with the issuance of short-term
 government securities  to pay for yen sales.  ‘‘I had anticipated the yen’s appreciation would stop at
some point and its turnaround wouldn’t be that far away, given
the performance of Japan’s economy and inflation rates. I didn’t
see the need to implement interventions at the expense of
Japan’s short-term money market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in  Tokyo  at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  