-- CVS Controlled-Drug Suspension Put on Hold by Appeals Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-14T15:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/cvs-controlled-drug-suspension-put-on-hold-by-appeals-court-1-.html
The suspension of two  CVS Caremark
Corp. (CVS)  pharmacies from selling controlled substances, ordered by
the Drug Enforcement Administration after a probe of oxycodone
sales in  Florida , was put on hold by a federal appeals court.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington  today ruled that CVS may continue filling
prescriptions for controlled substances at the two stores in
Sanford, Florida, while it considers a challenge to the DEA
suspension orders.  “The purpose of this administrative stay is to give the
court sufficient opportunity to consider the merits of the
emergency motion for stay pending appeal and should not be
construed in any way as a ruling on the merits of that motion,”
U.S. Circuit Judges Karen LeCraft Henderson, David Tatel and
Janice Rogers Brown, said in the ruling. They ordered the U.S.
to respond by March 19.  U.S. District Judge Reggie Walton yesterday said the DEA
produced enough information to show that pharmacists at the
stores filled prescriptions for the painkiller oxycodone that
they knew or should have known would lead to the drug being
diverted for illegal uses.  Carolyn Castel , a CVS spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that
the company was pleased with the ruling “enabling us to
continue to serve patients who depend on us for their care.”
She said CVS is “fully supportive of measures taken by law
enforcement to reduce prescription drug abuse.”  Dawn Dearden, a DEA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone message seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Holiday CVS LLC v. Holder, 12-05072, U.S. Court
of Appeals, District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  