-- D’Antoni Resignation Followed by Knicks Ending 6-Game Loss Skid
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-03-15T02:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/d-antoni-quits-as-knicks-coach-amid-losing-streak-yahoo-says.html
The  New York Knicks  beat the
Portland Trail Blazers 121-79, their most lopsided victory
of the season, hours after  Mike D’Antoni ’s resignation as coach.  Carmelo Anthony  scored 16 points and Amar’e Stoudemire had
17 as the Knicks ended a six-game losing streak and won their
first game under interim coach Mike Woodson, who was promoted
from assistant to replace D’Antoni for the rest of the season.  D’Antoni’s departure came hours after the New York Post
said Anthony, the Knicks’ All-Star forward, wanted to be traded
by tomorrow’s  National Basketball Association  deadline and had
created a rift with D’Antoni. Anthony responded on Twitter,
saying that he didn’t want to be traded and told reporters at
practice that he supported the coach.  “This is not an event that was planned in any way, it just
happened this morning,” team owner James Dolan said of
D’Antoni’s resignation in a news conference at  Madison Square
Garden (MSG)  before the game. “He just felt it was best for the
organization if he did not continue as coach.”  The change of coaches occurred about a month after the
Knicks, with Anthony sidelined by injuries and Jeremy Lin taking
over as point guard, had become the toast of the NBA by winning
seven straight games.  The team’s temporary resurgence became known as Linsanity,
and helped boost television ratings and ticket prices on the
resale market and grab international headlines.  As the team slid back down recently, fans at Madison Square
Garden, where ticket face-value prices rose an average of 49
percent this season, have again booed the home team.  D’Antoni Record  D’Antoni stepped down in his fourth season with the Knicks,
who are 19-24 after losing eight of their past 11 games. He was
in the final season of his contract with  New York .  “We have the talent and the character to succeed and I
believe these guys can do it,” Dolan said. “The season is not
over and this team can still be the team our fans hoped it could
be.”  D’Antoni exited with a 121-167 record since joining the
Knicks before the 2008-09 season. The team reached the playoffs
last season with a 42-40 record before being swept by the  Boston
Celtics (2111Q)  in the first round.  The Knicks hired D’Antoni as coach and  Donnie Walsh  as team
president in 2008 to resurrect a salary-burdened franchise that
had seven straight losing seasons, including a team-record-tying
59 losses in 2007-08 under then-president and coach Isiah Thomas.
D’Antoni was given a four-year contract worth $24 million.  Offensive Focus  As coach of the  Phoenix Suns  for five seasons, D’Antoni
became known for a high-powered offense, directing his players
to get off a shot within seven seconds of gaining possession.
The Suns led the NBA in scoring for three straight seasons
beginning in 2004-05 and reached the Western Conference finals
in 2005 and 2007.  That type of attack -- and success in the standings --never
took root with the Knicks. New York is 12th in scoring among the
NBA’s 30 franchises this season, averaging 96.7 points per game.  Walsh led the Knicks’ strategy to free salary cap space to
try to land  LeBron James  or another star player in July 2010.
All-Star forward/center Stoudemire joined the club that
offseason, when James went to the  Miami Heat , joining fellow
free-agent All-Stars  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh . New York traded
for Anthony and point guard Chauncey Billups in February 2011,
leading to their first playoff appearance in seven years. Walsh
stepped down as president in June.  Lin’s Emergence  New York waived Billups in December, signing power forward
 Tyson Chandler  as the NBA got set to start a lockout-shortened
66-game season. With injured point guard Baron Davis, another
new addition, unable to play, the Knicks lacked cohesiveness
until Lin, a Harvard University graduate cut by two other NBA
teams, took over as starting point guard on Feb. 6 and helped
the team reach .500.  D’Antoni also coached the  Denver Nuggets  and has a 388-339
record in 10 NBA seasons. He was named the league’s Coach of the
Year in 2004-05.  Possible candidates to succeed D’Antoni long term include
former  Los Angeles Lakers  and Chicago Bulls coach Phil Jackson,
whose 11 NBA titles are a record, and University of  Kentucky 
coach John Calipari.  “As I’ve said before, I have the greatest job in
basketball at any level,” Calipari, whose team is the top seed
in college basketball’s men’s national tournament that began
yesterday, said in a Twitter post. “Why would I be interested
in another job?”  Woodson Record  Woodson, 53, coached the  Atlanta Hawks  from 2004-05 to
2009-10, posting a 206-286 record while leading the team to the
playoffs during his final three seasons.  “I’ve been the interim there,” former Knicks coach Jeff Van Gundy, who succeeded Don Nelson and led New York to the NBA
Finals in 1999, said in a telephone interview. “It can turn out
really good.”  Van Gundy said he wasn’t sure of the circumstances
surrounding D’Antoni’s departure.  “He has nothing to apologize for,” Van Gundy said. “He
went through constant changes to his roster and carried himself
with remarkable dignity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 