-- D’Antoni Said to Be Out as Knicks’ Coach Amid Losing Streak
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-03-14T19:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/d-antoni-said-to-be-out-as-knicks-coach-amid-losing-streak-1-.html
Mike D’Antoni  is out as coach of
the  New York Knicks  amid a six-game losing streak and locker-
room bickering, a person with knowledge of the situation said.  The person was granted anonymity because he wasn’t
authorized to discuss it. There was no immediate word on who
would coach the Knicks beginning tonight at home against the
 Portland Trail Blazers .  Barry Watkins, a spokesman for Madison Square Garden Co.,
which owns the Knicks, declined to comment on D’Antoni in an e-
mail. Yahoo! Inc.’s website reported today that D’Antoni left in
a mutual decision with team owner James Dolan.  The departure came hours after the New York Post said All-
Star forward  Carmelo Anthony  wanted to be traded by tomorrow’s
league deadline and had created a rift with D’Antoni. Anthony
responded on Twitter today, saying that he didn’t want to be
traded and told reporters at practice that he supported the
coach.  It also comes less than a month after the Knicks, with
Anthony sidelined by injuries and Jeremy Lin taking over as
point guard, had become the toast of the NBA, by winning seven
straight games.  D’Antoni stepped down in his fourth season with the Knicks,
who are 18-24 after losing eight of their last 10 games. He was
in the final season of his contract with New York.  He exits with a 121-167 record since joining the Knicks
before the 2008-09 season. The team reached the playoffs last
season with a 42-40 record before being swept by the  Boston
Celtics  in the first round.  Franchise Shakeup  The Knicks hired D’Antoni as coach and  Donnie Walsh  as team
president in 2008 to resurrect a salary burdened franchise that
had seven straight losing seasons, including a team-record-tying
59 losses in 2007-08 under then-president and coach Isiah Thomas. D’Antoni was given a four-year contract worth $24
million.  As coach of the  Phoenix Suns  for five seasons, D’Antoni
became known for a high-powered offense, directing his players
to get off a shot within seven seconds of gaining possession.
The Suns led the NBA in scoring for three straight seasons
beginning in 2004-05 and reached the Western Conference finals
in 2005 and 2007.  That type of attack -- and success in the standings --never
took root with the Knicks.  New York  is 12th in scoring among the
NBA’s 30 franchises, averaging 96.7 points per game.  Walsh Strategy  Walsh led the Knicks’ strategy to free salary cap space to
try to land  LeBron James  or another star player in July 2010.
All-Star forward/center Amar’e Stoudemire joined the club that
offseason, when James went to the  Miami Heat , joining fellow
free-agent All-Stars Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh. New York
eventually traded for Anthony and point guard Chauncey Billups
in February 2011, leading to their first playoff appearance in
seven years. Walsh stepped down as president in June.  New York waived Billups in December, signing power forward
Tyson Chandler as the NBA got set to start a lockout-shortened
66-game season. With injured point guard  Baron Davis , another
new addition, unable to play the Knicks lacked cohesiveness
until Lin, a Harvard University graduate cut by two other NBA
teams, took over as starting point guard on Feb. 6 and helped
the team reach .500.  The resurgence became known as Linsanity and helped boost
television ratings and ticket prices on the resale market and
grab international headlines.  As the team slid back down recently, fans at Madison Square
Garden, where ticket prices rose an average of 49 percent this
season, have again booed the home team.  D’Antoni also coached the  Denver Nuggets  and has a 388-339
record in 10 NBA seasons. He was named the league’s Coach of the
Year for 2004-05.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 