-- Disease Outbreaks Linked to Imported Foods Mounting, U.S. Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-03-14T19:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/disease-outbreaks-linked-to-imported-foods-mounting-u-s-says.html
The frequency of disease outbreaks
linked to imported food is rising, with fish and spices the
most-common source of illness, a U.S. health agency said.  Almost half of the 39 outbreaks and 2,348 illnesses linked
to food imports from 2005 to 2010 occurred in the final two
years of the period, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. Fish accounted for 17 of the outbreaks,
while spices were responsible for six, the CDC said.  As much as 85 percent of the seafood and 60 percent of
fresh produce eaten in the U.S. is imported. Almost 50 percent
of the outbreaks involved foods that came from areas that hadn’t
been associated with multiple illnesses, the CDC said.  “As our  food supply  becomes more global, people are eating
foods from all over the world, potentially exposing them to
germs from all corners of the world, too,” Hannah Gould, an
epidemiologist at the Atlanta-based agency, said in a statement.  It’s too early to say if the numbers represent a trend,
Gould said.  About 45 percent of the imported foods causing outbreaks
were from  Asia , according to the research, which was presented
at the International Conference on Emerging Infectious Diseases
in Atlanta.  Global Food Chain  The findings probably underestimate the actual number of
outbreaks, Gould said. About 16 percent of all food eaten in the
U.S. is imported.  U.S. food imports increased to $78 billion in 2007 from $41
billion in 1998, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . Much of the growth has occurred in fruits and
vegetables, seafood and processed food.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration , which oversees
produce, said it inspects about 2 percent of imports. However,
the regulator screens 10 million annual shipments to determine
if the food is high risk. That determination is used to decide
which shipments are inspected, Douglas Karas, an FDA spokesman,
said in an interview.  The agency is also increasing the number of foreign food
processing facilities it inspects. It visited 600 last year and
will double that every year for the next five years, bringing
the total to 19,200, he said. A pending regulation also will
make importers responsible for ensuring the food products they
handle meet U.S. food safety standards, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  