-- Driver Catches Fire in Afghan Incident Near Panetta Plane
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-14T18:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/driver-catches-fire-in-afghan-runway-incident-near-panetta-plane.html
The Afghan driver of a stolen
pickup truck burst into flames near the runway of a British base
in  Afghanistan  at about the time U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta ’s plane arrived today, according to Pentagon spokesman
 George Little .  There is no indication that the incident at Camp Bastion
was an intended attack on Panetta, Little told reporters
traveling with Panetta in Kabul. “At no time was the secretary
or the secretary’s delegation in any danger whatsoever,” Little
said.  As security personnel arrived at the scene, they found the
driver ablaze, and no explosives were found on him or in the
vehicle, Little said.  “There’s no evidence right now that the driver had any
idea who was on that aircraft,” John Kirby, a Defense
Department spokesman, said in an interview at the Pentagon,
according to a pool report.  The incident coincides with a string of attacks pitting
Afghans and Americans against each other and casting doubt on
the Obama administration’s claims of progress in the war and
plans to extend their joint efforts after the bulk of foreign
troops exit at the end of 2014.  One Afghan coalition service member was hit by the vehicle
and injured when it was being stolen, Kirby said. The driver is
being treated for “considerable” burn wounds, according to
Little.  The alleged perpetrator of the “stolen vehicle event” was
apprehended by base security personnel, according to a statement
from the  International Security Assistance Force .  Little said the matter is under investigation. Initial
reports from the U.K.’s  Daily Mail  and  Sky News  described the
event as a suspected car bomb attack.  “It’s my understanding that the car itself never caught on
fire and did not explode,” Little said.  The vehicle was a small pickup truck and was moving at high
speed, according to Kirby. The truck ended up on a ramp used to
access the runway, Little said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Kabul at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  