-- Drug Abitrage Lets Millionaire Mohringer Show Ferrari
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-03-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/drug-abitrage-lets-millionaire-mohringer-show-ferrari.html
Andreas Mohringer owes his success
to a bottle of  Benadryl .  On vacation in  England  in the early 1970s, the Austrian
entrepreneur caught a cold and bought some of the cough syrup,
manufactured in those days by Parke-Davis & Co. Benadryl is now
known mostly as an allergy remedy.  Then a retail pharmacist in his late 20s, Mohringer was
struck by the price: about one-third of what it sold for back in
Rheinhausen, Germany, where he was then living, Bloomberg
Markets reports in its April issue.  He checked the ingredients on the bottle’s label.  “Sometimes you have a product which has the same name and
a different composition, but it was the same product,”
Mohringer, 66, says.  Clad in olive trousers and a shirt unbuttoned at the
collar, he leans against the desk in his spare, white office in
Saaldorf-Surheim,  Germany .  “I thought, This is silly,” he says. “Why do we pay so
much compared to the U.K.?”  A business was born in the answer to that question.  During the next four decades, Mohringer parlayed his simple
vacation observation into  EurimPharm Arzneimittel GmbH , which
buys pharmaceutical products in one European country and sells
them in another at a higher price.  Last year, his privately held company had sales of about
410 million euros ($538 million), according to Mohringer, who
declines to disclose details about his income or net worth.  Patchwork of Regulations  Mohringer makes his money by exploiting a little-recognized
provision in rules and regulations that are supposed to
integrate the  European Union  economically as well as
politically.  EU countries have separate state-run health systems. They
set prices for drugs on the basis of national policies and
priorities. Some countries, including  Greece , impose price caps
on drugs; a few, such as Germany and the U.K., negotiate prices
with manufacturers.  The resulting patchwork of regulations and price variations
is an anomaly that makes the parallel drug trade possible, says
 David Taylor , a professor of pharmaceutical and public health
policy at the  University College London School of Pharmacy .  “On the one hand, we wanted a single market in  Europe  and,
on the other hand, the  member states  were damned if they were
going to give up their power over prices,” Taylor says.  Drug Arbitrage  Companies like EurimPharm work much as arbitrageurs do in
the financial markets. Instead of trading stocks or bonds, the
drug arbitrageurs buy prescription and over-the-counter
pharmaceuticals from European countries where they cost less,
such as Spain and Greece.  They repackage and resell them at a markup in more-
expensive European markets, including Germany and the
Netherlands.  The arbitrageurs’ profit comes from country-to-country
price differences that can be hefty. A Europe-wide price survey
in 2009 by a Spanish parallel trader showed price differentials
that in a few cases topped 200 percent. Mohringer says such
margins are unheard of in his industry.  “Three-figure differences are unknown regarding parallel
imported medicinal products in the real world,” he says.  The arbitrageurs don’t need big margins to make money,
according to  Panos Kanavos , a health policy specialist at the
 London School of Economics .  Not Dodgy  “There used to be a rule of thumb that said you can make
money on a price difference of 20 to 25 percent,” he says.
“Now you can do it with 10 percent.”  The contraceptive pill  Cilest  is sold by the manufacturer,
 Janssen-Cilag , in packs of 63 tablets to the U.K.’s  National
Health Service  for 7.16 pounds (8.44 euros), according to
Janssen-Cilag, a unit of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , and the NHS.  The manufacturer sells the same medicine to German
wholesalers for 9.60 euros, says the company, or 14 percent
more, allowing parallel traders to take advantage of the price
difference.  If the practice sounds dodgy, it isn’t. Parallel trade is
legal under the  1957 Treaty of Rome , an early step in the
creation of the EU. Its Article 30 ensures the free movement of
goods within the EU’s single, internal market.  The parallel traders have their detractors. The  European
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations , a
Brussels-based trade group that represents manufacturers, says
importers disrupt supplies in exporting nations.  ‘Safety Risks’  One of the world’s largest pharmaceutical companies,
London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , says the parallel drug
business confuses consumers about just what they’re buying and
creates supply shortages in markets where traders such as
Mohringer buy them.  “GSK believes that parallel trade creates quality concerns
as well as significant potential safety risks,” company
spokeswoman Claire Taaffe says.  The  European Medicines Agency , which is responsible for the
scientific evaluation of medicines developed by pharmaceutical
companies for use in the EU, says it has no evidence showing
that parallel traders cause supply shortages.  The EFPIA also says that by displacing the supply of
medicines in higher-cost markets with ones intended for lower-
cost markets, parallel traders are claiming some of the revenue
that manufacturers say they need to defray spending on research
and development, an expense that most parallel traders don’t
incur because they focus on marketing and distribution.  ‘It’s Legal’  “We don’t like it, but we can’t do anything about it,”
Richard Bergstrom, director general of the EFPIA, says of the
parallel drug trade. “It’s legal. These are business people,
and they exploit the situation. What’s bad about it is, we lose
money from it.”  The lean, bearded Mohringer lives with his wife,
Friederike, a nutritionist who works in marketing and
distribution at EurimPharm, and two teenage children in an
exclusive residential district of Salzburg,  Austria , a drive of
about 20 minutes from company headquarters.  Whereas Mohringer is a classic entrepreneur who spotted a
business opportunity before others did, one of his neighbors has
the stamp of a classic industrialist: Hans-Peter Porsche, whose
family founded  Porsche Automobil Holding SE. (PAH3)   Though Mohringer doesn’t boast about it, one of his
possessions has attracted a fair amount of attention: a red  1953
Ferrari  convertible that has won awards at antique car rallies
in Pebble Beach,  California , and Villa d’Este,  Italy .  Ferrari Fans   A  YouTube video  of Mohringer and the Ferrari at last summer’s
 Goodwood Festival of Speed  in West Sussex, England, was a hit
among Ferrari fans.  Today, about 140 companies in the EU are  registered  with
the EMA for parallel distribution of  prescription drugs ,
according to the agency’s website. Mohringer’s company is one of
the largest, according to a parallel trade group, the  European
Association of Euro-Pharmaceutical Companies .  Six out of every seven companies are based in  Denmark ,
Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands,  Poland ,  Sweden  or the U.K. --
northern European countries where patented drugs tend to cost
more than in southern Europe.  Many of the companies were founded by pharmacists, drug
company sales representatives or doctors who saw an opportunity
to seize part of a market that  IMS Health Inc. , a Danbury,
Connecticut-based research firm, estimates is valued at 5
billion euros a year.  That represents about 3 percent of Europe’s estimated 150
billion euro prescription drug market.  Business Idea  Mohringer says he returned from his trip to the U.K. eager
to try out his new business idea. At the pharmacy in Rheinhausen
where he worked, his colleagues were unimpressed.  “They said, ‘Forget about it. If that was a good idea,
someone else would have thought of it,’” he says.  In 1975, Mohringer borrowed the equivalent of 2,500 euros
in deutsche marks, then Germany’s currency, from his parents in
order to import his first product, the tranquilizer Valium, from
the U.K. He repackaged it in his living room.  It was an inauspicious beginning. By printing his own
labels, Mohringer had failed to heed trademark laws and soon
caught the attention of Valium’s maker, then known as Hoffman-La
Roche Ltd., now a unit of Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding
AG. (ROG)   “Within a couple of weeks, I got my first injunction from
Hoffman-La Roche,” Mohringer says. “At that time, I had no
knowledge of the legal framework.”  ‘Somewhat Crazy’  He says he accepted his error and from then on made sure
his company’s labeling complied with trademark laws.  For the first couple of years, Mohringer continued to work
out of his living room. Within five years, he had given up his
day job at the pharmacy to concentrate on his company.  In the early days, EurimPharm faced no competition. It
could buy a product in, say, Greece and then sell it in Germany
for the same price the original manufacturers were charging
there, Mohringer says. It took other parallel traders two or
three years to creep up and challenge him, he says. Why?  “Because the idea was regarded as somewhat crazy,” he
says.  Eventually, competition led to pricing pressure. Going
head-to-head with other parallel traders wasn’t something
Mohringer was used to. He responded by cutting his prices by as
much as 10 to 20 percent.  “That was a sensation,” he says, between puffs on a
cigarette.  500-Plus Employees  In the early 1980s, Mohringer relocated EurimPharm to
Piding in southern Germany. He wanted to be closer to lower-cost
suppliers in Italy and, as the son of an Austrian architect and
a German physician’s assistant, felt at home in Bavaria.  In 2010 and 2011, Mohringer moved the company to a state-
of-the-art, 140,000-square-foot (13,000-square-meter) facility
in nearby Saaldorf-Surheim.  Last year, the plant repackaged 6 million prescription drug
packets and shipped them to customers, mostly in Germany,
Europe’s largest market for the parallel traders. EurimPharm has
500-plus employees and a 16 percent share of the German market,
Europe’s largest, Mohringer says.  Each year, EurimPharm donates about 30,000 to 50,000 euros
to local civic projects, Mohringer says. He says the company
gives away “hundreds of thousands” of euros in medicines
annually to countries where they’re needed. He and his wife make
private donations -- “very quietly” -- to other causes, he
says.  With Mohringer’s help, the parallel trade industry has
successfully pushed for laws in Germany that are to its
advantage.  Big Pharma Backlash  Mohringer, who’s president of EAEPC, is also president of
the  Bundesverband der Arzneimittel-Importeure e.V. , or BAI,
Germany’s association of parallel traders, which has lobbied for
such measures.  Until 1991, for example, under what Mohringer says was
pressure from big drugmakers, German wholesalers refused to list
parallel traders’ prices or distribute their cheaper products.
As a result, Mohringer had to sell directly to pharmacies.  That year, Mohringer complained to the  Bundeskartellamt ,
the German agency that enforces competition laws. The regulator
sued wholesalers, including  Anzag AG , which were then forced to
buy parallel traders’ stock. Germany now requires that 5 percent
of druggists’ sales be made up of parallel-traded medicines.  Through lower prices, parallel traders saved German
hospitals and patients 300 million euros in 2009, according to a
BAI report.  Not Playing Fair  The biggest beneficiaries of the parallel trade are the
traders themselves, according to a  2004 study  directed by
Kanavos of the  London School  of Economics and funded by Johnson
& Johnson, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  The study said the benefits to parallel traders outweigh
savings to health systems in Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands,
 Norway , Sweden and the U.K. by as much as eight to one.  “Direct savings accruing to statutory health insurance
organizations from the conduct of parallel trade are modest,”
the study concluded.  With the exception of the Hoffman-La Roche intervention,
drugmakers initially ignored Mohringer’s company.  “They saw me as someone who will go away,” he says.
“Then they realized, ‘Oh, we should probably do something about
it.’”  In taking on parallel traders in Germany, Big Pharma
doesn’t play fair, the BAI says.  ‘Industrial Espionage’  The parallel trade organization says that last year, three
firms --  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  of Foster City, California,
Janssen-Cilag and Roche -- hired research firm IMS Health to
find out where parallel traders were buying their products.  The tactic amounted to “industrial espionage,” Heinz
Kobelt, secretary-general of EAEPC in Brussels, says.  According to documents that the BAI says it obtained and
that Bloomberg News has seen, IMS offered German pharmacists up
to 1,340 euros a year to photograph medicines supplied by
parallel traders so that IMS could see what the packaging said
about the drugs’ origins.  IMS sent the pharmacists digital cameras and memory cards
and asked them to return the cards once a month in return for
payment, according to the documents.  Mohringer says that the manufacturers want the information
in order to squeeze supplies in parallel traders’ source
countries. IMS senior principal Klaus Perera defends the
research firm’s methodology and practices.  “IMS was informed by the federal cartel office that the
office decided not to institute a procedure against IMS in this
matter,” IMS spokesman Gary J. Gatyas Jr. says, referring to
the Bundeskartellamt.  Out of Business  Mohringer says Big Pharma could quickly put him and other
parallel traders out of business in one easy step by
establishing uniform prices throughout Europe.  “But they won’t,” he says.  The trade association for large manufacturers agrees. The
EFPIA’s Bergstrom says Big Pharma is unlikely to agree to
uniform pricing because poorer countries can’t afford to pay
what richer ones can.  Outwitting the drugmakers has been Mohringer’s lifework. It
has also made him more successful than he expected.  When, as a young pharmacist, he started parallel trading on
the side, he never imagined that his company would grow to its
present size.  “Never, ever,” he says in his office.  ‘It Just Happened’  Framed modern art hangs on the walls. Views of southern
Bavaria form a picturesque backdrop in the windows behind him.  “That was never even a dream,” he says. “It just
happened.” 