-- Dubai Shares Climb a 2nd Day as Debt Woes Fades, on Fed Outlook
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-03-14T08:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/dubai-shares-climb-a-2nd-day-as-debt-woes-fades-on-fed-outlook.html
Dubai stocks headed for the highest
close in more than a week after Dubai Electricity & Water
Authority said it will pay loans ahead of schedule and the
 Federal Reserve  raised its assessment of the  U.S. economy .  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, was poised for the highest close in almost two
weeks.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  rose 1.8 percent. The  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  gained 1.3 percent to 1,703.94, headed for the highest
close since March 5, at 11:55 a.m. in the emirate. The cost of
protecting Dubai’s debt against default dropped 17 basis points
to 355 yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai Electricity Chief Executive Officer Saeed Mohammed al-Tayer said yesterday the state-run utility will repay 1.2
billion dirhams ($327 million) in loans ahead of schedule.
Default risk for Dubai has declined this year partly on pledges
that the emirate’s main companies will manage to refinance debt
without state assistance.  “The news that Dubai Electricity & Water settled some of
its debt early gave a boost to investors’ risk appetite,” said
Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.
“They were also encouraged by the gains in the U.S. market
after the federal reserve” announcement, he said.  Fed Outlook  In the U.S., the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rallied 1.8
percent yesterday after a report showed retail sales increased
the most in five months and the Fed said it expects “moderate
economic growth” and predicted the  unemployment rate  “will
decline gradually.” The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced
0.3 percent.  Emaar gained 2.3 percent to 3.12 dirhams, headed for the
highest close since March 4. Dubai Islamic, the United Arab
Emirates’ largest bank complying with Shariah rules, rose to
2.21 dirhams.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 (BGCC200)  Index gained 0.1 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s
 ADX General Index (ADSMI)  increased 0.3 percent in its fifth day of
gains. Oman’s  MSM 30 Index (MSM30)  rose 0.4 percent, while Qatar’s  QE
Index (DSM)  was little changed.  Kuwait’s Stock Exchange Price Index (KWSEIDX) 
decreased less than 0.1 percent. Bahrain’s  BB All Share Index (BHSEASI) 
dropped 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  