-- Dubai Dhows to Iran Ditch TVs for Food After Sanctions
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-03-14T07:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/dubai-dhows-to-iran-ditch-tvs-for-food-after-sanctions.html
At the Dubai Creek port, sailors
bound for  Iran  say they are loading their dhows with food,
instead of their usual cargos of electronics and home
appliances, as international sanctions lift prices.  “Everything is more expensive these days and ordinary
people, even merchants, won’t buy expensive goods,” said Reza
Esmaeili, a 44-year-old Iranian sailor. “Food is different
because it’s essential to our lives.” He said typical cargoes
include rice, tea, cooking oil and sugar.  Restrictions on trade with Iran, imposed by the U.S. and
European Union this year on the grounds they are required to
curb the Islamic republic’s nuclear program, are hurting its
economy. The rial has dropped 9.2 percent against the dollar at
official rates this year, and posted steeper losses on the black
market as Iranians rushed to buy hard currency and the
government imposed exchange controls.  That has increased the price Iranians pay for goods bought
in Dubai and loaded onto some 2,000 ships that regularly ply the
route across the  Persian Gulf . Esmaeili said purchases in Dubai
include rice and tea from  India  and  Pakistan , and sugar from
Germany and  Italy . He said his cargo will cost 500 million rials
($41,000) and earn him a profit of 150 million rials.  Iran was Dubai’s second-biggest market for re-exports after
India in the third quarter of 2011. Sales of 8.8 billion dirhams
($2.4 billion) to the Islamic republic accounted for more than
one fifth of the total,  Dubai Statistics Centre  data show.  ‘Worse Than Wartime’  Economic conditions in Iran are “worse than wartime,”
said Abdolreza Ebrahimi, a 60-year-old captain, who is shipping
spare parts for automobiles to Bushehr province in 12 40-foot
(12-meter) containers.  Inflation (IACIGY)  is above 20 percent, according
to central bank figures.  Iran’s customs authorities have lowered tariffs on food to
encourage imports, while banning the import of U.S.-made goods,
Ebrahaimi and other sailors said. Ebrahimi said that selling
soft drinks such as Pepsi and Coca Cola in large quantities is
becoming difficult as prices increase and similar drinks are
made locally. Chinese products are also being substituted for
European and U.S.-made goods.  The creek, which divides Dubai in two, is one of the
emirate’s oldest trading harbors and the birthplace of its
pearl-fishing industry a century ago. There are historical roots
to the Iranian presence in the bustling waterway and the old
city that surrounds it.  Gucci, Spices  Nearby is Dubai’s old Gold Souq, where Iranian traders
compete with Arabs, Indians and Afghanis selling precious metal
and diamonds, as well as counterfeit Gucci and Louis Vuitton
bags. A few steps away in the Spice Market, predominantly
Iranian sellers showcase a variety of herbs and seasoning
imported from the Islamic republic.  Bank Melli Iran, among the financial institutions targeted
by U.S. and EU sanctions, has offices overlooking the creek,
though restrictions on its operations are tightening. Dubai-
based Noor Islamic Bank, whose Chairman Mohammed Bin Rashid Al
Maktoum is the son of Dubai’s ruler, said last month that it cut
off relations with Iranian banks in December in compliance with
international sanctions.  Transferring money through Iranian banks in the emirate is
becoming more difficult, hurting business and forcing merchants
to seek the help of Iranian businessmen or “connections” in
the city to receive the funds, said Esmaeili.  ‘Defend Our Country’  The Iran-bound ships typically carry televisions,
computers, air-conditioning units and mobile phones, the sailors
said. They are insured by Iran’s government for about 2 billion
rials each, with additional coverage of 800 million rials for
each of at least six sailors aboard, they said.  Israel  and the U.S. haven’t ruled out military strikes on
Iran to halt its nuclear program, which the Iranian government
said is for peaceful purposes only. The outbreak of war wouldn’t
stop the maritime trade, said Mohammad Jafari, a white-bearded
sailor.  “We can continue our shipments even if there is war, as we
did last time during the war with  Iraq ,” he said. In the case
of an Israeli attack though, “we will go to the front to defend
our country,” he said, as other sailors nodded agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  and
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  