-- Health Care Prosecution Losses Mar U.S. Marketing Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-03-14T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/health-care-prosecution-losses-mar-u-s-marketing-probe.html
Former  Stryker Biotech LLC (SYK)  sales
manager David Ard waited more than two years for his trial on 
charges that he joined a scheme to market unapproved medical
devices to surgeons.  Prosecutors abruptly dropped the case Jan. 17, five days
after opening the trial in which Stryker was also a defendant. 
They had told jurors in  Boston  federal court that Ard and two 
of his colleagues were criminals.   “I always knew there wasn’t a shred of evidence, and I was
completely innocent,” Ard, 47, said in a phone interview from
 California  after the case ended. “Sitting there in that seat in
the courtroom when they’re bringing in the jurors, I was happier
than I had been in 2 1/2 years because I knew I would be able to
clear my name and the truth would come out.”  U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz in Boston, who dropped the 
charges against the three defendants and later a fourth Stryker 
employee, had another drug-marketing prosecution fall apart nine 
months earlier. A U.S. judge in Maryland threw out charges last 
May against Lauren Stevens, an ex- GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  lawyer 
accused of obstructing a probe into the marketing for 
unapproved uses of Wellbutrin SR, an antidepressant.  The Ard and Stevens cases may illustrate how the Justice 
Department has failed at times to prove that health-care 
industry executives are criminals, even as their employers admit 
criminal charges, write large checks and promise reform. For 
those accused and then cleared, the experience can be scarring.  ‘Seriously Rethink’  “Prosecutors should seriously rethink what amount of
evidence they have of a person’s involvement before they charge
them,” said John Bentivoglio of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP, a former health-care prosecutor. “Prosecutors around
the country are overreaching in their zeal to pursue charges
against individuals,” said Bentivoglio, who now represents drug
and medical-device makers.  Since 2004, prosecutors have wrested more than $8 billion
in fines and penalties from companies such as Pfizer Inc. and
Eli Lilly & Co. to resolve probes of deceptively marketed drugs.
Beyond that, Glaxo has agreed to pay $3 billion to resolve U.S.
criminal and civil investigations into whether it marketed drugs
for unapproved uses, including Wellbutrin SR.  In fiscal 2011, the U.S.  Justice Department  opened 1,110
new criminal health-care fraud investigations and won
convictions of 743 defendants, many of them involving Medicare
fraud, according to a government  report . The U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Boston led the nation, securing $1.67 billion in civil
and criminal health-care recoveries in the past fiscal year.  ‘Tough Sell’  Prosecutions of health-care executives are a “tough sell”
for judges and juries, said Kirk Ogrosky of Arnold & Porter LLP,
the former head of criminal health-care enforcement at the
Justice Department, who now represents drug and device makers.  Since 2007, prosecutors have won convictions of three top
executives at Purdue Pharma LP who pleaded guilty to misdemeanor
charges of misbranding the painkiller OxyContin; former
Intermune Inc. Chief Executive Officer W. Scott Harkonen; four
Synthes Inc. executives; and former KV Pharmaceutical Co. CEO
Marc Hermelin.  The longest prison term handed down in those cases was nine
months. All except Harkonen were charged as “responsible
corporate officers” who should have detected or prevented
misconduct by others, not as bad actors themselves.  Prosecutors Stumble  Carolyn McNiven, a former federal prosecutor, said the
Stryker and Stevens setbacks won’t deter the U.S.  “The government’s health-care enforcement efforts have
been immensely successful,” said McNiven, a partner at DLA
Piper LLP who specializes in health-care compliance. “They were
certainly aware in the Stevens case, and perhaps to a lesser
extent in the Stryker case, that they might not prevail, but
they went ahead and did it anyway. I don’t think the outcomes
will change their approach in the future.”  In 2007, four former executives of Serono SA were acquitted
in Boston of charges they bribed doctors to get them to
prescribe Serostim, the Swiss company’s AIDS-wasting treatment.
One later pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor.  “There is a long track record of judges and jurors not
being able to conclude these activities are crimes,” Ogrosky
said. “Instead of prosecuting the criminals who are outright
stealing from Medicare, certain U.S. attorney’s offices have
spent years taking on more tedious cases focusing on regulatory
dealings. These types of cases should rarely, if ever, be
prosecuted.”  Sales Misconduct  The case against Stryker Biotech, a unit of Kalamazoo,
Michigan-based Stryker Corp., began after the company told the
U.S. about misconduct by four sales representatives who marketed
two forms of OP-1, a protein that stimulates bone growth, and
Calstrux, a synthetic bone void filler.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approved OP-1 under
“humanitarian device exemption” rules, limiting it to 4,000
patients a year operated on by spine and trauma surgeons. The
FDA didn’t approve using OP-1 and Calstrux in combination. While
doctors can prescribe FDA-approved devices or drugs for any
purpose, companies can only market them for approved uses.  The sales representatives pleaded guilty to misbranding,
admitting they gave “mixing instructions” to surgeons on
combining OP-1 and Calstrux. They cooperated with prosecutors,
who charged Stryker and four managers in 2009 with promoting the
mixture of OP-1 and Calstrux without FDA approval.  Ard, a regional sales manager in California and a father of
three small children, said it was “completely devastating”
when he learned of the indictment on Oct. 28, 2009.  “We were dressing our kids for a Halloween parade that
day,” he said.  Co-Defendants  Ard was charged along with Jeff Whitaker, a regional sales
manager from  North Carolina ; William Heppner, a national sales
director from  Illinois ; and Mark Philip, the company president.
They faced as long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  Just before trial began on Jan. 12, U.S. District Judge
George O’Toole Jr. dismissed a false-statements charge against
Stryker, narrowing the evidence prosecutors could present.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Susan Winkler told jurors that the
OP-1/Calstrux combination threatened patients. She said the
sales representatives misled surgeons by saying they were
getting only OP-1, and not a combination.  Ard’s lawyer, Brent Gurney of WilmerHale LLP, said his
client didn’t intend to defraud anyone. Stryker attorney Brien O’Connor of Ropes & Gray LLP called the case a “terribly
misguided prosecution and a gross injustice.”  Surgeons used the drug combination because it worked, not
because Stryker tricked them, he said. Surgeons reported only 63
so-called adverse events to the FDA out of 10,000 cases, he
said.  Fatal Blow  O’Connor then struck a blow that helped prove fatal to the
government’s case. While the indictment referred to seven
surgeons who got recipes from Stryker sales representatives for
the bone drug, O’Connor said, prosecutors never interviewed a
single one, he told the jury in his opening statement.  “Apparently, they had no time to ask the surgeon victims
‘Were you tricked?”’ he said. “They may not have talked to the
surgeons, but we did.”  Those surgeons, O’Connor said, would testify the defendants
“did not defraud them in any way.”  After the first prosecution witness testified Jan. 13, a
Friday, O’Connor said in an interview he knew the government’s
case was in trouble. Over that weekend, prosecutors drafted a
misdemeanor charge for Stryker to replace the 13 felony counts
in the indictment.  Government Programs  A felony conviction for the company would have meant
Stryker’s exclusion from government programs. Stryker would make
no felony admission of fraud, trickery or deceit, O’Connor said.
A fair resolution meant dropping the cases against Ard, Heppner
and Whitaker, he said he told prosecutors.  “What was most important to Stryker was that the world
knew that the company did not try to defraud surgeons and the
FDA, and these leaders of the sales team did not engage in
criminal conduct,” O’Connor said in the interview.  The prosecutors, overseen by Ortiz, agreed. On Jan. 17,
Stryker pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and consented to pay a
$15 million fine. Prosecutors dropped the Ard case. The next
day, they dropped charges against Heppner and Whitaker. On Feb.
2, they ended the Philip case.  After the Philip dismissal, the U.S. attorney, who declined
to comment on the case, said “unfavorable pretrial rulings,
combined with a strategic error in preparing for trial, led to
the dismissal of charges against the individual defendants.”  The victory was bittersweet for Ard, whose third child was
born between his indictment and trial.  “It was a tough burden in what should have been a joyous
time,” he said, adding that he was unable to work while the
case was pending and lived off his savings.  Glaxo’s Stevens  In the case of Glaxo lawyer Stevens, 62, after two weeks of
testimony, U.S. District Judge Roger Titus in Greenbelt
dismissed the charges without even letting the jury deliberate.  For Stevens, it was a point of pride that she had worked at
London-based Glaxo since 1989 as an in-house lawyer, she said in
an interview. She led Glaxo’s response to an FDA inquiry in
October 2002 over the possible promotion of Wellbutrin SR for
obesity, an unapproved, or “off-label,” use.  During a 14-month span, she fielded FDA letters and worked
with the law firm King & Spalding LLP in drafting responses. In
2007, Stevens learned she was under criminal investigation for
possibly impeding the federal probe. She was indicted in
November 2010 on charges that she obstructed the FDA inquiry,
falsified documents, and made false statements in four letters.
She, too, was looking at a maximum sentence of 20 years in
prison if convicted of the most serious charge.  Letters to Doctors  Prosecutors said Stevens sent letters to more than 500
doctors who gave promotional talks on Wellbutrin SR, and
gathered slides and materials from 40 who responded. She sent
letters to the 28 whose slides discussed unapproved uses.
Prosecutors said she sent none of these slides to the FDA.  Nor did she reveal that one doctor who touted off-label
uses made more than $1 million from Glaxo by talking at 488
promotional events, and another gave 512 talks, prosecutors
said. They said notes Stevens took showed she hid the depth of
Glaxo’s off-label promotion from the FDA, and she didn’t tell
the agency that doctors attending speaker programs were given
trips, tickets to sporting events and spa treatments.  Good Faith  Lawyers for Stevens said the FDA declined her offers to
meet and discuss the inquiry. Stevens acted in good faith and
relied on King & Spalding, her lawyer  Reid Weingarten  told the
jury in his opening statement on April 27. No one at Atlanta-
based King & Spalding was accused of wrongdoing.  “You can either be dragged into court kicking and
screaming, or you can steel yourself and say ‘I’m going to fight
this as hard as I can,”’ said Stevens, an attorney who said she
had never been in a federal courtroom before her trial.  After two weeks of prosecution witnesses, her lawyers asked
the judge to dismiss the case without sending it to the jury.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Sara Bloom urged the judge to avoid
that “extraordinary act.” On May 10, he sided with the
defense, saying it was the first time he had granted such a
motion in his 7 1/2 years on the bench.  “It would be a miscarriage of justice to permit this case
to go to the jury,” Judge Titus said. Stevens “never should
have been prosecuted, and she should be permitted to resume her
career.”  Stevens said she was stunned.  “I could hardly move or breathe,” she said. “I was
thankful and relieved. I wanted to jump up and down but I
couldn’t do anything. I was frozen.”  Conference Discussion  Titus, Bloom and Weingarten discussed the case before 1,000
lawyers at an American Bar Association conference in Miami this
month. Bloom defended the decision to prosecute Stevens.  “The evidence is clear that Lauren Stevens knew that the
statements in her letters to the FDA were not true,” she said.
“It was a very thoroughly considered decision” to prosecute.  The judge said he talked to jurors after he ruled.  “They were very pleased with the decision,” Titus said.
“They couldn’t understand the prosecution. Neither could I.”  Titus said he was “troubled” that Stevens was charged for
doing her job as an attorney.  “I felt the practice of law was threatened by a
prosecution like this,” he said.  Weingarten, of Washington-based Steptoe & Johnson LLP,
worked on the defense with Boston-based law firm Ropes & Gray.  Administrative Leave  Stevens, who went on administrative leave in May 2009 and
retired in October 2010, is now a consultant for Glaxo, which 
paid her legal costs. She has one daughter in college and 
another who graduated two days before her acquittal.  “Anger is a wasted emotion,” she said. “I think the
prosecutors were wrong, but I certainly don’t think they were
malicious or bad people. I don’t know what the future holds for
me, but I’m happy and enjoying life.”  The cases are U.S. v. Stryker Biotech LLC, 09-cr-10330,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston); and
U.S. v. Stevens, 10-cr-00694, U.S. District Court, District of
 Maryland  (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston federal court
at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 