-- Ecopetrol Says Oil Output on Target as Rebel Sabotage Rises
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-03-14T22:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/ecopetrol-says-oil-output-on-target-amid-rising-rebel-sabotage.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s largest
oil company, expects to meet production targets this year as the
government tightens security after an increase in guerrilla
sabotage, Chief Executive Officer  Javier Gutierrez  said.  The company, based in Bogota, plans to produce a daily
average of 800,000 barrels of oil and natural gas and add about
400 million barrels of reserves, Gutierrez said yesterday in an
interview in the northern Colombian city of Cartagena. More
pipeline attacks doesn’t mean rebels regained strength, he said.  “Ten years ago when you talked about attacks on
infrastructure, there was a certain level of uncertainty,” he
said. “The country has been able to show for a long time that
it does have the capacity to guarantee operating conditions.”  Increased strikes by guerrilla groups cut oil production
last month in  Colombia , which has drawn record international
spending on energy and metals reserves from investors including
billionaires  Carlos Slim  and  Eike Batista . Sabotage of energy
towers, pipelines, roads and bridges rose last year for the
first time since 2008, according to  government statistics .  The strikes will delay reaching Colombia’s production goal
of 1 million barrels of oil a day, said Juan David Pineros, an
analyst at Colombia’s largest brokerage  Interbolsa SA (INTBOL) . In
February, output slid 4.8 percent from January to an average of
896,000 barrels a day after attacks restricted oil transport.  ‘Pretty Problematic’  “It’s pretty problematic,” Pineros said by telephone from
Medellin on March 12. “The guerrillas seek to destabilize
things. They go after high impact targets.”  Pineros doesn’t own shares in Ecopetrol. Interbolsa has a
sell rating on the stock, saying gains in the shares have
outpaced profit growth.  Ecopetrol is working on repairs this week to the Cano Limon
Covenas pipeline in eastern Colombia, which guerrillas sabotaged
more than a dozen times this year, Gutierrez said.  The line, carrying about 70,000 barrels a day of crude, was
attacked in two different sites on March 11 by the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, producing fires and a spill,
according to police.  Such attacks are concentrated in the nation’s northeast and
show a decrease in the military force of the rebels compared
with a decade ago, Gutierrez said.  Individuals, Cells  “Before there were movements that were more massive,”
Gutierrez said. “Now clearly it’s more individuals and cells,
which is a different presence from what it used to be.”  Ecopetrol closed unchanged at 5,300 pesos in Bogota after
gaining as much as 2.1 percent following Gutierrez’s comments.
The stock has added 26 percent this year, compared with an 11
percent gain in Colombia’s benchmark COLCAP index. Ecopetrol is
ranked ninth among global oil and gas companies by market value,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  The government is making additional investments to
guarantee security as rebels act out of “desperation,” Mines
and Energy Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said yesterday.  A military strike in November killed the FARC’s leader
 Alfonso Cano . He had replaced the movement’s founder,  Manuel Marulanda , known as “Tirofijo,” or “Sureshot” in Spanish,
who died of a heart attack in 2008.  ‘Ups and Downs’  “Colombia is going to have ups and downs,” said Stephen Johnson, director of the Americas program at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, in a March 8 telephone
interview from Washington DC. “The people involved in these
movements aren’t going to just say ‘Hey, our latest leader has
died and ‘Sureshot’ is gone, so let’s become car salesmen.’”  Last week, Colombia’s second-largest rebel group freed 11
workers taken hostage near a $4.2 billion oil pipeline project
being developed by Ecopetrol. The men were kidnapped Feb. 28.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  is using investment in energy
reserves to fuel his nation’s $288 billion economy. Rising
exports of oil and coal helped Colombia garner an investment-
grade credit rating last year. The country was raised to Baa3,
the lowest investment grade level, from Ba1 by Moody’s Investors
Service on May 31. Standard & Poor’s increased Colombia to BBB-
in March 2011.  Rising production has made Colombia the third-largest crude
producer in  South America  after Venezuela and  Brazil . Production
at Ecopetrol rose to 741,700 barrels of oil and natural gas a
day last quarter, from 651,300 barrels a year earlier.  Ecopetrol is studying an $8 billion pipeline to carry heavy
crude oil from eastern Colombia to the  Pacific Ocean , a project
that probably will need partners, Gutierrez said. The pipeline
may attract investment from  China , he said last year.  Ecopetrol also is studying oil blocks to be auctioned this
year by Colombia’s government, where the company is in the early
stages of exploring for non-conventional fuels, Gutierrez said.
Non-conventional fuels include gas extracted from shale.
Colombia’s government owns 88.5 percent of Ecopetrol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  