-- Emerging Stocks Advance to Week High on U.S. Data; China Slumps
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-03-14T12:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/emerging-stocks-advance-to-week-high-on-u-s-data-china-slumps.html
Emerging-market stocks reached the
highest in more than a week after the U.S. Federal Reserve
raised its economic assessment, outweighing concern that  China 
may keep property curbs in place longer than anticipated.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.4 percent to
1,070.51 as of 11:47 a.m. in London, the highest since March 5.
China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank 2.6 percent, the biggest
drop since Nov. 30, after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said easing
constraints on the  property market  would lead to “chaos.”  Poly
Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , China’s second-largest developer by
market value, slumped 3 percent in  Shanghai .  Turkey ’s ISE
National 100 Index gained 1.9 percent, as benchmark gauges in
Poland and  Hungary  added more than 1 percent.  Strains in global financial markets have eased and the
labor market is gathering strength, the Fed said yesterday.
Fifteen of the nation’s largest 19 banks could maintain adequate
capital levels even in a recession, the central bank said
separately. U.S.  retail sales  increased 1.1 percent in February.  “A recovery in the U.S. signals that demand for products
supplied from around the world will improve,” Fadlul Imansyah,
who helps manage about $196 million at PT CIMB Principal Asset
Management in Jakarta, said by phone today. Tight policies in
China “can cause all kinds of businesses to delay expansion,”
he said.  A gauge tracking Chinese property stocks in Shanghai sank
3.7 percent.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (600585) , the nation’s biggest maker
of the building material, fell 3.3 percent.  Russia, South Africa  The  Micex Index (MICEX)  advanced 0.9 percent in Moscow and the
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  rose 0.8 percent in
Johannesburg.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 1 percent.  United Co. Rusal (RUALR)  headed for a seven-week low, dropping as
much as 3.4 percent in Moscow after billionaire Chairman Victor
Vekselberg’s resignation stoked concern a shareholder dispute
will hurt the world’s biggest aluminum producer.  Naspers Ltd. (NPN) ,  Africa ’s largest media group, rose 2.7
percent, headed for its biggest gain in more than three months,
after fourth-quarter profit at  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , in which
Naspers owns a 35 percent stake, rose 15 percent. Tencent is
China’s biggest Internet company by revenue.  India ’s  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.7
percent, paring a gain of as much as 1.3 percent after the
nation’s inflation accelerated for the first time in five months
in February, weakening the case for an interest-rate cut to
counter slower economic growth. The benchmark wholesale-price
index rose 6.95 percent from a year earlier, after climbing 6.55
percent in January, the commerce ministry said in a statement in
 New Delhi  today.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , which earned more
than half of its 2010 revenue from the U.S., gained 2.3 percent.
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , South Korea’s largest consumer
electronics exporter, jumped 2.4 percent to a record high after
iSuppli said the company will supply the touch screen for Apple
Inc.’s new iPad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  