-- Tencent May Slow Investments as Costs Erode Earnings
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-03-15T11:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/tencent-net-income-rises-15-as-china-online-game-sales-increase.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s
biggest Internet company, may make fewer investments this year
after costs from earlier acquisitions eroded earnings from
online games and social networking.  “The pace of investments in the future may be slower,”
President Martin Lau told reporters at a briefing in  Hong Kong 
yesterday. Tencent spent more than 5 billion yuan ($790 million)
on “several dozen” equity investments in 2011, and will seek
to complete “at least 10” deals this year, Lau said.  Tencent posted its weakest full-year profit growth since
2005 after booking costs from purchases such as Los Angeles-
based Riot Games Inc. The Chinese company also bought stakes in
Internet travel operator  eLong Inc.  and security software vendor
 Kingsoft Corp. (3888)  to diversify from online games.  “They will need to integrate some of the assets they
acquired,” said Kevin Tam, who rates Tencent shares buy at Core
Pacific-Yamaichi International in Hong Kong. “It makes sense
for the company to slow down and take stock.”  Fourth-quarter profit rose 15 percent to 2.54 billion yuan,
Shenzhen-based Tencent said in a statement to the Hong Kong
stock exchange yesterday. That was in line with the 2.55
billion-yuan average of nine analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Still, the 27 percent increase in full-year profit in
2011 was slower than 2010’s 56 percent.  Tencent rose 4.1 percent to HK$208.2 in Hong Kong, the
highest closing share price since July 18, making it the best-
performer in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  today. The stock has
gained 34 percent this year, outperforming Chinese Internet
rivals including  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and  NetEase.com Inc. (NTES)   Cautious Spending  “We will be very careful in controlling the pace of our
investments, and we want to use our money more smartly,” Chief
Executive Officer Pony Ma said at the briefing. Still, it’s
important for Tencent to make investments for the long-term
rather than focus on “short-term profit,” he said.  Fourth-quarter sales of Internet value-added services,
including online games and social-networking products, rose 46
percent on year to 6.4 billion yuan, Tencent said. Online
advertising sales increased 54 percent to 598 million yuan.  “The ‘League of Legends’ game was a new blockbuster for
Tencent,” Jonathan Chan, who rates Tencent shares outperform at
CCB International Securities in Hong Kong, said before the
earnings.  In February 2011, Tencent paid $231.5 million in cash, in
addition to  stock options , to buy control of Riot Games,
developer of “League of Legends.” The acquisition contributed
to an 86 percent surge in full-year general and administrative
expenses, Tencent said.  QQ  In the fourth quarter, Tencent added 9.3 million active
user accounts on QQ, China’s most-popular instant-messaging
service, for a total of 721 million at year-end.  About 430 million people use QQ, according to an estimate
by OSK Securities analyst Billy Leung in January. Tencent has
said QQ users typically have more than one account.  Tencent seeks to derive a greater proportion of its income
from online advertising, Lau said.  “At the moment, 90 percent of our revenue comes from fees,
with 10 percent from advertising, and in the long term, there
needs to be a shift,” Lau said. By contrast,  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the
world’s biggest social-networking website, gets most of its
income from advertising, he said.  Tencent will offer a new “performance-based” advertising
system this year, and will seek to increase revenue from its
search-engine, Lau said.  The company will pay a final dividend of 75 Hong Kong cents
a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
mtighe4@bloomberg. 