-- Enel Targets Renewables, Latin America to Counter Italian Slump
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-14T00:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/enel-targets-renewables-latin-america-to-counter-italian-slump.html
Enel SpA (ENEL) , Italy’s largest utility,
will steer investments into  Latin America  and renewable energy
as recession damps electricity demand in its biggest market.  “Growth has to come from renewables and from Latin
America, as well as Eastern Europe and Russia,” Luigi Ferraris,
chief financial Officer, said in an interview in  London . Enel,
based in Rome, is planning to add about 4.5 gigawatts of
renewable capacity to 2016 through its Enel Green Power unit, he
said.  Enel is seeking growth outside its biggest markets, Italy
and Spain, where it expects subdued demand this year as the
European debt crisis forces governments to curtail spending. The
company cut its dividend target by a third to reduce debt as
recessions weighed on revenue and increased solar-panel
installations worsened overcapacity.  Enel Green Power (EGPW)  is planning to spend 6.1 billion euros ($8
billion) on renewables globally from 2012 through 2016. The
company will target wind energy in Latin America where auctions
for long-term energy contracts, such as those in  Brazil , give
visibility on returns, said Ferraris, who’s also the chairman of
Enel Green Power.  “Since we kept the same level of capex, we continue to
reallocate funds from mature markets to the emerging ones such
as North America, Latin America and Romania,” he said of the
unit’s spending plans. Overall investments in Latin America for
the Enel group will be 5.4 billion euros to 2016, according to
the company.  Romanian Wind  Enel plans to reach about 500 megawatts of wind by 2016 in
Romania, where wind producers receive incentives through the
green certificate program and sites are pummeled by strong
winds, Ferraris said. Enel’s spending on Romanian wind farms
rose more than fourfold to 330 million euros last year.  Enel will invest in Romania as the Spanish wind market
nears maturity, Ferraris said. “Wind is nearly fully exploited
in  Spain  and the renewable energy market there could be
considered mature,” he said.  Spain halted subsidies for new renewable energy projects
this year to help curb its  budget deficit .  Enel Green Power unit would be a “strategic pillar of
growth” for the Enel group alongside the distribution business,
he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  