-- EON Profit Declines on Nuclear Plant Closures, Weak Demand
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-03-14T17:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/eon-profit-declines-50-on-german-nuclear-shutdown-weak-demand.html
EON AG,  Germany ’s largest utility,
said 2011 profit slumped 50 percent because of nuclear reactor
closures and lower earnings from its power generation and
wholesale gas business.  Underlying net income dropped to almost 2.5 billion euros
($3.3 billion), beating the 2.33 billion-euro median estimate of
26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The profit measure, which EON
uses to calculate its dividend,is forecast to be as much as 2.7
billion euros in 2012 and as much as 3.7 billion euros in 2013.
EON rose the most in more than three years in Frankfurt.  “The market was concerned on 2012 and 2013 estimate
guidance, which seems to be removed now,” Deutsche Bank AG
analyst Alexander Karnick said in a note to investors today.
“This suggests a bottoming out of earnings per share
downgrades, possibly small EPS upgrades.”  Germany’s largest utilities are overhauling operations
after the Fukushima disaster in  Japan  last March drove
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to order the permanent closing of all
nuclear plants by 2022. The shutdown of nuclear stations trimmed
earnings by 2.5 billion euros in 2011 and drove EON to announce
a 15 billion-euro divestment program, job cuts and plans to
expand into new markets including Brazil.  EON has “bottomed out,” after one of the company’s most
difficult years, Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen said
in Dusseldorf today. The utility reported a net loss for the
first time in its history of 1.86 billion euros.  Oil-Gas Link  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization from power generation fell 44 percent in 2011 to
2.1 billion euros, while Ebitda from EON’s midstream natural gas
unit dropped to a loss of 79 million euros. The company will pay
a dividend of one euro a share, growing to 1.10 euros in 2012
and 2013.  EON surged 7 percent, the steepest gain since December
2008, and closed at 18.275 euros in  Frankfurt . The stock has
fallen 16 percent over the past year, valuing the company at
36.6 billion euros.  “The economic situation is temporarily dampening the
demand for power, resulting in markedly narrower margins and
lower utilization factors for our conventional power stations,”
Teyssen said in a statement. Lower profits from power generation
will continue to weigh on earnings through 2012, EON said.  The midstream gas division has struggled with the
decoupling of oil and gas prices, EON said. The utility buys gas
in long-term contracts linked to  oil prices  from suppliers
including Statoil ASA  and  OAO Gazprom. (GAZP)  Rising crude prices
boosted the cost of oil-linked gas costs in 2011.  Statoil Deal  EON reached an agreement with  Norway ’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  to
adjust gas contract prices to reflect current market conditions,
Teyssen said today. Statoil supplies 25 percent of EON’s gas, he
said.  EON is pursuing cost-cutting measures including trimming
its workforce by as many as 11,000 people and selling assets. As
of the end of March, EON closed deals worth 9.4 billion euros,
selling stakes in OAO Gazprom and Italy’s gas distribution
network.  Further disposal candidates include Germany’s gas
transmission network, the EON Energy-from-Waste business and
E.ON Westfalen Weser, it said in a presentation.  First New Region  Brazil will be the first new region targeted by EON. The
company agreed to buy 10 percent of Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s MPX Energia SA and set up a power-generation joint
venture in January. The two companies plan to jointly generate
20,000 megawatts in  Brazil  and  Chile  and will each own 50
percent of the business.  EON plans to invest 7 billion euros to expand its clean-
energy generation capacity in the next five years as Germany
shutters the utility’s nuclear reactors. EON seeks to build wind
farms off the U.K., Scandinavian and German coastlines,
including the 1-billion euro Amrumbank West project in the  North
Sea  that Siemens AG,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, will
supply with 80 of its wind turbines.  “We intend to commission a new offshore wind farm every 18
months,” Teyssen said.  EON at the end of last year owned about 9 gigawatts of
renewable generation capacity, about 4.8 gigawatts of which are
hydro stations. EON’s renewable energy unit saw Ebitda rise 21
percent to 1.5 billion euros as more  wind turbines  were
installed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  