-- Merkel’s Cabinet Backs ESM Bill as Pressure on Firewall Grows
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-14T10:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/merkel-s-cabinet-backs-esm-bill-as-pressure-on-firewall-grows.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet
approved legislation to help set up the euro-area’s permanent
rescue fund, as international pressure mounted on  Germany  to
back plans to increase the capacity of Europe’s crisis backstop.  Ministers meeting in Berlin today backed a bill authorizing
Germany to contribute to the permanent European Stability
Mechanism. The legislation will now go to parliament for
ratification by June 15 along with a companion bill on the
European Union’s deficit-control treaty, the fiscal pact.  Germany, the biggest country contributor to euro-region
rescues, is increasingly isolated as the main holdout against
raising the 500 billion-euro ($652 billion) ceiling on bailout
lending. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  called today for a
bigger financial backstop to protect nations like his from
contagion.  “We need to advance in the design of the European
firewall,” Rajoy told Parliament in  Madrid . “ Spain  considers it
to be of utmost importance to increase the limit as soon as
possible and is working on that.”  Euro-area finance ministers meeting in Brussels two days
ago asked the European Commission, which has backed the largest
possible rescue pool, to propose options on the firewall for a
decision at a March 30-31 meeting in Copenhagen.  “If there was a need, we could discuss whether to use the
ESM in parallel for some time” with the temporary fund it is
due to replace in July, “and so raise the volume,”  Norbert Barthle , the ranking budget expert for Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said by phone today. “At the moment I have
the impression that markets are calming down more and more and
this need may not materialize.”  IMF Resources  Led by the U.S., major world powers have held back on
increasing the International Monetary Fund’s crisis-fighting
resources until the 17-nation euro area provides more self-help
in the form of a bolstered firewall.  Germany has been the main holdout against proposals to let
the ESM tap the remaining 250 billion euros in the temporary
fund, the European Financial Stability Facility. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday that there’s a
“certain link” between the decision on the ESM to be taken by
the end of March and a bigger role for the IMF.  “We’ve said that we want to take the final decision
together in March,” Schaeuble told reporters in Brussels. At the
same time, euro states must avoid “creating the wrong
incentives that would prompt some to believe that they can get
by without determination to solve their problems.”  Barthle said that he took part in a telephone conference
with the Finance Ministry yesterday during which “it was made
very clear that the agreed volume of the ESM is to remain
unchanged at least until the end of March, when the final
assessment of whether the volume is enough has been completed.”  Monti, Merkel  Prime Minister  Mario Monti , speaking after talks with
Merkel in  Rome  late yesterday, reiterated Italy’s support for
“adequate” financial firewalls. Merkel, asked about boosting
the region’s crisis-fighting war chest, declined to comment. She
instead stressed the need to act now to bolster growth and
competitiveness and press ahead with economic reform.  “We’ve come a good way along the mountain path, but we’re
not completely over the mountain,” Merkel said. “I suspect
that in the next few years there will continue to be new
mountains -- there won’t be a celebratory event in which we say
we’re over the mountain and now we can sit among the trees and
say that we’ve done it.”  Merkel praised Monti’s “bold” efforts since taking office
on Nov. 16 to overhaul  Italy ’s economy, which include 20 billion
euros in austerity measures and steps to deregulate services
amid surging Italian  bond yields  that had threatened to break up
the currency region. Aided by European Central Bank liquidity
measures, Italian 10-year borrowing costs have fallen to 4.89
percent from a euro-era record of 7.26 percent on Nov. 25.  ‘Huge Risks’  Even so, Merkel said that “huge risks” lie ahead. “We
have these imbalances -- what we’re referring to as the Target2
balances -- they are one of many indicators that we’re not back
in full balance,” she said.  Monti, a former European Union competition commissioner,
said Italy has “arrested” the crisis though not yet overcome
it. “Italy still has homework to do,” he said. Italy prefers
to rely on its “own strengths” rather than seek any external
aid during the worst moments of the crisis.  Euro governments agreed March 2 to pay the first two annual
installments into the permanent rescue fund this year and
complete the capitalization in 2015, a year ahead of schedule.  Europe  plans to equip the ESM with 80 billion euros in cash
and give it the right to call another 620 billion euros in an
emergency. The total would enable it to lend 500 billion euros
and maintain a buffer to garner an AAA credit rating when it is
set up in July.  “We would like to see some combining of the resources,”
French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said in Brussels. “We
are confident we will see some advances in the next fortnight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 Rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  