-- MetLife Leads Life Insurers Lower After Failed Fed Test
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-03-14T15:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/metlife-leads-life-insurers-lower-as-firm-fails-fed-capital-test.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , whose plan for a
share buyback was rejected yesterday by the  Federal Reserve , led
life insurers lower in New York trading on speculation the
industry’s biggest companies may face tighter capital rules.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, dropped 4.6 percent
to $37.65 at 11:42 a.m., while No. 2  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) 
fell 1.7 percent to $61.98. New York-based MetLife was the
 biggest decliner  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  U.S. regulators are taking greater responsibility over an
industry that has traditionally been overseen by individual
states. MetLife is required to get Fed approval for its capital
plans because it owns a bank, while  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential isn’t subject to the same scrutiny. Both companies
may face Fed oversight if they are classified as systemically
important financial institutions.  MetLife “will have to build capital” if regulators choose
to apply the Fed rules to non-bank SIFIs, Thomas Gallagher, an
analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG, said today in a research
report. “Since we would expect PRU to also be named a non-bank
SIFI, the company may be facing similar constraints.”  The SIFI designation was created after the 2008 financial
crisis when gaps in oversight between federal and state
regulators allowed insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  to
slide to the brink of bankruptcy. Prudential and MetLife, which
is unwinding its banking business to reduce federal oversight,
have said they may be subject to SIFI rules.  ‘Fully Committed’  MetLife, led by Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian ,
would fall short of a U.S. capital standard in a severe economic
downturn, the Fed said yesterday. The insurer was one of four
companies to fail the Fed’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and
Review, which was applied to 19 of the largest U.S. financial
firms. Kandarian, who had requested permission for $2 billion of
buybacks, said he disagreed with the ruling and remains “fully
committed” to returning funds to investors.  “The only issue we can foresee that could constrain MET’s
ultimate capital management activities is the timing of the
classification of MET, along with PRU and potentially others, as
non-bank SIFIs,” Joanne Smith, a New York-based analyst at
 Scotia Capital , wrote today in a note to clients.  The insurer will probably stop being a  bank holding company 
by the end of June, MetLife said yesterday. Kandarian announced
a deal in December to sell the U.S. deposit banking business to
General Electric Co.  MetLife, which didn’t take a bailout from the U.S. Treasury
Department during the 2008 and 2009 credit crunch, is “well in
excess” of minimum standards required by state regulators and
will have as much as $7 billion of excess capital by the end of
the year, the CEO said.  Additional Oversight  “MetLife, along with Prudential, will be classified as
non-bank SIFIs, which will involve some additional oversight,
but avoid significant capital restrictions,”  Randy Binner , an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,  Virginia , wrote in
a note to clients. “Given the amount of excess capital on the
balance sheet, we believe it to be only a matter of time before
MetLife begins to return it to shareholders.”  MetLife’s  net income  more than doubled to $6.98 billion
last year as the company expanded outside the U.S. MetLife
bought American Life Insurance Co. from AIG for about $16
billion in November 2010 to add customers from  Japan  to Poland
to Chile.  “We are deeply disappointed with the Federal Reserve’s
announcement,” Kandarian said. “We do not believe that the
bank-centric methodologies used under the CCAR are appropriate
for insurance companies, which operate under a different
business model than banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 