-- N.Y. Mets Owners Must Show Madoff Money Was Taken in Good Faith
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/mets-owners-must-prove-they-took-madoff-money-in-good-faith-1-.html
The  New York  Mets owners must prove
at a trial set for next week that they were acting in “good
faith” and didn’t suspect fraud when they received $303 million
from  Bernard Madoff ’s  Ponzi scheme , a judge said.  The team owners face a trial starting March 19 over whether
they suspected fraud when they withdrew as much money as they
put into Madoff’s brokerage in the two years before his 2008
arrest.  A key issue in the trial is whether they acted in good
faith, and they have the “burden of proving” they didn’t
“willfully” blind themselves to the con man’s scheme, U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff said in an order filed yesterday in
federal court in  Manhattan .  Rakoff said he made the ruling in response to questions
from lawyers for the Mets owners and the Madoff estate. They
asked at a March 9 court conference whether the plaintiff is
required to prove willful blindness. Rakoff said he would give
his reasons in a “forthcoming” opinion explaining other
rulings in the case.  Rakoff ruled on March 5 that the Mets defendants must give
up as much as $83 million in fictitious profits from Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme and face a trial over whether they acted in bad
faith, a decision that could cost them $303 million more, he
said.  The trial is over what remains of a $1 billion lawsuit by
Madoff trustee Irving Picard against Mets owners  Fred Wilpon ,
Saul Katz and a group of related defendants.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, and is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina .  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net 
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  