-- EU Considers Allowing Insurance for Tankers Sailing to Iran
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-03-14T17:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/eu-considers-allowing-insurance-for-oil-tankers-sailing-to-iran.html
The European Union may allow
insurance against risks such as collisions and spills for
tankers carrying Iranian oil, a proposal that would ease curbs
on the nation’s crude exports.  The EU would prohibit the insurance and re-insurance of
 Iranian oil  “except for third-party liability insurance and
environmental liability insurance,” according to a draft
document obtained by Bloomberg News. The bloc aims to complete
the regulation, which is being considered by national
governments, within a month, according to an EU official with
knowledge of the matter.  Brent oil has risen 14 percent since an EU embargo was
announced Jan. 23 to pressure  Iran  over its nuclear program. As
originally agreed, the ban would affect insurance for 95 percent
of the world’s tankers that are covered by the London-based
 International Group  of P&I Clubs, according to insurers and ship
owners. The  International Energy Agency  said today Iranian
exports would slump 50 percent by mid-year, when the EU embargo
is due to take full effect.  “This is a first sign that the EU and U.S. realize that
they have overshot a bit on the sanctions against Iran, and that
internal pressure is increasing on the question of  oil
prices  spinning out of control,” said  Olivier Jakob , managing
director at Petromatrix GmbH, a researcher in Zug,  Switzerland .
“It is likely to have an impact on prices at some stage.”  Brent oil for April settlement fell 14 cents to $126.08 at
5:13 p.m. on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  Liability Insurance  An exception proposed in the draft document would allow
tankers owned outside the EU to continue carrying Iranian oil
even if they are insured in Europe, according to Andrew Bardot,
the International Group’s secretary and executive officer.  “Liability insurance is the big issue because the level of
exposure is much higher,” he said in a phone interview from
London. “The draft would mean non-European  tanker operators  can
lawfully carry cargoes outside Europe to non-European
destinations.”  The International Group has pressed the European
Commission and  member states  about making an exception for
insurance against pollution and crashes, Bardot said. The
group’s 13 members are subject to EU rules to access the
reinsurance pool, according to Bardot.  Frontline Ltd. (FRO) ,  Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG)  and owners
of at least 100 supertankers said last month they would no
longer call at Iranian ports because of the insurance ban.  Oil Sales  Iran’s output dropped last month to 3.45 million barrels a
day, the lowest level since September 2002, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Exports slid to 1.8 million barrels a day
from 2.3 million at the end of last year, according to Citigroup
Inc. They may decline as much as 1 million barrels a day after
July, the IEA said today.  Oil sales earned the Persian Gulf country, the Organization
for Petroleum Exporting Countries’ second-biggest producer, $73
billion in 2010, accounting for about 50 percent of government
revenue, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  