-- EU’s Rehn Says Portugal on Right Path to Meet Deficit Goals
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-03-14T21:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/eu-s-rehn-says-portugal-on-right-path-to-meet-deficit-goals-1-.html
Portugal  is on track to address its
fiscal situation and to set the stage for economic growth,
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli
Rehn  said today.  “Program implementation is on a sound and solid basis”
and this is increasingly recognized in  Europe , Rehn said after
meeting in Lisbon with Portugal’s Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  and Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar.  It’s “essential” the country sticks to its target of a
budget  deficit  equal to 4.5 percent of gross domestic product
this year in order to achieve the 3 percent target next year,
Rehn said. Portugal last year became the third euro-area country
to request external aid, following  Greece  and Ireland. The 2011
deficit narrowed to 4 percent from the prior year’s 9.8 percent,
helped by the transfer of banks’ pension funds to the state.  Policies aimed at making Portugal’s economy more
competitive are gradually bringing results, the 49-year-old Finn
added, praising the country’s recent changes to labor rules.  Portugal’s situation is very different from Greece’s, and
its debt burden is not “at all in the same magnitude.” He said
he was confident that Portugal’s program will continue to remain
on track in the future.  IMF, Portugal  The  International Monetary Fund  expects Portugal’s ratio of
debt to GDP to stabilize at about 115 percent in 2013 and then
gradually decline, Abebe Aemro Selassie, the head of the IMF’s
aid mission to the country, said in an interview March 5.  Prime Minister Passos Coelho is cutting spending and
increasing taxes to meet the terms of a 78 billion-euro ($102
billion) aid plan from the EU and the IMF.  After the completion of the program there may be room for
Portugal to make its tax system “more growth- and employment-
friendly,” Gaspar said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  