-- EU May Ease Curbs on Domestic Sugar Supplies on Shortages
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-14T16:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/eu-said-to-consider-higher-sugar-output-limits-after-shortages.html
The European Union, the world’s
third-largest sugar producer, may ease curbs on domestic
supplies and imports after consumers complained about shortages,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the proposals.  Additional imports would probably be done through tenders,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the plans
haven’t been publicly announced. The bloc may also allow local
producers to sell more sugar in the domestic market, according
to the person. The 27-nation bloc’s Sugar Management Committee
may meet April 12 to consider the proposals, the person said.  While sugar has slid 33 percent on the international market
from a 30-year high of 36.08 cents a pound in February last
year, prices in the EU reached the highest level since at least
2006 in January, figures on the European Commission’s website
show. The average price reached 683 euros ($889) a metric ton
that month, according to the data.  “The situation in  Europe  is still problematic, and there
is still tightness of supply,” Muriel Korter, secretary general
of the Brussels-based Committee of European Sugar Users,
representing companies including Kraft Foods Inc. and  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
said by phone today. “As sugar users, we would welcome
additional measures to improve supplies before the end of the
campaign in September. The sooner the better.”  Import Tenders  The EU suspended import tenders in January, saying supplies
were sufficient. The commission, the bloc’s executive arm, has
sought to reduce sugar production since the  World Trade
Organization  said in 2005 it was disrupting global markets by
exporting subsidized output. Curbs are “creating an artificial
shortage and pushing up prices,” the Association of the German
Confectionery Industry said in a statement this month.  The commission has already said it may abolish production
limits in 2015 as part of changes to the Common Agricultural
Policy, a subsidy program that cost 58.2 billion euros in 2010.
EU production will climb to 18.26 million tons this season from
15.43 million tons a year earlier, the bloc estimated Jan. 13.  EU rules limit the amount of sugar local producers can
supply to the domestic market, and any surplus must be exported
or put to non-food use. Brazil and  India  are the world’s biggest
sugar producers, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 