-- EU’s Stomach for Tighter CO2 Cap to Be Signaled by Parliament
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-03-14T15:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/eu-s-stomach-for-tighter-co2-cap-to-be-signaled-by-parliament.html
The European Union’s willingness to
tighten emission caps on energy and manufacturing companies will
be put to a test tomorrow when EU lawmakers vote on whether to
urge the cancelation of some carbon-dioxide allowances.  The European Parliament will give its verdict on a draft
resolution asking EU regulators to propose legislation that
would eliminate a share of  Europe ’s CO2 permits in a bid to
boost their prices. The assembly’s biggest faction, the
 Christian Democrats , opposes the request while other political
groups including the Greens back it. As a result, the outcome of
the vote at about midday in Strasbourg, France, is open.  A call by the 27-nation Parliament to eliminate some CO2
permits would go further than the assembly’s support to date for
the mere option of temporarily setting aside some emission
allowances due to be auctioned as of 2013. The Parliament’s
industry committee last month inserted a reference to the
temporary set-aside option into a planned energy law and aims to
win backing for this provision from EU national governments.  The political debate in Europe over the possibility of
tightening the supply of EU-CO2 permits has intensified in
recent months as their cost has slumped. The  euro-area economy 
is projected by the EU to contract this year for the first time
since 2009. Allowance prices dropped to a four-year low in
January because of oversupply.  At stake is the credibility of the world’s biggest
emissions-trading market, which imposes pollution quotas on more
than 11,000 facilities including plants owned by  Electricite de
France SA , Europe’s biggest power generator, and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , the region’s largest oil company. The cap-and-trade
system is a leading EU tool to fight  climate change .  ‘Significant Amount’  The draft 18-page  resolution  that the EU Parliament is due
to vote on tomorrow is about Europe’s climate goals in general.
The text says the European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm,
should set aside by year end a “significant amount of
allowances so as to restore scarcity” and then propose a
“legislative act to enable such allowances to be eliminated.”  The text is going to the floor of the 754-seat Parliament
from its environment committee, which gave its approval in late
January over the opposition of Christian Democratic members of
the panel.  This political group, with 271 members in the Parliament,
has put forward an amendment to the draft resolution that would
delete the reference to eliminating emission allowances and
express support for the idea, “if appropriate,” of temporarily
setting aside permits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 