-- European Stocks Rise to Eight-Month High; EON Shares Gain
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-03-14T17:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/european-stock-index-futures-climb-eon-wacker-may-move.html
European (SXXP)  stocks advanced to the
highest level since July as the Federal Reserve raised its
economic assessment of the world’s largest economy.  EON AG,  Germany ’s biggest utility, gained 7 percent after
it reported 2011 earnings that topped analysts’ estimates.
Credit Suisse Group AG and  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  advanced as
a gauge of banks and insurers rallied. Arkema SA, the French
maker of plastics additives, fell 5 percent as a shareholder is
selling as much as 450 million euros ($589 million) of the
company’s stock.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.3 percent to 270.27 at
the close. The gauge has gained 11 percent so far this year amid
optimism that the euro area will contain its sovereign-debt
crisis and better-than-expected U.S. economic data.  “The U.S. continues to deliver rather good economic data
and the situation in Greece has calmed down for the time
being,” said Peter Braendle, who helps manage $60 billion at
Swisscanto Asset Management AG in Zurich. “For Southern Europe
I hope for further structural reforms, not just saving programs,
but it’s certainly a positive impulse for stock markets.”  The number of shares changing hands on the Euro Stoxx 50
Index was 31 percent higher than the 30-day average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Stoxx 600 rallied 1.8 percent yesterday after reports
showed German investor confidence in March increased more than
forecast and U.S. retail sales rose in February.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of the 18 western-
 European (SXXP)  markets. Germany’s DAX Index added 1.2 percent.
France’s CAC 40 Index gained 0.4 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index fell 0.2 percent.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said late yesterday that
strains in global financial markets have eased and the labor
market is gathering strength. At the same time, it said that the
 unemployment rate  is “elevated” and “significant downside
risks” remain.  Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is
holding to his plan to the keep benchmark interest rate close to
zero through at least 2014.  “We now have a clearer understanding of how the Fed is
positioned,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional trader at IG
Markets in Melbourne. “At the margin this is a mildly hawkish
statement, however what could be better than clear economic
growth with low rates?”  In a separate statement, the U.S. central bank said 15 of
the nation’s largest 19 banks could maintain adequate capital
levels even in a recession scenario.  Greece Rating  Greece’s credit rating was lifted out of the default
category by  Fitch Ratings  on optimism that a debt swap will
reduce the risk that the country eventually reneges on its
obligations.  Greece  was raised four levels to B- from restricted default
and given a stable outlook by Fitch. New  government bonds  have a
B- rating, while debt that is not governed by Greek law has a C
rating pending settlement on April 11, Fitch said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that European efforts
to resolve the debt crisis are making progress, even as
“imbalances” in euro-area economies show that the task is far
from complete.  “We’ve come a good way along the mountain path, but we’re
not completely over the mountain,” Merkel told reporters in
Rome late yesterday after talks with Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti . “I suspect that in the next few years there will
continue to be new mountains -- there won’t be a celebratory
event in which we say we’re over the mountain and now we can sit
among the trees and say that we’ve done it.”  Italian Bonds  Italy sold 6 billion euros of bonds today, with borrowing
costs on its three-year debt falling to the lowest since October
2010 as European Central Bank loans helped boost demand. The
Treasury sold 5 billion euros of a new three-year bond to yield
2.76 percent and 1 billion euros of seven-year bonds at 4.3
percent, meeting the 6 billion-euro maximum set for the sale.  China  is easing restrictions on lending capacity at three
of the nation’s  four biggest banks  after new loans dropped to a
four-year low, officials at the banks with knowledge of the
matter said.  The regulator is letting the lenders use more of their
deposits to make loans after China’s exports, industrial
production and retail sales declined in the first two months.  EON increased 7 percent to 18.28 euros, as it reported 2011
adjusted net income dropped 50 percent to 2.5 billion euros,
topping the 2.33 billion-euro median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Sales rose 22 percent to 113 billion euros.  Banks Gain  Gauges of European banks and insurers pulled the Stoxx 600
higher, with  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  rallying 5 percent to 26.3 Swiss
francs, and Legal & General advancing 7.2 percent to 134.3
pence.  Natixis (KN)  SA added 5.2 percent to 2.95 euros and  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  gained 3.4 percent to 38.17 euros. ING Group NV and  AXA
SA (CS)  rose 2.5 percent to 7.01 euros, and 3.7 percent to 12.67
euros, respectively.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the owner of the Argos and Homebase
chains, increased 4.6 percent to 115 pence after JPMorgan &
Chase Co. raised the stock to overweight, the equivalent of buy,
from underweight.  Dufry AG gained 2.7 percent to 115 francs after the
operator of duty-free shops reported full-year profit of 111.9
million francs ($120.6 million), trailing the average analyst
estimate of 116.2 million francs. Full-year sales were 3.04
billion francs, topping the 2.66 billion-franc analyst estimate.  Salvatore Ferragamo SpA, the Italian luxury-goods maker,
rallied 3.3 percent to 15.45 euros, its highest price since its
initial public offering, after CA Cheuvreux said the company is
seen by investors as a likely takeover target.  Wacker, Arkema Drop  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , the second-largest maker of solar-grade
silicon, declined 3.8 percent to 69.18 euros as the company said
it saw a marked drop in polysilicon demand in the fourth quarter
of 2011. Wacker also said some agreements were terminated, with
customers withdrawing from the solar business.  Arkema (AKE)  fell 5 percent to 69 euros. Investor Groupe
Bruxelles Lambert SA is offering 6.2 million shares of the
company for as much as 450 million euros. The shares are being
sold for about 69.90 euros each, according to a term sheet.  BioMerieux (BIM) , the French maker of tests for HIV and
hepatitis, slumped 6.1 percent to 58.91 euros after full-year
profit missed analysts’ estimates.  Symrise AG (SY1) , the German maker of ingredients for Dior’s
Fahrenheit, slid 5.7 percent to 21.16 euros. Equinet AG cut the
stock to hold from accumulate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  