-- Euro-Region Inflation Rate at 2.7% for Third Month on Energy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-03-14T10:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/euro-region-inflation-rate-at-2-7-for-third-month-on-energy.html
Euro-area consumer  prices increased
2.7 percent in February for a third month, prompting the
 European Central Bank  to turn its focus to increasing price
threats.  The  inflation rate  was in line with an initial estimate
published on March 1, the European Union’s  statistics office  in
Luxembourg said today. January’s rate was revised to 2.7 percent
from 2.6 percent. Industrial output rose 0.2 percent in January
from the previous month, a separate report showed.  The ECB, which aims to keep annual price gains just below 2
percent, signaled that it has done enough to fight the region’s
fiscal crisis, with President  Mario Draghi  saying he sees
“upside risks” to inflation. With the economy showing signs of
stabilization and rising oil costs driving prices, economists
including  Howard Archer  at IHS Global Insight in  London  expect
the central bank to keep borrowing costs on hold.  “Higher  oil prices  mean that euro-zone consumer price
inflation is likely to prove significantly stickier than had
previously been expected, especially during 2012,” Archer said
in an e-mailed note before today’s report. “The ECB seems
likely to remain firmly on the sidelines in the near term at
least on the interest-rate front.”  The euro pared losses after the data were released, trading
at $1.3066 at 11:08 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.1 percent.  Volatile Costs  Euro-region  core inflation , excluding volatile costs such
as energy, held at 1.5 percent in February, the statistics
office said. In the month, consumer prices advanced 0.5 percent.
Economists forecast industrial output to rise 0.5 percent from
December, according to the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. In the year, production dropped 1.2 percent after
declining 1.8 percent in December.  Oil prices have gained 7.7 percent this year on concern
that sanctions against  Iran  may lead to military conflict in the
 Middle East , where more than half of the world’s crude reserves
are located. At the same time, the global economy is showing
signs of regaining strength, fueling demand for oil.  Energy costs rose 9.5 percent in February from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Food prices increased 3.1
percent and alcohol and tobacco were 4.1 percent more expensive.
Health costs advanced 2.3 percent.  ‘Upside Risks’  Euro-region inflation may average 2.4 percent this year and
1.6 percent in 2013, the ECB said on March 8. It had previously
forecast the inflation rate to average 2 percent in 2012. The
economy may expand 1.1 percent in 2013 after shrinking about 0.1
percent this year, it projected.  Draghi said inflation risks “are seen to be broadly
balanced with upside risks in the near term mainly stemming”
from energy costs and higher indirect taxes, while the economy
should “recover gradually.”  “We are slightly unnerved that the ECB is telling us that
the euro-zone economy is emerging from the depths of recession
and inflation faces an upside risk due to the tax rises
resulting from fiscal retrenchment,” said  Steven Barrow , an
analyst at Standard Bank Plc in London. “While we don’t doubt
administered prices will keep inflation elevated, we just hope
that the ECB does not overplay this so that the market thinks
rates can’t come down again or, worse still, could go up.”  With spending cuts and tax increases across the region
weighing on  consumer confidence  and export demand, companies
have been forced to eliminate jobs to help protect earnings.
Euro-region  unemployment  increased to 10.7 percent in January,
the highest in more than a decade.  U.S. Economy  Henkel AG (HEN3) , the German maker of adhesives and Soft Scrub
cleaners, on March 8 reported fourth-quarter earnings that
missed analyst estimates as growth in raw-material costs offset
increased prices and lower spending.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the second-
biggest sporting-goods maker, said earlier this month 2012
earnings will be held back by rising costs.  Still, signs of reviving global demand may help bolster the
euro region’s recovery from a fourth-quarter  contraction . In the
U.S. economy, the world’s largest,  service industries  expanded
in February at the fastest pace in a year.  China ’s manufacturing
growth accelerated and a gauge for  India  showed sustained
growth, indicating Asian economies gathering strength.  Euro-region output of capital goods rose 0.7 percent in
January from the previous month, when it slipped 1.2 percent,
today’s report showed. Production of intermediate goods and
energy increased 0.2 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively.
Output of durable  consumer goods  advanced 0.1 percent.  The statistics office is scheduled to release euro-region
January export data on March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  