-- Europe Tapped OPEC Supply to Replace Lost Libyan Crude, IEA Says
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-03-14T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/europe-tapped-opec-supply-to-replace-lost-libyan-crude-iea-says.html
European refineries increased
imports of crude from members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries last year to make up for the loss of Libyan
barrels, the  International Energy Agency  said.  The loss of Libyan exports hit the region’s refiners “far
harder than elsewhere,” the Paris-based adviser said in its
monthly report today. European members of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development imported more than 1.1
million barrels a day of  Libya ’s total 1.3 million barrels a day
of crude exports before the civil war broke out in the north
African nation, the agency said.  “To deal with these extra constraints European refiners
turned to OPEC members Saudi Arabia,  Nigeria ,  Iraq  and Angola to
fill the gap by increasing supplies of many crudes already
widely used within the region,” the IEA said in its report.  OECD Europe imported a combined 520,000 barrels a day of
extra crude from OPEC from April to December, based on a
comparison of incremental supplies, according to the report.
 Saudi Arabia  provided 200,000 barrels a day, while Nigeria, Iraq
and Angola contributed 170,000, 90,000 and 60,000 barrels a day
respectively.  “Incremental Nigerian and Angolan supplies were likely
light, low-sulfur grades such as Bonny Light, Qua Iboe and
Girassol but these were not imported in quantities sufficient to
replace light Libyan streams,” according to the report.  The scarcity of light, sweet crudes also led to unexpected
“long-haul” non-OPEC exports, the agency said. By the end of
last year, 80,000 barrels a day of Colombian Cusiana crude was
exported to Europe, partly because the release of emergency
stockpiles by the IEA members “displaced other sweet crudes
from the U.S. Gulf crude slate which were then shipped to
 Europe ,” according to the report.  “Despite the arrival of these alternative supplies, OECD
Europe imported on average 150,000 barrels a day less crude in
2011 than in 2010,” the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  