-- Euro Finance Chiefs Give Political Backing to Greek Plan
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-03-14T10:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/euro-finance-chiefs-give-political-backing-to-greek-plan.html
Euro-area senior officials gave
formal approval to the second Greek bailout, a European official
said.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
the group of 17 euro-area finance ministers, will issue a
statement by early afternoon, the official said on condition of
anonymity. The 130 billion-euro package ($170 billion) received
political approval earlier this week from the euro ministers at
a meeting in Brussels.  “The situation has changed for Greece,” Greek Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters after the
ministerial meeting. Greece has “fundamental obligations” and
must continue to implement its austerity program, he said,
adding that elections in Greece won’t interrupt the pace of
budget measures.  The International Monetary Fund’s board is set to vote on
its contribution to the Greek package tomorrow in  Washington .
IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  has proposed a 28
billion-euro contribution to the second bailout for  Greece , the
IMF said on March 12.  The agreement caps months of grueling negotiations between
Greece, the IMF and euro-area authorities over the successor to
an initial 2010 bailout that failed to halt the debt crisis. To
win the new aid package, Greece had to sign on to deep budget
cuts and complete the world’s largest-ever sovereign-debt
restructuring.  Rescue Fund  Greece is now in line to receive more than 100 billion
euros in the next three years from the European Financial
Stability Facility, the euro region’s temporary rescue fund,
starting with payments of 5.9 billion euros in March, 3.3
billion euros in April and 5.3 billion euros in May, EFSF Chief
Executive Officer Klaus Regling said this week.  Going forward, the EFSF expects to disburse 48 billion
euros on a non-cash basis for Greece’s bank-recapitalization
efforts. Venizelos said he expects his nation to receive a 25
billion-euro first tranche of bank-sector funds soon.  The rest of the funds headed for Greece will be raised from
financial markets, Regling said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at  jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  