-- Europe Won’t Back Down on Aviation Carbon Trading, Eneco Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-03-14T13:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/europe-won-t-back-down-on-aviation-carbon-trading-eneco-says.html
Europe  probably won’t back down on
this year’s expansion of its carbon market to include aviation,
while airlines will comply with the program, according to Eneco
Energy Trade BV.  “The scenario that the European Union backs down is not
very plausible,” said Edit Kiss, the Rotterdam-based carbon
portfolio manager at the unit of Dutch utility Eneco Holding NV.
“Ultimately, airlines are not suffering that much from the EU
emissions trading system,” she said today by phone.  The EU expanded the world’s biggest carbon market by traded
volume to include flights into, out of and within its borders.
It can replace its carbon curbs on aviation with a global
measure as long as the broader program is as ambitious as the EU
plan,  Connie Hedegaard , the bloc’s climate chief, said Feb. 17.
Meanwhile, the U.S. House of Representatives last year backed a
bill to bar American carriers from participating in the EU’s
cap-and-trade market.  The 27-nation bloc won’t abandon the expansion in the face
of opposition from nations outside the region, Hedegaard said
that day. The first expansion of the cap-and-trade system abroad
has drawn fire from countries including the U.S., Russia and
 Japan , which said the measure was inconsistent with
international law.  The United Nation’s  International Civil Aviation
Organization , or ICAO, holds the key to resolving the row, Artur Runge-Metzger, the EU head of climate strategy, said today.  “The ICAO discussions in coming weeks and months will be
critical to resolving the issue,” Runge-Metzger told a seminar
in Brussels today. “Our preferred option is something global
and the EU emissions trading system was a second option.”  Possible Retaliation  Airbus SAS, the world’s biggest maker of civil aircraft, and
Europe’s largest airlines on March 12 called on the bloc to find
a compromise on aviation carbon curbs, warning that the limits
on foreign carriers may lead to increased retaliation. ICAO, the
regulator, said in November it was canvassing the world’s 50
biggest nations on a global emissions program to be proposed
this year.  “If it becomes a trade war, the outcome becomes more
difficult to judge,” Kiss said. It’s also uncertain that
airlines will carry out threats to ignore the bloc’s carbon
curbs, she said. “I doubt any airline will seriously consider
not complying” because of the 100 euro-a-ton fines and other
sanctions.  Carbon for December rose 4.2 percent to 8.13 euros ($10.62)
a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 1:07 p.m.
London time. They’ve dropped 53 percent in the past year.  There is a “small chance” some nations will propose
equivalent measures such as carbon taxes that are accepted by
the EU and that would erode demand for EU carbon allowances,
Kiss said.  Global Market  The “first best” solution would be a global carbon market
for the  airline industry  around 2015, where EU airline carbon
allowances are converted into global permits, she said.  The bloc may reverse its position and drop aviation from
the trading program even before a market that may be proposed by
ICAO begins, according to  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   “The EU is close to the point of backing down,”  Emmanuel Fages , an analyst at the bank in Paris, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  “It’s becoming one of the big risks in this market” and
may already be driving carbon prices lower, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  