-- Texas Fight With Obama on Women’s Health May Cut Care for Some
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/texas-fight-with-obama-on-women-s-health-may-cut-care.html
Texas public health officials say
women who get family-planning services at Planned Parenthood
clinics will struggle to find other providers once the nonprofit
group is expelled from the state Women’s Health Program.  A dispute pitting Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican,
against President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, over a state ban on
aid to abortion providers or their affiliates is expected to
force out the nonprofit organization, which cares for almost
half of the program’s 130,000 participants.  “The reason Planned Parenthood had done 44 percent of the
business is that the private community and other providers have
not stepped up,” said Janet Realini, a San Antonio doctor in
family practice who heads Healthy Futures of Texas, a nonprofit
organization working to curb teen and unplanned pregnancies.  “There’s no money, it’s a hassle and there’s an anxiety
factor for physicians,” Realini said. The program also offers
cancer screening and other basic services through clinics.  Perry pledged last week to replace almost $30 million in
federal funds for the program that the Obama administration said
would be cut off today because of the state ban. Obama has said
 Texas  can’t block federally approved organizations such as
Planned Parenthood from participating in programs underwritten
by Medicaid, which pays for  health services  for the poor.  Providers Available  More than 2,500 other providers are poised to offer
services for women who now use 44 health centers tied to Planned
Parenthood, Perry and other state officials say. The governor
hasn’t disclosed the source of state funds he would use to
replace the federal money. About 90 percent of the program’s
support came from Medicaid, which is jointly funded by states.  “When we dug into the information, there was strong
evidence that there were adequate facilities with adequate
care,” said Republican state Representative John Zerwas, an
anesthesiologist from Richmond and a member of the Public Health
Committee in the Texas House.  “You hate to see the nine-to-one federal match go out the
door, but it is a reflection of how strong the state feels about
this affiliation with the abortion industry,” Zerwas said.  Perry blamed the Obama administration’s “pro-abortion
agenda” for the funding cutoff, in a letter last week to Obama.
“The federal government should not be in the business of
protecting abortion providers at the expense of the health of
Texas women,” Perry said in the March 8 document.  ‘Errant’ Claim  “Women still have plenty of places to go,” said Catherine
Frazier, a spokeswoman for Perry. “The federal government is
saying we are limiting access to care and not allowing women to
go to all qualified providers, which is an errant statement
because the state dictates who the qualified providers are.”  The state’s Legislative Budget Board last year said that
cutting family-planning  spending  over two years to $38 million
from $111 million would eliminate services for more than 200,000
women, according to state Representative Dawna Dukes, an Austin
Democrat, who spoke at the Planned Parenthood rally.  While the change in funding officially takes effect today,
the state won’t stop accepting provider bills until May 1, said
Stephanie Goodman, a spokeswoman for the Texas Health and Human
Services Commission. The agency will verify provider eligibility
during the next six weeks, she said.  Rural Risk  Many women, particularly in more rural areas, won’t receive
needed services because of the change, according to leaders of
women’s health clinics in Austin, Brownsville and Corpus
Christi.  “It’s going to be very hard for others to pick up the
slack,” said Martha Zuniga, executive director of the South
Texas Family Planning & Health Corp., a  Corpus Christi  nonprofit
organization that operates six clinics and serves about 11,000
people annually. “Those who are uninsured will suffer the most
consequences.”  About 26 percent of the state’s population is uninsured,
Bill Millwee, the state Medicaid director, told a Feb. 28
hearing of Zerwas’s health committee.  Planned Parenthood has served 20 percent of American women,
 Cecile Richards , the organization’s president, said at a rally
yesterday in Austin. She said Texas has the third-highest rate
of cervical cancer in the U.S. In the past year, 12 of the
group’s health centers in the state have closed. Plans haven’t
been announced for the 44 that remain.  The nonprofit Brownsville Community Health Clinic, with six
offices around the southeast Texas border city and a $13 million
annual budget, isn’t prepared to handle many more uninsured
clients, said Paula Gomez, the  executive director . While the
state program may cover basic services, providers often aren’t
repaid should more serious health issues be detected, she said.  Stepping Up  “The reason Planned Parenthood exists is there is a need
for their services,” Gomez said. “We’ll step up to the plate
as we can, but it won’t be easy.”  Austin and other cities with broader safety nets than more
rural areas can make up for some lost government funding through
private donations, said Regina Rogoff, chief executive officer
of People’s Community Clinic, an Austin nonprofit provider that
helped about 10,000 people with medical needs last year.  “I view this as a way to remove  Planned Parenthood  from
among the provider community, which will fail because they are
effective and successful,” Rogoff said.  The dispute is angering women across political parties,
according to state Senator Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth Democrat.  ‘Only Source’  “When I was a young, single parent, Planned Parenthood was
my only source of contraceptives and well-woman care,” Davis
said yesterday by telephone. “This idea that somehow existing
providers can absorb a tremendous influx of women is absurd.”  A lunch-time rally yesterday in Austin, the state capital,
drew about 100 women wearing red shirts and protesting the aid
cutoff. Most blamed Perry.  “Everywhere else I’ve looked is unaffordable,” with
annual exams costing at least $200, said Julisa McCoy, 23, from
McAllen. As a senior at the University of Texas Pan American in
nearby Edinburg, she doesn’t have health insurance. She said she
fears her access to care will be lost once Planned Parenthood’s
subsidy ends.  “Cutting off Planned Parenthood will affect thousands of
women,” she said in an interview before speaking at the
organization’s Austin rally, which attracted more than 300
people across the street from the state Capitol.  “I went through all of this in the 1970s and we’re just
astonished by this movement to change things for women,” said
Jane Van Praag, who drove 50 miles from Bartlett to attend the
lunch-time protest in Austin. “Women are not second class
citizens and I am entitled to autonomy over my body.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  