-- Texas, Kentucky Get Top Ratings on Spending Transparency
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-14T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/texas-kentucky-get-top-ratings-on-spending-transparency.html
Kentucky (STOKY1)  and  Texas  provide the most
comprehensive and accessible online data on their spending,
while many other U.S. states are improving ways to help citizens
understand trends in use of tax money, according to a new study.  Almost all states, 46, offer online details on how revenue
is spent and who gets the money, up from 32 two years earlier,
according to the U.S. PIRG Education Fund in  Washington . Texas
and Kentucky also topped the advocacy group’s 2011 rankings.  “I’m really struck by the states’ progress in this,” said
Phineas Baxandall, a senior analyst who wrote the study with
Ryan Pierannunzi. “Today, public information means online and
accessible and states are taking it seriously.”  An exception is  California , which got a D- grade after
Governor  Jerry Brown , 73, in November shut the state’s
“Reporting Transparency in Government” website. Instead,
inquiries for information are referred to sites run by multiple
agencies.  “This is a little bit like saying that people ought to use
the Internet without Google or other  search engines ,” Pedro
Morillas, who works for U.S. PIRG’s California affiliate, said
in the report.  Texas and Kentucky received A grades, while Indiana,
Louisiana, Massachusetts,  West Virginia  and Arizona were rated
A-. Idaho, Montana, Arkansas and Iowa scored F grades for
failing to enable website users to see how the state spends
money. Wyoming also got an F because its state spending is only
searchable by vendor name, according to the report.  The study found no partisan pattern indicating Democratic
or Republican-leaning states are more likely to have transparent
government, Baxandall said. Rankings were based on searchability
of data and on the breadth of information provided.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 