-- Texas Voter ID Ruling Expected Before Election, Judges Say
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-14T22:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/texas-voter-id-case-should-be-decided-by-election-judges-say.html
A dispute over  Texas ’s new law
requiring voters to show government-issued photo identification
at the polls ought to be decided in time for the November
election, a federal court said.  “Like it or not, it’s a big election year so we need to
get it done,” U.S. District Judge Rosemary Collyer, one of
three federal judges considering the case, said today at a
hearing in Washington.  The Justice Department on March 12 used its power under the
Voting Rights Act to block the Texas law, saying in a letter to
the state that the measure may disproportionately harm Hispanic
voters. The department in December stopped a similar law in
 South Carolina (NFSESC) .  Texas sued the department in January seeking permission to
enforce its photo ID requirements.  Elizabeth Westfall, a  Justice Department  lawyer, told the
judges at the hearing it wasn’t possible to resolve the case in
time for the election, arguing the government needs “months”
to investigate whether there was a discriminatory purpose to the
law. That inquiry involves interviewing state lawmakers and
reviewing documents, she said.  ‘Troubling’ Position  Collyer said the judges found the government’s position
“troubling,” and ordered the parties to decide within a month
whether the case needs to go to trial.  Jonathan Mitchell, a lawyer with the Texas attorney
general’s office, said the state needs a decision by Aug. 15 to
have the rules governing the election in place.  The judges ordered the two sides to work out a schedule for
a pre-trial exchange of documents and scheduled a hearing for
March 21.  Texas is among 16 states, or jurisdictions within states,
that must obtain permission from the Justice Department or a
federal court in  Washington  before redrawing their district
lines or changing election procedures because of a history of
voting rights violations.  The case is State of Texas v. Holder, 12-00128, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 