-- Mexican Peso Plunges as Wagers on More U.S. Stimulus Tossed Out
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-03-14T23:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/mexican-peso-plunges-as-wagers-on-more-u-s-stimulus-tossed-out.html
Mexico’s peso dropped the most in
three months on speculation the  Federal Reserve  won’t take
additional steps to boost the economy that’s the destination of
80 percent of the Latin American country’s exports.  The peso weakened 1.3 percent to 12.7265 per  U.S. dollar  at
3 p.m. in Mexico City, from 12.5592 yesterday, paring its
advance this year to 9.5 percent, still the most among major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It was the biggest daily
decline since Dec. 12.  The Fed said yesterday that strains in global financial
markets have eased and the labor market in world’s biggest
economy is gathering strength. The comments reduced speculation
U.S. policy makers will resume buying bonds to stimulate U.S.
growth, which would increase the dollar supply and fuel demand
for higher-yielding Mexican assets.  “The good data shows that the U.S. doesn’t still need
injections of cash and in that sense we’re seeing these
corrections,” Mario Copca, a currency strategist at Metanalisis
SA, said by phone from  Mexico  City. While the scenario isn’t bad
and the peso may continue to strengthen “today what we’re
incorporating is a correction in the strong appreciation that
we’ve had.”  The Federal Reserve yesterday kept its benchmark interest
rate target in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been
since December 2008.  Yields on shorter-maturity Mexican peso bonds rose to a
one-week high as better-than-forecast economic data in the U.S
and Mexico fueled speculation that Banco de Mexico policy makers
won’t cut rates in 2012.  Industrial Production  The yield on Mexico’s peso-denominated debt due in December
2013 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.8
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the
highest close for the yield since March 6. The price fell 0.05
centavo to 105.41 centavos per peso.  The debt is slumping after better-than-forecast data on
Mexican  industrial production  this week boosted optimism in
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy, adding to speculation
the central bank won’t move to boost growth in 2012, according
to  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based Latin America economist at
4Cast Inc. Mexican policy makers are scheduled to release their
rate decision on March 16.  “There’s no way to downplay the numbers,” Tuesta said by
phone.  Mexican industrial production rose 4.2 percent in January
from a year earlier, higher than all 16 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey, the national statistics agency said yesterday
on its website. Retail sales in the U.S., the destination of 80
percent of Mexican exports, increased in February by the most in
five months, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  All 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect policy
makers to keep rates unchanged this week at 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  