-- Mexico Investigates Alleged Bribes for Air Service Contracts
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   A d a m   L .   C a t a l d o
-- 2012-03-14T21:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/mexico-investigates-alleged-bribes-for-air-service-contracts-1-.html
Mexico ’s Attorney General is
investigating Bizjet International Sales and Support Inc. after
it agreed to pay an $11.8 million criminal penalty to resolve
charges related to U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in
connection to alleged bribes in Latin America.  The Tulsa, Oklahoma-based company allegedly paid $2 million
to Mexican officials to win contracts, the Attorney General’s
Office, or PGR, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The bribes were paid between 2004 and 2009 for maintenance,
repair and general inspection contracts worth about $24 million
for federal and state planes and helicopters, according to the
statement. A Bizjet sales manager who allegedly paid the bribes
is a “fugitive,” the office said, without providing further
details.  “Thanks to the cooperation between the U.S. and Mexico,
various Bizjet employees considered to have intervened in acts
of corruption have been identified, as well as six Mexican
public officials who will potentially be regarded as those who
accepted the bribes,” the PGR said.  BizJet reached a “deferred prosecution agreement” with
U.S. authorities after its parent company Lufthansa Technik
discovered the irregularities during an internal audit,
according to an e-mailed note from the company’s lawyer, Jay
Holtmeier. The employees accused by the U.S. authorities are no
longer at the company, he said.  the U.S. Justice Department announced the settlement with
BizJet International Sales and Support Inc. in a statement
today. The settlement is in connection with the company’s
bribing of government officials in  Latin America  to secure
contracts for aircraft services, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net 
Adam Cataldo at 
 acataldo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  