-- Twitter Feed Is Fed’s Latest Effort to Reach Out to Public
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-03-14T17:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/federal-reserve-to-tweet-on-monetary-policy-in-new-twitter-feed.html
First there were town hall
meetings, then press conferences. Now comes  @federalreserve ,  Ben S. Bernanke ’s latest effort to reach out to the public, this
time via Twitter.  The  Federal Reserve  said it will post messages about its
 press releases , speeches, testimony and reports to Congress --
even its weekly balance sheet. It will also post “educational
frequently asked questions,” according to a statement released
today in Washington.  “It allows the Fed to communicate in a more frictionless
manner and in real time,” said Phil Pearlman, New York-based
executive editor of  StockTwits Inc ., an online investing
community for traders and investors. “If everyone is talking
about you, then you have to be there as part of that
conversation, and it’s harder and harder not to be there as that
conversation grows.”  The feed is part of the Fed’s effort to improve public
understanding of its policies and how it functions. Bernanke
started holding quarterly press conferences last year and is
making appearances ranging from speaking at a military base in
 Texas  to teaching a four-part lecture series at George
Washington University later this month.  Treasury, SEC  The  Fed’s  followers surged to more than 1,500 in the hour
after the statement announcing the channel at 9 a.m. Washington
time and to almost 5,000 by 12:45 p.m. Most regional Fed banks
already have Twitter feeds, including  San Francisco ,
Philadelphia and  Boston .  San Francisco-based Twitter Inc. is a microblogging service
that lets its more than 100 million users send 140-character
messages.  “Twitter is great for breaking news because it goes to
people fast, but I have a hard time believing that the Fed is
going to break news on it,” said Jamie Lissette, founder of the
 Hammerstone Group , a Westport, Connecticut-based operator of
online discussion forums for investors.  “Will we be getting tweets at 3 a.m. saying ‘Falling
asleep, concerned about inflation?’” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  