-- Fitch Puts U.K. Debt on Negative Outlook Days Away From Budget
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/fitch-revises-u-k-s-sovereign-rating-outlook-to-negative.html
Fitch Ratings  said Britain risks
losing its top investment grade because of its limited ability
to deal with shocks, days before Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  will present his annual budget.  Fitch changed the outlook on Britain to “negative” from
“stable,” indicating a “slightly greater” than 50 percent
chance that the AAA rating will be reduced within two years, the
company said in a statement in London late yesterday, citing the
weak economic recovery, high debt levels and threats from
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Osborne will meet coalition partners later
this week to agree on a budget he will present on March 21.  The decision “reflects the very limited fiscal space to
absorb further economic shocks in light of such elevated debt
levels and a potentially weaker than currently forecast economic
recovery,” Fitch said.  While the warning is a blow to Osborne’s strategy of
implementing the biggest squeeze on  government spending  since
World War II, it may strengthen his hand in negotiations with
Liberal Democrat coalition partners, who want him to cut taxes
to help the poorest workers.  Treasury minister  Danny Alexander , a Liberal Democrat, said
the announcement is a “salutary warning to those who think it
is possible to loosen the purse strings.”  The credit warning from Fitch echoes a similar warning from
Moody’s Investors Service, which said last month that Britain
risks losing its top-level  credit rating  if the economy
deteriorates. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said on Feb.
29 that the Moody’s warning was a  “perfectly reasonable”
assessment.  Jobless Increase  While surveys this month indicated Britain’s economy may
return to growth in the current quarter after a contraction in
the last three months of 2011, King has said the economy will
only “gradually” strengthen. Data yesterday showed U.K.
 jobless claims  rose more than economists forecast in February
and a broader measure of unemployment remained at the highest in
16 years, underscoring the weakness of the labor market.  Fitch said Britain’s top rating is underpinned by its
“diversified and flexible economy” and the flexibility that
comes from its independent monetary policy and the pound’s
status as an international “reserve currency.”  Fitch also said Osborne’s fiscal plans are “credible” and
that his budget next week “is expected to reaffirm the
government’s commitment to deficit reduction.”  Budget Plans  The government’s fiscal program, along with the  Bank of
England ’s bond-purchase plan, have helped support U.K. gilts.
The yield on the country’s 10-year debt was at 2.34 percent
yesterday, down from more than 3.5 percent a year ago.  The government’s budget is close to being signed off on by
the “quad” of senior ministers who conduct negotiations on
behalf of the two parties in the coalition government. The group
is made up of Osborne and Prime Minister  David Cameron  for the
Conservatives and Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and Alexander
for the Liberal Democrats, the junior partner in the coalition.  The quad met March 12 and may meet again on March 16, when
Cameron and Osborne have returned from the U.S. They will meet
for the final discussion of the budget next week.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat who has
been at the vanguard of calls for more action to support the
economy, said in a letter leaked last week that the government
lacks a “compelling vision.”  The leak came after Cable said his party is prepared to
scrap the 50 percent top rate of income tax as long as the
Conservatives agree to introduce new taxes on the rich. The
business secretary said his party favors the introduction of a
“mansion tax” on the most expensive properties so the wealthy
contribute “their share.”  Clegg, looking for ways to show his Liberal Democrat party
that he’s extracting a price for being part of Cameron’s
coalition, said he’ll push for a “tycoon tax” on high earners.  Fitch’s warning will give Osborne’s Labour Party opponents
in Parliament ammunition to attack him for the government’s
austerity measures, which they say risk tipping the U.K. into
its second recession in less than three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  