-- Fitschen Plans to Promote Female Executives at Deutsche Bank
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-03-14T17:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/fitschen-plans-to-promote-female-executives-at-deutsche-bank.html
Juergen Fitschen,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ’s co-chief executive officer designate, plans to promote
female executives when he leads Germany’s biggest bank.  “There are still some fundamental weaknesses that we have
to show with respect to what initially gave rise for the
creation of this group -- that’s genuine diversity,” Fitschen
said today at a conference on women in business organized by the
bank in Frankfurt.  Germany, unlike some countries in  Europe , hasn’t set quotas
to improve the balance of female representation in corporate
management. Norway was first in 2003 to enforce female minimums,
and  Spain  followed in 2007.  France  passed laws this year and
last that impose a 40 percent representation quota for boards
and in top administration jobs by 2017.  “At the  supervisory board  level we today have a
participation rate of 40 percent, which is excellent, but we
haven’t followed yet at the executive level,” Fitschen said
before a speech by  Viviane Reding , the European Union’s justice
chief. “Give us a bit of time and then we will deliver.”  Deutsche Bank’s group executive committee has no female
representatives, according to the bank’s  website . The committee
is the second-highest ranking body after the management board
and helps coordinate the company’s businesses and regions.  Gender Diversity  “Over lunch with Dr. Reding, we talked about gender
diversity,” Fitschen, 63, said at the 13th Women in European
Business Conference. “I said ‘rest assured, I won’t retire
before we have done good also at the executive level, at the
GEC.’”  German Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen wants rules that
would require women to hold at least 30 percent of positions on
management and supervisory boards at  Germany ’s largest listed
companies by 2020, according to  the ministry .  Deutsche Bank CEO  Josef Ackermann  drew criticism from
German ministers last year by saying that adding a woman to the
board would make it “more colorful and prettier.”  Fitschen, the longest-standing employee of the bank on the
management board, and investment bank chief Anshu Jain will take
over from Ackermann at the end of May.  “If we want to keep our economic strength in Europe, then
we can’t forgo half the talent in a situation with more older
people and less younger people,” Reding told reporters at the
conference today. “This is a question of survival.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  