-- Former Merck Unit Works on First Vaccine for Hepatitis C
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-03-14T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/former-merck-unit-works-on-first-vaccine-for-hepatitis-c.html
Okairos AG , a biotechnology
business that  Merck & Co. (MRK)  sold to venture capital funds in 2007,
is seeking to produce the first preventive vaccine for hepatitis
C, challenging makers of treatments for the disease.  Okairos has begun a mid-stage study, funded by the U.S.
 National Institutes of Health , of a gene-based vaccine designed
to stimulate the body’s immune system to prevent hepatitis C
from taking hold, Chief Operating Officer Tom Woiwode said in a
phone interview from the company’s Basel, Switzerland,
headquarters.  No vaccine exists for hepatitis C, which affects as many as
170 million people globally, putting them at risk of developing
 liver cancer , according to the  World Health Organization . The
growing population of patients infected with the virus spurred
 Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s decision in November to buy experimental
hepatitis C-treatment maker Pharmasset Inc. for $10.8 billion
and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s acquisition in February of
Inhibitex Inc. for $2.5 billion.  “This could change the landscape quite a bit,” said  Les Funtleyder , a health-care strategist and portfolio manager at
 Miller Tabak  & Co. in  New York . “In theory, if you could
vaccinate everyone, you’d need a lot less drug.” Funtleyder
said he isn’t aware of any other preventive vaccines in
development.  Disease Transmission  Okairos’s vaccine would target those who may be at risk of
infection. The disease is most commonly transmitted through
contaminated blood transfusions, organ transplants, contaminated
syringes and needle-injected drug use, according to the WHO.  Most preventive vaccines stimulate the production of
antibodies, molecules produced by the immune system as part of
the body’s defenses. Development of Okarios’s vaccine was
triggered by studies of patients with early-stage hepatitis C,
of whom about 20 percent spontaneously clear the virus and avoid
advancing to the chronic phase, Woiwode said.  Researchers have found those patients tend to have a strong
response in the blood’s T cells, Woiwode said. Armed with that
knowledge, Okairos developed technology that delivers  genetic
material  to stimulate T cells, the white blood cells that help
the body fight diseases.  This approach contrasts with most other vaccines, which
stimulate an antibody response, Woiwode said.  “We’ve opened up a new path that will allow us to address
a number of diseases, hepatitis C being the first one,” he said
in the interview yesterday.  Even if a vaccine is approved, medicines are needed to
treat patients already infected, Miller Tabak’s Funtleyder said.  Industry Projects  Merck and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  won approval last
year for the first new therapies for hepatitis C in almost a
decade.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , a partner in the Vertex drug, is also
cooperating with Swedish drugmaker  Medivir AB (MVIRB)  on a hepatitis
treatment. Basel-based  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  agreed in October to buy
Anadys Pharmaceuticals Inc., another maker of experimental
medicines for hepatitis C, for about $230 million.  Profectus Biosciences Inc. , a Baltimore-based vaccine
manufacturer, is also developing a drug that prevents patients
with early-stage hepatitis C from advancing to the chronic
stage. The company plans clinical trials of the product in 2013.  Investors in Okairos, which is also developing malaria,
cancer and flu vaccines, include Boehringer Ingelheim Venture
Fund, Life Sciences Partners, Novartis Venture Funds and Versant
Ventures. The Swiss company has also received grants from the
European Union and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.  The company is in discussions with potential partners for
marketing the vaccine, Woiwode said.  “I have no doubt that if this Phase 2 study is successful,
there will be no shortage of interest to work with us to bring
this to the market globally,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  