-- Fortress Gains in Servicing Market as BofA Retreats: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2012-03-14T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/fortress-gains-in-servicing-market-as-bofa-retreats-mortgages.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  took
its  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  public last week in the
second offering of a loan servicer in a month as upstart firms
grab market share from banks inundated with troubled borrowers.  Banks are retreating from the approximately $10 trillion
mortgage servicing market, once a cash cow that generated
monthly revenue of 0.25 percent to 0.4 percent of loan balances.
Federal and state probes of foreclosure practices led to new
regulations that are driving up costs, and a pending change in
bank capital requirements also made the business less desirable.  “Smaller servicers have an opportunity to pick up market
share because they aren’t facing the same regulatory issues and
the same capital issues as banks,” said  Diane Swonk , chief
economist at Mesirow Financial Inc. in Chicago. “We’re in big
trouble if they don’t -- banks are so completely overwhelmed
with  defaults  and regulatory issues, some of them can’t even
handle a refinance request.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  last year
reduced by about half the value of their mortgage servicing
rights, or MSRs, that estimate future cash flows against costs.
For  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in  San Francisco , the drop was 13 percent.  Nationstar and  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) , which spun off Home
Loan Servicing Solutions Ltd. in a public offering last month,
are betting their expertise in handling defaulted or seriously
delinquent loans will help them grow. About $1 trillion of
mortgage servicing rights currently are for sale by banks,
according to Jay Bray, chief executive officer of Lewisville,
Texas-based Nationstar, who declined to name the companies
because his firm intends to compete for some of the assets.  New Model  In the next three to five years, as much as $4 trillion of
servicing assets could be moved off bank books and bought by
companies like Nationstar, Bray said.  The company rose to $14.19 after pricing 16.7 million
shares at $14 in the March 7 initial public offering, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was less than the $17 to $19
estimated by underwriters.  Home Loan Servicing (HLSS)  has declined 28
cents to $13.72 since its IPO.  “The new model of servicing is going to be flow servicing,
where these types of loans will be automatically moved to non-
bank companies,” Bray said. “There will be a continued need
for the high-touch model like ours that focuses on borrowers who
need extra loving care.”  Revenue at Nationstar rose 44 percent in 2011 as it bought
servicing rights from  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America and sub-contracted with other institutions to handle
their most troubled loans. In May, the company will purchase $67
billion of servicing assets from Aurora Bank FSB, a unit of
defunct Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Bray said.  Fannie Mae Buys  Banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. have sold the
servicing rights of more than $160 billion of mortgages since
mid-2011. Bank of America sold $100 billion of its portfolio to
Fannie Mae in August and $18 billion to Nationstar in December,
falling to the No. 2 ranking. Wells Fargo is now the largest
servicer.  JPMorgan, based in New York, in November agreed to sell
mortgage servicing rights for $15 billion of its portfolio to
Ocwen. The West Palm Beach, Florida-based servicer in October
bought Morgan Stanley’s Saxon Mortgage Services Inc., with
servicing rights on $26.6 billion of mortgages. In June, it
purchased Goldman Sachs’s Litton Loan Servicing, with about
$41.2 billion of mortgages.  ‘Under Stress’  “The big guys are all under stress, trying to handle the
volume of loans while they deal with regulatory issues,” said
William Fricke, senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors
Service in  New York . “They’re offloading some of their
servicing to relieve the pressure.”  Thomas Kelly, a JPMorgan spokesman, Ancel Martinez of
Wells Fargo, and Bank of America’s  Dan Frahm  declined to
comment.  Homeward Residential, which until last month was known as
American Home Mortgage Servicing Inc., is another small servicer
seeking to grow -- both by purchasing mortgage servicing rights
and contracting with the industry’s biggest servicers to handle
some of their loans, said owner  Wilbur Ross , the billionaire
investor who’s chairman of WL Ross & Co. in New York.  “Small servicers will gain share, partly because the big
banks are selling MSRs instead of buying them and partly because
some of the big banks are servicing such large amounts of
problem loans that they’re farming out special servicing to
firms like ours that are particularly well set up to perform
it,” Ross said.  Adding Assets  Ross bought Homeward in 2008 and has since added assets
from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Option One Mortgage Corp., a division of
 H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  The company, based in Coppell, Texas, went into
correspondent and warehouse lending last year, financing
mortgages and keeping the servicing rights when selling them,
Ross said. Bank of America announced in October it was exiting
the correspondent business.  Administering home loans had little oversight until
allegations of fraud in late 2010 sparked federal and state
investigations. In April, the  Federal Reserve , U.S. Treasury and
other regulators issued an enforcement action forcing the banks
to hire staff, improve foreclosure performance and keep stricter
controls on fees they charge borrowers and bond holders.  Bank of America, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan, Citigroup and Ally
Financial Inc. also agreed in February to a $25 billion
settlement with state attorneys general, pledging to compensate
borrowers wrongfully evicted from homes and adhere to new
standards. The banks service more than half of the market.  Servicer Misconduct  Servicer misconduct included the use of fraudulent
affidavits to establish claims and falsifying promissory notes
that transfer the ownership of mortgages, according to Fed
Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin .  “These problems have hampered the ability of the courts
and the markets to work through the  foreclosure  inventory in an
efficient manner,” she said in a January speech in  Washington .
It’s “one of the factors hindering a rapid recovery in the
economy,” she said.  More changes are in store for the industry, said Peter Swire, a professor at Ohio State University’s Moritz College of
Law in Columbus.  The new  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  in Washington
has said it plans to reform servicing practices. So far, all
they’ve done is draft a new format for monthly mortgage bills,
though  Richard Cordray , head of the bureau, has said there’s
more to come.  Changing Fee Model  In addition, the Federal Housing Finance Agency has
proposed changing the current flat-fee compensation model to a
system that rewards performance.  While regulatory crackdowns and burgeoning costs are
currently driving the fragmentation of the servicing industry,
banks also are mindful of the changes in capital rules that in
2014 will begin to be implemented, Swire said.  Mortgage servicing rights that now help banks to meet
 capital requirements  will shrink in value as new standards set
by Basel III, an international banking agreement, phase out
their use. Companies like Nationstar and Home Loan Servicing
won’t be affected because they’re not banks.  “The big players are already thinking about the new
capital rules kicking in, and that creates an incentive to
shrink their market share,” Swire said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 