-- Fraport May Lose Night-Flights Effort, German Court Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-03-14T20:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/fraport-may-lose-bid-for-17-frankfurt-night-flights-court-says.html
Fraport AG (FRA)  and the state of Hesse
may lose their bid to operate 17 night flights on a new
Frankfurt runway, a judge said at a hearing today because of
concern from local residents.  The plan for 17 flights between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. at the
hub’s new north-west runway may violate residents’ rights to
noise protection, Presiding Judge Ruediger Rubel said in a
preliminary assessment at the Federal Administrative Court in
Leipzig. The law requires a heightened demand for express
freight to justify night flights, he said.  “The trial court found that the numbers didn’t show that
there was such a heightened demand for express freight
flights,” said Rubel. “We would be bound by those findings.”  The runway and night flights are being challenged by local
residents, neighboring cities and businesses. The state of
Hesse, where Frankfurt is located, in 2007 approved Fraport’s
plan to build an additional runway and a third terminal,
enabling  Europe ’s No. 3 airport to handle more flights. The
state allowed an average of 150 night flights while capping the
number between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. at 17.  While allowing the runway to be completed and used, a lower
court in October temporarily blocked flights between those hours
because it said the residents were likely to prevail on that
part of their case.  Threshold Questions  Volker Gronefeld, a lawyer for Hesse, said the top court
should overrule the trial court, because the findings weren’t
convincing. While the trial court recognized in principal that
there is a demand for night flights, it required too high a
threshold to approve them, he said.  The court may also require changes to Fraport’s operation
of an average of 150 flights from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. and 5 a.m.
and 6 a.m., said Judge Rubel. Using a calendar year as the
reference period to calculate the average allowed more flights
on some days during seasonal peaks, he said.  “You cannot turn the night into day,” said Rubel. “The
law says you have to pay special attention to the residents’
interests in having a night’s rest.”  Lufthansa Appeal  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  lost a separate bid in the lower
court to increase the number of flights between 11 p.m. and 5
a.m. It has asked the top court for permission to appeal and
Leipzig judges still have to decide on that request. That case
isn’t part of today’s hearing.  Gronefeld told the court it should have added the carrier’s
cases to today’s hearing to take their arguments into account.
Lufthansa, TUI AG and Thomas Cook AG’s Condor are affected by
the current preliminary ban on night flights, according to
Fraport.  Rubel said at the first day of hearings yesterday that the
state’s decision to allow the 17 night flights may already be
flawed because local residents and communities weren’t
adequately heard on the issue.  Lufthansa,  TUI AG (TUI1)  and Thomas Cook AG’s Condor are affected
by the current preliminary ban on night flights, according to
Fraport.  The Leipzig court will issue its rulings on April 4 at
10:00 a.m. local time, the court said in an e-mail today.  The cases are BVerwG, 4 C 8/09 et al.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  