-- Gap’s Targeting of Broke Young Hipsters Viewed as Flawed
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-03-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/gap-targeting-broke-young-hipsters-seen-as-flawed-plan-retail.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) , which drew legions of
young adults in the 1990s with classic khakis and swing-dancing
ads, is again banking on young, hip customers to resuscitate its
sales. Too bad they’re broke now.  Weighed down by higher-than-average unemployment, student-
loan debt and concerns that the economy will continue to
struggle, Americans 18 to 34 years old are increasingly
reluctant to shop, according to researcher WSL Strategic Retail.  That reluctance, while particularly troubling for Gap, is
hurting sales at other clothing chains such as  Urban Outfitters
Inc. (URBN)  and  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  as well, while a few, such as  Hennes &
Mauritz AB (HMB) , are doing better. In a few years, it also may
deprive higher-end retailers such as  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  of a new
crop of customers looking to upgrade.  “There is a notion among retailers that young shoppers are
more resilient and will come back sooner,” WSL Chief Executive
Officer  Wendy Liebmann  said in a telephone interview. “The
reality is that they don’t have money to spend, and retailers
aren’t paying enough attention to this.”  Almost a quarter of 18- to 34-year-olds don’t make enough
money to cover basic needs such as rent, car payments and food,
WSL said. These shoppers don’t have much to spend and seek
promotions instead of desirable brands, said Liebmann, who’s
based in New York.  Advertisers, television networks and retailers have long
chased the youth market, traditionally a group with the time and
desire to stay current and fashionable. Companies tried to hook
customers in their 20s, hoping to gain a loyal customer for
decades to come, said  Eric Beder , an analyst at Brean Murray
Carret & Co. in New York.  College Costs  That may no longer work for retailers, he said. College
costs have soared, resulting in student-loan debt of about $867
billion in the fourth quarter of 2011, about 23 percent higher
than credit card balances,  according  to the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York .  In 2009, households led by those younger than 35 had 68
percent less wealth than such households in 1984, according to a
November Pew Research Center  report . The share of employed 18-to
24-year-olds was 54 percent, the lowest since the government
began collecting data in 1948, according to a separate  report 
from Pew released last month.  “This customer doesn’t pay up for product, and they might
not turn into a 45- to 50-year-old who will,” Beder said in a
telephone interview. “Retailers need to worry about how to
build a relationship with this consumer.”  Leveled Off  After boosting sales more than sevenfold during the 1990s,
San Francisco-based Gap’s revenue has leveled off in recent
years. Sales last year fell to $14.5 billion, down 11 percent
from their peak in 2005. Gap’s shares declined 16 percent last
year, while the Standard and Poor’s 500 Retailing Index advanced
2.9 percent. Though Gap shares had risen 37 percent this year as
of yesterday’s close, the price is less than half the Feb. 3,
2000 peak.  Sales climbed 3 percent in February after falling 4 percent
in the fourth quarter. The company has also announced several
high-level appointments and said it is trying to improve
assortments for women.  The company has released ads depicting real residents in
young, hip enclaves like Austin,  Texas , modeling its 1969 brand
denim and brightly colored sweaters. Gap also started a
collaboration with popular fashion blogs in which bloggers
display the retailers’ colored jeans and striped sweaters as
examples of fashionable looks.  Fashion-Driven  “The age group Gap is marketing to, 18- to 34-year-olds,
is only drawn in by sales and promotions,” Beder said. “Maybe
they want to be wired and fashion-driven, but they’re not
willing to pay for it.”  Edie Kissko, a spokeswoman for Gap, declined to comment.  It may take more than ads to get young adults back in
stores, Beder said. Retailers including Gap, Urban Outfitters
and  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  are offering “unprecedented”
promotions and discounts, Beder said.  Express, the men’s and women’s clothing retailer, has
connected with young shoppers through active promotions, selling
items such as multicolored jeans and animal-print tops for half-
off after an initial purchase, Beder said.  Other retailers “getting it right” are fashion companies
with low, fixed prices such as H&M and Japanese T-shirt maker
Uniqlo, Beder said.  “This shopper refuses to pay a premium,” Liebmann said.  The increasing frugality of young people also is
disconcerting to the luxury market, because a 25-year-old who
shops at Gap would traditionally shop at  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) ,
Nordstrom or  Saks Inc. (SKS)  decades later, said  Pam Danziger ,
president of research firm Unity Marketing in Stevens,
 Pennsylvania .  “We now have young people who aspire to own more middle-
class houses instead of mansions,” Danziger said in a telephone
interview. “We have a group of people who are seeking only to
live within their means.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in  New York  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  