-- Gazprom Trips in India as Shale Upends Asia Gas Markets
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-03-14T15:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/gazprom-trips-in-india-as-shale-upends-asia-gas-markets-energy.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s largest
natural-gas exporter, is struggling to get a foothold in the
Asian markets leading global economic growth.  The Russian company’s plan to supply liquefied natural gas
to India from 2016, the year the U.S. is set to start gas
exports, is faltering after buyers said they’re looking for
cheaper fuel from  North America . Last year, decade-long talks to
supply pipeline gas to  China  foundered over price disagreements.  “Gazprom has a major problem of having a fixed view on
what the price of gas should be, irrespective of market
conditions,”  Jonathan Stern , chairman and senior research
fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, said by e-
mail. “If this continues, it will create increasing problems
for Russian gas exports.”  Keen to protect Russia’s position in world gas markets,
President-elect Vladimir Putin ordered export monopoly Gazprom
to diversify into  Asia  and develop an LNG business. The Moscow-
based company cut this year’s target for exports to  Europe ,
which accounts for more than half of Gazprom’s gas revenue, as
the debt crisis holds back economic growth and imports from the
Middle East increase.  Asia accounts for more than 60 percent of global demand for
LNG, gas chilled to a liquid for transport by ship. The region
imported 177.7 billion cubic meters of the fuel in 2010, valued
at more than $86 billion today, based on data from the U.S.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Buyers are turning to
North America, where record production from shale deposits has
driven down U.S. prices.  “The global gas market is integrating and that has
implications for prices,”  Christof Ruehl ,  BP Plc (BP/) ’s chief
economist, said at a conference in Moscow last month.  First Buyer  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , the country’s largest gas supplier, became
the first Asian buyer of U.S. natural gas in December when it
signed a 20-year deal with  Cheniere Energy Partners LP (CQP) , which is
planning the first U.S. export terminal. The contract, targeting
3.5 million tons a year starting in 2017, is linked to the day-
to-day U.S. benchmark gas prices, which fell to a 10-year low of
$2.21 a million British thermal units in January. It will also
include a fixed component.  Prices of LNG in India are at $13.65 a million Btus this
year, according to FERC.  Gazprom had agreed on preliminary long-term LNG supply
deals last year with GAIL,  Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) ,  Gujarat State
Petroleum Corp. (GSPC) , and  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  for a total of as much as
10 million metric tons annually, with contracts to be signed
within six months. In contrast to Cheniere, the Russian supplier
ties long-term prices to oil, a policy some of its European
customers are fighting. China has refused to pay Russia a price
on a par with the European level.  Gas Price Negotiations  “We have started price negotiations with Gazprom for the
LNG we plan to buy from them,” A.K. Balyan, chief executive
officer of Petronet, India’s biggest gas importer, said by
telephone from New Delhi. “We will have to see how it compares
with the U.S. and other markets.”  Ventures in Australia and Qatar, the world’s biggest LNG
exporter, sell the liquid fuel to Asian buyers at prices linked
to the so-called  Japan  Crude Cocktail, a 40-year-old index.
Transporting gas from the U.S. would be less expensive than
Asian LNG, D.K. Sarraf, managing director of  Oil & Natural Gas (ONGC) 
Corp.’s overseas unit, ONGC Videsh Ltd., said March 1, as it
nears an agreement to buy its first U.S. shale gas asset.  ‘Back Row’  India is “not going to be easier,”  Valery Nesterov , an
analyst at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said in a phone interview.
“You have to beware of the situation developing like with
China, where we’re in the back row with insignificant volumes.”  The signing will happen this year, Gazprom Deputy CEO
 Alexander Medvedev  said in an interview in  New York  on Feb. 16.
The Indian deal “is in the final stage of preparation” with
contract prices indexed to oil, he said.  Gazprom’s marketing and trading unit wants to gain market
share in  India  because demand may grow an average 6.5 percent
annually, not far off the 7.7 percent forecast in China,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  Today, India’s largest supplier is Qatar. The country
imports about 25 percent of its gas requirements as its own
output from offshore deposits is declining. Gazprom has supplied
occasional cargoes to India since 2007.  While Gazprom aims to boost its share in Europe’s gas
market to 32 percent by 2030 from 27 percent last year, the
European Union has sought to diversify suppliers. With European
demand suppressed because of the economy, Gazprom lowered an
export target for this year to 154 billion cubic meters from 164
billion expected in November.  Sakhalin Plant  The Indian campaign is part of Gazprom’s drive to gain 14
percent of world LNG trade by 2030, a market that’s set to grow
at double the pace of global gas output.  Gazprom exports LNG from its share of the Sakhalin-2 plant
off  Russia ’s Pacific coast, mostly to Japan and Korea, and buys
the fuel from other sources for deliveries to India and other
Asian markets. Its total LNG trade rose 25 percent to 3 billion
cubic meters in 2011, a presentation to investors last month
showed. That’s less than  Hong Kong ’s demand alone in 2010, BP’s
Statistical Review of World Energy shows.  The state-controlled gas producer has yet to make a final
decision on adding to its liquefaction capacity since agreeing
to buy control of the Sakhalin-2 venture from Royal Dutch Shell
Plc at the end of 2006.  Gazprom is looking at expanding the Sakhalin plant north of
Japan, building a plant in Vladivostok on the Pacific coast and
developing Arctic projects. Until then, the company is boosting
global LNG trade by securing fuel from third parties.  Indian Prospects  Gazprom shares  have risen 16 percent this year to close at
198.78 rubles in Moscow today. They fell 11 percent in 2011 as
the European debt crisis curbed prospects for demand growth. Net
income probably rose 25 percent last year to almost $40 billion,
driven by higher fuel prices, the company said in February.
Gazprom hasn’t reported fourth-quarter earnings yet.  Extraction of gas from shale deposits has allowed the U.S.
to overtake Russia as the world’s biggest producer. The surge in
output pushed U.S. prices to a 10-year low and increased
availability of the fuel for export. The trouble for India and
other gas buyers may come as U.S. manufacturers lobby to curb
exports and keep prices low.  “Currently it’s cheaper to buy LNG from the U.S.,”
Petronet’s Balyan said. “But there’s no LNG there yet and we
don’t know how much export the government will allow.”  Petronet said it’s in discussions with suppliers in the
U.S., including Cheniere Energy and Freeport LNG Development LP.
GAIL India is also negotiating its second supply contract,
seeking supplies from a Freeport LNG project scheduled to start
in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  