-- GE Climbs as Stress Tests Boost Confidence in Finance Payout
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-03-14T20:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/ge-climbs-as-fed-stress-tests-boost-confidence-in-finance-payout.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  climbed to the
highest price in more than nine months after the Federal
Reserve’s bank stress tests boosted investor confidence that the
company’s finance unit can resume a payout this year.  GE, which wasn’t one of the 19 financial institutions
subjected to the tests,  climbed  1.1 percent to $19.79 at 4 p.m.
in New York, the highest since May.  Some bank holding companies increased share buybacks and
dividends to 70 percent or more of analysts’ 2012 profit
forecasts as the Fed released test results, suggesting GE’s plan
to resume taking a payment of 40 percent to 50 percent of  GE
Capital ’s earnings isn’t “an aggressive bar to clear,” C.  Stephen Tusa , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, said in a note.  GE is waiting for the Fed, which took over as its regulator
last year, to finish its evaluation of GE Capital before
restarting the dividend. The company is targeting a payout from
GE Capital of 45 percent of profits, Chief Financial Officer
Keith Sherin said on a Jan. 20 conference call with investors.  “They are our regulator and we continue to work with them
on the oversight and dividend discussion,”  Russell Wilkerson , a
GE Capital spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Our  capital ratios 
are strong and compare well.”  The stress-test results are a positive for Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE,  Julian Mitchell , an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note to clients.  “The increased capital return announcements from JPMorgan
and others alongside these results, suggest that GE Capital will
be allowed to resume a dividend” later this year, Mitchell
said.  The payment of almost half of GE Capital’s earnings reached
as much as $8.6 billion before it was suspended after the 2008
financial and economic crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  