-- Georgia Lottery Players Suckers Spending Most for Least
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   A l e x   M c I n t y r e
-- 2012-03-14T16:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/georgia-lottery-players-suckers-spending-most-for-least.html
Georgia (STOGA1) ’s lottery players are the
biggest suckers in a nation buying more than $50 billion a year
in tickets for state-run games, which have the worst odds of any
form of legal gambling.  Players in  Georgia , whose per capita income is about 10
percent below the U.S. average, are doing the most damage to
their personal finances. They spent the second-highest chunk of
their income on the lottery, which funds college scholarships 
and pre-kindergarten, according to the Sucker Index created by 
Bloomberg Rankings.  Governors use lotteries to pay for education, environmental
protection and other programs. In the past fiscal year, sales
rose for 26 of the 43 states that have games, helping close
budget gaps from declining  tax revenue  and federal aid. The pot
comes disproportionately from lower-income residents, according
to a Journal of Behavioral Decision Making study.  “You’re taking from those with few means and helping those
with more means,” Charles Clotfelter, a Duke University economics 
professor, said from Durham,  North Carolina . “To link that tax 
revenue to a benefit that goes largely to middle-and upper-class
citizens is a little stunning,”  “It’s a pro-rich wealth-redistribution technique in
Georgia,” Clotfelter, co-author of “Selling Hope: State
Lotteries in America,” said in a telephone interview.  Sucker Index  Georgia residents spent an average $470.73 on the 
lottery in 2010, or 1 percent of their personal income, 
while they received the sixth-highest prize payouts, 63 cents
for each dollar spent, the Sucker Index shows. Only 
 Massachusetts (STOMA1)  had higher spending, $860.70 per adult, more
than three times the U.S. average.   Georgia had per capita income of $34,800 in 2010, below 
the national average of $39,945, while Massachusetts’s was
higher at $51,302, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Massachusetts players were the biggest lottery winners,
getting back almost 72 cents on the dollar, according to the
data compiled by Bloomberg. That state still places second on
the Sucker Index because spending as a percentage of personal
income is the most, at 1.3 percent.  New York ranked third in the index, followed by  Michigan 
and  South Carolina . The lowest scores went to  Oklahoma ,
 Washington ,  South Dakota ,  Montana  and  North Dakota .  Alabama ,
 Alaska ,  Hawaii ,  Mississippi ,  Nevada ,  Utah  and  Wyoming  don’t have
state lotteries.  Money Returned  Bloomberg Rankings created the Sucker Index with 2010 data
from the U.S. Census and annual reports from state lottery
commissions, which include multi-state games. The total dollar
amount of prizes awarded was subtracted from ticket sales, and
then the difference was divided by the total personal income of
each state’s residents.  Georgia’s lottery law says the state should contribute “as
near as practical” to 35 percent of the proceeds to pre-
kindergarten and the Helping Outstanding Pupils Educationally
(HOPE) scholarships, which pay full tuition for in-state public
and private colleges and technical schools. A share that large
was last transferred in 1997, according to a state audit.  Last year, with the lottery-funded programs facing a $300
million deficit and “ on the brink of bankruptcy ,” Governor
Nathan Deal enacted scholarship changes that raised grades and
test scores for eligibility, eliminated funding for books and
fees and cut payments for remedial classes. He also cut the pre-
kindergarten program to 160 days from 180.  Georgia Peach  In the fiscal year ended June 30, the Georgia lottery gave
25.3 percent of revenue, or $846.1 million, to education. The
percentage of proceeds awarded isn’t as important as the dollar
amount, which has been growing, said Tandi Reddick, the game’s
media-relations manager in Atlanta. In 1997, the lottery gave 35
percent of revenue, or $581 million, she said in an e-mail.  The Georgia lottery had record sales in the week ended Feb.
11, taking in $101.2 million and surpassing a 2007 record by
more than $5 million, said Reddick, who declined to predict
education funding levels for this year or the future.  “There is a delicate balance that must be achieved between
prizes paid and profits returned,” Reddick said. “If we
believed for a moment that the lottery could increase the annual
dollar amount returned to education by reducing prize payouts,
thereby increasing the percentage return to the HOPE scholarship
and pre-K programs, we would not hesitate to do it.”  Budget Holes  Twenty-nine states expect budget deficits of $47 billion
for the fiscal year that begins July 1, according to the Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington-based nonprofit
group that researches issues affecting lower-income Americans.  The drive to collect more from numbers games paid off in
the year ended June 30, 2011, with 26 states reporting higher
revenue than the year before, according to La Fleur’s, a lottery
research firm in Rockville,  Maryland . Total sales increased 3
percent to $56 billion.  The National Gambling Impact Study Commission, in a 1999
 report , found lotteries to be the most widespread form of
gambling in the U.S., and the type with the longest odds.  Unlike Georgia, with its dedicated stream to education,
 Massachusetts  returns 95 percent of lottery revenue to its
municipalities to do with as they wish: $802.2 million for the
fiscal year that ended June 30, 2011. The rest goes to gambling-
addiction programs, cultural groups and community services, said
Paul Sternburg, director of the lottery.  “We paid over $3.1 billion in prizes last year, so there
are a lot of winners out there,” Sternburg said in a telephone
interview. “Massachusetts has always had the highest payout. I
don’t think we can go any higher. If we went any higher, we’d be
hurting our net profits.”  Scratch-Off  In January 2011, Massachusetts lottery officials examined
the “portfolio mix,” particularly the instant scratch-off
tickets priced at $1, $2, $5, $10 and $20, Sternburg said from
his office in Braintree, Massachusetts.  “Our tickets -- they weren’t popping out,” he said. “We
went back to basics: Make the tickets more attractive. You can
see, when our first tickets went on sale in April, it’s been
going up ever since.”  Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick signed a law last year
allowing casino resorts. Sternburg said they’ll be open in two
to three years and will take a chunk of lottery cash, at least
temporarily.  “At that point we’re expecting between a 3 percent and 10
percent hit in revenue,” Sternburg said. “You have to change
your portfolio, come up with new products.”  A study commissioned by the Georgia lottery last year found
that three casinos, if approved, could draw about $1 billion in
revenue. Without any operating now, the lottery’s focus is on
“fresh and exciting” games for players, and the possibility of
a national game, Reddick said.  “The biggest challenge facing the Georgia lottery is
finding ways to grow a mature lottery,” Reddick said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Alex McIntyre in New York at 
 amcintyre10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  