-- German Vote Looms in State Merkel Lost After First Greek Aid
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-03-14T17:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/german-vote-looms-in-state-merkel-lost-after-first-greek-rescue.html
Lawmakers in  Germany ’s most
populous state voted down the region’s budget, signaling the
probable collapse of the Social Democratic-led coalition in
North Rhine-Westphalia.  Parliament members in the state capital, Dusseldorf,
rejected the budget by 94 votes to 91 votes today. Hannelore Kraft, the SPD state prime minister who leads a minority
government with the Greens, said before the ballot that she
would let voters decide on the future leadership of the state of
almost 18 million people if the budget failed, according to
comments broadcast live on N24 television.  Fresh elections would offer  Chancellor Angela Merkel  a
chance to recapture the state her  Christian Democratic Union 
lost in May 2010 in the first of a series of regional ballot
defeats that she blamed on the debt crisis in  Greece . With the
turmoil easing, Merkel’s personal ratings are at a record high,
while polls show her CDU tied with the SPD in North Rhine-
Westphalia, one of 16 German states.  “If it comes to new elections in North Rhine-Westphalia,
then I think it’s good and proper that there’s no longer a
minority government,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin. Voters
should be able “to opt for a more stable administration that by
pursuing a more solid budgetary policy thinks more about the
future and doesn’t undermine its options by piling up ever more
debt.”  Greek Aid  Kraft won North Rhine-Westphalia in 2010 days after Merkel
backtracked and agreed to a first bailout in Greece, a result
that deprived the German leader of her majority in the national
parliament’s upper house, the Bundesrat, where states are
represented. With just 90 of the 180 seats in the Dusseldorf
parliament, Kraft has struggled to pass legislation since.  In March last year, Kraft denied that she planned to call
early elections after a court ruled the 2010 budget to be
unconstitutional. Then in July, her government was forced to
amend a restructuring plan for WestLB AG at the last minute to
secure the support of parliament for the proposal. North Rhine-
Westphalia partly owns WestLB, a bank that was bailed out by its
owners and Germany’s Soffin rescue fund after running up losses
during the financial crisis.  Latest Poll  Merkel’s CDU and the SPD, the main opposition party
nationally, were tied at 35 percent support in the state, little
changed from May 2010,  the latest Infratest poll  of 1,004 voters
for WDR radio showed Feb. 26.  The Greens had 17 percent, up from 12.1 percent, and the
Pirate Party 5 percent, the threshold to win seats in the state
parliament. The Left Party had 3 percent and the Free Democratic
Party, Merkel’s junior coalition partner in Berlin, 2 percent
after winning 6.7 percent in the last election.  The budget was defeated after it was rejected by the three
opposition parties: the FDP, the Left and Merkel’s CDU, led in
the state by federal Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen.  “Although the opposition defeated this bill, they’re
likely to lose dramatically in the election,” Ulrich von Alemann, a professor of political science at the University of
Dusseldorf, said by phone. With current polls suggesting the
 Social Democrats  might be able to return at the head of a
coalition that enjoys a majority, Kraft “lost the vote in the
assembly today but probably won the election.”  State Ballot  Merkel faces another state ballot on March 25 in the
western state of Saarland after her CDU ended its coalition with
the FDP there in January, blaming squabbling within the local
Free Democratic Party. Polls suggest that Merkel’s party and the
Social Democrats will form a so-called grand coalition after the
vote, mirroring Merkel’s first-term national government.  The Free Democrats will probably lose elections in both
states, “speeding up their decline,” Ulrich Deupmann, a
partner at management adviser Brunswick Group Inc. in Berlin,
said in an interview.  “Merkel will stand by the FDP as long as they can give her
a majority in the Bundestag. But if the party starts to fall
apart and can longer do that, she’s not going to show them any
consideration,” Deupmann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 