-- Gingrich Vow to Fight Hurts Santorum Bid to Take on Romney
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-03-14T18:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/gingrich-vow-to-fight-disrupts-santorum-s-plan-to-take-on-romney.html
Rick Santorum’s wins in  Mississippi 
and Alabama may have done more damage to  Newt Gingrich  than to
front-runner Mitt Romney.  Gingrich is vowing to stay in the presidential race as
Santorum’s backers call for Republicans to unite behind their
candidate.  Santorum’s victories last night affirmed his status as
Romney’s main challenger. That left Gingrich and his allies to
talk about how to get the former House speaker in position to be
chosen as the nominee at the party’s national convention in
August, rather than winning the race through state primaries.  “The dynamics have changed, and four candidates will
arrive in Tampa on equal footing,” said  Rick Tyler , a senior
adviser to Winning Our Future, a political action committee
supporting Gingrich’s candidacy. “Nobody plans to go into the
convention in third, but this is our new reality.”  Tyler, who made his remarks in an interview today, said the
new reality stems from the failure of any candidate to begin
gathering enough delegates to win the nomination outright. A
candidate needs 1,144 delegates to secure the nomination. Tyler
said that after “jockeying” at the convention, Gingrich will
emerge victorious.  For Romney, the leader in delegates, last night’s losses
foreshadow a long and potentially bitter fight for the
nomination.  Helping Romney  “Right now, Gingrich couldn’t be doing more to help  Mitt
Romney  if he was a paid campaign worker for Mitt Romney,” said
 Richard Land , president of the Nashville, Tennessee-based
Southern Baptist Convention’s Ethics and Religious Liberty
Commission. “He should have dropped out a good while ago.”  Almost a year into Romney’s second presidential run, the
results once again stoked doubts about the former Massachusetts
governor’s ability to connect with the social conservatives and
evangelical Christians who make up the backbone of the
 Republican Party .  And more than two months into primary voting, Santorum’s
victories guarantee another hostile showdown next week -- this
time in  Illinois (USUSIL) , where recent polls show a tightening race.  While Santorum is eager for that contest to be a head-to-
head battle with Romney, Gingrich’s presence in the race
continues to deny him that opportunity.  “There are a lot of calls today to say to conservatives
and the Tea Party supporters, let’s unite behind  Rick
Santorum ,” John Brabender, a senior strategist for Santorum,
said today on CNN.  Time ‘To Exit’  The Alabama and Mississippi results show that while no one
candidate is “closing the deal” with the party’s base,
Gingrich’s campaign “is over,” Erick Erickson, a Republican
strategist who has resisted Romney, wrote in his column on the
Web site RedState.com.  “It is time for Newt Gingrich to exit,” Erickson wrote.
“It is time for Santorum v. Romney, and let the chips fall
where they may.”  Gingrich, speaking to supporters in Birmingham, Alabama,
late yesterday, insisted he’d remain in the campaign and fight
all the way to the party’s national convention in Tampa,
 Florida .  Still, with victories in only  South Carolina (PCSTSC)  and  Georgia ,
the onetime Georgia congressman now faces a struggle for his
political survival.  At his victory party in Lafayette,  Louisiana , Santorum came
closer than ever to calling on Gingrich to end his candidacy.  ‘Pull Together’  “The time is now for conservatives to pull together,” he
told cheering supporters gathered in a hotel ballroom. “The
time is now to make sure that we have the best chance to win
this election.”  Evangelicals made up the biggest bloc of the electorate in
both the Mississippi and Alabama contests, with almost four of
five voters identifying themselves as born-again or evangelical
Christians and about three-quarters saying it mattered at least
somewhat that a candidate shares their religious beliefs,
according to  exit polls .  Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator and a Roman
Catholic, won the backing of those voters in both states. At an
election night celebration, a supporter asked the crowd to
“take a knee” and pray for victories as they waited for the
final results.  Outspent by Romney  Santorum’s wins came even though he was outspent once again
by Romney. Of the 7,138 broadcast advertisements that aired in
the two states in the past 30 days, 64 percent came from Romney
or his political action committee, 21 percent were from Gingrich
or his super-PAC, and 15 percent were from Santorum’s super-PAC,
according to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which
tracks advertising.  As the polls closed, Santorum displayed confidence about
his chances, listening to a tribute song posted by supporters on
YouTube as he ate dinner with his wife.  After addressing his election-night party, Santorum flew to
 Puerto Rico  to woo Hispanic voters before a March 18 contest
there.  From there, he heads to  Illinois , where Santorum aides say
they hope his latest wins will create a new opportunity for
their campaign in a state where Romney has been favored.  A Chicago Tribune/WGN-TV poll released over the weekend
showed Romney backed by 35 percent of likely voters and Santorum
by 31 percent, within the 4-percentage-point margin of error.  Mathematical Challenge  Even with last night’s victories, Santorum still faces a
significant mathematical challenge.  His victories were minimal in terms of picking up
convention delegates, garnering him at least 34. Romney picked
up at least 40 delegates and Gingrich at least 24.  The partial allocation of delegates from last night’s
contests left Romney with 494, according to Associated Press
 estimates , putting him closest to winning the 1,144 needed to
capture the nomination. Santorum had 251, Gingrich 131 and Texas
Representative  Ron Paul , who finished fourth in both  Alabama  and
Mississippi, 48.  To have a chance at the nomination, Santorum would have to
win big majorities of the remaining delegates up for grabs.  “Any day with contests that passes that Santorum and
Gingrich don’t cut into Romney’s lead is a win for Romney,”
said  Josh Putnam , a campaigns and elections specialist at
Davidson College in Davidson,  North Carolina .  Uncommitted Delegates  The next few weeks offer few chances for either Santorum or
Gingrich to beat Romney, with races in  New York ,  Maryland  and
other Northeastern states likely to favor the former
 Massachusetts (USUSMASS)  governor.  To catch up, Santorum’s campaign plans to rely on picking
up uncommitted delegates allocated in caucuses and converting
those already bound to Gingrich, according to an internal memo
leaked by the campaign earlier this week.  That strategy would force a decision at the party’s August
convention, creating the possibility of a bruising internal
fight less than three months before the general election.  “The longer this plays out, the more we move away from a
contested race to a contentious race, and that’s not one that
can heal itself at a convention,” said Putnam. “I don’t see it
as a positive for the party.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  