-- Goldman Employee Criticizes Firm for Ripping Off Clients
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-14T17:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/goldman-sachs-employee-criticizes-firm-for-ripping-off-clients.html
A departing  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  employee mounted an unprecedented public attack on its
“toxic and destructive” culture in a New York Times opinion
piece, becoming the first serving insider to openly criticize
the firm.  Greg Smith , identified by the newspaper as an  executive
director  and head of the bank’s U.S. equity derivatives business
in  Europe , will leave the firm after 12 years, blaming Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein and President Gary D. Cohn
for losing hold over the  firm’s culture . Executive directors are
junior to managing directors and partners, the most senior rank.  “I attend derivatives sales meetings where not one single
minute is spent asking questions about how we can help
clients,” Smith, a Stanford University graduate, wrote in the
New York Times. “It’s purely about how we can make the most
possible money off of them.”  The attack adds to criticism from politicians and
protesters who blame the company for triggering the financial
crisis and profiting at clients’ expense. Goldman Sachs has
faced congressional hearings probing its role in the financial
crisis and paid $550 million in 2010 to settle a lawsuit
accusing it of misleading investors in a collateralized debt
obligation.  ‘Heartfelt Piece’  “This will certainly be damaging for the firm,” said  John Purcell , founder of London-based executive search firm Purcell &
Co. “It’s obviously a very heartfelt piece. Maybe he’s made a
sufficient amount of money in his life that he isn’t
particularly bothered if he isn’t employed in financial services
again and works in a completely different world like teaching.”  Goldman Sachs fell $4.17, or 3.4 percent, to $120.37 in New
York trading at 1:34 p.m.  A call to Smith’s mobile phone in  London  wasn’t answered.
Goldman Sachs said it disagreed with his criticism.  “In our view, we will only be successful if our clients
are successful,” the firm said in a statement. “This
fundamental truth lies at the heart of how we conduct
ourselves.”  “It makes me ill how callously people talk about ripping
their clients off,” Smith wrote. “‘Over the last 12 months I
have seen five different managing directors refer to their own
clients as ‘‘muppets,’’ sometimes over internal e-mail.’’  ‘Not Shocking’  Blankfein and Cohn addressed the criticism in a memo to
employees today. ‘‘In a company of our size, it is not shocking
that some people could feel disgruntled,’’ they said in the
memo. ‘‘A recent survey of employees found that 89 percent
believe the firm provides ‘exceptional service’ to clients and
that a similar percentage of the firm’s 12,000 vice presidents,
the rank held by Smith, felt that way, they said.  Employees are allowed to express concerns anonymously,
according to the memo. ‘‘We are not aware that the writer of the
opinion piece expressed misgivings through this avenue, however,
if an individual expresses issues, we examine them carefully and
we will be doing so in this case,’’ they said.  Smith blamed the company’s management for promoting
employees who made money for the firm, often by getting
customers to buy products that Goldman Sachs was trying to get
rid of. If clients can’t trust the firm, they will stop doing
business with it, however smart its employees, Smith wrote in
the Times.  ‘Spirit of Humility’  ‘‘Culture was always a vital part of Goldman Sachs’s
success,” he wrote in the New York Times. “It revolved around
teamwork, integrity, a spirit of humility, and always doing
right by our clients,” he said. “It wasn’t just about making
money; this alone will not sustain a firm for so long. It had
something to do with pride and belief in the organization. I am
sad to say that I look around today and see virtually no trace
of the culture that made me love working for this firm.”  Goldman Sachs’s score was among the lowest in a recent
study of corporate reputations, according to a Feb. 13 statement
from  Harris Interactive Inc. (HPOL) , a market research firm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  