-- Gold Seen Heading for 12th Annual Gain on Investor Hoarding
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-03-14T19:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/gold-seen-heading-for-12th-annual-advance-on-investor-hoarding.html
Gold is poised for a 21 percent
gain in 2012, extending its  bull market  to 12 consecutive years,
as investors hoard record amounts and central banks expand
reserves for the first time in a generation.  Bullion may rise to $1,897 an ounce in  New York  by Dec. 31
from $1,566.80 at the end of 2011, based on the average of 14
respondents in a survey at the Bloomberg Link Precious Metals
Conference yesterday in New York. The rally that began in 2001
is the longest since at least 1920 in  London , including a 10
percent gain last year.  Demand has strengthened as  Europe  seeks to contain its debt
crisis,  China ’s economic expansion slows, and governments from
the U.S. to the U.K. keep  interest rates  at all-time lows to
shore up growth.  Central banks  have been net buyers for three
straight years, the longest stretch since 1973, World Gold
Council data show.  Holdings (.GLDTONS)  in exchange-traded funds backed by
the metal reached a record 2,410.2 metric tons yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There are significant shifts going on in the world,”
said Martin Murenbeeld, the 67-year-old chief economist at
Toronto-based DundeeWealth Inc., which manages about $100
billion in the Dynamic  Mutual Funds . “Gold has become an
investment, an asset class, and over time, we are only going to
be building it up. The central banks are holding gold because
they are not sure if the euro will remain five years later.”  Gold futures have rallied 4.9 percent this year to
$1,642.90 on the Comex in New York. That compares with a 9.1
percent jump in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24
commodities, and a 11 percent appreciation in the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities. Treasuries lost 0.9 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Low Rates  The  Federal Reserve  has kept U.S. borrowing costs at a
record low near zero percent and conducted two rounds of asset
purchases, or so-called quantitative easing, in a bid to boost
growth, fueling demand for gold as a hedge against inflation and
a drop in the value of the dollar. Yesterday, the Fed said in a
statement that the labor market was improving.  Portugal  is raising taxes and cutting spending to meet the
terms of its 78 billion-euro ($102 billion) aid plan from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  after it
followed Ireland and  Greece  in seeking a bailout last year. Last
week, Greece pushed through the biggest sovereign restructuring
in history.  “Gold is the ultimate downside protection,” Rachel Benepe, who helps manage $3.5 billion, including 17 percent in
gold bullion, at the First Eagle Gold Fund in New York, said at
the conference. “The future is uncertain, and we have no idea
how we’re going to get through with this situation. That’s why
we own gold.”  Monetary Policy  Part of the metal’s rally has been fueled by expectations
that central banks will take additional steps to spur economic
growth. Francisco Blanch, the head of commodity research at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Global Research, said at the conference
that gold would reach $2,000 this year as the Fed seeks to add
an additional $800 billion of monetary stimulus.  Later in the day, the U.S. central bank raised its
assessment of the economy, eroding prospects for more stimulus.
Prices fell as much as 2.2 percent.  “People buy gold for benefits of diversification and hope
it does not do well,” Jeffrey Nichols, a senior economic
adviser to Rosland Capital LLC, said at the conference.  Gold futures for April delivery declined 3 percent today,
falling for the third straight session. Prices are down 4
percent this month, while the dollar jumped 2.3 percent. The
precious metal remains below its record of $1,923.70, reached on
Sept. 6.  Institutional Holders  The rate of growth in gold holdings by institutional and
private investors has declined in the last few months, according
to Christoph Eibl, a founding partner of Zug, Switzerland-based
Tiberius Asset Management AG.  “It is not a messiah,” Eibl said. “Be opportunistic and
invest in gold. Eventually, trust will come over to the fiat
currency.”  Shares of mining companies including  Greenwood Village ,
Colorado-based Newmont Mining Corp. and Toronto-based Barrick
Gold Corp., have lagged the price of gold. The Philadelphia Gold
& Silver  Index (XAU)  of 16 producers is up 1.6 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with an 11 percent gain in the
broader  S&P 500 Index . The gauge of gold producers slumped 20
percent last year.  “The only way to protect wealth is to buy gold because it
is probably the only money that is relatively indestructible,”
 Michael Pento , the president of Pento Portfolio Strategies in
Holmdel,  New Jersey , said at the conference. Pento, who
correctly predicted the annual high for prices in the past three
years, forecast a record $2,150 by the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  