-- Google, Glaxo, Victoria’s Secret: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-14T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/google-glaxo-paul-victoria-s-secret-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , creator of the most-
used Internet search engine, received a patent on a technology
that will push advertising into a new area of telephone use.  Patent 8,135,613, issued yesterday, covers ring-back
advertising. A “ring back” is what is heard by the user of a
phone when the number dialed is ringing.  According to the patent, even though advertising
“unnecessarily bothers consumers,” the method covered by the
patent provides an advertisement when the person listening would
otherwise have to listen to some other form of audio.  A particular ad can be associated either with the number
that is being called, or the number from which the call is made,
according to the patent. Advertisers can bid for the amount they
are willing to pay in order to have their ad played as a ring
tone.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, applied for the
patent in January 2008 with assistance from  Boston ’s  Fish &
Richardson PC (1357L) .  Glaxo Says EU Regulators Ask for Patent Settlement Information  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  said European Union regulators asked it
in January for information on patent settlement agreements in
the pharmaceutical industry.  The European Commission asked for similar information in
2011, the London-based drugmaker said in its annual report. The
EU is probing deals that may delay the market entry of generic
versions of branded medicines.  BioCryst Plans Challenge to ‘Improvidently Granted’ Patent  BioCryst Pharmaceuticals Inc., the North Carolina
biotechnology company testing an experimental drug to treat
gout, said it started procedures at the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office to challenge a patent issued to a competitor.  The company said in a regulatory filing it will argue the
patent office erroneously issued patent 8,119,607 on Feb. 21 to
 Australia ’s Biota holdings Ltd. That patent contains a claim
that covers the structure of a compound that can fight Hepatitis
C to which BioCrist claims prior invention rights.  BioCryst said in its filing that the patent was
“improvidently granted” and that it hired  Washington ’s
Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett & Dunner LLP to represent
it in the proceedings at the patent office.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Australia Targeted in WTO Complaint Over Ban on Tobacco Logos  Ukraine complained at the  World Trade Organization  over
Australia’s decision to prohibit trademarks and logos on tobacco
products, saying the ban violates global rules on intellectual
property.  Australia is the first country to require plain, identical
cigarette packaging. As of Dec. 1, cigarettes there will be sold
in dark brown packets, with no company logos or images and the
same font for all brands.  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMP) ,  British
American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are among companies
that have challenged the law, which Australia is extending to
include cigars and loose-leaf tobacco products.  Ukraine says the scientific evidence on which the law is
based was insufficient and that the plain-packaging rules will
unnecessarily curb trade because Australia’s public-health goal
can be met by other means.  Australia said at a Feb. 28 meeting in Geneva that it had
“comprehensively responded to all the claims” made by numerous
WTO governments in committee discussions about the law.  The  World Health Organization ’s  Framework Convention on
Tobacco Control , the first international treaty aimed at cutting
tobacco use, includes provisions on non-pricing measures to
lower demand, including regulations on packaging and labeling.  While the treaty doesn’t specifically address the use of
trademarked brands or logos, it requires signatories to ensure
that packaging and labeling don’t promote a tobacco product by
“any means that are false, misleading, deceptive or likely to
create an erroneous impression about its characteristics, health
effects, hazards or emissions.”  WHO Director-General Margaret Chan said on Nov. 23 that
major  tobacco companies  were harassing governments including
Australia, Norway and Uruguay in a bid to overturn cigarette
package-labeling rules.  Ukraine’s request for consultations is the first step in
the case and means the governments must now hold talks for at
least two months in a bid to resolve the dispute. After that,
Ukraine can ask WTO judges to rule. Judges typically rule within
six months, after which either side can appeal.  Chivas Brothers Lose Trademark Fight with Chinese Clothing Maker  Chivas Brothers Europe Ltd., maker of Chivas Regal Scotch
whisky, lost a bid to halt the use of its mark by a Chinese
clothing company,  China ’s People’s Daily  reported .  Beijing No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court ruled that the
clothing maker didn’t infringe because the mark was used on a
different category of merchandise than alcoholic beverages,
according to People’s Daily.  The court determined that the whisky brand wasn’t well-
known in China and that Chivas Brothers failed to prove the
design of its brand was completed before the clothing maker
registered his “Chivas Regal 88” mark, People’s Daily
reported.  The fact that Chivas Brothers used its “Chivas Regal”
mark on uniforms for its salespeople didn’t impress the court,
which found that this use wasn’t for clothing for commercial
sale, according to the newspaper.  MOM Brands to Use ‘Choice of a New Generation’ to Sell Cereal  MOM Brands, maker of  Malt-o-Meal cereal , acquired the
“choice of a new generation” trademark formerly used by
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and is using it in an online video ad for its
“ Better Oats ” instant cereal, created by an amateur filmmaker,
Advertising Age reported.  PepsiCo told Advertising Age it hadn’t  used the slogan  with
its products since 1991.  MOM Brands, a 92-year-old closely held Northfield,
Minnesota-based company, said it sought the mark once it
realized PepsiCo let its trademark registration for the phrase
lapse, Advertising Age reported.  PepsiCo made no objections, MOM’s lawyer told Advertising
Age, and the cereal company is using the phrase in an ad
campaign to be found  on Google Inc. ’s YouTube video-sharing
site, the company’s Facebook page, and a new website,
 choiceofanewgeneration.com .  ‘Hobbit’ Pub Owners Told by Berkeley Company to Change Name  Saul Zentz Co., a film company holding the rights to brands
associated with the late British author  J.R.R. Tolkein , told a
pub in the U.K.’s Southampton that it must change its name, the
 BBC  reported.  The Berkeley, California-based film company objected to the
pub’s use of “The Hobbit” as its name and its use of
characters from the Tolkein stories on its signs, menu and
loyalty cards, according to the BBC.  The pub’s owners told the BBC that they never intended to
infringe anyone’s  intellectual-property  rights.  A  “Save the Hobbit” page  has been set up on Facebook
Inc.’s social-media site by fans of the pub, the BBC reported.  Ron Paul Campaign’s Trademark-Infringement Case Hits a Snag  Presidential candidate  Ron Paul  lost a bid to unmask
creators of a video he claimed infringed his trademarks.  In a March 8 order, U.S. Magistrate Judge Maria-Elena James
rejected the Paul campaign’s request for an expedited process to
learn their identity. She said the campaign failed to
demonstrate that it would prevail on the trademark infringement
claims it was making.  The campaign filed suit Jan. 13 in federal court in  San
Francisco  against 10 unnamed defendants, calling a YouTube video
they uploaded “a classic case of dirty politics resulting from
the unlawful use in commerce of an underhanded and deceptive
advertisement designed to tarnish” Paul’s reputation.  The video, titled “ Jon Huntsman’s Values ,” was posted
under the name “NHLiberty4Paul.” The campaign was seeking
information about the identity of whoever posted the video.  In her order, the magistrate judge noted that U.S.
trademark law is related to commerce, and that the campaign
failed in its attempt to characterize the video as an
interference with commerce. She did say that the suit’s claims
for libel and defamation appeared “to be plausible and well
pled.”  The case is Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign Committee
Inc., v. John Does 1-10, 12-cv-00240, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Chinese Students Accused of Cloning Victoria’s Secret Show  Students at China’s Chengdu University’s School of Radio,
Film & Television created a lingerie fashion show critics say
was ripped off from a similar show staged by  Victoria’s Secret
Stores LLC (0124919D)  and televised, the EdVantage education news  website
reported .  The outfits worn in the fashion show were virtually
identical to those shown by Victoria’s Secret, as were the poses
assumed by the models, according to EdVantage.  In addition to the allegations of plagiarism, the students
were accused of “shameful” behavior for modeling such
revealing clothing in an educational context, EdVantage
reported.  SABAM Seeks Fees for the Reading Aloud of Library Books to Kids  SABAM , the Belgian rights-collection society, is contacting
local libraries in that country, demanding fees because library
books are being read aloud to children,  Belgium ’s DeMorgen
newspaper  reported .  The collecting society’s demands would cost one local
library 250 euros ($326) a year, a library official told
DeMorgen.  SABAM told DeMorgen it’s not systematically targeting
libraries and the demand came because the collecting group has a
system to detect events for which fees should be paid.  Because the libraries are a public place, the reading
constitutes a public performance requiring a license fee, SABAM
said and DeMorgen reported.  For copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 