-- Growth in U.S. to Strengthen as Jobs Lift Consumers: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-03-14T13:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/growth-in-u-s-to-strengthen-as-jobs-lift-consumers-economy.html
The world’s largest economy will
strengthen through 2012 as employment gains give Americans the
means to withstand rising fuel costs, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Gross domestic product will climb at a 2.5 percent annual
rate in the final three months of the year, up from 2 percent
this quarter, according to the median forecast of 71 economists
surveyed from March 9 to March 13. For all of 2012, the U.S. may
expand 2.2 percent, accelerating from 1.7 percent last year.  More jobs, increasing share prices, improving confidence
and stability in housing will bolster the expansion. At the same
time, unemployment will be slow to retreat, averaging 7.3
percent in 2014, showing why Federal Reserve policy makers
yesterday said  interest rates  will remain low for at least the
next two years.  “Some of the conditions for faster growth are falling into
place,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS  Global
Insight  in Lexington,  Massachusetts . By the end of the year,
“we’ll still be a long way from what would make the Fed more
comfortable. They will still be missing their full employment
objective.” IHS Global Insight was the second most-accurate
forecaster of consumer spending over the two years through
February, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, will advance at a 2.4 percent pace in the final
three months of the year, up from 1.9 percent this quarter, the
survey showed.  Sales Climb  Retail sales indicate the year was off to a good start. The
1.1 percent advance in February, the biggest in five months,
followed a 0.6 percent increase in January that was larger than
previously estimated, according to Commerce Department data
yesterday. Eleven of 13 categories showed gains last month,
including auto dealers and clothing stores. The results also
reflected higher gasoline costs, which reached $3.81 on March
13, the highest since May.  Cars last month sold at the fastest pace in four years, led
by Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain from  General Motors
Co. (GM)  Light-vehicle sales accelerated 6.4 percent from January to
a 15 million annual rate, the strongest since February 2008,
according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  Luxury retailer Nordstrom Inc., clothing chain  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and
discounter  Target Corp. (TGT)  last month beat analysts’ estimates.  Hiring gains are driving the spending. Employers boosted
payrolls by 227,000 in February after a revised 284,000 gain in
January, capping the best six-month streak of job growth since
2006. The  unemployment rate  held at a three-year low of 8.3
percent following five consecutive declines. Worker pay jumped
in the last six months of 2011 by the most in almost five years.  ‘Solid Year’  “Household income growth will be a bit stronger as the
labor market improves, so the consumption numbers will look
better,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in  New York  and a former Fed researcher who
specialized in consumer spending. “It’ll be a solid year, not a
spectacular one.”  Delhaize Group SA, the owner of the U.S. Food Lion
supermarkets, this month said the improvement in the labor
market is encouraging.  “There are some good forward-looking economic indicators
here in the U.S. that would help give all of us some optimism,”
Ronald Hodge, chief executive officer of Delhaize’s U.S.
business, said on a March 8 conference call with analysts.
“Unemployment has started to decrease in every one of our major
markets and that is a very, very key sign in our business.”  Gaining Confidence  Gains in hiring and wages are also lifting Americans’
moods. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, which has advanced
in all except two weeks so far this year, rose to an almost
four-year high in the period ended March 4.  Investors are also growing more upbeat. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  yesterday jumped to the highest level since
2007, and the Nasdaq Composite Index climbed to the highest
level since 2000. Yesterday’s 1.8 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index extended the gauge’s advance this year to 11
percent, the best start since 1991.  Households may be more inclined to spend in the second half
as gains in wealth eventually drive purchases, Maki said.  “The recent gains in the stock market will start to show
through more significantly in  consumer spending ,” he said.
“We’re seeing demand gradually recover.”  The jobless rate will decline to 8.1 percent by year-end,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed. It will
average 7.8 percent next year and 7.3 percent in 2014, the
survey showed.  The Fed’s projection of the jobless rate over the long run,
the level that policy makers believe will keep inflation steady,
is 5 percent to 6 percent.  “The unemployment rate has declined notably in recent
months but remains elevated,” the central bank said in a
statement after policy makers met yesterday in Washington.
Economic conditions warrant keeping interest rates
“exceptionally low” at least through late 2014 “to support a
stronger economic recovery,” they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  