-- EU Seeks Phone-Company Data on Technology Standardization
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-03-14T16:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/gsm-association-confirms-received-eu-requests-for-information.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) ,  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  are among European phone companies
questioned by regulators about talks held by the group on
technology standards to compete with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The other companies involved are  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , as well as trade association  GSMA . The CEOs
of the companies, four of which are former national phone
monopolies, met for the first time in Paris in October 2010. The
meetings focused on operating systems and capacity for handling
surging data traffic on wireless networks as consumers
increasingly surf the Web on mobile phones.  “The requests for information relate to the manner in
which standardization for future services in the mobile-
communications area is taking place,” Antoine Colombani, a
spokesman for European Union Competition Chief  Joaquin Almunia ,
said by e-mail. “These fact-finding steps do not mean that we
have competition concerns at this stage, nor do they prejudge
the follow-up.”  Lawyers from the GSMA association attended each meeting to
prevent anti-competitive discussions,  Daniel Gurrola , vice
president of strategy at France Telecom’s Orange unit, said in
London today. No formal EU probe has been opened, Colombani
said.  “What’s happened within the group of European
telecommunication operators has always been characterized by
maximum transparency toward the European authorities, which have
timely been informed of all the activities,” Telecom Italia
Chairman Franco Bernabe told reporters in Rome today.  ‘War of Words’  “A formal review is to say the least peculiar,” said
Robin Bienenstock, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
 London . “We think it is really a part of the escalating war of
words between the EU regulator and the telcos.”  The extent of EU regulation of telecommunications
investment is “simply crazy,”Bernabe said in October. The
same month,  Neelie Kroes , the EU’s commissioner for digital
affairs, said the 27-member bloc would review whether companies
charge rivals too much for access to old copper-line networks.  European politicians, desperate to boost the use of faster
Web services to meet targets, aid economic growth and catch up
with Asia, argue that profits from existing networks may make
the phone incumbents less willing to invest in new technologies.
The former monopolies, faced with falling revenue in their home
markets from traditional voice calls, say the reverse is true as
they need copper profits to invest in faster fiber networks.  Mounting Investment Needs  Most European operators are seeing profits stagnate or
decline in their home markets because of competition and
mounting investment needs. While former monopolies are calling
for less state regulation, they’re also complaining about unfair
treatment from U.S. technology companies such as Apple and
Google, whose bandwidth-hungry video services have supplanted
phone companies’ own online offerings.  The GSMA, which organizes the  Mobile World Congress  in
Barcelona and represents almost 800 of the world’s mobile
operators, said today it has received requests for information
from EU competition authorities and will respond in due course.  Spokespeople for Telefonica and Vodafone declined to
comment.  “The EU Commission was always informed about the topics we
discussed and the results,” Deutsche Telekom said in a
statement today. “Deutsche Telekom and the other participants
expect from the commissions’ activities a clear signal how to
enforce the European model of Internet industry and how to make
it compatible with the big U.S. players like Google, Apple and
Amazon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  