-- Libor Replacement, Credit Suisse Banker, Melli: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-14T13:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/libor-replacement-credit-suisse-banker-bank-melli-compliance.html
The London interbank offered rate,
the benchmark for $360 trillion of securities, may not survive
allegations of being corrupted unless it’s based on transactions
among banks rather than guesswork about the cost of money.  The British Bankers’ Association, the lobby group that has
overseen Libor for 26 years, is under pressure to find an
alternative way to calculate the benchmark, or cede control of
it. Regulators from Canada to Japan are probing whether banks
lied to hide their true cost of borrowing and traders colluded
to rig the benchmark, the basis for  interest rates  on securities
from mortgages to derivatives.  Libor, a gauge of how much it costs banks to borrow from
one another, is so deeply embedded in the financial system it
can’t be replaced without potentially voiding existing
contracts, academics said. The BBA may instead overhaul Libor by
making banks base their submissions on actual trades, open
submissions to independent verification and increase the number
of firms that set the rate, investors said.  The BBA is reviewing potential changes to the benchmark and
met regulators and bank executives last week. The rate is set
through a daily survey of firms conducted on behalf of the BBA
by  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  in which banks are asked how much it
would cost them to borrow from one another for 15 different
periods, from overnight to one year.  Because banks have to submit a rate when no market exists,
and their estimates aren’t subject to outside verification, the
benchmark is vulnerable to manipulation, investors said. Some
firms are already turning away from Libor and using alternative
rates to price trades.  For more, click here.  Separately, the European Banking Federation, which
represents lenders in the region, will start calculating a
dollar interest rate for the first time next month as the
accuracy of Libor is questioned.  The rate will initially be set through a daily survey of 20
banks, increasing to 30 firms by the end of the year, said
Cedric Quemener, a manager at Euribor-EBF, the division that
will be responsible for the new lending rate. The Brussels-based
group already oversees the Euro interbank offered rate, or
Euribor, the level at which European banks say a “prime bank”
could borrow for different periods in euros.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Job-Creation Bill Seen Eviscerating U.S. Shareholder Protections  U.S. legislation that would roll back securities disclosure
and governance rules in the name of job creation is being
attacked by consumer advocates and former regulators as an
evisceration of investor protections in place since the 1930s.  The package of bills awaiting Senate action after receiving
broad bipartisan support in a House vote last week would destroy
safeguards dating as far back as the laws that created the
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to Lynn E. Turner,
a former SEC chief accountant.  The Republican-led House, in a show of election-year
comity, voted 390-23 to approve the measures. Among other
things, the measures would undo a ban on closely held firms
soliciting investments, increase the number of investors such
firms can have and exempt newly public companies with less than
$1 billion in revenue from some reporting requirements of the
Dodd-Frank and Sarbanes-Oxley laws. President Barack Obama has
backed the legislation as a way to help spur job creation, and
Senate Democrats have said they will move quickly on their own
version.  Supporters including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and New
York-based exchange operators  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  say the bill targets rules that have impeded economic
growth by making it harder for companies to raise capital or
conduct initial public offerings. That view has won support from
Democrats including Senator Charles Schumer of New York.  Opponents, including former SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt and
 Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the Consumer
Federation of America, say the approach is wrong-headed because
it will hurt investors without achieving the stated goal.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  “believes that portions of the
legislation either unnecessarily eliminate important investor
protections or are not balanced with sufficient safeguards,”
John Nester, an agency spokesman, said in a statement.  For more, click here.  EU Ministers Seek More Study of Financial-Transaction Tax  European Union finance ministers remain divided on a
financial-transaction tax, with France, one of the main backers
of the levy, saying it will allow more time to reach an accord.  The ministers reached no decisions during debate in
Brussels yesterday. They called for more study of how much tax
banks pay and pledged to reconsider the issue later this year
along with possible alternatives to the EU’s existing proposal.  Danish Economy Minister Margrethe Vestager said in an
interview after the meeting that the plan was to explore the EU
proposal, see what countries already have in place and
investigate other options like a financial-activity tax.  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, has
proposed a wide-ranging tax on trading of stocks, bonds,
derivatives and other financial contracts. The commission says
the tax could raise 57 billion euros ($75 billion) annually if
implemented throughout the region, while also discouraging
transactions like high-frequency trading that it considers more
risky for the financial system.  The Brussels-based commission and Denmark, current holder
of the EU’s rotating presidency, have urged more technical work
to find a widely accepted compromise.  For more, click here.  EU Clears U.K. Financial Support Programs for Small Companies  The European Union approved two U.K. financial support
programs for small businesses, saying they are compatible with
the region’s rules on state aid.  The measures, the so-called National Loan Guarantee Scheme,
and the Business Finance Partnership, won’t give unfair
advantages to participating companies or banks, the  European
Commission  said in an e-mailed statement.  EU Approves Second Greek Bailout, Freeing 39.4 Billion Euros  Euro-area member states gave formal approval to a second
Greek bailout program, freeing a first installment of 39.4
billion euros ($51.5 billion) of aid.  The European Financial Stability Facility, the euro
region’s temporary rescue fund, has been authorized to disburse
the first payment in several tranches, Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of 17 euro-area finance
ministers, said in a  statement  today.  The 130 billion-euro package received political approval
earlier this week from the euro ministers at a meeting in
Brussels. The International Monetary Fund’s board is set to vote
on its participation tomorrow in Washington. IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  has proposed a 28 billion-euro
contribution, the IMF said on March 12.  The agreement caps months of negotiations between Greece,
the IMF and euro-area authorities over the successor to an
initial 2010 bailout that failed to halt the debt crisis. To win
the new aid package, Greece had to sign on to deep budget cuts
and complete the world’s largest-ever sovereign-debt
restructuring.  Greece is now in line to receive more than 100 billion
euros in the next three years, starting with payments of 5.9
billion euros in March, 3.3 billion euros in April and 5.3
billion euros in May, according to EFSF Chief Executive Officer
Klaus Regling.  The EFSF expects to disburse 48 billion euros on a non-cash
basis for Greece’s bank-recapitalization efforts.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Stress Tests Show How Fed Pushed Banks to Bolster Balance Sheets  The  resilience  of the largest U.S. financial firms when
tested against a recession more severe than the last one shows
regulators have succeeded in pushing banks to build fortress-
like balance sheets.  The Fed yesterday said 15 of 19 banks would be able to
maintain capital levels above a regulatory minimum in an
“extremely adverse” economic scenario, even while continuing
to pay dividends and repurchasing stock. Those results were due
to scrutiny by the Fed on capital payouts during the past three
years, the central bank said.  Regulators, empowered by the Dodd-Frank Act and goaded by
criticism for failing to spot the subprime mortgage debacle,
have redesigned their approach to bank supervision. They now
place greater emphasis on systemic risk as they seek to avoid a
repeat of the crisis that resulted in a $245 billion taxpayer
bailout of banks through the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  joined banks
raising dividends and authorizing share repurchases after
passing the stress tests.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the lender that took
the most government aid during the financial crisis, said it
will resubmit its capital plan to regulators after failing to
meet some minimum standards in the tests. Citigroup has repaid
$45 billion in TARP money.  SunTrust Banks Inc., (STI)   Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  and  MetLife Inc. (MET) 
fell short by at least one measure under the central bank’s
worst-case scenario. Ally intends to resubmit its plan, the
company said in a statement.  The Fed tested the banks to ensure that they have adequate
capital to continue lending in a downturn.  For more, click here.  Japan’s FSA Received Status Reports From All 265 Asset Managers  Japan’s Financial Services Agency received reports from all
265 of the asset-management firms that were asked to provide
information on their business by today following the suspension
of AIJ Investment Advisors Co., an agency official said.  The FSA will analyze the responses and swiftly consider any
further investigation, the official told reporters on condition
of anonymity in accordance with the FSA’s policy.  The reports due today must contain details of a firm’s
operations, contracts and amounts, and any past complaints from
customers. The reports will be used to create a shortlist for
further investigation, a senior FSA official told reporters last
week on condition of anonymity.  Goldman Sachs to Pay $7 Million Over CFTC Trading-Account Claims  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to pay $7 million to
resolve regulatory claims it failed to properly supervise
commodities trading accounts, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said.  The regulator accused the New York-based firm’s Goldman
Sachs Execution & Clearing LP unit of failing to supervise
subaccounts managed from 2007 to 2009 by a broker-dealer that
had engaged in “questionable conduct,” the CFTC said in a
statement yesterday. Goldman Sachs agreed to disgorge $1.5
million in fees and commissions it had collected from the broker
and pay a $5.5 million civil penalty, the agency said.  In its first-quarter financial disclosures last year,
Goldman Sachs disclosed its cooperation with an ongoing CFTC
investigation into supervision of a client broker-dealer.  Michael DuVally, a spokesman at Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment on the settlement. The company resolved the
claims without admitting or denying wrongdoing, the CFTC said.  Siemens, Areva Offer Antitrust Remedies in Bid to End Probe  Areva SA (CEI)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  have offered antitrust remedies to
the European Commission in a bid to end a competition probe into
contractual clauses they concluded in a nuclear-reactor joint
venture.  The companies proposed changes to “non-compete and
confidentiality obligations” to curb Siemens’s exploitation of
Areva technology, according to a statement published on the
commission’s website. The commission said today it would seek
views on the measures in a so-called market test to see if they
would solve competition concerns.  The commission opened an investigation in 2010 into whether
contractual clauses between Areva and Siemens may impede
competition for certain products in the civil nuclear technology
industry.  The remedies that have been offered won’t result in any
payments by Siemens or financial obligations, said Alfons
Benzinger, a spokesman for Europe’s biggest engineering company.  Siemens decided to end its involvement in nuclear
technology after the Fukushima disaster in Japan last year,
Benzinger said, meaning concessions offered to the commission in
this field wouldn’t have an effect on the company’s business.  Areva, based in Paris, declined to immediately comment.  Credit Suisse Banker Fined Over Bond Offering ‘Charades’  A  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  banker in London, Nicholas
Kyprios, was fined 210,000 pounds ($330,000) for disclosing
confidential client information to a fund manager in what
regulators called a “guessing game.”  Kyprios, head of European credit sales at the bank,
indicated to the manager that the bank’s client  Liberty Global
Inc. (LBTYA)  was close to issuing bonds to finance its acquisition of
German cable company UnityMedia GmbH, after the manager told
Kyprios he didn’t want information he couldn’t act on, the
Financial Services Authority said in a statement yesterday.  Credit Suisse was working for Liberty on the takeover and
also served as lead book runner for the 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3
billion) bond issue to partly finance the deal. In response to
questions during a November 2009 call about who was issuing the
bonds, Kyprios told the manager they could “play this game”
and “you’re going to be my charades partner.” Kyprios ruled
out possible issuers and signaled confirmation when the manager,
who the FSA didn’t identify, guessed UnityMedia.  The case is the second time this year the FSA levied a fine
for disclosing inside information to a person who said they
didn’t want to be wall-crossed, or provided information with the
understanding they wouldn’t act on it.  Credit Suisse “deeply regrets” that one of its employees
has been sanctioned by the FSA, the Zurich-based bank said in a
statement. It “fully supports the FSA’s actions to ensure
information is properly controlled and has reinforced the FSA’s
decision by imposing its own financial penalty” on Kyprios.  When questioned by the regulator, Kyprios told them the
conversations were “banter” that didn’t disclose any
actionable information. He was fined for improper market conduct
and received the FSA’s standard 30 percent discount on the fine
for settling early.  Kyprios, who still works at the bank, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail request for comment.  Flour Millers Fined $317 Million by French Antitrust Authority  France’s competition regulator fined French and German
flour millers about 242 million euros ($317 million) for
anticompetitive practices in the retail market.  A 14-member Franco-German cartel was fined 95.5 million
euros for conspiring between 2002 and 2008 to limit flour
exports between the two countries. A German miller contacted the
Paris-based regulator about the cartel and the agency opened the
investigation in 2008. The informing company,  Wilh. Werhahn KG ,
avoided a 16.7 million-euro fine.  The  Autorite de la Concurrence  also fined seven French
flour companies, including three that were involved in the
Franco-German cartel, a total of 147 million euros for price
fixing.  Courts  Iran’s Bank Melli Loses EU Court Challenge to Unfreeze Funds  Iran’s Bank Melli, the state-run lender that is subject to
European Union sanctions, lost an EU court bid to unfreeze its
funds.  The EU’s highest court rejected the Tehran-based bank’s
challenge to a 2008 decision by EU governments that froze assets
belonging to Bank Melli and its units because the lender helped
Iran buy “sensitive materials” for its nuclear and missile
programs.  The freezing of the funds of a bank owned or controlled by
a company “engaged in nuclear proliferation is necessary and
appropriate,” the EU court said in an e-mailed statement.  Yesterday’s ruling from the EU’s Court of Justice is
binding. Bank Melli, Iran’s largest government-owned lender,
lost earlier bids to overturn the sanctions.  The bank didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment.  The case is  C-380/09  P Melli Bank v Council.  Alcoholics Anonymous Tie Cited by SEC in Insider-Trading Claims  A Philadelphia investment adviser is facing U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission claims that he led a group that used
nonpublic information divulged by an  Alcoholics Anonymous 
confidant to profit from a 2008 merger.  Timothy J. McGee and eight others made about $1.8 million
trading ahead of  Philadelphia Consolidated Holding Corp. (PHLY) ’s
announcement that it would be acquired by  Tokio Marine Holding
Inc. (8766) , the SEC said yesterday in a  complaint  filed at U.S.
District Court in Pennsylvania.  In early July 2008, immediately after an AA meeting, an
executive with the Philadelphia firm, who wasn’t named in the
SEC complaint, told McGee that he was under pressure related to
ongoing merger negotiations, the SEC said. McGee, an  Ameriprise
Financial Inc. (AMP)  broker, then bought shares in the insurer and
tipped a co-worker, who in turn tipped relatives, according to
the complaint.  Phone calls to John Grugan, McGee’s attorney weren’t
immediately returned.  Ex-Thornburg Executives Sued by SEC for Hiding Cash Crisis  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued three
former executives at defunct Thornburg Mortgage Inc., claiming
they schemed to overstate the company’s 2007 income and hide its
inability to pay lenders.  Larry Goldstone, Thornburg’s chief executive officer,
finance chief Clarence Simmons and Jane Starrett, who was in
charge of accounting, overstated income by more than $400
million and failed to tell investors and auditors that the firm
couldn’t make payments to its lenders, the SEC said in a lawsuit
filed yesterday in U.S. District Court in New Mexico. Goldstone
and Simmons, in an e-mailed statement, said they will
“vigorously defend themselves in court.”  The SEC’s lawsuit “is based on unfounded claims, e-mails
taken out of context and inaccurate interpretations of
management’s actions surrounding the company’s financial filings
at the height of the financial crisis,” Goldstone and Simmons
said in their statement.  A phone call to Jerry Marks, an attorney for Starrett,
wasn’t immediately returned.  Interviews/Speeches  Johnson Calls MF Global Bonus Proposal ‘Outrageous’  U.S. Representative Timothy Johnson, an Illinois
Republican, talked about a bonus proposal for officers of MF
Global Holdings Ltd.  The MF Global executives who oversaw the company before it
failed last year should get bonuses this year if a bankruptcy
court approves, said Frank Piantidosi, an adviser working with
the trustee, Louis Freeh. Johnson spoke on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 