-- Iceland Tightened Krona Controls to Prevent Speculative Chaos
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-03-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/iceland-tightened-krona-controls-to-prevent-speculative-chaos.html
Iceland pushed through stricter
 capital controls  yesterday to clamp down on speculative trading
and support the krona as it seeks to emerge from its 2008
economic collapse.  “We were making sure that the controls wouldn’t be 
unwound in a chaotic manner which might lead to instability,” 
Arnor Sighvatsson, deputy governor at the Reykjavik-based 
central bank, said yesterday in a phone interview. Loopholes in 
the legal framework posed a risk that “was becoming too great 
and if we didn’t step in it could have become uncontrollable.”  Iceland tightened controls on inflation-linked debt and on
creditors of  Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Glitnir Bank (GLB)  hf and  Landsbanki
Islands hf . The law, which was rushed through parliament after
markets closed on March 12, is designed to avoid a krona sell-
off as controls on other currency transactions are eased. It
prevents the liquidators of the three failed banks from paying
creditors in foreign currencies and blocks owners of Icelandic
bonds from shifting annuity and interest payments into other
currencies.  The move will compromise the credibility of the central
bank’s liberalization strategy and deal a blow to the confidence
in the island’s authorities, Islandsbanki hf said in a note to
clients. It appears to be a “last-resort action” before a bond
payout of as much 7 billion kronur ($55 million) on March 15,
the Reykjavik-based bank said in the report edited by Ingolfur Bender.  Efforts to ease capital restrictions are being tempered
after the krona weakened 5 percent versus the euro this year.  Always Risk  Iceland introduced capital controls and sought a $4.6
billion bailout led by the  International Monetary Fund  in 2008
after its biggest banks defaulted on $85 billion in debt,
sending the krona plunging as much as 80 percent offshore
against the euro and driving the economy into a recession. The
country ended a 33-month program with the IMF in August.  Inflation-linked bonds slumped yesterday. According to
prices on  NASDAQ OMX (NDAQ)  Nordic’s website, the 2014 bond fell 14
percent and the 2024 bond declined 1.89 percent.  “There’s always some risk of there being a negative short-
term effect,” said Sighvatsson. “What matters more is that
the rating agencies and the International Monetary Fund have
emphasized that the capital controls be unwound in an orderly
manner that doesn’t create instability.”  According to the government, annuity payments on the
capital of the 2014 note might be as much as 42 billion kronur,
until the final maturity in September in that year.  Rating Risk  Islandsbanki said the move may add pressure to the
country’s debt rating.  “The positive development in Iceland’s sovereign credit
rating could be placed at risk, as success in removing the
capital controls was one of the key criteria for a rating
upgrade,” Islandsbanki said. “Amending legislation after the
fact will exacerbate political risk in Iceland, which is a key
factor in the rating agencies’ assessment of a sovereign’s
credit-worthiness.”  The country’s central bank last month signaled it’s ready
to raise  interest rates  in order to cap inflation after consumer
prices soared above the official target and the krona slid
against the euro.  Fitch Ratings  in February raised Iceland to
investment grade, with a stable outlook, and said the island’s
“unorthodox crisis policy response has succeeded.”  Closing Loopholes  Iceland’s $13 billion economy, which shrank 6.7 percent in
2009, grew 2.9 percent last year and will expand 2.4 percent
this year and next, the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development estimates.  Closing all the loopholes in Iceland’s capital controls,
scheduled to be abolished by the end of 2015, may continue to
pose difficulties as investors are likely to seek out other ways
to repatriate their capital from  Iceland .  “There will always be some people that will seek ways to
circumvent the controls,” said Sighvatsson. “We are aware of
many such ways, and some people will try to find them.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  