-- Michelin Snubs Noma as Other Nordic Restaurants Get Stars
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-03-14T12:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/michelin-snubs-noma-as-other-nordic-restaurants-awarded-stars.html
Noma failed to win a third Michelin
star today as the French dining guide snubbed the Copenhagen
establishment of chef Rene Redzepi that has for two years held
the title of the  World’s Best Restaurant .  Two venues went straight to two stars: Silvio Nickol
Gourmet Restaurant, in Vienna; and  Maaemo , in Oslo. In
Copenhagen,  Den Roede Cottage , Geranium,  Groenbech & Churchill 
and Relae won their first stars, as did  Funky Gourmet  and
 Galazia Hytra  in  Athens , Prague has two new one-stars: Alcron
and Degustation Boheme Bourgeoise. Bagatelle, Oslo, regained its
first star.  Noma won its second star in 2007, and attention has focused
on whether it would win a third since it was named World’s Best
Restaurant in 2010. (I head the U.K. and Ireland panel for those
awards.) The guide to the Main Cities of Europe covers more than
3,600 establishments, most already cited in national volumes.  “We were one of the first guides to recognize Noma and the
talent of Rene Redzepi,” Rebecca Burr, the guide’s editor, said
today in a telephone interview. “But Noma is measured against
other restaurants across the world. We’ve made visits this year
and I’ve been myself, and we are confident in our decision.”  That decision means Noma is ranked at the same level as,
for example, the Hand & Flowers, a British pub. Burr rejected
such comparisons and said  Michelin (ML)  doesn’t make them.  All About Food  “It’s like there’s an endless campaign for one particular
restaurant but there are many good places,” she said. “You can
win stars for a formal French restaurant, for a sushi bar, for a
pub or a brasserie. The stars are about the food and that’s what
helps make the guide so interesting.”  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two are for excellent cooking, worth a detour; one
denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Redzepi will learn on April 30 if he has retained his best-
restaurant award for a third year at a ceremony in London.  The Michelin guide to the Main Cities of  Europe  will go on
sale tomorrow. It includes the Nordic region,  Austria ,  Czech
Republic ,  Greece , Hungary and  Poland , as well as  France  and
other countries that have their own volumes.  Clermont-Ferrand, France-based Michelin is the world’s
second-biggest tiremaker, after Bridgestone Corp. The company
published its first guide in August 1900, distributed free of
charge (until 1920) and intended for chauffeurs. France is the
last of the 2012 national guides to be published.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 