-- IEA Predicts Bumpy Ride for Oil Amid Non-OPEC Supply Cuts
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-14T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/iea-predicts-bumpy-ride-for-oil-amid-non-opec-supply-cuts.html
The  International Energy Agency  cut
forecasts for oil supplies from outside OPEC this year because
of lower exports from  Sudan  and Syria, cautioning that reduced
spare output capacity raises the risk of a price surge.  Producers not in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will provide 53.5 million barrels a day this year, or
200,000 a day less than the IEA forecast last month. The agency
kept estimates for global oil demand in 2012 unchanged,
predicting fuel use will remain “stunted” by the economic
slowdown and higher prices. Disappointing non-OPEC output will
make the market more reliant on a “slim buffer” of spare
production capacity from a few OPEC nations, the IEA said.  “A real risk of another year of underperforming non-OPEC
supply shines a spotlight once more on OPEC spare capacity,”
the Paris-based agency said in its monthly market report today.
“Non-OPEC output should recover as 2012 progresses. Until then,
the market’s relatively slim ‘buffer’ suggests a bumpy ride in
the months ahead.”  Supplies from non-OPEC nations, responsible for about 60
percent of the global total, were cut by 750,000 barrels a day
in the first quarter amid fighting in Yemen, outages in the
 North Sea , sanctions against Syria and the transit dispute
between Sudan and  south Sudan . That leaves customers more
dependent on OPEC’s effective spare capacity, which at 2.75
million barrels is close to levels that can cause a “sustained
rise” in prices, the agency said. The figure excludes Iraq,
Nigeria, Libya and  Venezuela .  Attacks, Dispute  Brent crude  traded at almost $126 a barrel today on the ICE
Futures Europe Exchange in  London , having advanced 17 percent
this year. Prices soared to a record $147 in July 2008 as unused
capacity in OPEC narrowed.  South Sudan shut production in January after accusing its
northern neighbour, from which it became independent in July, of
stealing its crude. The dispute has removed about 350,000
barrels a day from global markets, the IEA estimates. In  Syria ,
attacks on oil infrastructure by rebels against leader Bashar al-Assad will cut output by 30,000 barrels a day to 170,000 by
the end of the year, according to the agency.  Yemen’s production fell to 160,000 barrels a day in the
first quarter, almost half the average levels of 2010, amid
attacks on the Marib crude pipeline, the IEA said.  Worldwide crude consumption will increase by 800,000
barrels a day, or 0.9 percent, to 89.9 million barrels a day,
the agency forecast. The agency had cut its demand forecast in
six consecutive reports.  ‘Subdued Economic Backdrop’  “The relatively subdued economic backdrop” and “high  oil
prices  both restrain any upside momentum for consumption,”
according to the agency.  Oil inventories held by companies in developed economies
stayed below their five-year seasonal average for a seventh
month, according to the report. Stockpiles in industrialized
nations increased by a “muted” 13.6 million barrels to 2.6
billion in January. That’s equivalent to 57.8 days worth of
consumption, the IEA estimates.  “Inventories, notably crude in  Europe  and the Pacific,
look very tight in absolute terms,” the agency said. “Put
simply, a post-recession OECD industrial stock overhang has
gradually been whittled away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net  