-- Impala’s Hand Forced as Zimbabwe Starts Nationalization
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-03-15T16:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/impala-platinum-s-hand-forced-as-zimbabwe-starts-nationalization.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the
world’s second-largest producer of the metal, is set to lose
control over the unit holding 41 percent of its resources as
 Zimbabwe  starts nationalizing foreign-owned assets.  Impala agreed in principle this week, in the face of a
government ultimatum, to sell 31 percent of the unit to a state
agency and 20 percent to employees and communities.  Zimplats
Holdings Ltd. (ZIM)  holds 134 million ounces of platinum resources,
valued at $228 billion at today’s prices.  “You are effectively losing 20 percent of your total
resources,” given that Impala will be left with half the
deposits owned by Zimplats, said  Clinton Duncan , a resources
analyst at Avior Research Ltd. “Impala’s hand was forced.”  Zimbabwe, which with  South Africa  holds more than three-
quarters of the world’s platinum, gazetted a law two years ago
that compels foreign-owned companies to cede or sell 51 percent
of their shares to black Zimbabweans or state-approved agencies.
Impala owns 87 percent of Zimplats.  Impala, which produces about a quarter of global platinum
supplies, said this week it will sell 31 percent to the national
Indigenization Fund for an “independently determined fair
value.”  That transaction will happen once it’s been compensated for
releasing land, containing platinum, to the value of $153
million to the government in 2006, Impala said. An employee
group and one representing the community will each buy 10
percent, to be paid for with dividends.  Cars, Mugabe  Zimbabwe is home to the world’s second-largest reserves of
the metal, increasingly used in devices that cut vehicle
emissions as environment rules are tightened in  Europe  and the
U.S. Its economy is recovering from collapse under President
 Robert Mugabe , who wants to call elections this year.  “The Zimplats transaction will set a dangerous precedent
and poses a real threat to other investors,” Anne Fruhauf, an
analyst with Eurasia Group, said in e-mailed comments. “The
Zimplats debacle gives the impression that things are going from
bad to worse.”  The government last year doubled platinum royalties to help
the economy recover from a decade-long recession that ended in
2009. It may increase mining registration costs to $2.5 million
from $300,000, the state-owned Herald newspaper said Jan. 25.  State Spending  Whether Impala receives appropriate value for the 31
percent stake “remains to be seen due to Zimbabwe’s limited
cash flow situation,” Avior’s Duncan said.  The government’s ability to fund its share of any  capital
spending  to develop projects “is also likely be called into
question,” Justin Froneman, an analyst at SBG Securities Ltd.,
said in a note.  While Zimplats accounted for 10 percent of Impala’s refined
platinum production last year, it generated 18 percent of
profit. It’s the lowest-cost producer of Impala’s five
operations.  “I don’t think we’ve lost control of the crown jewels,”
 David Brown , Impala’s chief executive officer, told investors on
a call yesterday. “If they don’t come up with the cash, then
those shares don’t get transferred,” he said. “The approach is
not to stand in the stead of government to actually make
available funding for the sale of those particular shares.”  Impala proposed that the current management team remains in
place and reports to a board. The board would reflect the new
ownership, Brown said.  ‘Crown Jewels’  Zimbabwe is “very happy that the operations continue as
they already are,” Brown said. “There’s a recognition that
they wouldn’t necessarily want to change that or become involved
in the operational aspect of it.”  Impala and Zimbabwe will thrash out details of the
agreement “over the next weeks and months” Brown said. If
there is a satisfactory outcome, Impala may look at building a
refinery in the country, also for use by rivals, and it may
consider $1 billion of expansion plans.  Impala fell for the first day in five, dropping 1.1 percent
to 160.50 rand by the 5 p.m. close of trading in Johannesburg.  Zimplats’ mention of “appropriate value” is “positive”
and clarity on the issue may unlock future value from the
company, SBG’s Froneman said.  Separately from Zimplats, Impala owns the Mimosa mine with
 Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  Mimosa was given 30 days starting Feb. 22
to reach an agreement with the government on ownership.  It remains to be seen whether the Zimplats agreement sets
an ownership precedent for the Mimosa venture in the southern
African country, Froneman said.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s platinum unit started production in
the country at the Unki mine last year.  Given its complexity, it can’t be expected that there will
be “a speedy resolution to the indigenization process” in
Zimbabwe, Edward Sterck, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said
in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  