-- Import Prices in U.S. Rise Less Than Forecast, Food Costs Drop
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-03-14T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/import-prices-in-u-s-rise-less-than-forecast-food-costs-drop.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. rose less than forecast in February, reflecting the biggest
drop in food costs in three years.  The 0.4 percent gain in the  import-price  index follows
little change in January, Labor Department figures showed today
in Washington. Economists projected the gauge would increase 0.6
percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. Prices excluding fuel fell 0.1 percent.  A slowing global economy may restrain demand for
commodities, limiting inflation pressures in the U.S. even as
energy costs rise. Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday
projected they’ll keep  interest rates  low at least until late
2014, predicting the jump in fuel prices will be temporary.  “Once you look past the rise in oil, import prices are
pretty tame on the back of the dollar strength we’ve been seeing
recently,”  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria
Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York , said before the report. “This
points toward pretty well controlled non-energy costs.”  Projections for import prices ranged from increases of 0.2
percent to 1.7 percent, according to the Bloomberg survey of 52
economists.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 5.5
percent, the smallest 12-month gain since December 2010, today’s
report showed.  The cost of imported petroleum products climbed 1.8 percent
from the prior month and was up 18 percent from a year earlier.
The price of imported natural gas decreased 10 percent, the most
since March 2011.  Food Costs Fall  Imported food was 3 percent less expensive last month, the
biggest drop since February 2009.  “We feel like inflation will moderate,”  Charles Holley ,
chief financial officer at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , said during a
March 7 investor conference. “The one wildcard, though, is
going to be gas prices. If oil continues to go up, I think that
could be a drag on economies around the world.”  Regular fuel in February averaged $3.56 a gallon, or 18
cents more than January, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
auto organization. It advanced further this month, reaching
$3.81 on March 13, the highest since May.  “Inflation has been subdued in recent months although
prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased lately,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement following a
meeting yesterday. Oil will “push up inflation temporarily, but
the committee anticipates that subsequently inflation will run
at or below the rate that it judges most consistent with its
dual mandate” of stable prices and maximum employment.  Fed Plan  The central bank didn’t change its statement that economic
conditions probably warrant “exceptionally low” lending rates
at least through late 2014. In December 2008, the Fed lowered
its target overnight interest rate to a range of zero to 0.25
percent.  Other materials have since fallen in value after peaking in
February. The ThomsonReuters/Jeffries CRB commodity index was
318.07 yesterday, down from a five-month high of 325.91 last
month.  A  U.S. dollar  that has gained value after hitting an almost
three-year low last April will probably make foreign goods
cheaper in the U.S. Since April 28, the Dollar Index, which
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track the currency against
that of six major trade partners including the euro and yen, has
advanced 9.7 percent through yesterday.  Slowing Economies  Economic growth that is cooling in the euro area as
countries like Spain and Italy work to reduce deficits will
probably relieve pressure on commodity prices.  Emerging markets 
like  China  and  India  have taken steps to slow growth.  The cost of imported goods from China increased 0.1 percent
and were up 3.3 percent over the past 12 months.  Imported goods from  Japan  climbed 0.2 percent, while the
cost of goods from the European Union dropped 0.1 percent. Goods
from  Mexico  fell 0.6 percent.  U.S. export prices increased 0.4 percent in February,
today’s report also showed, after rising 0.2 percent the
previous month. Prices of farm exports dropped 0.9 percent and
those of non-farm goods increased 0.5 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Data on producer prices come
out March 15, followed the next day by the consumer-price index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  