-- Indian Funds Best Gold Deal as Producers Trail: Riskless Return
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-03-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/indian-funds-best-gold-deal-as-producers-trail-riskless-return.html
As investors from  George Soros  to
 John Paulson  snapped up bullion amid a decade-long rally, the
best gold investment of the past two years was found in  India ,
where funds tracking the metal surged while avoiding the stock
market swings that hurt mining companies.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows India’s
Reliance Gold fund returned 4 percent in the two years ended
yesterday when adjusting for price swings, leading a group of
exchange-traded products from the country that top a list of 44
gold-related investments, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Globally, ETFs provided the best risk-adjusted returns and
company shares the worst.  Gold funds in India, where the metal has been given as a
gift for centuries during the wedding and festival season,
topped coins and ETFs in other countries as the rupee declined
against the dollar. While mining  companies  produced some of the
highest total returns, none of them made it into the top 10
risk-adjusted ranking because, as a group, they were about twice
as volatile as the ETFs. Options show investors are betting that
the funds, which are backed by physical gold, will continue to
be stable as bullion extends its rally.  “Our favorite is ETFs,” Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who helps
manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in
Birmingham,  Alabama , said in a telephone interview. “Physical
gold can have storage issues,” and “there are company-specific
risks with mining stocks.”  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The
returns are not annualized.  Price Swings  The gold investments in the ranking included gold funds
along with futures of the metal traded in  New York , coins and
mining companies valued at more than $5 billion.  India’s UTI gold fund was the second-best performer with a
risk-adjusted return of 3.98 percent, based on a total return of
63 percent and volatility of 15.9. The country’s Kotak Gold ETF
was third, scoring a risk-adjusted return of 3.86 percent.
Ranking fourth was the Indian SBI Gold ETF, with a return of
3.82 percent, when adjusted for volatility, followed by 1-ounce
Gold Panda coins from  China , with a risk-adjusted return of 2.86
percent.  The iShares Gold ETF returned 2.65 percent, when adjusted
for volatility, and the SPDR Gold Trust 2.64 percent.  Gold prices surged to a record $1,923.70 an ounce in
September as record low U.S. borrowing costs and  Europe ’s debt
crisis sent investors looking for a haven. Bullion sales in
India climbed to a record in 2011, according to the World Gold
Council.  Safest Commodity  In the past five years, gold provided the best returns of
all commodities when adjusted for volatility, the Bloomberg
ranking shows. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reiterated a forecast
for the metal to reach a record $1,940 this year in a Feb 22.
report, citing low U.S. borrowing costs.  Gold ETFs are designed to move in tandem with the price of
bullion as each share of the fund is backed with metal.
Shareholders of producers, by contrast, may suffer the effects
of mining accidents, cost overruns, asset writedowns or broader
stock market swings.  Mining companies were more susceptible to price swings
during the past two years with an average volatility of 37.7,
compared with 18.8 for the funds. The 17-member  NYSE Arca Gold
BUGS Index (HUI)  of gold-mining companies has gained 20 percent in the
past two years, compared with a 64 percent jump for India’s
Reliance.  The bullion-backed funds will probably stay less volatile.
The Gold ETF Volatility  Index (GVZ) , based on prices for options on
the SPDR Gold Trust, the largest ETP backed by the metal, is
trading near the lowest level since July, signaling that traders
don’t expect big price swings.  Wedding Savings  India’s funds topped all other ETPs as the rupee slumped
against the dollar, spurring a 31 percent rally last year for
gold priced in the Asian currency.  “We have seen a steady increase in investments, especially
over the last year,” Jaideep Bhattacharya, the chief marketing
officer at  UTI (UTIGOL)  Asset Management, said in a telephone interview.
“Parents are putting in money in these instruments in the form
of a systematic investment plan to save for their daughter’s
wedding or to fund their child’s education.”  Miners may start outperforming gold prices in the future
because the stocks have become “cheap,” said Tom Winmill, who
helps manage $250 million of assets in Walpole,  New Hampshire ,
for Midas Funds. The Gold BUGS Index is trading near the lowest
valuation since at least 2002, when the data begins.  ‘Make You Rich’  Producers may also benefit as production costs relative to
the price of gold decline with the metal’s rally, said Rick Trotman, a senior research analyst at MLV & Co. in New York.
That will allow companies to invest or return money to
shareholders, he said.  Vancouver-based New Gold Inc. had the highest total return
in the Bloomberg ranking, more than doubling its share price in
the past two years. Because it also had the second-highest
volatility, it was only 15th by risk-adjusted return.  “Gold ETFs and physical gold can make your wealth grow,
but mining stocks can make you rich if you can pick the right
stocks,” Trotman said. “There are several stocks out there, so
it’s all about which stock to choose.”  Over the past five years,  Jersey , Channel Islands-based
Randgold Resources, which mines for the metal in  Africa , topped
the riskless ranking of all bullion investments. Although the
company had more than double the volatility of the next-best
performer, India’s Kotak Gold ETF, the shares gained more than
six-fold, pushing it into first place.  Paulson’s Bet  In the past two years, Randgold’s returns faded as its
volatility remained high, ranking 26th with a risk-adjusted
return of 1.27 percent, reflecting a total return of 43 percent
and volatility of 34.73.  John Paulson, the hedge fund manager seeking to rebound
from record losses in 2011, told investors his Gold Fund will
outperform his other strategies over five years. That fund is
invested in gold mining companies and derivatives, according to
an investor who asked not to be named because the information is
private.  Among Paulson’s holdings are American depositary receipts
of  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-biggest gold
producer, and Gold Fields Ltd., the fourth-largest, according to
regulatory filings. In the last two years, AngloGold had a risk-
adjusted return of 0.3 percent and Gold Fields returned 0.9
percent.  Company Risks  Paulson & Co. is also the biggest investor in the SPDR Gold
Trust, with a stake valued at about $2.9 billion, a Securities
and Exchange Commission filing Feb. 14 showed. Paulson clients
can choose to invest in the firm’s other hedge funds in dollar-
or gold-denominated share classes, and the firm uses the ETF for
the gold share class.  Paulson’s gold fund declined 11 percent last year, lagging
behind the SPDR Gold Trust, which returned 9.6 percent. The gold
fund beat in 2010, when it returned 35 percent, compared with 29
percent for the ETF.  “Gold mining stocks have underperformed, and the trend
will likely continue because there are technical, geological and
managerial risks underlying these stocks,” said  Daniel Brebner ,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, who was the second-most accurate
precious-metals forecaster tracked by Bloomberg in the past two
years. “Buying exchange-traded funds is gaining more popularity
as they are backed by physical gold, and it’s easier to trade
ETFs.”  Police Clashes  Diminishing gold reserves, rising production costs and
political risks in mining nations have hurt producers in the
past two years. Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the top gold
mining company by sales,  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  and Goldcorp Inc.
all forecast mining costs will increase in 2012 as labor, raw-
material and equipment expenses keep rising.  Last month, Kinross, also based in Toronto, said it would
delay developing projects in Ecuador and Chile and concentrate
on expanding its Tasiast mine in Mauritania after writing down
$2.49 billion in goodwill on the mine in the fourth quarter.  On Feb. 28,  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the second-largest
producer, said it’s too early to say whether its proposed $4.8
billion Conga mine in  Peru  will proceed while a state-
commissioned review is in progress.  Greenwood Village , Colorado-
based Newmont in November halted construction at the project in
the northern Andes mountains following clashes between police
and opponents of the development.  Barrick gave investors a return of 0.5 percent in the past
two years on a risk-adjusted basis, Newmont returned 0.4
percent, while Kinross dropped 1.1 percent.  Attracting Capital  The growing popularity of ETFs probably has taken away some
of the capital that previously was invested in companies such as
Barrick, Aaron Regent, the chief executive officer, said last
month. Holdings in global bullion exchange-traded products
climbed to a record 2,410.2 metric tons yesterday, a hoard
valued at $129.7 billion.  “Why should you be looking at mining stocks when you have
geopolitical risks, labor problems and rising-cost issues?”
 Donald Selkin , the New York-based chief market strategist at
National Securities Corp., which manages about $3 billion, said
in a telephone interview. “I would prefer owning gold and
exchange-traded funds as I do not have to worry about anything
else beside prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  