-- India Stock Futures Rise as Fed Raises U.S. Assessment
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-03-14T11:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/india-stock-futures-rise-as-fed-raises-u-s-assessment.html
Indian stocks rose to their highest
level in three weeks as the U.S. Federal Reserve boosting its
economic assessment overshadowed faster-than-estimated growth in
the nation’s inflation rate.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the nation’s largest non-state-run lender,
jumped to its highest close since Feb. 22, pacing a rally among
its peers.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the biggest engineering and
construction, gained 2.6 percent, extending a four-day winning
streak.  Infosys Ltd. (INFY) , which gets more than 90 percent of sales
from abroad, climbed for a second day.  The BSE  India  Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose 0.6 percent
to 17,919.30 at close in Mumbai, its highest close since Feb.
24. The gauge pared an intraday gain of 1.3 percent after data
showed the wholesale-price index climbed for the first time in
five months in February, weakening the case for a reduction in
funding costs. The  central bank  reviews rates tomorrow, with the
federal budget presentation due on March 16.  “We have passed through the worst inflationary phase,”
Deven Choksey, managing director at Mumbai-based K.R. Choksey
Shares & Securities, said by phone today. “The spurt in
inflation was not unexpected. It may lead the RBI to postpone
the rate cut. Inflation can’t chain investors as they remain
hopeful the budget will contain measures to stimulate growth.”  The  Sensex (SENSEX)  has climbed 16 percent this year as foreigners
poured a net $8 billion into local stocks amid optimism slowing
inflation will prompt the central bank to lower  interest rates .
A 17 percent jump in Brent crude, the benchmark for almost all
of India’s imports, has added to consumer prices as the country
imports three-quarters of its oil. The wholesale-price index
rose 6.95 percent last month from a year ago, after rising 6.55
percent in January, the trade ministry said today.  ‘Upside’  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  raised borrowing costs a record
13 times from March 2010 to October last year in an attempt to
curb inflation. The increases caused a cash squeeze, prompting
the  Reserve Bank  of India to unexpectedly lower the amount of
funds banks need to set aside as reserves in January and March.  The Sensex trades at a price-to-book ratio of 3, less than
the 10-year average of 3.43, data compiled by Bloomberg show, a
signal “there’s lot of room for upside,” said Nandita Agarwal Parker, general partner at Karma Capital Management LLC.  “We are in a five-year bull market as far as  emerging
markets  are concerned, and this year we have a backdrop of
falling interest rates across emerging markets as well as in
India,” she told Bloomberg UTV. “Price-to-book valuations are
currently lower than the 10-year average.”  The Fed said yesterday that strains in global financial
markets have eased and the labor market is gathering strength.
Separately, the Fed said 15 of the largest 19 U.S. banks could
maintain adequate capital levels even in a recession scenario.  Rail Stocks  Shares of  Kalindee Rail Nirman (Engineers) Ltd. (KRNE) ,  Texmaco
Rail & Engineering Ltd. (TXMRE)  and  Kernex Microsystems (KMSI)  (India) Ltd.
sank more than 5 percent after the railway budget announcement
today. Indian Railways,  Asia ’s oldest network, aims to borrow
150 billion rupees in the year starting April 1 as it adds more
trains and replaces old coaches, Minister Dinesh Trivedi said.  “These stocks had gone up very fast so a correction was on
the cards,” Choksey said. “The government’s rail projects are
low on margins. There’s no need to be gung-ho about them.”  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. added 0.6 percent to 5,463.90.  Infosys jumped 0.7 percent to 2,878.9 rupees. ICICI Bank
rose 2.6 percent to 953.9 rupees.  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  shares rose 2.7
percent to 1,274.05 rupees after Business Standard reported
Schroders will buy 30 percent stake in Axis  Asset Management. (ADN)   Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s biggest wind-turbine maker,
surged 2.7 percent to 30 rupees after company sold five
Brazilian wind farms for 540 million reais ($300 million) to
concentrate on its core business of making power equipment.  Overseas  investors  bought a net  9.1 billion rupees  ($182
million) of stocks yesterday, raising their investment in the
nation’s equities this year to 404.8 billion rupees, according
to the market regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  