-- India’s Top Fund Manager Wants Tax Rise, Reduced Oil Subsidy
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-03-15T07:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/india-s-top-fund-manager-calls-for-tax-rise-reduced-oil-subsidy.html
India ’s biggest and best-performing
fund manager wants the government to increase taxes and reduce
oil subsidies to trim the fiscal deficit, enabling the central
bank to pare borrowing costs and stimulate growth.  “The economy is slowing and fiscal deficit is a core
concern,”  Prashant Jain , who oversees 887 billion rupees ($18
billion) as the chief investment officer at HDFC Asset
Management Co., said in an interview at his office in Mumbai
yesterday. “Oil subsidy is a problem. In the last four years
our federal tax-to-GDP ratio has come down from 12 percent to 10
percent and is below where it ought to be.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged today, after data yesterday showed inflation
accelerated for the first time in five months and as the central
bank awaits measures to curb the deficit in the budget to be
presented by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  tomorrow. Jain
said he favors banks, oil and infrastructure companies because
they have “meaningful value.”  A reduction in levies in 2008 to protect the $1.7 trillion
economy from the effect of the global financial crisis has led
to tax receipts as a percentage of  gross domestic product 
falling to an estimated 10.4 percent in the year ending in March
from a four-decade high of 12 percent in 2008, central bank data
show.  “There was no compelling reason to cut taxes,” Jain, 44,
said. “The tax cuts were not rolled back next year or even in
the year after. I hope it is addressed in this budget.”  Tax Revenue  India’s economy  has slowed for four consecutive quarters,
reducing tax receipts even as subsidies and a job-guarantee
program spur spending. The  deficit  exceeded the government’s
full-year target in the 10 months through January and may widen
to 6.1 percent of GDP in the year ending in March, according to
Nomura Holdings Inc. and  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB) , more than
Mukherjee’s aim of 4.6 percent.  “In India, most changes take place when we run out of
easier options, but things do happen and that is what makes us
optimistic,” said Jain. “We expect  interest rates  to come down
over time. If the fiscal deficit is corrected, the fall in
interest rates will be quicker and sharper.”  Future actions will be toward cutting rates, the central
bank  said  while keeping the repurchase rate unchanged at 8.5
percent. The outcome was predicted by 19 of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg survey, with three forecasting a quarter-point cut.  “Notwithstanding the deceleration in growth, inflation
risks remain, which will influence both the timing and magnitude
of future rate actions,” the central bank said.  Fund Performance  Jain’s  HDFC Top 200 Fund (ITCT200) , the nation’s biggest stock fund
with 105.4 billion rupees in assets, has returned 29 percent a
year in the past decade, the best performance among large-cap
funds in the country, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Three
other equity funds overseen by Jain are among the top 10 stock
funds in the country in the period, the data show.  Lenders, including  State Bank of India  and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) ,
India’s biggest, made up about 26 percent of the HDFC Top 200 at
the end of February, a company fact sheet shows. Companies in
oil, gas and petroleum products’ industries formed about 12
percent and those in construction and capital goods’ sectors
totaled about 7 percent of the fund’s assets.  “We find value in banks,” said Jain. “Even in
infrastructure companies, there’s meaningful value.”  The BSE India Bankex Index of 14 lenders sank 32 percent in
2011 and the 17-member BSE India Capital Goods Index plunged 48
percent, compared with the 25 percent drop in the  BSE India
Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Affordable Fuel  “ Oil companies  are undervalued despite subsidy issues,”
said Jain, declining to name individual stocks.  India’s state oil refiners sell cooking gas, diesel and
kerosene at below-market prices to keep fuels affordable in a
country where the  World Bank  estimates about 75 percent of the
population lives on less than $2 a day. The government requires
state-run explorers to supply oil to refiners at a discount.  Jain said he sees “merit in moving away” from producers
of  consumer goods  as they are “priced close to perfection.”  The  BSE India FMCG Index (BSETMCG)  of fast-moving consumer goods
climbed 10 percent last year. The gauge trades at about 29.2
times estimated earnings, the highest level since May 2006,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Sensex dropped 1.5 percent to 17,656.92 at 12:29 p.m.
in  Mumbai , ending a four-day advance. The 30-stock gauge has
climbed 14 percent this year as foreigners poured a net $8.1
billion into domestic equities on speculation the central bank
will ease monetary policy. The index trades at 15.5 times future
 earnings , compared with 19.4 times at the end of 2010.  “There is room for the price-earnings ratio to go up”
said Jain. “The average long-term price-to-earnings ratio for
the Sensex is about 17 times.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  