-- Indonesian Bonds Fall to Eight-Week Low on Inflation Concern
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-03-14T09:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/indonesian-bonds-fall-to-eight-week-low-on-inflation-concern.html
Indonesia ’s bonds fell to the
lowest level in eight weeks and the rupiah declined on concern
government plans to raise subsidized fuel prices may stoke
inflation, eroding returns on sovereign debt.  Overseas funds  pared  1.1 trillion rupiah ($116 million)
from their holdings of local bonds this month through March 9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The government will
meet with parliament later this month to discuss reducing energy
subsidies after it proposed adjusting the inflation target in
its revised 2012 state budget to 7 percent from 5.3 percent.  “The rupiah will tend to weaken,” said Apressyanti Senthaury, a Jakarta-based analyst in the treasury division of
PT Bank Negara Indonesia. “Higher inflation expectations are a
major concern for investors, which weighs on the bond markets.”  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
rose 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 5.97 percent,
according to closing prices from the Inter-Dealer Market
Association. That was the highest yield since Jan. 17, a day
before the country won a rating upgrade from Moody’s Investors
Service which returned it to investment level.  The rupiah weakened 0.1 percent to 9,173 per dollar as of
4:08 p.m. in Jakarta, after falling as much as 0.4 percent
earlier, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility in the rupiah, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, held at a
four-week low of 8.25 percent.  The central bank will continue to observe and intervene in
the foreign-exchange and secondary bond markets to stabilize the
currency, according to a  note  posted on its website last week.  “The rupiah is unlikely to weaken beyond 9,200 per
dollar,” Senthaury said. “It’s difficult for  Bank Indonesia  to
maintain the currency at a stronger level than that considering
global factors like the stronger dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in  Singapore  at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 