-- Miners Seeking Deposits in High-Risk Regions, Consultant Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-03-14T02:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/miners-seeking-deposits-in-high-risk-regions-consultant-says.html
Mining companies, including  Rio
Tinto Group (RIO)  and Vale SA, are increasingly looking for ore bodies
in regions with high political and security risk as they
struggle to meet commodities demand, a risk consultant said.  “The mining industry is actually an industry in crisis,”
Michael Humphreys, managing director at strategic consultancy
 Control Risks  in Sydney, said in an interview. “There’s this
concern about getting their hands on leases - if you’re an
exploration geologist, all the good sites have been pegged.”  Mining companies are searching for copper, iron ore and
coal projects in Africa and Asia to help meet demand from China
and India, the two fastest-growing major economies. The number
of resource projects in development globally have more than
doubled from just under 500 at the end of 2009 to nearly 1,100
at the end of last year, Humphreys said.  “If you’re an exploration geologist, you’re going offshore
to  Africa ,” Humphreys said yesterday. “We’re also seeing some
go to central Asia.”  Political risk worsened during 2011 in West African
countries including  Ivory Coast ,  Burkina Faso  and Mauritania, he
said.  “When elections are on, foreign mining companies are an
easy target for populist pledges,” Humphreys said. “If you
understand there’s an election in one to two years time, you can
start to work with these guys beforehand so you can contain and
manage the expectations.”  Canada’s  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  lost its license to
the $750 million Kolwezi copper project in  Democratic Republic 
of Congo in 2009, after a review of mining contracts in the
central African nation, while Rio Tinto lost part of its
Simandou  iron ore  lease in Guinea after a 2008 military coup.  “Many of these projects are moving through to production,
which is the high-visibility, high-impact stage,” said
Humphreys. This “is causing them to have to interact with
communities and governments. It’s human nature there’ll be a lot
of robust discussion and we’re going to see more tension across
the resource sector,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  