-- Linsanity Brings Great Brats, Grim Sushi to Garden
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/linsanity-brings-great-brats-grim-sushi-to-garden.html
A bacon burger and a Bud will cost
you about $20 at a Knicks game. Fries are $5 extra.  Somebody’s got to pay for  Madison Square Garden ’s three-
year, $1 billion overhaul.  To see point guard Jeremy Lin, I paid $320 for pair of
nosebleed seats on  StubHub . That’s the bad news.  The good news is that  Manhattan ’s only professional sports
hub now serves exactly what it should: great grub from local
chefs that can be eaten with one hand, so the other can be used
to drink cold beer, especially useful in cramped seats lacking
cup holders (coming, I’m told, in the next phase).  Our Midtown arena could do worse than show out-of-town fans
that New York knows how to make a proper pastrami sandwich and a
decent hamburger. And thanks to the efforts of Carnegie Deli,
Nobu’s Drew Nieporent and others, the Garden gets the job done.  Here’s what to eat, with ratings on a scale of 1-10:  Hill Country: One of  New York ’s best barbecue joints puts
out near perfect sandwiches at the Garden. Expect the bare
essentials: beef and bread, with only pickles and onions to get
in the way of your heart attack. Chopped brisket ($13) on a
compact potato bun balances sweet, smoke and salt.  The prime rib sandwich ($19) is a Texas improvement on the
classic French dip, with gently smoked, medium-rare meat. Au jus
dunking allows for softer, saltier eating. Pair it with a
 Brooklyn Lager  ($10) to scrub the spice off your tongue. Rating:
9.5  Sausage Boss: This is where Andrew Carmellini cooks up
stadium links so good they would pass muster at The Dutch, his
packed Soho restaurant.  Sausage heroes ($10) get the gourmet makeover here. That
means  Pat LaFrieda  pork with pure fennel flavor, pizzaiolo sauce
with ripe tomatoes, and sweet peppers and onions with no stringy
skin. Just as appealing are the cheddar bratwursts ($9), with
sauerkraut that packs enough acid to keep the oozing fromage in
check. Rating: 9.0  Carnegie Deli: Pastrami sandwiches are sliced thin and
stacked high, with silken fat for $15 -- two dollars less than
the Seventh Avenue flagship’s version. Is this the first time in
the history of the universe that a stadium sandwich is cheaper
than the original?  And there’s no ridiculous $3 sharing charge here.  Yes, the sandwiches are smaller (12 oz.), which means you
can actually get your mouth around these two-fisted monsters.
And knishes ($5) are everything they should be: portable
packages of creamy mashed potato. Rating: 8.5  Daily Burger: If you order a burger at the Garden, it will
be made with LaFrieda beef, have an expert char and be medium to
medium rare. Credit Corton’s Drew Nieporent for this.  The blend of chuck, short rib and brisket is dense. The
heavy six-ounce patty eats like a steak but could use a hint
more beefiness. No tomatoes or lettuce to water things down,
just cheese sauce with heady bacon-onion jam ($10). And the
fries ($5) are consistently crispy, if under-salted. Rating: 8.0  Aquagrill: If you closed your eyes and tried to identify
the shellfish in this lobster roll, you wouldn’t guess lobster.
That’s a $20 problem. There’s shrimp in there too, which adds
some decent maritime flavor. The toasted bun is nice, but the
value doesn’t add up. Rating: 4.0  Simply Chicken: It would be sad to think that a diner’s
first experience with  Jean-Georges Vongerichten , one of the
world’s great chefs, might occur at a Rangers game, where his
kiosk hawks cafeteria-quality chicken breast sandwiches ($14).
The meat was arid and stringy on two visits; spicy aioli was
virtually undetectable. I’ll say short the spongy chicken dogs
as well ($7), which are incorrectly paired with sinus clearing
mustard and kimchi. Rating: 2.0.  Carlos & Gabby’s (Kosher): Expect flavorless knishes ($6)
and greasy “taquito dogs.” ($6.50) It’s horrid that observant
Jews, who boast such a rich culinary heritage, are subjected to
low quality food at sporting events. What’s worse: while
Carnegie serves delicious hot sandwiches, here the Kosher
pastrami ($14) is pre-sliced and chilled. Rating: 1.0  Senzai Sushi: Sushi is about contrast and clarity: the
clean taste of cool fish atop warm, vinegared rice. The Garden’s
nigiri, in the form of a $17 “Ninja Platter” was uniformly
cold and boring, with overcooked grains and mealy flesh. It’s
the chilly Japanese analogue to American heat lamp pizza, fish
that’s been forgotten in a refrigerator and prepared by someone
who doesn’t care. Rating: 1.0  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $20.  Sound Level: Sky’s the limit in the arena.  Date Place: If your date is very cool.  Inside Tip: Good beer available everywhere.  Special Feature: Most lines are under five minutes. The
longest queue, somewhat improbably, is for the frozen yogurt.  Back on My Own Dime: Yes, and when the Nets move to
 Brooklyn  this year to open the  Barclays Center , they should look
to the Garden for culinary guidance.  Madison Square Garden is at 4 Pennsylvania Plaza, New York.
Information: +1-212-465-6741 or  http://www.thegarden.com .  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 