-- Iran’s Crude Oil Exports to Fall 50% on Embargo, IEA Says
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-14T12:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/iran-s-crude-oil-exports-to-fall-50-on-embargo-iea-says.html
Iran ’s oil exports will probably
decline by 50 percent when European sanctions take full effect
in July, the  International Energy Agency  said.  Shipments will fall by at least 800,000 barrels a day,
 David Fyfe , head of the IEA’s market and industry division, said
by phone from Paris, citing discussions with market
participants. Iran exported just below 2 million barrels a day
last month, compared with 2.6 million in November, the IEA,
adviser to 28 industrialized nations, said in a report today.
Iran’s oil minister said exports haven’t decreased.  “It’s likely Iran will be casting around to try and find
buyers for 800,000 barrels to 1 million barrels,” Fyfe said.
“That sets the floor of what potential reductions in Iranian
exports might be. It could be much bigger than that.”  U.S. and European Union leaders are increasing pressure on
Iran over its nuclear program, which the government in Tehran
says is for civilian purposes. Oil sales earned the Persian Gulf
country, the Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries’
second-biggest producer, $73 billion in 2010, accounting for
about 50 percent of government revenue, according to the U.S.
Department of Energy.  Saudi Arabia  is OPEC’s biggest exporter.  Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi rejected the IEA’s
estimates and said the government has reduced its dependence on
oil revenue. Neither production nor exports have fallen, and the
country expects at least as much oil income this year as in
2011, he said in an interview in  Kuwait .  World ‘Large Enough’  “We are exporting according to what we are supposed to do
within OPEC,” Qasemi said. “The world is large enough and it
is full of customers.”  Almost all buyers of Iranian crude will cut purchases
because of sanctions, the IEA said. While there currently may be
no physical supply disruption, European insurance companies have
already announced the suspension of coverage for tankers calling
at Iranian ports, according to the report.  Iranian crude production fell 1.5 percent to 3.38 million
barrels a day in February, the least in at least three years,
the IEA said.  While some European countries halted imports,  India  and
 South Korea  increased purchases. Chinese imports fell 50 percent
to 275,000 barrels a day in January because of a price dispute,
which has now been resolved, according to the report. Some of
Iran’s buyers have been able to secure discounts, the IEA said.  The 27 members of the European Union approved a ban on the
purchase, transport, financing and insurance of Iranian oil on
Jan. 23. Pre-existing contracts are exempt until July 1. The
measure still has to be implemented by the European Commission,
the bloc’s regulatory arm, before it becomes binding. The U.S.
blocks access to its financial system for transactions with
Iran’s central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  