-- Italy Sells Three-Year Bonds at Lowest Since Oct. 2010
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-03-14T12:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/italy-sells-three-year-bonds-at-lowest-since-oct-2010.html
Italy  sold 6 billion euros ($7.8
billion) of bonds today, with borrowing costs on its three-year
debt falling to the lowest since October 2010 as unlimited
European Central Bank loans helped boost demand.  The Treasury sold 5 billion euros of a new three-year bond
to yield 2.76 percent, down from 3.41 percent at the last sale
of similar maturity debt on Feb. 14. Demand was 1.56 times the
amount sold, compared with 1.40 times last month. The Rome-based
Treasury also sold 1 billion euros of seven-year bonds at 4.3
percent, meeting the 6 billion-euro maximum set for the sale.  The ECB has loaned banks more than 1 trillion euros in two
auctions since December to avert a credit crunch, propping up
demand for government debt. Italy 10-year borrowing costs have
fallen by more than 2 percentage points since Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  took over in November and began an overhaul of the
Italian economy that aims to balance the budget next year and
lay the groundwork for economic growth.  “Today’s auction was well absorbed, confirming the recent
appetite for the Italian debt,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income
analyst at Newedge Group in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note to
investors. The government reforms and the ECB lending “are
helping the solid performance of the Italian debt that, in cross
country spreads terms versus the periphery, currently trades at
pre-crisis levels.”  The yield on Italy’s benchmark three-year bond fell three
basis points to 2.65 at 1:20 p.m. in Rome. The yield on Italy’s
10-year bond fell 6 basis points at 4.84 percent, down from a
euro-era high of 7.26 percent on Nov. 25.  “‘The auction went very well, and this trend of
stabilization in our sovereign bonds is continuing,” Deputy
Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  told reporters today in Milan.  Today’s auction came after the Treasury sold 8.5 billion
euros of one-year bills yesterday at the lowest rate since
August 2010.  Concern that Italy would be engulfed by fallout from the
region’s debt crisis have eased on a combination of Monti’s
reforms, the ECB’s three-year lending program and  Europe 
approving a second bailout for  Greece .  Italy’s improving finances means the Treasury may sell less
debt than originally forecast. Total issuance this year may be
closer to 440 billion euros, rather than the 450 billion euros
predicted at the start of the year as the Treasury cuts back
some planned bill auctions, Maria Cannata, the director of
public debt, said today in Milan.  Bonds have more room for gains and the difference between
the yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond and comparable
German debt could fall at least another 100 basis points,
Cannata said. That would put the spread back to around the 180
basis-point level of June of last year before concern about debt
crisis contagion send Italy’s yields soaring, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  