-- Liz Taylor’s Bracelet, Gauguin Painting Boost $1.3 Billion Fair
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-03-14T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/liz-taylor-s-bracelet-gauguin-painting-boost-1-3-billion-fair.html
A gold bracelet formerly owned by
 Elizabeth Taylor  and a Paul Gauguin still-life painting not seen
in public since 1917 will be among $1.3 billion works of art to
test demand at the world’s largest art and antiques fair.  A  BMW (BMW)  Le Mans racer decorated by  Alexander Calder  will also
be on show -- not for sale -- at the European Fine Art Fair,
 Tefaf , which gets more than 70,000 visitors a year in the Dutch
town of Maastricht. The event, owned and run by dealers with 261
of them taking part this year, holds its VIP preview tomorrow
for its “silver jubilee” 25th edition.  Dealers are vying with auction houses to lure wealthy
buyers as billionaires snap up museum-quality trophies and pass
on lesser-quality works. Tefaf’s wealthy visitors, many of whom
fly in on about 170 private planes, have recently included
 Silvio Berlusconi  and  Michael Schumacher .  “You get all the right people, like Sheikh Saud al Thani
of Qatar,” Laszlo von Vertes, director of the Swiss gallery
 Salis & Vertes , who has been exhibiting at Tefaf for 20 years,
said in an interview. “It’s amazing how the Dutch do it.
Maastricht is a pretty boring place, yet the pilgrimage is made
every year.”  Vertes will be offering mobile sculptures by Calder dating
from 1974 and 1965, priced at 480,000 euros ($629,000) and
380,000 euros respectively. Near them will be a loan exhibition
of the first-ever Art Car. The BMW-owned saloon, with jazzy
paintwork designed by Calder, was driven by the French
auctioneer Herve Poulain in the 1975 Le Mans 24-Hour race.  Crowded Calendar  As the calendar of contemporary-art fairs becomes more
crowded, Maastricht stands out as  Europe ’s biggest commercial
event primarily devoted to older material. Its formal total of
works on sale is put by organizers at 1 billion euros and
spanning three millennia.  “It’s interesting that the two most durable fairs take
place in relatively inaccessible locations,” said James Roundell, a director of Maastricht regulars Dickinson, referring
to Tefaf and the Swiss modern and contemporary event, Art Basel.
The latter’s June edition will be the 43rd. “People have to
make the effort to come, and once they do, they spend time at
the fair. They’re not distracted.”  London-based Dickinson offers high-value works on
consignment including a 1888 Gauguin painting “Nature morte a
la ceramique” -- featuring a stoneware bowl designed by the
artist himself -- tagged at $7 million, and the 1883 Vincent van Gogh oil-on-paper “The Potato Diggers,” a transitional work
painted in the Hague, valued at $3.75 million.  Tax, Tsunami  Though Tefaf, like  Art Basel , is a byword for quality, it
faces challenges, such as the general migration of collectors
from traditional to contemporary art, dealers said. Last year,
the mood at the event was subdued on account of the Japanese
tsunami. The Dutch authorities’ decision to raise the  sales tax 
for local buyers of works imported from outside the European
Union from 6 percent to 19 percent also inhibited spending.  “The tax regime hasn’t been helpful,” said the New York-
based Old Master dealer Otto Naumann. “I’ve suggested the fair
move to Brussels and more than 20 exhibitors have said that’s a
great idea.”  Last year Naumann showed pictures at Tefaf ranging in price
from $12 million to $47 million. Nothing sold on the booth at
the fair. This year the dealer will show 35 paintings ranging
from $65,000 to $2.5 million.  Plastering Walls  “I’m going to plaster the walls,” Naumann said. “It’s
difficult to sell really high-value paintings at fairs, though a
lot of things do get bought between $1 million to $5 million.”  Founder exhibitor -- and member of the board of trustees --
Johnny van Haeften said that Tefaf won’t be moving from
Maastricht any time soon.  “It’s the last thing we want,” the London-based Old-
Master dealer van Haeften said. “We’re making it clear to the
Dutch authorities that raising the tax kills off the home market
and they’ll get less income as a result. Their receipts
certainly collapsed last year.”  Van Haeften bought “A Young Lady playing the Virginal,” a
painting by the 17th century Dutch artist Gerrit Dou, at
 Christie’s International (CHRS) ,  New York , in January. The luminous --
and now cleaned -- panel is being offered for about 4 million
pounds ($6.3 million) at the fair. It will incur a 19 percent
sales tax if bought by a collector from the Netherlands.  London-based dealer Didier, who specializes in artist-
designed jewelry, is making his debut in the Showcase section of
the event. He snapped up a unique and unrecognized 18-carat gold
acrobat bracelet by the British sculptor  Michael Ayrton  in the
Elizabeth Taylor Collection auction in December. He’ll be
offering it for 65,000 pounds.  Tefaf Maastricht runs through March 25. Information:
 http://www.Tefaf.com .  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 