-- Lions Re-Sign Johnson for $130 Million, Eagles Keep Jackson
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/jackson-joins-buccaneers-as-wayne-remains-with-colts-correct-.html
The  Detroit Lions  re-signed Calvin Johnson to an eight-year contract that they said is worth close
to $130 million and makes him the highest-paid wide receiver in
National Football League history.  Johnson, who had career highs last year with 96 catches for
1,681 yards and 16 touchdowns, headlined a group of prominent
wide receivers to sign new deals since the NFL’s free-agent
period began two days ago.  DeSean Jackson got a new five-year deal from the
 Philadelphia Eagles , Vincent Jackson signed with the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers, Reggie Wayne stayed with the Indianapolis Colts,
 Brandon Marshall  was traded to the  Chicago Bears  from the Miami
Dolphins and Pierre Garcon joined the  Washington Redskins .  Johnson’s new deal includes a seven-year extension, which
could keep him with the Lions through 2019, and tops the eight-
year, $120 million contract that fellow  Pro Bowl  receiver Larry Fitzgerald signed with the Arizona Cardinals before last season,
the Lions said on their website,  DetroitLions.com , citing
unidentified people in the league.  “What a tremendous blessing this is,” Johnson, who’s
nicknamed Megatron, said at a news conference. “From my family
on down, we’re ready to work and very appreciative. I’m looking
forward to much success in the future here.”  The contract includes a guaranteed $60 million, ESPN said.
His $16.25 million base salary for the 2012 season is tied for
the fourth highest for any player in league history, according
to NFL.com.  ‘He Deserves It’  “Glad to have him back,” Lions quarterback  Matthew Stafford  said on the team’s website. “He deserves it and I am
extremely excited to get the chance to hopefully play for a long
time with him.”  The  Dallas Cowboys  said they signed quarterback Kyle Orton,
who will be a backup for Tony Romo, to a three-year deal. The
Cowboys had been interested last season in Orton, who was
claimed off waivers by Kansas City after being released by the
Denver Broncos. Romo played with a fractured rib for part of
last season after missing the final 10 games in 2010 with a
broken collarbone.  The Eagles and Jackson agreed on a five-year contract, less
than a month after the Pro Bowl receiver was designated the
team’s franchise player. The 25-year-old Jackson averaged 45.4
yards on his 30 career touchdowns over four seasons in
Philadelphia.  ‘Game Breaker’  “DeSean is a game breaker,” Eagles coach  Andy Reid  said
in a statement. “He has the speed and ability to score from
anywhere on the field, and he has proven himself to be a big
threat for our offense.”  The Eagles also reached agreement yesterday with defensive
end Trent Cole on a four-year contract extension. A two-time Pro
Bowl selection, Cole’s 68 sacks over seven seasons with the
Eagles rank second in team history behind Reggie White and Clyde Simmons. Among all NFL players, only DeMarcus Ware and  Jared Allen  have more sacks since 2006.  The Buccaneers signed All-Pro guard Carl Nicks to a five-
year, $47.5 million contract, adding to a free-agent haul that
also includes Jackson and cornerback Eric Wright.  The 6-foot-5, 345-pound Nicks spent his first four NFL
seasons protecting quarterback Drew Brees for the  New Orleans
Saints  and was considered the top offensive lineman available
this offseason.  $140.5 Million Contracts  With the signing of Nicks, the Buccaneers have given out
$140.5 million in contracts in the past three days, after going
4-12 last season.  Jackson, coming off his third 1,000-yard receiving season
in the past four years with the  San Diego  Chargers, signed a
five-year, $55 million deal,  Tampa Bay  said on its  website .
Wright got $37.5 million over five seasons after intercepting
four passes for the Lions in 2011.  The Chargers signed former Saints receiver Robert Meachem
to help replace Jackson, and added linebacker Jarret Johnson,
who spent his first nine NFL seasons with the Baltimore Ravens
and played in a franchise-record 129 straight regular-season
games.  San Diego also agreed to terms on a three-year deal with
Le’Ron McClain, who has split his time between running back and
fullback. He rushed for 902 yards on 232 carries for the
Baltimore Ravens in 2008 and then became a lead blocker for the
next three years before playing last season for  Kansas City . He
has averaged 18.8 catches per season during the last four years.  The Bears agreed to terms with tight end Kellen Davis on a
two-year contract. Davis has appeared in 64 games in the past
four seasons, accumulating 28 receptions for 300 yards and nine
touchdowns. Last season, he had a career-high five touchdown
catches on 18 receptions for 206 yards.  The  New York Giants  signed former Cowboys tight end
Martellus Bennett, who may help them fill the void left at the
position when Jake Ballard and Travis Beckum tore knee ligaments
in the  Super Bowl . The Minnesota Vikings also added a free-agent
tight end in John Carlson, who had 55 catches for 627 yards and
seven touchdowns as a rookie for the Seattle Seahawks last
season.  The  Arizona Cardinals  reached agreement on a five-year
contract with free-agent guard/tackle Adam Snyder, who spent the
first seven years of his career with the San Francisco 49ers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  