-- Jobs Recovery Revives U.S. Furniture Sales as Home Market Heals
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/jobs-recovery-revives-u-s-furniture-sales-as-home-market-heals.html
More Americans are stretching out
on new sofas as they settle into recently purchased homes, amid
an improving outlook for employment.  Furniture sales grew 8.3 percent last month from a year
earlier, following the largest increase since July 2000 in
January, according to Census Bureau data. Meanwhile, existing
single-family homes sold at an annual rate of 4.1 million in
January, the most in almost two years, based on data from the
National Association of Realtors.  Demand “appears to be rebounding” as Americans regain
confidence in the economy, said Ken Smith, managing partner of
accounting firm SmithLeonard PLLC. “If consumers are more
comfortable with their  job security , it makes them a little more
willing to spend.”  The  unemployment rate  held at  8.3 percent  in February, a
three-year low, while the economy added 227,000 jobs, the third
consecutive month of gains more than 200,000, the Bureau of
Labor Statistics said March 9.  “Labor-market conditions have improved” since January,
the  Federal Reserve  said yesterday in a statement following its
March meeting.  The share of Americans who say jobs will be “plentiful”
in six months minus the share who say there will be “fewer”
opportunities rose to 1.8 percentage points in February, the
first positive number in a year, according to data from the
Conference Board, a New York research group. Consumer sentiment,
measured by the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, rose to a
 four-year high  in the week ended March 4.  Confidence ‘Drives the Industry’  “ Consumer confidence  really is the major short-term
variable that drives the industry,” said Budd Bugatch, an
analyst in  St. Petersburg , Florida, at Raymond James &
Associates Inc.  About six months after moving, homeowners buy furnishings
to fill their residences, said Bradley Thomas, an analyst in New
York with Keybanc Capital Markets Inc. Housing turnover is one
of the “most important” criteria affecting furniture sales, so
it “makes sense these purchases move together,” he said.  An empty house creates the most immediate demand for such
purchases, said Mike Englund, chief economist at Boulder,
Colorado-based forecaster Action Economics. The market for
single-family homes appears to have bottomed and has been
rebounding since mid-2011, as starts under construction rose to
241,000 in January from 236,000 the prior month, he said, citing
Census data.  While the Fed echoed the optimism in its Feb. 29 Beige Book
report, saying residential real estate “improved somewhat in
most districts,” the market “remains depressed,” it said
yesterday.  Rising Shares  As Americans shop for new living-room furniture, shares of
 La-Z-Boy Inc. (LZB)  have risen 117 percent since Oct. 3, 2011,
compared with a 36 percent gain for the Russell 2000 Index.
Shares of Stanley Furniture Co., which designs, manufactures and
imports wood furniture, are up 53 percent.  New orders for upholstered seating and case goods --
products made of wood and other materials, such as bedroom and
dining-room furniture -- rose 15 percent in December from a year
earlier, according to a survey conducted by SmithLeonard. This
marked four consecutive months of double-digit increases, the
High Point,  North Carolina , company said last month.  Orders for Stanley’s namesake and Young America lines
“continuously got better” during the quarter ended Dec. 31,
President and Chief Executive Officer Glenn Prillaman said on a
Feb. 1 conference call. The Stanleytown, Virginia-based company
is forecasting sales growth in the “single-digit range” this
year, he said; net sales fell 24 percent in 2011 from a year
earlier.  Reviving Market  Furniture purchases declined “both by choice and by
necessity” after the housing bubble burst in 2007, said
 Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at
 Federated Investors Inc. (FII)  who helps oversee $369.7 billion. As
the market revives, these stocks have become more attractive to
investors, even if companies may see a lagged spike in revenue,
he said.  That’s starting to show up in La-Z-Boy’s upholstery
business, as sales rose about 11 percent in the three months
ended Jan. 28 from a year earlier, the Monroe, Michigan-based
company said Feb. 21. The U.S. expansion is benefiting the maker
of reclining chairs and sofas because this furniture usually is
in the most-public areas of homes, Bugatch said.  “Consumers tend to redecorate those rooms first as we come
out of an economic malaise,” said Bugatch, who maintains a
“strong buy” recommendation on La-Z-Boy.  Pent-Up Demand  Stronger sales also are driven by pent-up demand from
consumers fixing up homes they’ve been unable to move out of for
the past five to six years, Englund said. While spending on
furniture fell 1.2 percent to $7.9 billion in February from $8
billion the prior month, the January total was the highest since
August 2008, Census data show.  The replacement market is the focus for Atlanta-based
Haverty Furniture Companies Inc., as consumers look to upgrade
worn-out items in the family room and entertainment areas,
President and Chief Executive Officer Clarence Smith said on a
Feb. 28 conference call. Customers are “more willing to finally
spend some money.”  Even as confidence rebounds from “spectacularly low”
levels, rising gasoline prices may dissuade consumers from
expensive discretionary purchases, Englund said. The average
gallon of regular unleaded has risen about 19 percent to  $3.81 (3AGSREG) 
since reaching an almost one-year low of $3.21 in December,
according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the largest U.S.
motoring organization.  While orders for residential furniture appear to be
improving, SmithLeonard’s most-recent survey was conducted
before prices at the pump “kept going up,” Smith said. If this
continues, shares of La-Z-Boy and  Ethan Allen Interiors Inc. (ETH)  --
which “basically doubled” since October -- “may take a
breather,” Thomas said.  ‘Hope Trade’  La-Z-Boy closed at a two-year high of $14.99 in New York
yesterday.  Ethan Allen , the home-furnishings retailer based in
Danbury,  Connecticut , closed at a nearly four-year high of
$27.80. These stocks represent “a bit of a hope trade” that a
housing rebound will boost sales, said Bugatch, who has a
“market perform” recommendation on Ethan Allen. Signs of
stabilization in the economy will “be a boon, but we don’t know
for how long.”  Competition from lower-priced goods made in  China  also
threatens the industry, though consolidation has made it “much
leaner and more efficient,” Creatura said. Upholstered
furniture -- which represents almost 80 percent of La-Z-Boy’s
revenue -- makes some companies “more insulated” because these
products require customization that lends itself to domestic
assembly, and wear-and-tear results in more frequent replacement
demand than for case goods, Thomas said.  Ethan Allen is opening design centers where shoppers can
work with professionals to plan room layouts. As traffic and
consumer attitudes improve, people are “willing to invest” in
their residences again, Chief Executive Officer Farooq Kathwari
said in a Feb. 28 interview with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bottom Line.”  “With all the problems of the world, the home has become
somewhat of a haven” Kathwari said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  