-- JPMorgan Dividend Surprises Investors, Irks Fed
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-03-14T15:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/jpmorgan-s-premature-disclosure-surprises-investors-irks-fed.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
 U.S. bank , surprised investors and the Federal Reserve when the
firm announced two days early that it received regulatory
approval for a 20 percent  dividend increase .  JPMorgan surged 7 percent on yesterday’s news, which helped
drive up the shares of competitors and major stock indexes. The
central bank, which tested 19 of the largest U.S. financial
firms to gauge their ability to withstand another severe
economic downturn, decided to release the results at 4:30 p.m.
in  Washington , also two days ahead of schedule.  The bank’s disclosure prompted other lenders, including
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , U.S. Bancorp and  PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. (PNC) , to accelerate the disclosure of their dividend plans. It
also irritated some staff at the Fed, which had planned to
release the test results ahead of the industry, said one person
familiar with the central bank’s operations who declined to be
identified because the discussions were private.  “It certainly lit a fire under the other bank holding
companies, especially the problem institutions which thought
they had more time to cushion the blow,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, a co-founder and managing partner at Washington-based
Federal Financial Analytics Inc., a regulatory consulting firm.  Placing Blame  JPMorgan’s news release, published at 3:04 p.m. in New
York, was the result of less-than-perfect communication between
the company and the Fed and wasn’t related to the regulator’s
accelerated announcement of the stress-test results, a senior
Fed official told reporters on a conference call. The central
bank doesn’t fault JPMorgan or anyone for the move, the official
said.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman, and JPMorgan’s  Joe Evangelisti  declined to comment.  The news caught the markets and industry analysts, who were
preparing for a March 15 release date, off guard. Brian Foran, a
senior bank analyst at Nomura Securities, compared the
experience to the wait for his newborn.  “As many of you know I recently had a baby,” Foran said
in an e-mail to clients. “It was remarkably similar to having a
stress test -- you work towards a due date but the reality is it
can come at any moment. And once it does, your sleep schedule is
immediately impaired.”  Started to Leak  Fed officials told bank executives earlier yesterday that
they were concerned that some of the results had started to leak
to the public and decided to release the results after U.S.
markets had closed, according to two people who were briefed on
the calls. The release was moved up amid concern that some
information about the test may have been released inadvertently,
said a senior Fed official, who didn’t elaborate.  Other banks subject to the test were waiting until after
the Fed’s results were out to announce their capital plans, said
one of the people and a senior Fed official.  JPMorgan, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , boosted its dividend to 30 cents a share, from 25 cents,
and authorized a $15 billion  share repurchase plan  after passing
the  stress test , the New York-based company said.  Some investors said it looked like an act of defiance by
Dimon.  “Jamie Dimon basically thumbed his nose at the Fed,” said
Charlie Smith, who oversees $1.2 billion as chief investment
officer of Fort Pitt Capital Group Inc. in Pittsburgh. “That’s
what he does, and he’s got the balance sheet to do it. He’s got
enough of the cards to say, ‘I’m going to do what I want even if
it’s going to force the Fed to come out with its announcement
early.’”  Bernanke Confirmation  Dimon, who turned 56 yesterday, publicly confronted Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last year over the central bank’s move
to increase  capital requirements  on lenders, asking whether
overzealous regulation had gone too far and was curbing economic
growth.  “I have a great fear someone’s going to try to write a
book in 20 years, and the book is going to talk about all the
things that we did in the middle of the crisis to actually slow
down recovery,” Dimon told the Fed chairman during a June
banking conference in Atlanta.  The company’s Tier 1 capital ratios fell to a low of 5.4
percent under the Fed’s most adverse scenario, above the 5
percent threshold required to pass the test, the Fed said
yesterday. The central bank projected that JPMorgan’s home
loans, credit cards and other debt could decline by $55.8
billion while trading and derivatives operations would lose
$27.7 billion.  Unemployment Rate  The worst-case scenario includes a U.S.  unemployment rate 
as high as 13 percent and a 20 percent drop in  home prices ,
according to the Fed.  The central bank required the nation’s largest lenders to
show they have credible plans for maintaining capital and
continuing lending in an economic downturn. JPMorgan said the
Fed told the company it completed its review and “did not
object” to the bank’s capital plans.  “The Fed is basically releasing examination data showing
who are the good guys and who are the bad guys, and that’s going
to drive money away from the weaker names,” said  Paul Miller , a
former examiner for the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia and
analyst at FBR Capital Markets. “They are picking winners and
losers. I didn’t think the Fed would ever do that.”  Dimon’s Stake  The $15 billion in stock buybacks would be enough for the
firm to repurchase about 346 million shares at yesterday’s
closing price. That represents about 9 percent of shares
outstanding. Dimon’s personal stake in JPMorgan gained almost
$15 million.  JPMorgan  climbed  $2.85 to $43.39 yesterday, leading the KBW
Bank Index of 24 U.S. lenders to a 4.6 percent gain, the most
since November. The lender’s announcement also helped to pad
gains for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , which climbed 1.7
percent to 13,177.68, the highest in more than four years.  JPMorgan and the KBW Bank Index were little changed as of
11:45 a.m. today.  The new JPMorgan payout is in line with the $1.15 to $1.25
annual dividend per share estimated by Charles Peabody, an
analyst at Portales Partners, in a March 1 report. The share
repurchase, which includes $12 billion for 2012 and $3 billion
for the first quarter of next year, also is in line with his
prediction of $7 billion to $9 billion if employee incentive
stock is excluded. That will cost the bank about $5.5 billion
over the 12-month buyback program, Peabody said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  