-- JPMorgan Leads $9 Billion of U.S. Corporate Bond Sales
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-03-14T22:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/jpmorgan-leads-9-billion-of-u-s-corporate-bond-sales-correct-.html
(Corrects to remove reference to debt collateral in third
paragraph.)  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
 U.S. bank , is leading more than $9 billion of bond sales after
announcing a 20 percent dividend increase and an equity buyback
program.  The bank is marketing three-year benchmark notes that are
expected to yield 130 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to a person familiar with the offering who
asked not to be identified because terms are not set. A
benchmark bond is at least $500 million in size.  International Lease Finance Corp. (ILFC) , the plane-leasing unit
of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , is also selling three- and
seven-year senior notes, according to a person familiar with
that transaction who also asked not to be identified because the
terms are not set.  JPMorgan, which the  Federal Reserve  said yesterday had
passed its stress test for capital adequacy under an “extremely
adverse” economic scenario, announced a $15 billion equity
buyback as yields at about record lows offer attractive
borrowing rates for companies. Investment-grade bonds yield 3.49
percent, within 10 basis points of the all-time low of 3.4
percent reached on March 2, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S Corporate Master index.  “When a credit has wind at its back, it can do whatever it
wants in the market,” Timothy Cox, executive director of debt
capital markets at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York , said
about the JPMorgan bond sale in a telephone interview.  ‘Very Anxious’  The New York-based bank is leading more than $9 billion of
debt sales today, following issuance of $60.1 billion last week,
the most in records going back to 1999, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Treasurers have been very anxious to tap the market,”
Cox said. “Some people think ‘if I don’t get in here now, I may
miss the boat.’ ” Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. issued $1.5
billion of five-year, 2.55 percent notes yesterday, Bloomberg
data show. Cox, who helped manage the sale, said that investors
placed orders for almost $7 billion of bonds. “The new-issue
market still is green for go,” he said.  JPMorgan announced a five-cent increase in its quarterly
 dividend  to 30 cents a share. It authorized $12 billion of stock
buybacks for 2012. The firm was among 15 major banks that passed
the Fed’s  stress test .  ILFC’s three-year notes are expected to yield 5.125 percent
and the seven-year debt may pay 6.125 percent, said the person
familiar with the offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 