-- Rwanda Gets Business Reformer Tag as Kagame Opponents Jailed
-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 2012-03-15T21:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/kagame-s-rwanda-earns-business-reformer-tag-as-opponents-jailed.html
Rwandan President  Paul Kagame  has
been criticized by the U.S. government and advocacy groups for
cracking down on civil liberties and trampling on human rights.
Investors are more focused on how his policies have fostered one
of Africa’s fastest-growing economies.  U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice  in
November criticized  Rwanda ’s “closed” political culture.
Harassment of civil-society activists, opposition figures and
journalists as well as the disappearance of some of them pose
the “next developmental challenge” for the country, she said.
Her comments echoed similar  statements  by  Amnesty International ,
the London-based rights group, last week.  The criticisms contrast with Kagame’s economic achievements
since coming to power in April 2000. His pro-business policies
helped the economy double in size by 2010 as the government sold
stakes in state-owned companies to investors including  Heineken
NV (HEIA)  on a newly created stock exchange. Foreign direct investment
in the country jumped 57 percent to $626 million last year from
2010, the Rwanda Development Board says.  “Investors care about growth, and the side effect of
growth is nearly always better human rights in the long-term,”
 Charles Robertson , global chief economist at  Renaissance Capital ,
said in a March 9 phone interview. “The Rwandan government is
producing growth and that’s very positive for the Rwandan people
and eventually for Rwandan human rights and Rwandan democracy.”  100-Day Genocide  Rwanda is recovering from a  genocide  in 1994 in which
800,000 ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus were killed in a 100-
day campaign led by extremist Hutus, according to the  United
Nations . As a result, gross domestic product  shrank  more than 49
percent that year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Last year, GDP grew 8.8 percent, National Bank of Rwanda
Governor Claver Gatete said in an interview on Dec. 26. If
confirmed when the figures are official, it would be Africa’s
second-quickest expansion after  Ghana , IMF  data  shows.  “We are very happy with the performance of our business in
Rwanda and very positive about the growth opportunities,” John-
Paul Schuirink, communications manager at Heineken, the world’s
third-biggest brewer by volume, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Feb. 17. “In emerging markets we are looking for
 population growth , economic growth and improving political
stability. And we see all three of those in Rwanda.”  Beer and Phones  Heineken owns 75 percent of  Bralirwa SA (BLR) , Rwanda’s largest
beer maker. The company listed on the domestic exchange last
year. Other investors in Rwanda include Johannesburg-based  MTN
Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s biggest mobile-phone company, and Rabobank
Nederland, the highest-rated private lender.  Rwanda, which had no  credit rating  until 2006, is rated B
by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Finance Minister John Rwangombwa said last May that the country expects to sell its
first global bond within the next three years. An issue of debt
to nationals living abroad is planned by the end of June, Gatete
said on Feb. 24.  The Rwanda Stock Exchange currently has four listed
companies, including Bralirwa and  Bank of Kigali Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest lender. Rwanda’s government plans to sell
shares in six companies over the next three years as part of a
plan to attract foreign investors, the Capital Market Advisory
Council said in April.  Rwanda is also the only country with a female majority in
parliament and is East  Africa ’s least-corrupt country, according
to  Transparency International , the anti-graft group.  Coffee and Tea  When Kagame came to power in 2000, his government unveiled
its so-called Vision 2020 plan aimed at transforming the coffee-
and tea-growing country into a middle-income, service-based
economy by 2020. It targets projects such as a $9 billion
 international finance hub  planned in the capital, Kigali, and a
10-fold expansion of electricity output to 1,000 megawatts.  To encourage investment, the government reduced the time it
takes to license a business to one day. Construction companies
can obtain permits to build in less than 30 days, compared with
210 previously, according to the  African Development Bank .  Those changes helped Rwanda rank as the world’s leading
business reformer in 2008 and 2009 among 183 nations rated by
the  World Bank .  “Rwanda’s economic vitality has moved the country
forward,” Rice said on Nov. 23 at the Kigali Institute of
Science and Technology. “Social progress has been substantial.
Yet, the political culture in Rwanda remains comparatively
closed.”  ‘Speak for Ourselves’  Rwanda’s government rejected Rice’s criticism.  “We do not accept that the comments of a single U.S.
official on a passing visit somehow define us,” said Anastase
Shyaka, chief executive officer of the  Rwanda Governance Board ,
a government institution the presidency referred to when asked
for comment. “When it comes to the openness of political space
in Rwanda, more than 80 percent of Rwandans say they are highly
satisfied. We are capable of speaking for ourselves.”  To prevent a genocide from recurring in Rwanda, Kagame
introduced laws including one that criminalizes denial of the
atrocity. The ruling Rwandan Patriotic Front also compels
citizens to attend camps that teach ruling party ideology,
according to the  Harvard Human Rights Journal . The camps, known
as Ingando, enrolled 40,000 secondary-school graduates in
November, according to the  New Times , a Kigali-based newspaper.  Night Raids  “Ingando is simply a monthlong bridging course for students
between high school and university that focuses on civic and
peace education as well as physical fitness,” Yolande Makolo,
Kagame’s communications director, said in an e-mail today. “The
Ingando curriculum addresses the 1994 genocide against Tutsis as
a means to enlist young Rwandans in our shared national mission
of ‘Never Again.’”  The security forces also conduct night-time raids in search
of government opponents. One such security sweep was carried out
in Kigali hours after Rice spoke in November, according to the
opposition Rwandan National Congress, led by General Faustin Kayumba Nyamwasa, the country’s exiled former army chief.
Nyamwasa was sentenced in absentia to 24 years in prison last
year for threatening Rwandan security.  Makolo said it was “nonsense to suggest that any such
operation was timed to coincide with a speech given by a
visiting U.S. official.”  In a similar raid in October 2010, a Rwandan university
student said, he was awakened at 4 a.m. by the sound of eight
armed members of the security forces preparing to enter his
single-room hut on the outskirts of Kigali.  Home Ransacked  Ignoring his pleas that he had done nothing wrong, the men
ordered him to stay outside while they ransacked his home in
search of anti-government material. No one was allowed to leave
the neighborhood, which he estimated was surrounded by 1,000
soldiers. The man declined to be identified for fear of
retribution by the authorities.  Rwandan police spokesman Theos Badege said the raids are a
legal method to protect Rwanda from incidents such as grenade
attacks. The latest of these, which the government blames on
rebel forces, killed three people and left 25 injured on Jan. 27,
according to the New York Times. The sweeps are usually carried
out when a neighborhood is suspected of harboring illegal
weapons or drugs, Badege said in a phone interview from Kigali
on Dec. 24.  “When police suspect an act that can affect our security,
they can make a search,” Badege said. “Security is essential.
Whatever we do we always respect rights, even when securing our
nation.”  Searches are carried out “with a court-issued warrant and,
according to explicit rules, never at night-time,” Makolo said.  Criticism Rare  Inside Rwanda, criticism of government institutions is rare.
Alice Muhirwa, the national treasurer of the opposition United
Democratic Force-Inkingi, says most dissidents remain silent out
of fear. Party leader  Victoire Ingabire  is jailed and on trial,
accused of genocide ideology and funding terrorism. Her arrest
came shortly after she returned to Rwanda from living abroad to
challenge Kagame in 2010 elections.  Mauro De Lorenzo, a development-policy specialist with the
Washington-based  American Enterprise Institute , said economic
development and a government’s attitude to human rights
shouldn’t be linked.  “Countries seem to be able to make progress on one without
making progress on the other and they seem to be able to do that
for a fairly long time,” he said in a Jan. 15 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 