-- Kill the American Primary to Save American Politics: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-03-14T23:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/kill-the-american-primary-to-save-american-politics-ezra-klein.html
By now, you’ve probably heard of
 Americans Elect , the political-reform group funded by a
collection of Wall Street executives (some of whom remain
anonymous) who hope to field a bipartisan presidential ticket in
2012.  Americans Elect has been amply, but poorly, covered. The
part of its strategy that generates the most attention is also
the part that’s most wrongheaded: an effort to nominate a
bipartisan superticket to contest for the presidency in 2012.  This sort of thing is a perennial fantasy. At its best,
it’s mostly harmless. The candidates run weak campaigns and fade
away. At its worst, it can split the vote for reasonable
candidates and let extreme politicians slip into office. Either
way, it perpetuates a harmful misunderstanding about what’s
wrong with our political system, and what it will take to fix
it.  It’s seductive to believe that all Washington needs to
thrive is an independent-minded presidential candidate who will
expose the folly of partisanship and remind Americans of our
shared values and the common good. But it’s not true. Just ask
 Barack Obama , who ran on hope, change and post-partisanship. Ask
 George W. Bush , who promised to be “a uniter, not a divider.” It
would be nice if our problems were so superficial that we could
solve them with an inspiring campaign and a new occupant in the
Oval Office. But governing isn’t the last act of an Aaron Sorkin
drama.  Change the System  The political system is, above all, a system. Into this
machine we place leaders defined by different partisan
affiliations, coalitions, ideas and personalities. Yet it
continues to work much the same from year to year, presidency to
presidency. If you want change -- and polling suggests many
Americans do -- you can’t just move a new person into office.
You need to change the system.  Which brings us to the interesting part of what Americans
Elect is doing.  Although Americans Elect is often marketed as a third
party, its founders point out that it’s no such thing. “It’s not
about dropping your ideological framework,” says Elliot Ackerman, the chief operating officer of Americans Elect and son
of Peter Ackerman, the group’s main funder. “That’s unnecessary.
What is truly the innovation here is the second nominating
process.”  Here’s what he means: The group’s real accomplishment is
having secured ballot lines in all 50 states. That’s not easily
done. Different states have different rules for getting on the
ballot, and the rules can be both complicated and costly to
follow. (Consider  Virginia , where  Mitt Romney  and  Ron Paul  were
the only two Republican presidential candidates to make their
party’s primary ballot.) Kahlil Byrd, the chief executive
officer of Americans Elect, estimates that the organization has
spent about $15 million clearing ballot hurdles in the states.  Most states let a party remain on the ballot once its
candidate has obtained a threshold percentage of the vote.
Americans Elect is hoping that its bipartisan ticket will reap a
sufficient number of votes in 2012 to ensure ballot access in
2014 and beyond. If not, Americans Elect will have to spend
millions more. Either way, it plans to be on the ballot in every
state, at every level. “What’s really important is making sure
that this becomes a perpetual effort, that in 2014 and 2016, you
see governors and senators and congressmen running on it,” Byrd
says. That’s the point at which Americans Elect moves beyond
fantasy tickets and takes aim at the system.  Primary Leverage  “The problem we have is members of a political party can’t
defect,” Elliot Ackerman says. “The real reason defections are
so difficult is people go home and they’re faced by a primary
challenger. There’s a huge amount of leverage right now on
people who fear being primaried.”  To put that slightly differently, primaries are one of the
tools used to enforce polarization. You might be a moderate
Republican from  Delaware , or a moderate Democrat from  Colorado ,
and inclined to cross the aisle fairly frequently. But before
you can be judged by the full electorate in Delaware or
Colorado, you must win your party’s primary. And the voters in
that primary are, on the whole, much less moderate than the
voters in a general election.  If primaries were easy, candidates could just worry about
the general. But particularly in recent years, and particularly
in the  Republican Party , primaries have become a serious threat
to incumbents. Just ask former Senator Bob Bennett of  Utah , or
former Representative  Mike Castle  of Delaware, both of whom lost
Republican primaries in 2010 to Tea Party opponents who
condemned political moderation. Or ask Senator  Lisa Murkowski ,
the Alaska Republican who lost her party’s primary that same
year to a Tea Party challenger before running as an independent.
With no ballot line to support her candidacy, Murkowski pulled
off a rare feat -- winning as a write-in candidate.  “Running as an independent candidate is not something
that’s particularly easy to do,” Ackerman says. “It’s like
running with a parachute.”  Americans Elect plans to throw the independent-minded a
ballot line. Candidates can run on the Americans Elect line, but
still caucus with the Democrats, the Republicans or no party at
all. In effect, the goal isn’t to create a new party, but to
provide a new path for moderate members of the two reigning
parties.  “People look at the Democratic and Republican primary
process at every level and they simply don’t want to go through
what is needed to compete,” Byrd says. “Americans Elect is
dealing with that pain point.”  Will many politicians -- incumbents or newcomers -- choose
this path? Probably not, and definitely not at first. It
increases the likelihood of a three-way race in which Americans
Elect candidates would see their support siphoned by whoever
gets the nomination of their party, making victory on the
Americans Elect line unlikely. It also means that Americans
Elect candidates would be cut off from traditional networks for
fundraising, volunteer support and campaign expertise, which
political parties provide.  But if a high-profile incumbent, under threat of a primary
challenge from the far right or left, takes the Americans Elect
route, the practice could spread. (Are you listening, Senator
Dick Lugar?) In that case, Americans Elect could help undermine
one of the major methods by which parties enforce ideological
discipline. It might give legislators like Bennett, Castle and
Murkowski a license to cross the aisle -- and survive. Then, if
nothing else, we’d see more clearly how much polarization is
baked into the system, and how much is a product of the
particular people inside it.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in  Washington  at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 