-- Kingfisher CEO ‘More Comfortable’ About U.K. Than Six Months Ago
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-03-14T16:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/kingfisher-ceo-more-comfortable-about-u-k-than-six-months-ago.html
Kingfisher Plc Chief Executive
Officer Ian Cheshire said he is more optimistic about the U.K.
as unemployment stabilizes and events such as the  London  2012
Olympics buoy consumer sentiment.  “The leading indicators for the second half of the year
are looking a bit better,” the CEO said in an interview at the
Retail Week conference in London. “Overall on the U.K.
consumer, I’m slightly more comfortable about the end of the
year than I was maybe six months ago.”  The more upbeat tone contrasts with comments in February
that the U.K. was a “tough market” and will continue “bumping
along the bottom.” Instead, Cheshire said confidence measures
are improving and Britons are “beginning to move on and think
about the future, rather than dwelling on the crisis.”  The U.K. will have a “difficult” first quarter and easier
second quarter, he added. The  French (KGF)  market is “still holding
up,” with about 3 percent growth overall, Cheshire said. “Our
sense is the euro zone has probably been stabilized by the last
set of interventions before the anxiety fed through to
consumers.”  The owner of the Castorama and B&Q stores is working on
innovations like snap-together tiles and adding DIY advice to
build customer loyalty. Only about 2 percent of sales come
directly from online, while as many as 80 percent of people use
the Internet to research before or after they buy products.  “The level of contact and interest in contact is going up
much faster than the absolute classic online delivery-to-home
transactional value,” Cheshire said. About 20 percent of
customers who spend the most and have the greatest brand contact
want more advice on activities including planning kitchens.  Last month the retailer said annual  earnings  rose about 20
percent as the addition of more-profitable own-brand lines and
improved product-buying helped combat a “challenging” climate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  