-- Krone Drops Most in Six Months on Norges Bank Rates Cut
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-03-14T16:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/krone-drops-to-month-low-versus-euro-as-norges-bank-cuts-rate.html
The krone dropped the most in six
months against the euro after  Norway ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut its benchmark  interest rate  as it attempts to deter
investors from buying the currency as a haven.  The Norwegian currency declined to a five-week low versus
the dollar. Norges Bank policy makers cut the key borrowing cost
by a quarter of a percentage point to 1.5 percent, seeking to
cool an expanding property market without spurring krone
strength. The decision was  forecast  by just two of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The remaining 14 predicted no change.  Norway has “become extremely sensitive to strength in the
currency to the point where it overrides domestic concerns on
the rate-setting policy,” said  Adam Cole , global head of
foreign-exchange strategy at Royal Bank of  Canada ’s RBC Capital
Markets unit in London. “Having done it once, one would assume
Norges Bank would do it again if the krone continues to
strengthen, regardless of what domestic policy dictates.”  The krone fell 1.7 percent to 7.5816 per euro at 4:11 p.m.
London time, after sliding as much as 1.8 percent, the biggest
drop since Sept. 12. The currency depreciated 2.2 percent to
5.8262 per dollar, reaching the weakest since Feb. 6.  “On a one- to three-month view there’s probably further
downside for the currency from here,” said Cole.  Policy Dilemma  The krone strengthened 1.8 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted indexes, the third-best performer
behind  New Zealand ’s and Canada’s currencies.  “The continuing downturn abroad and the strong krone are
contributing to keeping inflation low and are weighing on growth
in Norway,” Governor Oeystein Olsen said in a statement. “The
current outlook suggests that the key policy rate may remain low
longer than projected earlier.”  Norwegian policy makers are grappling with a dilemma over
how to cool a commodities-driven recovery without spurring krone
gains. The currency reached a nine-year high against the euro
this month as investors sought the higher returns offered by AAA
rated Norway relative to the euro area.  The central bank will keep the benchmark rate unchanged at
1.5 percent for the rest of 2012, and the currency is likely to
gain further against the euro, according to  Barclays Capital .  “We continue to see room for further performance here,”
London-based analysts Marcus Widen and Mikael Nilsson wrote in
an e-mailed research note. “We also remain constructive on the
krone over the medium term and will look for opportunities to
sell the euro against the Norwegian krone in the coming days.”  The Swedish krona weakened 1.2 percent against the dollar
to 6.8544.  Sweden’s main interest rate will be at 1.4 percent in the
next year, from 1.5 percent now, according to a survey of labor
market organizations, purchasing managers and money market
participants commissioned by the central bank. The economy will
grow 1.6 percent in the next 12 months and 2.3 percent the
following year, according to the survey published today.  Norwegian 10-year bonds fell for a second day, with yields
rising seven basis points to 2.46 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  