-- N.J. Governments May Need 20% of Service Cuts, Report Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-14T19:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/n-j-governments-may-face-20-services-cut-report-says.html
New Jersey (STONJ1) ’s state and local
governments may need to cut services by 20 percent to close
growing budget deficits over the next five years, a panel that
includes former top-level officials said in a report.  The state will confront a gap between revenue and spending
of as much as $8.1 billion by 2017, while towns and cities may
face collective shortfalls as great as $2.8 billion, said the
group, which was convened by the  Council of New Jersey
Grantmakers . Counties’ deficits may be as much as $1.1 billion
while schools’ gaps may reach nearly $1 billion, the group said.  “Any future debate is likely to include the potential loss
of entire programs at every level of government,” the panel
wrote in the report. “The government we currently have can’t be
supported, and business as usual can’t continue.”  Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, cut aid to towns
during his first year in office to cope with declining revenue
and also limited annual increases in local taxes. Midway through
his first term, he seeks a 10 percent across-the-board income-
tax cut. Democrats, who control both houses of the Legislature,
have proposed giving middle-class families property-tax credits
on their income-tax returns.  The report from the 19-member group assembled by the
grantmakers council, which promotes philanthropy, doesn’t
include any potential tax cuts. It estimates revenue will
increase 3.4 percent next fiscal year assuming “moderate
growth” and 4.3 percent using “more aggressive assumptions.”
Christie’s budget predicts revenue will rise 7.3 percent.  Service Cuts  Christie’s aid reduction and tax cap during the first half
of his term led mayors to weigh worker firings and program
reductions. The moves also forced some of the wealthiest towns
in  New Jersey , the third-richest U.S. state, to rethink expenses
that once seemed routine.  More needs to be done, said the grantmaker report.
Potential fixes include collecting a  sales tax  on Internet
purchases, more shared services for governments and school
systems, reducing the size of police forces and implementing a
county-based school administration, they said.  The group includes former state Treasurers Sam Crane and
Feather O’Connor Houstoun, ex-Attorneys General Robert Del Tufo
and John Farmer Jr. and former state Supreme Court Chief Justice
Deborah Poritz.  Other members include Richard Keevey, former state budget
director; Robert Smartt, former deputy treasurer; and
Christopher Daggett, who ran unsuccessfully as an independent
candidate against Christie and ex-Governor  Jon Corzine  in 2009.  The budget gaps estimated by the group don’t include costs
associated with the state’s $25.6 billion difference between
assets and anticipated payouts for its state pension systems or
$59 billion in underfunding for retiree medical benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  