-- N.Y. Senate Ex-Leader Espada Stole Funds, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-14T23:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/n-y-senate-ex-leader-espada-stole-funds-prosecutor-says-1-.html
Pedro Espada Jr., the  New York 
state Senate’s former Democratic majority leader, and his son
stole more than $500,000 from nonprofit health-care clinics they
run, a prosecutor said at the start of their trial.  The pair “stole more than half a million dollars from a
public charity,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Carolyn Pokorny told
jurors today in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York. “They
stole that money so they could spend it on themselves and their
families and they lied so that they could cover it up.”  Espada, 58, and Pedro Gautier Espada, 38, abused their
positions at Soundview Healthcare Center in the Bronx section of
 New York City , which gets more than $1 million a year in federal
funding, according to prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney
Loretta Lynch. Pedro Espada started Soundview in 1978.  The Espadas were charged in December 2010 when the elder
Espada was still in the Senate. He had been defeated that
September in the Democratic primary for his Bronx seat. The
Espadas engaged in several illegal schemes from January 2005 to
February 2010, prosecutors said.  “We will show you at trial that none of Espada’s
expenditures were theft,” Susan R. Necheles, a lawyer for Pedro
Espada, told the jury.  Few Janitors  U.S. District Judge Frederic Block is presiding over the
trial.  Russell M. Gioiella, Gautier Espada’s lawyer, said the
government accused his client of theft after “maybe five or six
checks” he wrote in 2005 were incorrectly categorized three
years later.  “All he’s doing is managing a few janitors and writing a
few checks,” Gioiella said. “The accountants, for whatever
reason, and you’ll hear from them, did not put them in the right
categories.”  Much of the Espadas’ alleged illegal activity centered on
two for-profit janitorial-services companies Pedro Espada
founded: Community Expansion Development Corp., or CEDC, in
1980, and Soundview Management Enterprises, in 2007. Both
provided services to the clinics. In January 2005, Espada
transferred ownership of CEDC to Soundview Healthcare, the
government said.  Even after Soundview Healthcare owned CEDC, the Espadas
operated it as if it was still theirs, using it to pay personal
expenses, including for political campaigns, prosecutors allege.
That scheme totaled $175,000, they said.  Bid Rigging  The two men are also charged with a bid-rigging scheme to
get Soundview Management the contract to clean the clinics.  In October 2006, Pedro Espada presented a $49,000 CEDC
check as down payment for a $125,000  Bentley  at a Long Island
dealership, according to the indictment. He never got the car
because his financing application was rejected.  “Espada had to settle for a Mercedes because Bentley
turned him down,” Pokorny said today. Necheles said it was a
used Mercedes.  Pedro Espada charged more than $100,000 for personal meals
on Soundview Healthcare’s corporate American Express card,
including more than $20,000 at Toyo Sushi in Mamaroneck, New
York, prosecutors said.  “During a five-year spending spree, Espada spent $60,000
on sushi and lobster,” Pokorny said.  Espada also failed to identify more than $115,000 in
charges on Soundview Healthcare’s credit card as his own,
prosecutors said.  Necheles said Espada never stole because he had no intent
to steal.  ‘Not Theft’  “If Espada thought something was part of his compensation
and he was entitled to the money, it’s not theft,” she said.
She said most of the charges came under an allowance he had for
daily expenses.  Espada used CEDC money to pay for a caterer, videographer,
petting zoo and pony at a June 2006 birthday party for a family
member at his Mamaroneck home, Pokorny said. Necheles said today
the party was for Espada’s 1-year-old granddaughter.  The Espadas rented Soundview Healthcare conference rooms
and other facilities to medical professionals and religious
groups, keeping about $200,000 for themselves, according to the
indictment.  “The rent belonged to Soundview,” Pokorny said. “But the
Espadas stole it.”  Necheles said it was always the case that the subletting
companies made their checks out to CEDC.  Deducted Days  The Espadas stole so much that Soundview Healthcare
struggled to pay its rent and payroll, Pokorny said.  “They did it because they were greedy, they did it because
they were powerful and they did it because they thought they
were going to get away with it,” the prosecutor said.  Pedro Espada was paid $500,000 a year at Soundview
Healthcare, Pokorny said.  “It’s not a crime in America to be paid a lot of money,”
Necheles said. “It’s not even a crime to be paid a lot of money
by a charity.”  Necheles said Espada was Soundview Healthcare’s biggest
creditor and “for years and years” was underpaid.  “Espada gave up $150,000 worth of his time so Soundview
could clean up its ledger sheets,” she said.  Cleaning and Maintenance  Gautier Espada is in charge of cleaning and maintenance at
Soundview Healthcare and also holds positions at the janitorial
companies, according to the government. His base salary and
fringe benefits were $111,667 in 2009, according to the
indictment. The younger Espada made almost as much from the
janitorial companies, the government said.  The Espadas are being tried on embezzlement and conspiracy
charges. One count for conspiracy to defraud the federal
government involves corporate income taxes owed by CEDC and
personal income taxes owed by the Espadas. Each substantive
count carries a maximum sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment. The
conspiracy counts bring as many as five years each.  On March 6, Block dismissed counts for  tax fraud  and making
false statements to the federal government, ruling they must be
tried in federal court in  Manhattan . One tax count will be tried
later in Brooklyn.  In April 2010,  Andrew Cuomo , when he was New York’s
attorney general, sued Pedro Espada and 19 others in state court
in Manhattan. Cuomo accused them of looting Soundview
Healthcare, taking more than $14 million during five years.  Cuomo Sued Espada  Cuomo, who is now governor, sued Espada again a week later
over labor violations, saying Soundview paid Espada Management,
which the senator founded and gave to his son, to supply
janitors for its clinics, creating “a sham job-training
program.” Espada cheated clinic workers by designating them as
“trainees” to avoid minimum-wage laws, according to that
lawsuit.  The state cases are on hold until the criminal matter is
resolved.  At the time, Espada called the civil charges “political
payback” for his temporary defection to the Republicans in June
2009, which resulted in a monthlong Senate deadlock.  Then-Governor  David Paterson , a Democrat, appointed Richard Ravitch as lieutenant governor, giving him the tie-breaking vote
in the Senate. That brought Espada back to the Democratic
caucus, which then made him majority leader.  The case is U.S. v. Espada, 10-cr-985, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 