-- National Aluminium Delays Output Restart on China Concerns
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-03-14T04:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/national-aluminium-delays-output-restart-on-china-concerns-1-.html
National Aluminium Co. (NACL) ,  India ’s
third-largest producer, is delaying the restart of the shuttered
10 percent of its capacity on signs the economy is stalling in
 China , the biggest user of the light metal.  Aluminum prices on the London Metal Exchange are being
dragged down by the uncertain outlook for Chinese growth,
Chairman B.L. Bagra said in a telephone interview. The recent
price rally, driven by global output shutdowns, couldn’t hold
above $2,300 a metric ton, the lowest level required for
National Aluminium to operate at full capacity, he said.  China last week reported its biggest trade deficit in at
least 22 years as government data also showed the world’s
second-largest economy had the weakest January-February factory-
production gain since 2009. Aluminum in  London , which has
dropped 19 percent since May, fell from a six-month high of
$2,353 a ton on March 1 to close yesterday at $2,258.50.  “China is the biggest consumer of most commodities and any
change in growth forecast of the country will have a bearing
worldwide,” said Bikash Bhalotia, a metals and mining analyst
at PINC Research in Mumbai. He has a sell recommendation on the
stock. “If companies have their own coal sources it may be
profitable to produce more metal even at current LME prices, but
National Aluminium doesn’t have that luxury.”  National Aluminium cut output by 10 percent following a
coal shortage at its unit in the eastern state of Odisha, Bagra
said Oct. 18. The company expected a restart to the shuttered
capacity in two weeks, he said then.  Coal Inventory ‘Comfortable’  The  shares  rose as much as 2 percent to 62 rupees in
Mumbai, and were trading at 61.25 rupees as of 9.26 a.m. local
time. The benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index climbed 1 percent.  “From January we started building our coal inventory and
are very comfortable at present,” Bagra said yesterday from the
eastern Indian city of Bhubaneswar, where the company is based.
“Operating the closed capacity with power produced from
imported coal is not a viable option at current metal prices.”  The company needs 7.5 million tons of coal annually, of
which about 6 million tons is supplied by  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  under
a long-term contract. The rest is imported or sourced from
auctions.  National Aluminium may produce 410,000 tons of the metal,
used in making aircrafts to beverage cans, in the year ending
March 31, about 8 percent lower than the last fiscal year, Bagra
said. Production costs had jumped 19 percent in the past two
years as raw-material costs rose, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  