-- New Icing Rule Wins NHL General Managers’ Support in Safety Move
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-03-14T15:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/new-icing-rule-wins-nhl-general-managers-support-in-safety-move.html
A new rule on icing was approved by
National Hockey League general managers, the first step toward
adopting a change aimed at reducing player injuries from goal-
line races.  The proposal was approved by the GMs during meetings
yesterday in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , the NHL said on its  website .  Before submitting the proposal to the league’s Competition
Committee, the GMs will draft a definition of the change to
eliminate gray areas they believe exist in a similar rule used
by U.S. college teams and a top U.S. junior league, the NHL
said.  “It’s going to go forward as a recommendation, but there
is some cleaning up as to how exactly it is going to work and
what directives we’re going to give,” Montreal Canadiens
General Manager Pierre Gauthier said.  If approved by the Competition Committee, the rule would be
added to the Board of Governors’ agenda for possible
implementation next season.  An icing play would be negated under the change if an
attacking forward outraces the opposing team’s defenseman to an
imaginary line across the defensive-zone faceoff dots while
chasing a puck shot down ice from behind the center red line.
The proposed rule, which has been on the GM meeting agenda for
six years, has been tested at the league’s research and
development camp in Toronto the past two years.  Under the current icing rule, a forward must beat a
defenseman to the puck after it crosses the goal line to negate
an icing call. High-speed races for the puck have resulted in
injuries as players crash into the boards or are hit into the
boards from behind.  Defensemen Kurtis Foster of the Minnesota Wild and Taylor Fedun of the Edmonton Oilers both broke legs in recent seasons
when hit into the boards on icing plays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  