-- Sarkozy Seeks to Outdo Hollande in Pledges to Tax Rich
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-15T11:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/new-day-new-tax-as-sarkozy-battles-hollande-in-french-campaign.html
France ’s presidential campaign has
turned into a race to tax the most.  On Feb. 27, Socialist frontrunner  Francois Hollande  said he
plans a 75 percent levy on income over 1 million euros ($1.31
million) on top of his pledge to raise the  wealth tax  and
eliminate exemptions for overtime work. President  Nicolas Sarkozy  followed with a proposed tax on the worldwide revenue of
large French companies and this week a levy on fiscal exiles.
Both candidates want to impose a fee on financial transactions.  Unlike in the U.S., where higher levies are a vote-killer,
in France, such increases win support in the polls, more so
after the European debt crisis cooled economic growth, raised
jobless claims to a 12-year high and the  unemployment rate  to
about 10 percent. An Ifop poll this month showed that 61 percent
of the French are in favor of Hollande’s millionaire tax.  “A U.S. election campaign is all about who promises to cut
taxes while here it’s about who will tax more,”  Maurice Levy ,
chief executive officer of advertising company Publicis SA, said
March 13 at a business conference in Paris.  France’s tax revenue as a proportion of gross domestic
product is one the highest in the world at 43 percent in 2010,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. That compares with 36.3 percent in  Germany , 25
percent in the U.S. and the OECD average of 34 percent.  Ordinary French  The eagerness of French candidates to promise new taxes,
and the positive response from voters stem at least in part from
the sentiment that tax cuts at the start of Sarkozy’s five-year
term allowed the wealthy to pay less than their fair share
during the economic crisis.  “Both candidates are trying to capitalize on the issue:
Sarkozy by trying to dispel the perception that he’s the
‘president of the rich,’ and Hollande by trying to show that he
can be the president of redistribution.”  Antonio Barroso , an
analyst at Eurasia Group, said in an interview.  Les Guignols, the nightly satirical puppet show on
television station  Canal-Plus , often shows Sarkozy furiously
criticizing his own government’s gifts to the rich and running
against his own record.  The first round of the presidential election will be held
on April 22, with the decisive second round set for May 6.  Taxes have become central to the campaign because neither
of the two leading candidates is promising significant cuts in
public spending and is constrained by government debt, which is
set to be 89 percent of gross domestic product this year.  All to Pay  Both sides accuse the other of hurting the middle class.
Hollande and his supporters point to Sarkozy’s plan to raise the
sales levy to fund lower social charges paid by employers.  Hollande’s program calls for raising  tax revenue  as a
percentage of economic output to 46.9 percent in 2017 from 45.1
percent now, and hiring 60,000 new teachers.  “The French will soon realize that all the French will be
asked to pay, and not just the rich,” government spokeswoman
Valerie Pecresse said yesterday, referring to Hollande’s plan.  Some support for higher income taxes comes from the fact
that 44 percent of French households don’t pay such levies
because of their low wages. They do pay 22 percent in social
charges and face value-added taxes of up to 19.6 percent. The
government gets a large majority of its tax revenue from VAT.  Still, Hollande’s millionaire levy scapegoats the few
wealth creators in France,  France Telecom SA (FTE)  CEO Stephane Richard said in an interview March 13.  Wrong Signal  “It depresses me,” he said. “All politicians in this
election are trying to impress the electorate by talking about
taxes, and pointing their finger at the rich. The 75 percent tax
sends the wrong signal. It’s not by plundering a few thousand
French people that you solve the problems of this country.”  Hollande’s levy, combined with other French charges, may in
some cases raise the rate to more than 80 percent, said  Line-
Alexa Glotin , a partner at Paris law firm UGGC & Associes.  That might contravene the French constitution’s prohibition
of confiscatory taxes, she said.  “But the several thousand people or so who are affected
probably won’t stick around, so there will be few to challenge
it,” she said in a telephone interview.  Glotin said many French taxpayers are looking to leave
France, mostly for Switzerland and  Belgium .  “The U.S. might tax its rich but at least they are
admired,” she said. “There’s an atmosphere in France now that
just doesn’t appeal to many entrepreneurs.”  Breaching Rights  Sarkozy said in an interview in weekly Le Point magazine
published today that he wants “Internet giants” to pay taxes in
France on the sales they make in the country.  Sarkozy’s proposed levies for companies and for overseas
citizens may risk breaching broader rights, some lawyers said.  The tax framework for French multinationals and citizens
living abroad will have to be carefully worded to avoid
contravening European Union treaties on freedom of movement and
on non-discrimination, said  Michael Jaffe , a Paris-based lawyer
at PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Sarkozy has said the levy will be imposed solely on tax
exiles and not on French people working overseas. The
distinction isn’t always so clear cut, said UGGC’s Glotin.  While the U.S. taxes its citizens abroad, no European
country does since fiscal codes are based solely on
territoriality. The  European Court  of Justice in 2004 shot down
a French “exit tax” on citizens moving abroad because it was
deemed to impede freedom of movement within  Europe .  Rolling Stones  Sarkozy’s minister Pecresse downplayed the challenges.  “We don’t have to renegotiate tax treaties with the entire
 United Nations , just with three or four major neighboring
countries,” she said.  None of the proposed levies is entirely new, Jaffe said.
France already has a treaty with  Monaco  to tax French residents
in the Mediterranean principality.  Nor are the levies setting any records.  The top rate in the U.S. was 94 percent during World War II
and 70 percent as late as 1981, when it applied to income over
the equivalent of $532,000 in today’s dollars, according to the
 Tax Foundation . Britain had a top rate of 83 percent in 1974 for
income of 155,000 pounds ($243,000) or more, according to
website MeasuringWorth.  So when the  Rolling Stones  wanted to escape British levies
in the 1970’s they moved to another country: France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  