-- Newmont Cutting Jobs at Suspended Peruvian Gold Project
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-03-14T22:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/newmont-cut-jobs-at-suspended-conga-project-santa-cruz-says.html
Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the world’s
second-largest gold producer, is cutting 6,000 jobs at its
suspended $4.8 billion Peruvian gold project to reduce costs,
Vice President Carlos Santa Cruz said.  The Minas Conga project, halted by environment protests in
November, is “vital” to the company’s nearby Yanacocha mine,
Santa Cruz said today at a press conference in Lima. Yanacocha,
 Latin America ’s largest gold mine, has seen output drop by 60
percent since 2005 as ore reserves dwindle.  “We’re revising the project’s costs and have canceled
contracts for 6,000 workers as the suspension had an initial
impact of $2 million a day,” Santa Cruz told reporters. “We
hope to restart operations as soon as possible, but it doesn’t
depend on us.”  Newmont, based in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , expects a
government-commissioned review of the project’s environmental
impact study to be completed in the first week of April, Santa
Cruz said. Conga, located in the northern Andean region of
Cajamarca, may produce as much as 680,000 ounces of gold and 235
million pounds of copper a year by the start of 2015, according
to the company’s website.  Newmont fell 1 percent to $54.30 at the close in  New York .
The stock has dropped 9.5 percent this year.  Opponents’ Findings  Rising costs and equipment delivery delays in the  mining
industry  mean time lost for the suspension will make the project
more difficult to develop, Santa Cruz said.  “The delay is affecting us,” he said. “We’re going to
make every effort and spend our last drop of sweat to bring
Conga online.”  Cajamarca regional government official Gregorio Santos, who
led project protests, this week presented a report by U.S.
hydrologist Roberto Moran that says Conga is environmentally
unsustainable because of wastewater treatment costs.  Newmont says building Conga will require the construction
of four reservoirs to replace four lakes, doubling regional
agriculture water supplies. Farmers, who were afraid the project
would dry up local water supplies, blocked roads and destroyed
Newmont installations in November.  Newmont will take opponents’ opinions into account in an
overhaul of its project study, Santa Cruz said.  Newmont, which owns 51 percent of Conga, is partners with
 Peru ’s  Cia. de Minas Buenaventura SAA  on the development.
Newmont is the second-largest gold producer ranked by revenue
after Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  