-- News of the World Asked Reporter to Bribe Police 30 Years Ago
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-14T13:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/news-of-the-world-asked-reporter-to-bribe-police-30-years-ago.html
An editor at News of the World, the
 News Corp. (NWSA)  tabloid shut after reporters were caught hacking into
sources’ voice mails, asked a reporter to bribe a police officer
for stories 30 years ago.  The reporter Jeff Edwards, now the president of the crime
reporters association, refused to offer the police money for
stories and was moved off the crime beat, he said today at a
judicial inquiry into media ethics in London.  News Corp.’s U.K. newspapers are under scrutiny for
reporters who may have broken the law for stories. The
inquisition was commissioned by Prime Minister  David Cameron  in
July in the wake of the phone-hacking scandal at the News of the
World. More than 10 reporters at News Corp.’s Sun tabloid have
been arrested in connection with a bribery investigation and
more than 20 have been arrested as part of a probe into phone
hacking.  “I thought it was indicative of the culture of that
particular organization at that point in time,” Edwards told
the inquiry, led by judge Brian Leveson, today. “There was an
element in there that had a tendency toward questionable,
unethical behavior that manifested itself in a variety of
ways.”  A News International spokeswoman didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  Edwards said he left the company in 1985 and wasn’t aware
of any wrongdoing that may have happened later. He said he never
saw any evidence of other reporters making improper payments to
police.  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of the
U.K. publishing unit, was arrested for a second time in
connection with the hacking investigation yesterday on suspicion
that she had attempted to pervert the course of justice, a
person familiar with the situation said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  