-- Norway Cuts Benchmark Rate as Surging Krone Threatens Jobs
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-03-14T13:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/norway-cuts-benchmark-rate-as-surging-krone-threatens-jobs-2-.html
Norway’s central bank cut its
 benchmark interest rate  for a second consecutive meeting as
policy makers deem the threat of krone appreciation to be more
serious than the risk of a credit-driven housing bubble. The
krone plunged against the euro and the dollar.  The overnight deposit rate was lowered a quarter percentage
point to 1.50 percent, following a half point cut in December,
the Oslo-based bank said today. The move was forecast by two of
the 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The central bank
predicted unchanged rates through March next year.  “The continuing downturn abroad and the strong krone are
contributing to keeping inflation low and are weighing on growth
in Norway,” Governor Oeystein Olsen said in a statement. “The
current outlook suggests that the key policy rate may remain low
longer than projected earlier.”  Policy makers in the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter
are caught in a dilemma over how to contain a commodities-driven
rebound and housing boom without spurring krone gains that hurt
manufacturers and kill jobs. The currency reached a nine-year
high this month as investors bought the krone to tap higher
returns offered by AAA rated  Norway  relative to the euro area.  Inflation Below Target  The krone fell 1.4 percent to 7.5592 per euro and 1.6
percent to 5.7903 per dollar as of 2:05 p.m. in Oslo.  The central bank forecast showed its key rate would average
1.87 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013 and 2.81 percent a
year later. It said underlying inflation will remain below its
2.5 percent target through 2015. So-called mainland gross
domestic product will grow 3.25 percent this year, and 3 percent
in each of next three years, the forecast today.  “The strong krone is a problem for a lot of exporting
industries and it means that inflation will be very low for a
long period,” said  Erik Bruce , senior economist at Nordea Bank
AB in Oslo, before the rate decision.  The krone is the fourth best-performing major currency
against the euro and the dollar this year, gaining 3.8 percent
and 4.7 percent, respectively, before today’s rate cut. That’s
hurting exporters and prompted both the government and central
bank to signal they’re ready to act.  Exporters such as Renewable Energy Corp. ASA have announced
job cuts as the strong currency hurts competitiveness and demand
from debt-burdened  Europe  sinks.  Imbalances  Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen on March 11 said the
government will seek to keep spending in check to avoid putting
pressure on the currency and rates.  Still, low interest rates are fueling imbalances in the
housing market. Private debt levels have risen to their highest
since at least 1988, the central bank estimates, and  house
prices  rose an annual 7 percent last month, according to the
Real Estate Brokers Association. Norwegian unemployment hovers
below 3 percent, making it the lowest jobless rate in Europe.  The overheated housing market is the biggest domestic
threat to the economy, Norway’s Finance Supervisory Authority
said in a report yesterday. House prices may fall “markedly,”
threatening to expose the economy to “substantial” knock-on
effects, the financial regulator said yesterday.  The economy, home to oil producer Statoil ASA, has
withstood Europe’s debt crisis as higher crude prices spur
record investments this year in offshore oil and gas fields.
Manufacturing accelerated at the fastest pace in nine months in
February and  consumer confidence  improved in the first quarter.  Krone gains have damped consumer price growth, giving the
central bank more scope to refrain from raising rates. Annual
underlying inflation, which adjusts for taxes, fees and energy
prices, held at 1.3 percent in February.  Governor Olsen has signaled the bank will tolerate
inflation below the bank’s target as sluggish demand in Europe
and a stronger krone ease price pressure. Olsen said in his
annual speech last month that it may take “several years before
inflation is back on target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  