-- Norway’s Krone Drops to Three-Week Low Before Central Bank Meets
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-03-14T10:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/norway-s-krone-drops-to-three-week-low-before-central-bank-meets.html
Norway ’s krone fell to a three-week
low versus the dollar as economists said the central bank will
keep  interest rates  unchanged today and signal it will stay on
hold to deter investors from buying the currency as a haven.  The krone also dropped for the first time in three days
against the euro as analysts predict the Norges Bank will lower
its rate forecast from October. Sweden’s krona weakened after a
central bank survey showed policy makers will cut their
benchmark rate over the next year.  “The krone declined today ahead of the rate decision but
any weakness is likely to be temporary,” said Peter Rosenstreich, head of currency analyst at Swissquote Bank SA in
Geneva. “The central bank has some very tough choices and a
delicate balancing act to do as the krone continues to find
buyers. We expect some heavy-handed verbal intervention, but
outright intervention seems less likely for now.”  The krone depreciated 0.6 percent to 5.7308 per dollar at
10:18 a.m.  London  time after falling to 5.7328, the weakest
since Feb. 17. The currency fell 0.4 percent to 7.4859 per euro.
Sweden’s krona dropped 0.3 percent to 6.7929 per dollar.  Norwegian policy makers are grappling with a dilemma over
how to cool an expanding property market and a commodities-
driven recovery without spurring krone gains and hurting
exports. Investments in the oil and gas industry are estimated
to rise to a record 186 billion kroner this year.  Deposit Rate  The central bank will leave its overnight deposit rate at
1.75 percent, according to all but two of 16 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg. Policy makers cut rates by half a percentage point
in December. The announcement is scheduled for 2 p.m. in Oslo.  The krone strengthened 3.1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the second best
performer behind  New Zealand ’s dollar. The Swedish krona
declined 0.1 percent.  “The krone’s strength is, to some extent, a byproduct of
Norway’s unparalleled fundamentals,”  Chris Walker , a currency
strategist at UBS AG in London, wrote in a note to clients. “We
expect any move on Norwegian rates to be gradual and expect no
change in headline policy just yet. These offsetting factors are
likely to be market drivers for some time.”  Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said on March 11 that
the government will seek to keep spending in check this year to
prevent the economy from overheating.  The krone’s strength “is an important concern when we set
the overall framework for 2013,” Johnsen said.  Sweden’s main interest rate will be at 1.4 percent in the
next year, from 1.5 percent now, according to a survey of labor
market organizations, purchasing managers and money market
participants commissioned by the central bank. The economy will
grow 1.6 percent in the next 12 months and 2.3 percent the
following year, according to the survey published today.  Norwegian 10-year bonds fell for a second day, with yields
rising eight basis points to 2.47 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  