-- Norway Invites Krone Speculation Amid Interest Rate Shock
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-03-15T09:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/norway-invites-krone-speculation-amid-interest-rate-shock.html
The Norwegian central bank’s
decision to fight krone gains with  interest rate  cuts may invite
speculators to test policy makers’ resolve to weaken the
currency.  “I am a bit shocked,” Olav Chen, a senior portfolio
manager who oversees about $7 billion at Storebrand Asset
Management in Oslo, said in an interview. “There was complete
miscommunication before the meeting.” The bank “clearly has a
threshold and that could pave the way for speculative attacks to
find out where that threshold is,” he said.  Governor Oeystein Olsen showed yesterday he won’t tolerate
further krone appreciation by cutting the overnight deposit rate
a quarter of a percentage point to 1.5 percent, when most
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted no change. The
decision follows the currency’s ascent to a nine-year high
against the euro earlier this month after investors turned to
Norway’s oil-backed markets to hedge against  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  “There is no doubt that there has been significant
strengthening of the krone,” Olsen said in an interview
yesterday. “That is an important element and factor at this
occasion.”  Olsen’s decision to cut rates sent the krone plunging the
most since May 2010. Norway’s currency lost as much as 1.9
percent against the euro to 7.5976 and slumped as much as 2.4
percent versus the dollar to 5.8352 yesterday.  Short-Lived Effect  Still, the krone gained today, signaling the  exchange rate 
effect of monetary easing may be short-lived. The krone
appreciated 0.1 percent versus the euro to trade at 7.5830 as of
10:18 a.m. in Oslo. Against the dollar, the krone gained 0.3
percent to 5.8079.  Olsen said the bank doesn’t defend a specific krone level
and that interest rate policy will only respond to the exchange
rate to the extent that it affects the inflation outlook.  “We have no intention of entering any dialogue or game
towards the  currency market  at all,” Olsen said. “We have
stressed several times that we have no certain level. But this
time we have clarified that we will react on variables that
affect our targets.”  The bank signaled yesterday it intends to keep its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a year. Underlying
inflation, which adjusts for taxes and energy, will remain below
the bank’s 2.5 percent target through 2015, it said. Inflation
by that measure held at 1.3 percent in February, and has been
below target since August 2009.  Oil, Not Rates  Olsen’s efforts to contain the currency of the world’s
seventh-largest oil exporter through rate cuts may ultimately
fail, according to Kyrre Aamdal, a senior economist at DNB ASA,
 Norway ’s biggest bank based in Oslo. He says the krone’s
strength is driven more by the price of oil than by interest
rates.  “We have seen that the correlation between interest rate
differentials and the Norwegian krone has not been very strong
recently and we think the reason for the very strong krone is
the high  oil prices ,” Aamdal said by phone. “We are a bit
skeptical as to whether this was a good move.”  The bank’s decision to focus more on the currency market
than the threat of a credit-driven housing bubble may also prove
dangerous, according to Aamdal. The Financial Supervisory
Authority warned this week that the biggest domestic threat to
Norway’s economy stems from an overheated property market as
borrowers assume interest rates will stay low.  Housing Bubble  At Norges Bank, Olsen said policy makers “don’t use the
word bubble,” in yesterday’s interview. “We think we are not
close to a bubble in the housing market, in the classical
sense.”  Robert Shiller , the co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller
home-price index, in January warned Norway is already in the
grip of a house price bubble that could be “dangerous” for the
economy.  Private debt levels have swelled to the highest level since
at least 1988, the central bank estimates, while  house prices 
rose an annual 7 percent last month, according to the Real
Estate Brokers Association.  “We think the domestic economy needs higher interest
rates,” Aamdal said.  Swiss Syndrome  The central bank has stepped up its efforts to counter the
krone’s appreciation since the  Swiss National Bank  in September
clamped down on  currency speculation  by pegging the franc to the
euro. That sent investors in search of alternative havens from
Europe’s debt crisis.  “Let’s not hope Norway will be another  Switzerland ,” said
 John Hydeskov , chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in  London , in an
e-mailed reply to questions. “Norges Bank knows perfectly well
that a 25 basis point cut won’t curb the appreciation of the
krone by much. A rate cut signals: ‘We are alert.’ They hope the
symbolic value is enough.”  Before yesterday’s rate cut, the krone was the fourth best-
performing major currency against the euro and the dollar this
year, gaining 3.8 percent and 4.7 percent, respectively.  “The rally in the krone has been a major headache,” said
Chen at Storebrand. “I find Mr. Olsen very unclear. If central
banks seek transparency and to be good at guiding markets, they
have failed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 