-- Norway Set to Keep Main Rate Unchanged to Cap Surging Krone
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-03-14T10:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/norway-set-to-keep-main-rate-unchanged-to-cap-surging-krone-2-.html
Norway ’s central bank will keep its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged and signal it will be on hold
over the next year to deter investors from buying kroner as
 Europe  struggles with its debt crisis.  The bank will leave its overnight deposit rate at 1.75
percent today, according to 14 of 16 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. It will also probably lower its rate forecast from
October, after in December cutting rates by half a percentage
point. The announcement is scheduled for 2 p.m. in Oslo.  “Norges Bank will stubbornly focus on the uncertain global
outlook and strong krone,” said Erica Blomgren, chief
strategist for Norway at SEB AB. “Despite solid domestic data
recently we expect Norges Bank to surprise dovishly, lowering
the rate path more than expected by market.”  Policy makers in the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter
are struggling with a dilemma over how to cool a booming
 property market  and a commodities-driven recovery without
spurring krone gains that hurt manufacturers. The currency hit a
nine-year high this month as investors snapped up the krone to
profit from the higher returns offered in the AAA rated country
relative to the euro area.  The krone weakened 0.4 percent to 7.4840 per euro as of
11:12 a.m. in Oslo. It fell 0.5 percent to 5.7283 per dollar.  The economy, home to oil producer  Statoil ASA (STL) , has
withstood Europe’s debt crisis as a jump in crude prices is
spurring record investments this year in offshore oil and gas
fields. Norwegian manufacturing accelerated at the fastest pace
in nine months in February and  consumer confidence  improved in
the first quarter.  Flat Path  The rebound risks stoking a housing bubble, as unemployment
hovers at a European low of less than 3 percent. Private debt
ratios have risen to their highest since at least 1988, the
central bank estimates, while  house prices  from the Real Estate
Brokers Association rose an annual 7 percent.  “We expect them to present an  interest rate  path that is
flat until the first hike comes in March next year,” said Kari Due-Andresen, senior economist in Oslo at Svenska Handelsbanken
AB. “The Norwegian economy is very resilient due to the oil.”  Statistics Norway estimates the  mainland economy , which
excludes oil, gas and shipping, will grow 2.7 percent in 2012.
Investments in the nation’s oil and gas industry are estimated
to rise to a record 186 billion kroner this year.  Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said on March 11 that
the government will seek to keep spending in check this year and
next to avoid putting pressure on the krone and rates.  Growth Picking Up  “Growth is keeping up well in the Norwegian economy,”
Johnsen said in an interview. “What has happened around the
debt in  Greece , and that interest rates are going down in
Europe, can contribute to both international and Norwegian
growth picking up next year.”  European leaders have been struggling to contain the debt
crisis, now in its third year. The European Commission estimates
a 0.3 percent contraction in the euro area this year. The
 European Central Bank  held its benchmark unchanged at a record
low of 1 percent last week, citing signs of stabilization.  Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen has also signaled his
bank will tolerate inflation below its 2.5 percent target as
slow demand in Europe and the stronger krone ease price
pressure. Annual underlying inflation, which adjusts for taxes,
fees and energy prices, held at 1.3 percent in February, Oslo-
based  Statistics Norway  said March 9. Olsen said in his annual
speech last month that it may take “several years before the
inflation is back on target.”  The central bank expects  wages  to grow 4.25 percent this
year, putting an extra burden on exporters already facing lower
demand from the euro area, Norway’s largest trading partner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  