-- NPC International Sets Rate on $375 Million Refinancing Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-03-14T20:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/npc-international-sets-rate-on-375-million-refinancing-loan-1-.html
NPC International Inc. (NPCI) , a Pizza Hut
franchisee, set the interest rate it will pay on a $375 million
 term loan  the company is seeking to refinance debt, according to
a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The debt, due in December 2018, will pay interest at 4
percentage points to 4.25 percentage points more than the London
interbank offered rate, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private. Libor, the rate banks
say they can borrow in dollars from each other, will have a 1.25
percent minimum.  “This is somewhat wider than we expected in light of some
of the fairly tight price talk we have been seeing of late on
loan deals,”  Barbara Cappaert , a bond analyst at Vermont-based
KDP Investment Advisors Inc., wrote today in a note. The
expected  interest rate  is attractive, she wrote.  Lenders are being offered one-year soft-call protection of
101 cents, meaning the company would have to pay 1 cent more
than face value to refinance the debt during the first year, the
person said.  Barclays Plc is arranging the refinancing and lenders must
submit commitments by March 21 at 5 p.m. in New York, the person
said.  The company’s existing term loan pays 5.25 percentage
points more than Libor with a 1.5 percent minimum on the
benchmark, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt was
sold to investors at 98 cents on the dollar, the data show.  Olympus Partners, a Stamford, Connecticut-based private-
equity firm, purchased NPC from Bank of America Corp. for $775
million in December 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Paul Rubin, a partner at Olympus Partners, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in  New York  at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  