-- NYC Faces Budget Risks From ‘One-Shot’ Revenue, DiNapoli Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-14T15:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/nyc-faces-budget-risks-from-one-shot-revenue-dinapoli-says.html
New York City  remains at risk for
deficits because officials have used $3.5 billion in
nonrecurring resources to balance next year’s budget, state
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said.  “The city has relied heavily on reserves and other one-
shot sources of revenue, leaving fewer reserves to cushion the
impact of potential budget risks,” the comptroller said in the
office’s  annual report  on the city’s fiscal condition.  DiNapoli also said the outlook for the most populous U.S.
city continues to improve, citing newly released data showing
that New York has regained the jobs lost during the 18-month
recession.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s proposed  $68.7 billion budget  for
the fiscal year beginning July 1 achieved balance in part by
including $1 billion from the sale of taxi medallions and $1
billion from the Retiree Health Benefits Trust, a fund to pay
future health costs.  Since June, the measures have helped close a $4.6 billion
deficit for fiscal 2013 and narrowed estimated future gaps to $3
billion in 2014 and $3.5 billion in subsequent years, according
to the report  The city may need more revenue or cost cutting in the next
year due to the impact of Wall Street restructuring, the pace of
economic growth, the prospect of less federal aid, unresolved
contracts with teachers and other public workers, and the timing
for when the city might reap revenue from the medallion sales,
the comptroller’s report said.  Job Losses  “While the broker/dealer operations of the member firms of
the  New York  Stock Exchange had a strong first half in 2011,
they lost $4.9 billion in the second half,” the report said.  Wall Street’s $7.7 billion profit for the year represented
its second consecutive decline by more than 50 percent and the
lowest level of profitability since 2002, according to the
report.  “While the securities industry in New York City has
recovered about 40 percent of the jobs lost during the
recession, job losses are expected to resume as the year
progresses,” the report said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark
Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  