-- Obama Bringing Cameron to NCAA Game Adds to March Madness
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-03-14T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/obama-bringing-cameron-to-ncaa-game-adds-to-march-madness.html
Bob Wheeler made sure he and his 8-
year-old son, Andrew, got to the University of Dayton Arena
early for last night’s “First Four” game to beat President
Barack Obama’s motorcade and get Andrew a hot dog.  “I wanted to at least see tip-off,” Wheeler said in an
interview.  Wheeler was among the fans who joined Obama and British
Prime Minister  David Cameron  at the first-round game of the
National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s basketball
tournament in  Ohio , a key swing state in this fall’s
presidential election.  While Wheeler, 45, an accountant from Miamisburg, Ohio,
said he came to see basketball and not two world leaders, he and
other fans in the 12,800-seat arena said it added to the “March
Madness” excitement to have Obama and Cameron sitting
courtside, even if it meant extra traffic and going through
metal detectors.  “It reminds me of a big game,” said George Crickmore, 41,
a third-grade teacher from Fairborn and a season-ticket holder
for university basketball games. “There’s a lot of energy.”  Obama and Cameron arrived in the arena to a loud cheer
about 6:30 p.m. New York time yesterday, shortly before tip-off
between Mississippi Valley State University and Western  Kentucky 
University. Dressed casually, they shook a few hands and took
their seats in the front row at one end of the court.  Before the game, the president and Cameron could be seen
talking and laughing, and the two leaders continued to chat as
the action began. Obama sometimes pointed toward the court as he
talked with Cameron. The British leader told reporters traveling
with him that he was brushing up on the rules of the game before
he arrived in  Washington .  Hot Dogs  Two women brought hot dogs for the two leaders after the
first time-out, with a water for Obama and a Coke for Cameron.  During an interview with  CBS Sports ’ analyst Clark Kellogg
at halftime, Cameron said it was his first time at a basketball
game. While he got a briefing on the rules before arriving, he
said the game was “hard at times to follow.”  “It’s pretty fast and furious,” he said.  Western Kentucky won yesterday’s contest, 59 to 58,
advancing to face the top-seeded  University of Kentucky 
tomorrow. The University of Kentucky is favored by Las Vegas
odds makers to win the NCAA Division I championship.  Obama said he wanted to bring Cameron to Ohio so he could
get a better sense of the nation’s “heartland.”  “Sometimes when we have foreign visitors they only see the
coasts,” he said.  ‘Real America’  It’s not a coincidence that Obama came to Ohio, a
battleground state that Obama carried with 51.5 percent of the
vote in 2008, said Nan Whaley, a Dayton city commissioner and
Democrat.  “Ohio being a center of 2012 is, I’m sure, some point of
it,” Whaley, who also is part of the event’s organizing
committee, said in a telephone interview. “But it’s more about
showing something he loves, which is basketball, and average
America, real America.”  Chris Maloney, a spokesman for the Ohio Republican Party,
pointed to the health-care law Obama championed, rising gas
prices and debt increases, saying in an e-mail that Ohioans
“have had a courtside seat for President Obama’s air balls on
the economy for three years.”  Still, Ohio’s top Republican elected official, Governor
 John Kasich , attended the game and sat in the same section as
the president and prime minister. Kasich, who was elected in
2010, said he spoke to the president and White House Chief of
Staff Jack Lew about Ohio’s efforts to develop natural gas from
its shale formations. He downplayed talk about politics.  Metal Detectors  “A lot of times people want to make more of this than it
is,” Kasich told reporters at halftime. “It’s a time to have
some comfortable time together.”  Other than the high-profile guests and tighter security
including metal detectors, it was a normal NCAA tournament game,
said Tim O’Connell, senior associate director of athletics.
There was not a spike in ticket sales after the president’s
visit was announced, he said. There were empty seats at the top
of the upper section on one side of the arena.  “This is a group that wants to see good basketball games,
which they’ll see tonight, and then the topper is they’re going
to see the commander-in-chief,” O’Connell said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Wheeler, a Republican who said he voted for former
Pennsylvania senator  Rick Santorum  in Ohio’s March 6
presidential primary, said he doubted the visit would give Obama
much of a political boost unless he “fills his own gas tank.”  Diane Amos, 57, a social worker from  Bowling Green ,
Kentucky, who traveled to see Western Kentucky play, disagreed.
She said it was on her “bucket list” to attend an NCAA
tournament game, and that it was a bonus to have the president,
whom she supports, there.  “It makes him more human, and of course, he loves
basketball,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Dayton at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Dayton at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  