-- Obama Puts Out Welcome Mat for Cameron That Brown Didn’t Get
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-14T17:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/obama-puts-out-welcome-mat-for-cameron-that-brown-didn-t-get.html
Barack Obama  is giving  David Cameron  two days in  Washington  that any British prime minister
would covet. It’s a long way from the cool reception the
president gave Cameron’s predecessor,  Gordon Brown , in 2009.  Cameron rode with Obama on Marine One and then Air Force
One yesterday to watch a college basketball game in  Ohio . Today
the premier got a full formal arrival ceremony on the South Lawn
of the White House, with a 19-gun salute and a review of troops.
Later the two leaders held a joint press conference in the  Rose
Garden .  Brown made much of being the first European leader to visit
Obama in March 2009 after the president took office. Still, he
wasn’t granted a formal news conference, the two men taking
questions in the Oval Office instead. When it came to gifts,
Brown gave Obama several, including a pen-holder carved from
timber from a former Royal Navy vessel. Obama gave Brown a box
set of 25 DVDs of classic American films. It later emerged the
DVDs had copyright security that prevented them being viewed in
Britain.  “British politicians tend to be obsessed with American
politics, something that has only got worse since ‘The West
Wing,’”  Philip Cowley , professor of politics at Nottingham
University in the English Midlands, said in an interview. “What
prime ministers want most of all is to be able to show their own
people that they’re taken seriously by the most powerful man in
the world.”  First Names, Jokes  At today’s arrival ceremony and the news conference, the
two men made a point of addressing each other by their first
names and exchanging jokes in remarks that spoke of the
closeness of their two countries.  “The relationship between the U.S. and the U.K. is
stronger than it has ever been,” Obama said. Cameron said it’s
“the strongest it’s ever been.”  After spending the day with the Obamas, Cameron and his
wife, Samantha, will attend a state dinner in their honor
tonight at the White House.  A show of closeness benefits the both men, who come from
opposite sides of the political spectrum. With Democrat Obama
running for re-election this year, evidence that he can work
well with a Conservative Party leader such as Cameron may help
him to appeal to swing voters. In the U.K., Cameron failed to
win a parliamentary majority in 2010 and needs to broaden his
appeal if he’s to do so in 2015.  The gift-giving today was more evenly matched than in 2009
and recalled events from Obama’s state visit to the U.K. last
year.  The Camerons gave the Obamas a customized table-tennis
table with U.S. and U.K. flag paddles. The prime minister’s
office said it was chosen as a gift the family could enjoy. The
Obamas gave the Camerons a hand-made Braten 1000 grill, with
White House chef jackets and the Camerons’ names embroidered on
them. The grills retail for $1,895.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Washington at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  