-- Obama Picks North Carolina to Win NCAA College Basketball Title
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-03-14T13:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/obama-picks-north-carolina-to-win-ncaa-college-basketball-title.html
President  Barack Obama  tapped the
University of  North Carolina ’s Tar Heels as his pick to win the
U.S. college basketball championship.  Obama, a basketball fan who took U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron to the annual college tournament’s first game last night
in Dayton, Ohio, disclosed his selection today on the ESPN cable
sports network.  Obama said North Carolina will upset the top-seeded
University of Kentucky in the April 2 NCAA Division I men’s
championship game.  The president had already disclosed predictions that North
Carolina, Kentucky, the University of Missouri and Ohio State
University would play in the tournament semi-finals, known as
the Final Four, in New Orleans.  “I’m big on momentum,” Obama said on ESPN, explaining
factors that go into his selections. “I like teams that are hot
late” in the season.  Kentucky is the No. 1 team in the  Associated Press ’s
college poll. Missouri is third, North Carolina is fourth, and
Ohio State is seventh in the latest AP rankings.  Obama, 50, and Cameron, 45, watched Western Kentucky
University defeat Mississippi Valley State University yesterday
in Dayton.  Obama often spends free time on weekends playing basketball
at the Interior Department or Fort McNair. Every year he has
been in office, the president has filled in tournament
predictions on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN.  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor who is a
leading contender for the Republican presidential nomination,
said yesterday that he won’t be filling out brackets.  “I’m not plugged in well enough this year to do that,” he
told reporters traveling with him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  