-- Obama Reaffirms United Front With Cameron on Afghanistan, Syria
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-03-14T18:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/obama-reaffirms-united-front-with-cameron-on-afghanistan-syria.html
President  Barack Obama  and U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  showed a  united front  on finishing
the war in Afghanistan and pressing for change in Iran and
 Syria , seeking to consolidate international support before a
North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting in May.  At a news conference today in the White House  Rose Garden ,
the leaders said they reaffirmed their plans to wind down the
Afghanistan war by shifting to a support role next year, with
Afghans taking full responsibility in 2014. The U.S. and U.K.
are the top two contributors of forces to the mission.  “We’re going to complete this mission and we’re going to
do it responsibly,” Obama said, after the leaders met in the
Oval Office. The “next phase of the transition” will be
determined at May’s NATO summit in  Chicago , he said. “I don’t
anticipate at this stage that we’re going to be making any
sudden additional changes to the plan that we currently have.”  Cameron said that “we will not give up on this mission,
because Afghanistan must never again be a safe haven for al-
Qaeda to launch attacks against us.” Of the U.S.-U.K.
relationship, he said that “there are some countries whose
alliance is a matter of convenience, but ours is a matter of
conviction.”  Their comments follow the March 11 killing of least 16
Afghan civilians in an attack in which the suspected shooter was
a U.S. soldier. The incident threatens to further erode tense
U.S.-Afghan relations, drain remaining U.S. and European support
for the war and add pressure to speed troop withdrawals ahead of
the security handover now set for 2014.  ‘Why We’re There’  Cameron said that “the vast majority” of terrorist plots
affecting the U.K. and U.S. had been coming out of Afghanistan
and the region and “that’s why we went in there -- that’s why
we’re there today.  ‘‘It’s not some selfish, long-term strategic interest,” he
said. “It’s simply that we want Afghanistan to be able to look
after its own security with its own security forces so we are
safe at home.”  Obama said the nations also are “fully united” on tactics
for preventing  Iran  from acquiring a nuclear weapon. There is
“still time and space” for diplomacy and sanctions before
resorting to military action, although the window for diplomacy
is “shrinking.”  “Tehran must understand that it cannot escape or evade the
choice before it,” Obama said. “Meet your international
obligations, or face the consequences.”  ‘Inevitable Consequence’  Cameron and Obama reiterated calls for Syria’s Bashar al- Assad to step down.  “If Assad continues, then civil war or revolution is the
inevitable consequence,” Cameron said. He said the U.S. and
U.K. should appeal to Russia’s “own interests” to urge it to
support tougher UN Security Council action toward Syria.  “It’s not in their interest to have this bloodied, broken,
brutal regime butchering people nightly on the television
screens,” Cameron said.  The British leader called it an “irony” that Syrian
people had long felt Russians were their “friends” while being
“suspicious” of the West. “Now they can see people in the
West wanting to help them” and “we need to make sure that
 Russia  joins with that.”  Obama and Cameron sought to minimize differences in their
approaches to the global economic crisis.  Cameron said “the measures we take in our domestic
economies reflect different national circumstances, but we share
the same goals -- delivering significant deficit reduction over
the medium-term and stimulating growth.”  ‘Indispensable’ Alliance  At an arrival ceremony for Cameron this morning, Obama said
Britain is “one of our closest friends and dearest allies”
whose relationship with the U.S. “is indispensable” for
security and prosperity.  Cameron said the U.S. and the U.K. have “the most powerful
partnership for progress the world has ever seen.”  Cameron will be the guest at a formal dinner at the White
House tonight.  While Obama officially welcomed Cameron to the White House
this morning, their visit began yesterday, when they traveled on
Air Force One to  Ohio , a key swing state in this fall’s
presidential election, to watch a first-round game of the
National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s basketball
tournament.  Downing Street Hoops  At the South Lawn arrival ceremony, the two leaders
exchanged light-hearted remarks, seeking to dispel any notion
that the U.S.-U.K. relationship has soured in recent years.
Obama said that after their trip to the NCAA basketball game
last night, Cameron’s team told him “he has decided to install
a hoop at 10 Downing Street.”  Both men joked that the very first visit by the British to
the White House was a bit more tense.  “They really lit up the place,” Obama said, referring to
the burning of the executive mansion by British troops two years
into the War of 1812.  Cameron referred to “that unfortunate episode 200 years
ago” and, noting current levels of White House security, said,
“You’re clearly not taking any risks with the Brits this
time.”  Cameron will meet tomorrow in  New York  with business
executives to talk about the global economy and their
perceptions of the U.K. economy, said Peter Westmacott, the
U.K.’s ambassador to  Washington . The embassy didn’t release a
list of those attending.  Heather Conley , director of the Europe Program at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies, a policy center
in Washington, said Obama and Cameron need to bring a unified
public message to the NATO summit.  Shaking Political Resolve  “Every death, every event, the burning of the Koran and
things like that, shakes public opinion and political resolve,”
she said.  The coalition’s mission has faced a new round of challenges
in  Afghanistan . Last week, six British soldiers were killed in
an explosion, the biggest death toll in six years for British
forces from a single incident. That follows the burning of
Korans in Afghanistan last month by U.S. service members, which
sparked also has increased tensions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Washington at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  