-- Obama-Romney Race Toss-Up in Poll Showing Independents Vital
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-14T18:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/obama-romney-race-toss-up-in-poll-showing-independents-critical.html
A strengthening economy and a
contentious Republican primary have not translated into a wave
of support for President  Barack Obama , who runs even in a
matchup against his likely challenger,  Mitt Romney .  Obama and Romney are backed by 47 percent of likely general
election voters, while the president outruns the other
Republican candidates, a Bloomberg National  Poll  conducted March
8-11 shows. While Obama’s job approval has improved among
independents, whose votes will swing the election in November,
49 percent support Romney and 41 percent Obama in the survey.  Still, with less than eight months until Election Day,
Obama has improved his standing on the economy, has a majority
of Americans viewing him favorably and has begun to rekindle the
enthusiasm of his 2008 supporters. Forty-eight percent of the
public approves of the job the president is doing, up from a
September low of 45 percent. Among independents, his approval
rating stands at 45 percent, a 6-point jump from September.  “Where I am now is a lot better than I was three years
ago,” said Andrew Atkins, a 28-year-old television producer
from Spring Lake,  Michigan , who relocated from  Orlando  last year
after he was laid off from his previous job. “We’re really
starting to move our family forward, where in 2008 we were sort
of at a wall.”  While there are positive trends for Obama, with Americans
generally becoming more hopeful about the economy, the poll was
conducted amid concerns about rising tensions with Iran, higher
gasoline prices, the European debt crisis and the threats these
challenges pose to the stability of the recovery.  Congressional Control  The poll also indicates that, after a year of congressional
gridlock, the public isn’t eager to hand Democrats back control
of the  House of Representatives . If the elections were held
today, 46 percent of likely voters said they would support the
Republican candidate and 44 percent the Democratic candidate, in
their congressional district.  A plurality continues to give Obama negative marks for his
handling of the economy. Fifty-six percent of those surveyed
disapprove of his handling of the economy. While that is down
from 62 percent in September, it is up from 52 percent at this
point last year.  Job Creation  The survey -- partly conducted after the March 9 release of
the government’s February employment report that exceeded
expectations and showed the  unemployment rate  steady at 8.3
percent -- found that 44 percent approve of Obama’s efforts to
create jobs, while 50 percent don’t. On his efforts to create
jobs, the president did slightly better with women, who split
with 47 percent approving and disapproving.  Obama’s lowest ratings on the economy involve his handling
of the federal  budget deficit , with 62 percent of Americans
surveyed disapproving, unchanged from six months ago.  “I’m a Democrat, but I would probably vote for someone
other than the president -- he’s had his turn,” said Leslie
Lee, 47, a public school teacher in Panama City,  Florida . “I’ve
lost 3 percent pay right off the top just to keep the same job
I’ve had for the last 26 years.”  Likely voters continue to view Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor and co-founder of the private equity firm
Bain Capital LLC who has staked his candidacy on being better
equipped to handle the economy, as the Republican with the best
chances of unseating the president.  Obama Versus Romney  In matchups, Romney and the president are tied at 47
percent among likely voters surveyed. Obama bests former
 Pennsylvania  senator  Rick Santorum  by 50 percent to 44 percent,
surpasses former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  by 52 percent
to 41 percent and Texas Congressman  Ron Paul  by 48 percent to 43
percent.  A survey released today by the Pew Research Center for the
People & the Press shows Obama ahead of both Romney and
Santorum, the two main contenders in the Republican race.  The March 7-11 poll gave Obama a 54 percent to 42 percent
lead over Romney and a 57 percent to 39 percent advantage over
Santorum. The survey of 1,503 adults had a margin of error of
plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Obama’s Challenges  The Bloomberg survey reveals a potential challenge facing
Obama, who won the women’s vote by 56 percent to 43 percent in
his 2008 race against Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona ,
according to national exit polls of voters. Obama leads Romney
among women, though by 49 percent to 45 percent.  Romney leads among men, by 48 percent to 46 percent. Romney
wins seniors age 65 and over by 19 points. The two split those
between the ages of 35-54, and Obama overwhelmingly wins
Americans under the age of 35.  Obama also is holding onto college graduates, a group who
favored him in 2008, beating Romney by 50 percent to 45 percent
in the survey. Romney outruns Obama among those with only some
college, high school or less education.  As Obama develops a campaign message that centers around
economic fairness and draws a policy line between 99 percent of
Americans and the top 1 percent in wealth, Romney wins among
voters with annual incomes of $100,000 and more by 53 percent to
43 percent. He also leads by four points among voters who earn
between $50,000 and $99,000 a year, while Obama wins by 13
points voters earning $50,000 and less.  Holding Bases  Obama and Romney are holding on to groups that
traditionally have voted Democratic or Republican in recent
elections, said J. Ann Selzer, of  West Des Moines , Iowa-based
Selzer & Company, who conducted the poll.  “A key group in November will be the affluent segment,”
Selzer said. “Obama and McCain tied with voters reporting
household income of $100,000 or more in 2008, yet that same
group went strongly for GOP House candidates in 2010 -- by 18
points.”  Among the trends boding well for the president, he
continues to be held in high regard by the American public.  With Romney mired in a fight to secure his party’s
nomination, almost half the country holds an unfavorable view of
the former Massachusetts governor, the poll shows. At 48
percent, that is 10 points higher than it was in September. Most
Americans have a favorable view of the president.  “You can’t expect him to fix everything in four years,”
said Joan Amity, 68, who is an artist living in Allison Park,
Pennsylvania. “He’s got his weaknesses, but the alternative to
me is absolutely just an unbearable thought.”  Obama Versus Republicans  While the president’s ratings are improving incrementally,
58 percent of poll respondents who viewed Obama favorably said
it was because of things he’s done, while 34 percent have been
“turned off” by what they are seeing on the Republican side.  Since March, Obama has closed an enthusiasm gap among
supporters who backed his election four years ago; 91 percent
say they support the president, compared with 81 percent in
September. Americans say the president is offering a better
vision for a successful economic future than Republicans, albeit
by a margin of 42 percent to 40 percent.  The poll hands the president his highest ratings on his
handling of terrorism -- with 61 percent approval -- even though
it isn’t emerging as a central issue in the election.  Anti-War Sentiment  Iran , however, has become a political flashpoint among the
Republican presidential candidates. As  Israel  weighs a military
strike to prevent Iran from building a nuclear weapon, Obama has
advocated pursuing additional diplomatic measures while saying
U.S. support for Israel is unshakeable and that he won’t
hesitate to use military force if necessary. Romney has said he
would “bring the current policy of procrastination to an end.”  Yet after more than 10 years at war in  Afghanistan  and nine
years in  Iraq , the poll shows, the American public doesn’t want
to send U.S. troops into another conflict.  Forty-eight percent of respondents said that if Israel
decided to take military action against Iranian nuclear sites,
the U.S. should express support but stay out of the conflict.
Thirty-three percent said the military should join the effort by
providing logistical support, such as refueling Israeli jets and
supplying weapons. Eight percent said the U.S. should condemn
Israel, and 11 percent said they weren’t sure.  The survey of 1,002 adults carries a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  