-- Oil Drops on Saudi Pledge to Meet Any Supply Shortage
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-03-14T13:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/oil-drops-on-saudi-pledge-to-meet-any-supply-shortage.html
Oil fell as Saudi Arabian Oil
Minister Ali al-Naimi said the kingdom can make up for any
shortage in global supply, easing concern that tensions with
 Iran  may disrupt production.  Prices dropped as much as 0.6 percent after al-Naimi said
oil markets are balanced and have ample production and refining
capacity. He spoke in Kuwait at the biennial International
Energy Forum. The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency
against six counterparts, rose to an eight-week high after the
 Federal Reserve  raised its economic assessment yesterday.  “Saudi Arabia is continuing the talk of more production at
a time when demand is weak,” said Phil Flynn, an analyst at
PFGBest in Chicago. “The improvement of the  U.S. economy 
probably means the dollar becomes a lot stronger and it’s going
to weigh on  oil prices .”  Crude for April delivery slid 31 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
$106.40 a barrel at 9:30 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have gained 7.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for April settlement fell 20 cents to $126.02 on
the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  “ Saudi Arabia  and others remain poised to make good any
shortfall, perceived or real, in crude oil supply,” al-Naimi
said.  Oil has been on the rise this year as the U.S. and Europe
pressed Iran to give up its nuclear program by imposing a series
of economic sanctions, including a European ban on imports of
Iranian crude set to start July 1.  Strait of Hormuz  Iran, the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries after Saudi Arabia, has said its
nuclear program is for peaceful purposes. It threatened to close
the Strait of Hormuz, the transit point for about 20 percent of
globally traded oil, in reaction to the sanctions.  The U.S. has received assurances from Saudi Arabia, the
United Arab Emirates and Kuwait that they would raise oil
production to help offset the effect of sanctions on Iranian
exports, according to participants in discussions between the
U.S. and oil-producing countries.  The Dollar Index (DXY)  rose as much as 0.3 percent to 80.435, the
strongest level since Jan. 20, after the Fed yesterday said the
U.S. labor market is gathering strength and refrained from new
actions to lower borrowing costs. Gains in the dollar reduce
oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  U.S. crude inventories  probably increased  1.6 million in
the week ended March 9 to 347.3 million, the most since Sept. 2,
according to the median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Yesterday, the industry-funded American
Petroleum Institute said supplies climbed 2.78 million barrels
to 349.3 million.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its Weekly
Petroleum Status Report at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  