-- Politically Incorrect Gas Is Jobs Machine: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-03-14T23:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/oil-and-gas-boom-interrupts-greening-of-america-caroline-baum.html
Anecdotes are no substitute for
hard data. But when they start to reach a critical mass and they
all tell the same story, you know something big is going on.  -- A longtime car salesman relocates to south  Texas  to
capitalize on the soaring demand for  truckers  to haul sand to
hydraulic fracturing sites across the Eagle Ford shale
formation. Nearby, the Corpus Christi Independent School District 
can’t find bus drivers, who are getting paid a lot more to cart sand.  -- Workers pour into Williston, North Dakota, drawn by
offers of six-figure salaries for jobs connected with the Bakken
shale formation. Even though housing development is sky-
rocketing, the Wal-Mart parking lot looks like an RV park,
packed with campers providing temporary living quarters until
housing construction catches up with demand.  -- There is no oil-and-gas drilling in  Idaho , but Fleetwood
Homes has been ramping up production and hiring workers to build
pre-fab homes for shipment to the Bakken oil field in North
Dakota, according to the  Wall Street Journal .  -- Energy independence, the Holy Grail for every U.S.
president since  Jimmy Carter , is within reach, oil-industry
executives and analysts tell  NPR . Within the next 10 years, the
U.S. will no longer have to import crude oil and will be able to
export natural gas, energy economist  Philip Verleger  says. PFC
Energy Chief Executive Officer Robin West compares the impact of
the “shale gale” to the fall of the  Berlin Wall .  -- Some long-haul trucking companies are converting to
natural gas because of the cost advantage over diesel, according
to Bloomberg News. Fleet owners that don’t convert a portion of
their vehicles to natural gas will find themselves at an
economic disadvantage.  For anyone who hasn’t read or heard about it yet, there’s
an oil-and-gas boom under way in the U.S. By some estimates, the
U.S. has three times the proven  shale oil reserves  of  Saudi
Arabia .  Thanks to new drilling techniques for extracting oil and
gas from shale rock underground, the price of natural gas has
plummeted to 10-year lows, creating a market-based incentive --
no government subsidies required! -- for truckers to convert to
the cheaper, cleaner fuel. All of this has broader implications
for the  U.S. economy .  Jobs, Jobs, Jobs  Let’s start with  Washington ’s obsession:  job creation .  Oil-
and-gas industries  have added 33,300 workers since December
2009, the recent low point. The only industry coming close to a
21 percent increase is temporary-staffing agencies -- not
exactly an endorsement for the economy.  Granted, the  energy industry  represents an infinitesimal
0.14 percent of the  workforce , but it has a relatively large
footprint. Oil-and-gas drilling crews need equipment, food,
clothing and lodging. They want to frequent bars and restaurants
in the makeshift  boom towns  sprouting up in areas of  North
Dakota ,  Montana , south Texas and  Pennsylvania .  Manufacturers of drilling equipment need raw materials,
such as steel and chemicals. So there’s a natural multiplier
effect. Think of it as fiscal stimulus without the government
first taking from Peter to give to Paul.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes  Employment
Requirements data tables  for firms to assess the impact of
opening a new factory or store on jobs and sales. James C.
Franklin, head of the Division of Industry Employment
Projections at the BLS, walked me through some of the statistics
for the energy industry.  Every direct job created in the oil-and-gas extraction
industry, for example, yields 2.3 jobs elsewhere in the economy,
Franklin says. This is expressed as a multiplier of 3.3, higher
than the average of 2 for the 195 industries tracked by the BLS.
Petroleum-and-coal product manufacturing (refineries) happens to
have the highest multiplier at 8.2.  And yes, manufacturing industries are at once the most
capital-intensive, the most productive and still have the
biggest spillover effect when it comes to generating  jobs .  The huge supply of inexpensive (to produce and to buy)
natural gas has the potential to accelerate the return of
manufacturing enterprises to the U.S. That trend is already
under way as rising wages in  China  and higher fuel-related
shipping costs reduce the appeal of outsourcing.  “Cheap natural gas is transforming the competitive
economics of the marketplace,” says  Daniel Yergin , the author
of “ The Quest : Energy, Security, and the Remaking of the Modern
World.”  No Alternative  Natural-gas prices fell this week to a 10-year low of $2.27
per million British thermal units, half the price of eight
months ago. After adjusting for the lower energy content,
natural gas is now about 40 percent cheaper than petroleum fuel,
according to calculations by the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  That’s why many trucking companies are choosing to convert.
With the differential between oil and natural-gas prices at a
record high, more and more homeowners are converting from oil
heat to natural gas even though the switch may take anywhere
from one to five years to pay for itself.  If the price trends continue, the focus may shift from
concern about higher  gas prices  killing the economy (the glass
is half-empty) to the realization that cheap natural gas can act
as a tailwind (the glass is half-full).  Not everyone will be happy, of course, including President
 Barack Obama . Cheap natural gas makes renewable energy even less
competitive than it was before.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View :  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  