-- Oil Trades Near 1-Week Low on U.S. Supplies, Saudi Pledge
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-15T03:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/oil-trades-near-1-week-low-on-u-s-supplies-saudi-pledge.html
Oil traded near the lowest price in
more than a week after U.S. crude stockpiles rose and Saudi
Arabia pledged to make up for any shortage in Iranian shipments.  Futures were little changed after falling 1.2 percent
yesterday. Crude inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for West Texas Intermediate oil, climbed to the highest
level in nine months, according to the Energy Department. Saudi
Arabia will make up any “perceived or real” shortfall, Oil
Minister Ali al-Naimi said in  Kuwait . Prices have advanced this
year as the U.S. and  Europe  tighten sanctions against  Iran  over
its nuclear program.  “The market has been trapped between $105 and $108 a
barrel for a while now,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market
strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney. “We’re
looking for the trigger to push us out of that range and that
inventory figure does speak to the potential for a drop.”  Crude for April delivery was at $105.69 a barrel, up 26
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 10:32 a.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday dropped
$1.28 to $105.43 a barrel, the lowest close since March 6.
Prices are 7 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for April settlement was at $124.68, down 29
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract expires today. The more active May futures were down 13
cents at $124.45. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate was at $18.95 compared
with $19.54 yesterday, the widest gap since Oct. 24.  Crude Stockpiles  U.S. crude supplies nationwide rose 1.8 million barrels
last week to 347.5 million barrels, the highest level in six
months, the Energy Department said yesterday. They were forecast
to gain  1.6 million barrels , according to the median of nine
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The increase was
the seventh in eight weeks.  Gasoline stockpiles fell  1.4 million barrels , the Energy
Department report showed. They were forecast to decline by 1
million. Distillate inventories, a category that includes diesel
and heating oil, slid 4.7 million barrels, compared with a
projected drop of 1.5 million.  Oil markets are balanced and have ample output and refining
capacity,  Saudi Arabia ’s al-Naimi said yesterday at the biennial
International Energy Forum. Market volatility is caused by
speculation, he told the meeting of producers and consumers.
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said he is “enthusiastic”
about Saudi willingness to produce more oil to help offset the
effect of economic sanctions on Iran.  EU Sanctions Plan  The European Union is seeking to ban imports of products
including petroleum oils and natural gas from Iran and to bar
global bank-transfer messaging companies from providing services
to entities subject to EU sanctions, according to a draft
regulation obtained by Bloomberg.  Iran’s oil exports will probably decline by 50 percent when
the sanctions take full effect in July, according to the
 International Energy Agency . Shipments will fall by at least
800,000 barrels a day,  David Fyfe , head of the IEA’s market and
industry division, said by phone from Paris, citing discussions
with market participants.  The “unreasonable measures” will raise costs for
governments pursuing them and bolster Iran’s oil revenue, the
Islamic Republic’s oil minister, Rostam Qasemi, said yesterday
at the IEF meeting in Kuwait.  Oil may extend its decline in New York after breaching
technical support yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. On the daily chart, futures settled below a
symmetrical triangle formation going back almost three weeks.
Investors tend to sell contracts on such a so-called downside
breakout. The top of the triangle, representing technical
resistance, was about $107.70 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  