-- Oil Declines on Cushing Inventories, Saudi Supply Pledge
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-14T20:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/oil-advances-after-decline-in-distillate-inventories.html
Oil fell as inventories at Cushing,
 Oklahoma , rose to the highest level in nine months and Saudi
Arabia sought to ease concern that tension with Iran would
disrupt supplies.  Prices declined after the Energy Department said  stockpiles
at Cushing , the delivery point for New York futures, increased 7
percent and total U.S. inventories rose. Saudi Arabian Oil
Minister Ali al-Naimi said the kingdom would make up any
“perceived or real” shortfalls. Prices have risen this year as
the U.S. and  Europe  tighten sanctions against Iran over its
nuclear program.  “We traded right up to the $107 area but failed to break
out and hold, and now it’s trying the other way,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in  New
York . “Supply hasn’t been an issue.”  Crude oil for April delivery declined $1.28, or 1.2
percent, to $105.43 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest settlement and the biggest decline since
March 6. Oil, which ranged from $105.12 to $107.02, is up 6.7
percent this year.  Brent oil for April settlement fell $1.25, or 1 percent, to
end the session at $124.97 on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Brent is up 16 percent is 2012.  Nationwide inventories of  crude oil  increased 1.75 million
barrels to a six-month high of 347.5 million in the week ended
March 9, the Energy Department report showed. Supplies were
forecast to grow 1.6 million barrels, according to the median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The increase
was the fourth in a row and seventh in eight weeks.  Fuel Stockpiles  Supplies of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, dropped 4.68 million barrels to 134.8
million and  gasoline inventories  decreased 1.41 million barrels
to 228.1 million last week. Both declines were bigger than
analysts expected.  “We have a growing glut of crude but it’s not like we have
extra supplies of refinery products,” said David McAlvany,
chief executive officer of McAlvany Financial Group in Durango,
 Colorado . “We’ve got major disconnect between crude and
products.”  Total petroleum consumption  gained 2.2 percent to 18.6
million barrels a day, the report showed. Refineries reduced
their  production rate  to 82.7 percent from the previous week’s
83.9 percent.  “There’s been a lot of talk and data but nothing that
changes the fundamental outlook for the market, so the market is
pretty stuck,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The
inventory data was really mixed.”  Ample Output  There’s ample production and refining capacity, al-Naimi
said in  Kuwait  today at the biennial International Energy Forum.
Market volatility is caused by speculation, he told the meeting
of producers and consumers.  “ Saudi Arabia  and others remain poised to make good any
shortfall, perceived or real, in crude oil supply,” al-Naimi
said, speaking on a panel that included U.S. Deputy Energy
Secretary Daniel Poneman and Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi.  Some oil importers are using the commodity as a political
weapon, Qasemi said in an interview. Those “unreasonable
measures” will raise costs for governments pursuing them and
bolster Iran’s oil revenue, he said.  Obama Warns Iran  Futures pared declines briefly after President Barack Obama
warned that Iran is running out of time to enter serious
negotiations over its nuclear program.  “The window for solving this issue diplomatically is
shrinking,” Obama said at a White House news conference with
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron. “I’m determined to prevent
 Iran  from getting a nuclear weapon.”  Oil production by members of the Organization  of Petroleum
Exporting Countries rose for a fifth month to the highest in
more than three years as Saudi Arabia and  Libya  boosted supply,
the  International Energy Agency  said in its monthly oil market
report today.  Producers not in OPEC will provide 53.5 million barrels a
day this year, or 200,000 a day less than the IEA forecast last
month. The Paris-based IEA kept estimates for global oil demand
in 2012 unchanged, predicting fuel use will remain “stunted”
by the economic slowdown and higher prices.  Prices also fell as the  Dollar Index , which tracks the U.S.
currency against six counterparts, rose to an eight-week high
after the  Federal Reserve  raised its economic assessment
yesterday.  The index  rose as much as 0.5 percent to the
strongest level since Jan. 18. Gains in the dollar reduce oil’s
appeal as an investment alternative.  “The improvement of the  U.S. economy  probably means the
dollar becomes a lot stronger and it’s going to weigh on  oil
prices ,” said Phil Flynn, an analyst at PFGBest in  Chicago .  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 591,961
contracts as of 3:07 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 689,301
contracts yesterday, 9.9 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.58 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  