-- London Shops Vanish After $1.2 Billion Olympic Payout
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-03-14T11:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/london-shops-disappear-as-olympics-pays-1-2-billion-for-cycling.html
Tony Freail closed his window-
dressing business after the world’s biggest sporting event
landed outside his workshop in London’s East End. Seven years
later, with the  Olympic Games  less than five months away, he’s
still looking for full-time employment.  Freail’s former workplace was demolished as part of the
construction of the  velodrome , the potato-chip shaped venue
where Britain’s Chris Hoy will try to retain three cycling gold
medals; the  International Broadcast Centre , the base for 20,000
journalists; and the  Copper Box , which hosts handball. The
opening ceremony of the U.K.’s biggest competition since the
1966 soccer  World Cup  takes place July 27.  “Once we got the Games, everyone knew it was going to be a
nightmare,” Freail said by telephone. “It was a horrible
feeling knowing that a year later, you were going to be offered
an amount and told to leave. It meant I couldn’t carry on.”  The  London  Development Agency spent about 735 million
pounds ($1.2 billion) to buy land and compensate businesses that
owned or leased space at the site that will be used for the
Olympics, according to the development agency’s latest accounts.
The strategy hasn’t prevented more than 100 companies from going
out of business or becoming untraceable after the owners were
forced to vacate the 246-hectare (608-acre) site that will be
used for the Olympics, public records show.  Fast-Food Companies  Most of these businesses, which range from auto-repair
shops to fast-food manufacturers, depended on local customers.
As a result, the money they received from the agency didn’t make
up for the cost involved in moving to another location and
building up a new client base, according to  Juliet Davis , a
researcher at the  London School  of Economics, who wrote a paper
on the event’s legacy of urban regeneration.  London beat bids from Paris,  Madrid , New York and Moscow in
2005 to win the Games after the organizers, led by former gold
medalist Sebastian Coe, told the  International Olympic Committee 
that the two-week event would rejuvenate the area. Since then,
abandoned railways, wasteland and offices have made way for
stadiums, homes and  Europe ’s largest urban shopping mall.  LDA documents show that about 460 companies were paid for
their portion of the area, which will be renamed Queen Elizabeth
Olympic Park after the Games. More than 50 of those went into
liquidation or were dissolved, according to  Companies House , a
register of businesses in  England  and  Wales . Another 50 cannot
be traced using public records.  “We would have survived there,” Barry Bell, who closed
his car-maintenance yard on the Olympic site, said by telephone.
“We had enough business to work there and our customers around
us wouldn’t have moved. We didn’t know if we were turning left
or right at the time.”  Opening Ceremony  The event will be held in Newham, a borough with about
270,000 residents that had the lowest average income in London
in 2010 and the eighth lowest in England that year, according to
a survey by the Department of Communities and Local Government.  The migration of businesses from the Olympic Park to other
parts of the surrounding boroughs of Newham,  Tower Hamlets ,
Waltham Forest and Hackney caused commercial rents to rise in
those neighborhoods, said Davis of the LSE.  “Compensation didn’t recognize market forces,” Davis said
by phone. “Anyone running a tight ship because they’re a small
business found it quite hard. They had to be able to commit to a
new lease that was going to cost two or three times more than
their site had been worth.”  Forced Sales  A government minister can force landowners to sell their
property if they can’t agree on a fee with the LDA, according to
the Department for Communities and Local Government.  The compensation is set by an independent organization and
covers disruption caused by the Games, loss of earnings and the
value of their land and property interests, according to the
London agency. It doesn’t cover the cost of replacing old
equipment.  “The London Development Agency went over and above its
statutory obligations,” the organization said in an e-mail.
“The LDA has compensated firms at the market rate.”  The agency recorded 208 businesses that relocated from the
Olympic Park site, according to a Freedom of Information Act
request by Bloomberg News. The agency has no record of what
happened to those businesses.  Smaller businesses were hurt most because they lacked the
time and resources to conduct negotiations and take part in
legal proceedings with the agency, the LSE’s Davis said.  Beijing’s Water Cube  London’s Olympic organizers hope to avoid pitfalls of the
2004 summer Games in  Athens  and the Beijing Olympics in 2008,
where facilities have been underused.  In  China , the iconic Water Cube needed government sports
funding to break even after falling 11 million yuan ($1.7
million) short from its commercial activities alone, deputy
manager Yan Qiyong told  China Daily  in January. Athens has
leased six of the 22 venues used in the Games, according to
Public Properties Company SA and Hellinikon SA.  The idea that the Olympics can be used as an economic
catalyst in the host city may be misguided, said  Constantine
Kontokosta , a  New York  University Schack Institute of Real
Estate researcher who has looked at performance of the Olympic
Games over the last six years.  “We found some negative results in L.A., Atlanta and
Calgary,” he said of previous Olympic hosts. “The residential
real-estate values in the city underperformed compared with
comparable cities over the same time period.”  Some, like Lance Forman, moved nearby when his 107-year-old
H. Forman & Son  salmon-smoking business  had to make way for the
Games. His factory, built in 2003, was demolished to accommodate
the 80,000-seat, white-steel-framed Olympic Stadium.  Royal Customer  Forman, whose customers include the U.K.’s royal family and
London department store Fortnum & Mason, rebuilt his pink and
black colored facility on Fish Island a few hundred meters away
from the Olympic Stadium on the banks of the river Lea.  “The negotiations were fraught,” Forman, a Cambridge
University graduate, said by telephone. “In cases like this,
there’s a danger of sacrificing your business. There was no
certainty that everything that they thought would be compensated
was actually going to be compensated.”  Most small businesses in London attract customers from
within a 5- to 10-mile area only, according to  Federation of
Small Businesses  spokesman Matthew Jaffa.  “When they get relocated, they’re stepping out of that
comfort zone and losing the customer base they built up over the
years,” Jaffa said by phone. “A company that was thriving has
to go back to being a startup.”  Failed Businesses  Many of the businesses in the area were industrial,
something Newham Mayor Robin Wales wants to change in a
regeneration that spreads from Stratford to Canning Town by
London’s City Airport.  “High tech and science industries are what we want to
bring to the area,” Wales said in an interview last week. “We
want jobs that are sustainable. London is moving eastwards.”  London had the highest percentage of businesses failing in
the whole of the U.K. in 2010 with 15 percent of companies going
out of business, according to a December 2011 report by the
 Office for National Statistics .  Bell, a 47-year-old company director, was given 60,000
pounds for the site where his automobile garage was. He closed
the operation after failing to find a new site with similar
rents to what he was paying in the city’s East End.  To stay in business, Bell had to leave London and move 12
miles (19 kilometers) to Rainham, Essex, where his rent has
doubled. He also had to purchase new equipment as regulations
prevented him using his old equipment.  Freail was less fortunate. After closing the business in
2006, he sold his tools and equipment for a loss to avoid paying
storage costs. The 62-year-old was compensated 50,000 pounds by
the LDA with the caveat that he couldn’t start up the same
business within 30 miles of London for at least five years.  “The East End lost out big time,” he said. “I felt
gutted at the time, but that’s the way the cookie crumbles.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 