-- OPEC Output Rises to Three-Year High on Saudi Arabia, IEA Says
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-03-14T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/opec-output-rises-to-three-year-high-on-saudi-arabia-iea-says.html
OPEC’s crude oil production rose
for a fifth month to the highest in more than three years as
 Saudi Arabia  and Libya boosted supply, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  The 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries produced 31.42 million barrels a day of crude last
month, the most since October 2008, the Paris-based agency said
today in its monthly oil market report. That compares with a
revised 31.11 million in January and exceeds the group’s 30
million output ceiling set at its December meeting.  The IEA’s production figure differs from OPEC’s own
estimate of 30.97 million in its monthly report on March 9,
which is based on secondary sources.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest  crude exporter , pumped
near a three-decade peak at 10 million barrels a day last month,
up from 9.85 million in January, the agency said.  “The increased Saudi volumes in February were heading to
Europe and  Africa , tanker data indicate, rather than  Asia  as
might be expected,” the IEA said.  Saudi will probably produce 9.8 million barrels a day this
month, roughly matching last month’s level, a person with
knowledge of the kingdom’s oil policy said today. According to
OPEC’s monthly report, Saudi output fell to 9.66 million barrels
a day in February.  Libyan Output  Libyan production rose to 1.3 million barrels a day last
month, up 150,000 barrels from the previous month, according to
IEA estimates. The country’s  output  is about 300,000 barrels
less than its average before the uprising against  Muammar
Qaddafi  last year.  “International  oil companies  in the country expect
production to be maintained at current levels over the next few
months due to planned maintenance and other repair work,” the
agency said.  OPEC’s “effective” spare capacity was estimated at 2.75
million barrels a day last month, versus 2.85 million in
January, the IEA said. That figure excludes  Nigeria ,  Iraq ,
Venezuela and Libya.  The group set its biggest-ever supply cuts at the end of
2008 when supply from all members excluding Iraq was cut by 4.2
million barrels a day to 24.845 million. Most members exceeded
quotas last year as they sought to take advantage of higher
prices and to make up for the lack of Libyan crude.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  