-- Mortgage-Bond Yields That Guide Lending Soar by Most Since 2010
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-03-14T21:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/mortgage-bond-yields-that-guide-home-loans-soar-to-4-month-high.html
Yields on  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac mortgage bonds that guide U.S. home-loan rates soared in the
biggest two-day jump in 15 months as borrowing costs rise from
almost record lows.  Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year securities climbed 0.15
percentage point to 3.16 percent as of 5 p.m. in New York, the
highest level since Nov. 14, after an increase of 0.12
percentage point yesterday, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The two-day rise, after the  Federal Reserve ’s better
assessment of the economy, was the largest since December 2010.  Mortgage-bond yields rose faster than those of benchmark
Treasuries as the Fed’s statement signaled a reduced likelihood
of a third round of so-called quantitative easing and higher
odds the central bank will raise its benchmark for short-term
rates earlier than expected. Prices for the home-loan securities
fell more than government notes on diminished speculation that
the Fed will buy more housing-related debt and as rising rates
extend the notes’ duration.  The two issues worked “together as a tag-team to knock
down mortgages,” said Tae Park, a  money manager  in New York who
oversees mortgage-bond investments at Societe Generale SA.  Government-backed mortgage securities with lower coupons
extended losses relative to Treasuries after the failure of
yields to retreat following a $13 billion auction of 30-year
 government bonds , according to Ajay Rajadhyaksha, head of global
rates and securitized strategy at  Barclays Capital . That raised
concern this week’s sell-off may not reverse, he said.  Low-Paying Debt  “You could have a situation where you’re stuck” with the
low-paying mortgage debt for 15 years, as  refinancing  among the
underlying homeowners with low-rate loans becomes unlikely,
Rajadhyaksha said today in a telephone interview.  Fannie Mae’s 3 percent, 30-year securities fell 0.23 cent
on the dollar more than similar-duration Treasuries, following
underperformance of 0.09 cent yesterday, Bloomberg data show.
The difference between yields on a Bloomberg index for Fannie
Mae current-coupon bonds and 10-year Treasuries rose to 0.89
percentage point, from 0.85 percentage point on March 12. The
measure includes the 3 percent securities and reflects debt that
most influences rates because it trades closest to face value.  “In a move like this, mortgages are supposed to
underperform,” Dave Cannon, co-head of mortgage-bond trading at
RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview.  Prompts to Sell  As rates increase, the projected lives of mortgage bonds
and loan-servicing contracts extend, partly because potential
refinancing by homeowners declines. Investors and servicers then
have portfolios with longer-than-expected durations, which may
prompt them to sell mortgage bonds, longer-dated Treasuries or
interest-rate swaps. Those sales can send yields higher.  Yields may need to increase by an additional 0.20 to 0.25
percentage point “to kick off significant MBS extension
flows,” Anish Lohokare, an analyst at BNP Paribas SA, wrote in
a note to clients.  The  average rate  on a typical 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
was 3.88 percent last week, or 0.01 percentage point higher than
the record low last month, according to  Freddie Mac  surveys.
Borrowing costs last year reached as high as 5.05 percent in
February 2011.  $5.4 Trillion Market  Yields on agency mortgage bonds are now guiding rates on
almost all new U.S. home lending following the collapse of the
non-agency market in 2007 and a retreat by banks. The $5.4
trillion market includes securities guaranteed by government-
supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and bonds of federally
insured loans guaranteed by U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae.  Borrowing costs may not rise as much as bond yields because
lenders might seek to maintain the volume of their business in a
mortgage refinancing boom and allow profit margins to drop.  “Originators will look to keep rates low and keep their
pipelines full so long as they can do it economically,”  Scott Buchta , head of mortgage strategy in  Chicago  at Sandler O’Neill
& Partners LP, said in an e-mail.  The difference between the yields on Fannie Mae’s current-
coupon securities and rates on 30-year loans fell last week to
about 1 percentage point from more than 1.5 percentage points in
February, compared with an average of about 0.6 percentage point
over the last decade, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  While the Fed has sought to lower rates to bolster a
struggling property market and help the economy recover, rising
borrowing costs may spur potential homeowners to buy on concern
that they will move higher, First Pacific Advisors LLC’s Julian Mann said.  Those individuals, who have been facing rising rents as
 home prices  decline, “may say, ‘that’s it, I’m not going to
wait any longer,’” Mann said in a telephone interview. He helps
oversee $5.7 billion in bonds as a vice president at Los
Angeles-based First Pacific.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  