-- Mortgages Bring Record Savings Over U.S. Rents: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-03-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/mortgages-bring-record-savings-over-u-s-rents-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. households with home loans are
benefiting from the biggest cost savings relative to rents in at
least two decades, based on an analysis by Deutsche Bank AG.  The CHART OF THE DAY depicts the difference between after-
tax mortgage payments and rents as a percentage of disposable
income, according to data that Deutsche Bank compiled from the
National Association of Realtors and the REIS Inc. information
service. The chart displays fourth-quarter figures for 2002 to
2011 and annual data before then.  Mortgages cost 0.8 percentage point less in last year’s
fourth quarter after being about the same as rents during the
first three quarters. Home payments have been 3.1 points higher
on average since 1991, analysts John Perry and Nishu Sood wrote
yesterday in a report.  “Falling home prices and still-rising rents” accounted
for the fourth-quarter gap, the New York-based analysts wrote.
The median price of a single-family house fell 5.8 percent in
the quarter, while rent payments rose 0.5 percent on average.  Rents averaged 14.9 percent more than home-loan payments
during the last three months of 2011, the report said. The gap
widened from the third quarter by 8.1 points, and rentals were
more costly for the fifth consecutive quarter.  The differential points toward a rebound in homebuilding
and a slowing of rent increases, Perry and Sood wrote.  Ryland
Group Inc. (RYL)  and  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH)  may benefit most among the
builders.  Post Properties Inc. (PPS)  and  Associated Estates Realty
Corp. (AEC)  may be hit the hardest among real-estate investment trusts
that own apartments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  