-- Hospital-Based Infection Increases U.S. Deaths, CDC Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-03-14T20:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/hospital-based-infection-increases-u-s-deaths-cdc-says.html
Infections gained in hospitals and
nursing homes led to more than double the number of U.S. deaths
from  stomach inflammation  that causes vomiting and diarrhea, a
report by U.S. health officials found.  Deaths from the condition increased to 17,000 in 2007 from
about 7,000 in 1999, according to a study by the Atlanta-based
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  The germ Clostridium difficile was tied to 14,500 deaths,
up from 2,700 in 1999. Most people infected by  C. difficile 
first show symptoms in hospitals or health-care settings, the
CDC said on its  website .  Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OPTR) ’s Dificid,
approved for sale in the U.S. In May, was the first drug cleared
for the infection in 25 years.  “This isn’t going to be answered with one new treatment,
though we’re happy to see it,” said Clifford McDonald, a study
author and epidemiologist for the CDC, in a telephone interview.
The findings were reported today at the International Conference
on Emerging Infectious Diseases in Atlanta.  The CDC is focusing on getting doctors to prescribe
antibiotics more carefully, since C. difficile frequently
colonizes patients after use, McDonald said. Doctors should also
ask patients, even those coming in for other ailments, if they
have diarrhea, and order appropriate tests if so.  “Even if you’re seeing someone with a broken leg, you need
to ask,” McDonald said.  Special Cleaners  Those who have the ailment need to be isolated, and special
cleaners need to be used on their rooms to eliminate the
bacteria, which is resistant to most disinfectants, he said.  Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST) , which is marketing Dificid
with Optimer, is also developing a drug for C. difficile-
associated diarrhea. The treatment which is in the second of
three phases of testing generally required for approval.  Over 80 percent of the deaths reported in the time period
were people at least 65 years old, the study found. The CDC
report also identified Norovirus, spread in contaminated food
and water, as being the second-biggest contributor to deaths,
with 800 a year.  “That doesn’t show evidence of an increase, but it’s at a
baseline level that wasn’t previously appreciated,” McDonald
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 