-- Motorola Solutions Sues Patent Firm Over Tracking Chips
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-03-14T21:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/motorola-sues-patent-firm-over-radio-chips-used-by-amazon.html
Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  sued a
patent-licensing firm to fend off claims that radio technology
used by retailers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  to track their goods
violates patents.  Motorola Solutions sued  Round Rock Research LLC  in reaction
to a series of lawsuits filed last year by  Round Rock  against
Amazon, Macy’s Retail Holdings Inc.,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and others 
that use radio frequency identification technology. Round
Rock claims it owns the patents on the RFID technology used by
those companies.  The RFID products “have not infringed and do not infringe,
either directly or indirectly, any valid and enforceable
claim,” Motorola Solutions said in a complaint filed today in
U.S. District Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  John Desmarais, president of Mount Kisco, New York-based
Round Rock, didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Companies that were sued by Round Rock asked Motorola
Solutions to defend them under the indemnification clauses in
their contracts with Schaumburg, Illinois-based Motorola
Solutions, according to the complaint.  Round Rock describes itself as a technology company that
holds “several thousand” patents and patent applications.
Critics of such patent-collecting companies call them
“ trolls ,” a phrase coined by a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive
because they don’t make or sell any products and earn money
through patent lawsuits.  The RFID chips are tiny devices that emit a signal to
indicate their location. As they have gotten smaller in size,
they are used to keep track of inventory or prevent shoplifting.  The case is Motorola Solutions Inc. v. Round Rock Research
LLC, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  