-- House Republicans Seek New Budget Cuts, Reviving Shutdown Threat
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/house-republicans-said-to-seek-additional-u-s-spending-cuts.html
House Republicans  are pushing for a
new round of budget cuts this year, congressional aides said,
raising the possibility of a government shutdown shortly before
the November election.  Party leaders are considering seeking another $19 billion
in cuts in so-called discretionary spending for the fiscal year
that begins Oct. 1, said two Republican congressional aides who
weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  It would be a compromise between party conservatives and
moderates who have buffeted House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, with competing demands on budget cuts. Failure to
agree on a budget would be an embarrassment after Republicans
lambasted  Senate Democrats  for announcing this year they won’t
pass one. House Republicans plan to release their tax-and-
spending plan next week.  Democrats say a fresh round of cuts would amount to
reneging on a deal lawmakers in both parties reached last
August, during a year in which budget disputes brought the
government to the brink of a shutdown four times. Both sides
must agree on a spending plan to keep the government running
after Sept. 30.  “I guess they love government shutdowns or at least the
threat of them,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, told reporters. “Our economy cannot afford another
one of these senseless demonstrations by the  Tea Party . The
American people are sick of these manufactured crises.”  Discretionary Spending  Republicans rejected complaints that additional cuts would
amount to breaking last year’s agreement that capped
discretionary spending.  “The spending limit is only broken if exceeded,” said
 Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner. “Spending less not only
satisfies the agreement struck last summer, but means we’re
borrowing less from places like  China .”  The August agreement capped spending and also required
automatic cuts in defense and non-defense discretionary spending
if a budget-cutting supercommittee didn’t agree on a deficit-
reduction plan. The panel’s talks failed, so $1 trillion in
automatic spending reductions will begin taking effect in
January 2013.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said, “It is
difficult to take Senator Reid’s comments seriously” when
Democrats don’t plan to pass a budget.  Ryan, in a statement yesterday, said Republicans are trying
to “reprioritize” the spending cuts “because our troops and
military families shouldn’t pay the price for Washington’s
failure to take action.”  Republican Study Committee  A proposal to cut an additional $19 billion would be aimed
at resolving a dispute between a group of self-described
conservatives known as the Republican Study Committee, which had
sought larger cuts, and more moderate Republicans who said those
cuts would be so large as to be unworkable.  Representative Tim Huelskamp, a freshman member of the
Republican Study Committee, said he is open to a compromise,
though his support will depend on other questions such as how
quickly the budget would erase the deficit. He expressed
confidence Republicans will agree on a plan.  “We’ll come to a deal,” Huelskamp said in an interview.
“It would be quite a failure of leadership in general if we
didn’t have one, so we’re all committed to passing one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  