-- Lowest Saving in 30 Years Risks Turkish Growth, World Bank Says
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2012-03-14T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/lowest-saving-in-30-years-risks-turkish-growth-world-bank-says.html
Turkey  must reverse a decline in
the domestic savings rate to the lowest in three decades or risk
unsustainable growth and dependence on volatile inflows of
external financing, according to the World Bank.  The rate fell to 12.7 percent of  gross domestic product  in
2010, the lowest rate since 1980, according to the report
prepared jointly with the Ministry of Development and released
in Ankara today.  Savings have declined as slower inflation since Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  came to office a decade ago
prompted a young population to consume. The result was a surge
in imports and a record current-account deficit in 2011 of $77.2
billion, or 10 percent of GDP, that requires external financing
and helped drive the lira 18 percent lower last year, the
biggest decline globally.  “Increasing domestic saving is critical for promoting
sustainability of growth in Turkey,” said the report, written
by economists including Kamer Karakurum Ozdemir of the  World
Bank . “Dependence on foreign savings has exposed Turkey to the
risk of capital reversal, with its attendant adverse impact on
economic growth.”  Economic growth in the country of 75 million people, half
of them under 30, was 8.5 percent last year, Economy Minister
Zafer Caglayan estimated on Feb. 28. The government aims to slow
that to 4 percent this year as central bank limits on credit
growth rein in consumption and cut demand for imports.  An increase in savings would also help develop Turkey’s
financial markets, the report said. At 164 percent of gross
domestic product in 2009, the country’s markets are smaller than
the rest of the Group of 20 major economies.  More Private Pensions  While  Brazil  has a similar savings rate to Turkey, its
markets are 296 percent of output, the report said. The
corporate  bond market  in particular accounts for less than 1
percent of total market value in 2009, “far smaller than in
other major emerging market economies,” it said.  The report suggests tax incentives to encourage a growing
private pension industry, development of the corporate bond
market and an end to discrepancies between tax rates on holdings
of funds and individual shares. Public campaigns to raise
awareness of financial planning may also be useful, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  