-- Palestinian Fiscal Crisis Hurts State-Building, World Bank Says
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-03-14T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/palestinian-fiscal-crisis-hurts-state-building-world-bank-says.html
The  Palestinian Authority ’s fiscal
crisis threatens to jeopardize its efforts to build governmental
institutions needed for an independent state, the World Bank
said.  The Palestinian Authority is expected to have a 2012 budget
deficit of about $1.1 billion, according to a report published
today by the World Bank. Thus far it has been able to identify
only about $610 million in external aid to cover the shortfall.
The deficit is the result of a decline in donor funds, slowing
economic growth in 2011 and Israeli restrictions that hinder
development and trade, the bank said.  “Sustainable economic growth and an end to the fiscal
crisis will require unleashing the Palestinian private sector’s
potential,” the  World Bank  said. “This in turn necessitates a
lifting of Israeli restrictions on access to land, water, a
range of raw materials, and export materials.”  Negotiations on a final peace agreement between  Israel  and
the Palestinian Authority, which is headed by President  Mahmoud Abbas , broke off in September 2010 in a dispute over Jewish
settlements in the West Bank. With talks stalled, Abbas and
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad have focused on
diplomatic efforts and the creation of governing institutions
toward the goal of establishing a Palestinian state.  Economic growth in the West Bank in the first three-
quarters of 2011 was 5.8 percent, down from 7.5 percent in the
same period of 2010, the World Bank said. Growth for 2012 is
projected to drop to 5 percent.  Smuggled Goods  Growth in the  Gaza Strip  accelerated to 25.8 percent in the
first three quarters of 2011 due to an easing of import
restrictions by Israel and an increase in goods smuggled into
Gaza through tunnels beneath the Egyptian border. Gaza is
controlled by the Hamas Islamic movement, which split from the
Palestinian Authority in 2007 after a conflict with forces loyal
to Abbas.  The slowdown in West Bank growth was due to declining aid
from foreign donors, economic uncertainty caused by the
Palestinian Authority’s fiscal problems and insufficient easing
of Israeli restrictions on trade, land development and movement,
the World Bank said.  The report said measures the Palestinian Authority should
take to encourage economic growth include an overhaul of laws
covering business activities, new regulations to encourage
competition, and an expansion of land registration in the  West
Bank .  It also said that a “functioning link” is needed between
Gaza and the West Bank to create a “larger effective internal
market.” The Israeli government has said that security
restrictions on movement in the West Bank have been eased in
recent years, including the removal of dozens of road blocks and
checkpoints.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at   lmeixler@bloomberg.net  