-- Pandit Repeats Moynihan Misstep as Citigroup Plan Backfires
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-03-16T22:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/pandit-repeats-moynihan-misstep-as-fed-rebuffs-citigroup.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit missed the lesson that  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  learned when it comes to the  Federal
Reserve ’s stress tests.  Citigroup fell 3.8 percent in New York trading today after
becoming the biggest U.S. lender to fail the regulator’s exam
because of Pandit’s plan to boost dividends or stock
repurchases. Bank of America, whose payout request was rejected
last year, passed the 2012 test -- designed to see if banks have
enough capital to handle a hypothetical economic slump -- after
Moynihan decided to keep his dividend at 1 cent.  “Pandit misread the situation badly, you just don’t ask
for something if you don’t know you can get it,” said Greg Donaldson, chairman of Evansville, Indiana-based Donaldson
Capital Management LLC, which oversees $540 million including
Bank of America shares. “Moynihan was chastened by what
happened last year, he absolutely wasn’t going to take any
chances of getting rebuffed again.”  The Fed’s rejection of Citigroup is a setback for Pandit,
who has told investors since October 2010 that the bank may
return more capital this year. The CEO, who in the past 12
months was rewarded with pay and multi-year retention packages
valued at as much as $53 million, will submit a new capital plan
to regulators while rivals including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Wells Fargo & Co. won approval to raise their dividends.  Shares Drop  Pandit, 55, had primed shareholders of the New York-based
firm for increasing payouts as recently as Jan. 17, when he said
during a conference call that “this will be the year that we’ll
start returning capital.”  Analysts agreed, predicting the bank would pay shareholders
$744 million in dividends and repurchase $2.18 billion of
shares, according to a Bloomberg survey. Citigroup’s stock
gained 39 percent this year through yesterday. Pandit’s comments
prompted analysts to draw their conclusions, said Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in  New York .  “He shouldn’t have been making the comments he made if
they were skirting the line of approval,” said Peabody, who has
an “outperform” rating on Citigroup shares. “They misjudged
their own models.”  Citigroup was the biggest loser on the 24-company KBW Bank
Index, dropping to $35.08 at 11:14 a.m. Pandit told employees
yesterday that the bank still had the ability to return more
capital to shareholders and he will seek clearance for a
“meaningful” payout.  Bank of America  Citigroup and Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America took the largest bailouts among U.S. lenders and each
has since repaid $45 billion in taxpayer assistance. The firms’
shares were pummeled last year on concern the European
sovereign-debt crisis and rising costs tied to mortgages would
hurt results.  Citigroup’s projected Tier 1 common capital ratio fell to
4.9 percent, below the central bank’s minimum requirement of 5
percent in an estimate of a severe economic slump, according to
data the Fed released yesterday. The lender would have surpassed
the threshold if it didn’t pursue a dividend increase or share
buyback, Citigroup said in a statement.  Citigroup’s “leverage ratio” also failed, tumbling from 7
percent to 2.9 percent if the bank’s capital plan took place
under the Fed’s adverse scenario. The ratio, which measures the
amount of  Tier 1 capital  that a lender has as a proportion of
its assets, was the lowest of the 19 banks and missed the
central bank’s 3 percent minimum requirement. This could have
led the Fed to reject Pandit’s plan, according to Peabody.  ‘Puzzlingly High’  Total losses on soured loans under the Fed’s stress
scenario was 11.3 percent for Citigroup, a “puzzlingly high”
rate of default, said Glenn Schorr, a New York-based analyst
with Nomura Holdings Inc. The projected level of losses was
second only to McLean, Virginia-based Capital One Financial
Corp., which didn’t request a dividend increase.  “This is kind of an ‘oops’ for Citigroup,” said David Knutson, a credit analyst in  Chicago  with Legal & General
Investment Management, which owns Citigroup debt. “All of a
sudden, they’re kind of lumped into the bad-boy category.”  About 23 percent of Citigroup’s consumer loans, excluding
mortgages and credit cards, would sour under the adverse
scenario, more than double the rate of any other lender, Fed
data show. The projections probably are tied to CitiFinancial,
the consumer lender Pandit has sought to sell since 2009,
Peabody said. CitiFinancial, renamed OneMain Financial in 2010,
offers loans for purposes including auto repairs, medical bills,
weddings and kitchen remodeling, according to its website.  Commercial Loans  The bank’s commercial and industrial loans would post an 11
percent loss rate, also the worst of the banks tested, according
to the Fed. This could be tied to the bank’s “locally funded
international exposures,” including a $7.4 billion portfolio of
loans to retail customers and small businesses in  Greece ,
Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain , Peabody said. Most of the
loans are in Citi Holdings, the division Pandit created to hold
unwanted assets, the bank said in an annual filing.  Bank of America’s Tier 1 ratio -- a measure of a firm’s
ability to withstand unexpected losses -- was 5.9 percent
assuming a severe economic slump and the company’s capital
actions.  Shannon Bell , a Citigroup spokeswoman, and  Jerry Dubrowski  at Bank of America declined to comment.  Pass the Test  “Their objective was to just pass the test, and so
basically they put a plan together that accumulated as much
capital as they could,” said  Marty Mosby , an analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC who has a “neutral” rating on Bank
of America. “It is better to be conservative and pass than to
ask for too much and have to resubmit your plans.”  Bank of America rose 21 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $8.70 in
New York.  The firms also had to demonstrate a path to more stringent
international rules on capital approved by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision. The world’s biggest banks must reach
Tier 1 capital levels of at least 9 percent by 2019.  “We are not asking to change the dividend posture because,
frankly, we’re close enough to Basel 3 that we just want to blow
through it,” Moynihan said in a Jan. 19 staff meeting. “For
2012, we’re sticking to building back capital.”  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , Ally Financial Inc. and  MetLife Inc. (MET) 
also fell short by at least one measure under the Fed’s most
dire economic scenario, according to the stress-test results.
Ally, the largest U.S. auto lender, and SunTrust, based in
Atlanta, intends to resubmit their plans, the firms said.  SunTrust rose 59 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $23.17 and
MetLife fell 4.9 percent to $37.54.  Test Assumptions  The Fed’s stress tests showed that a U.S. unemployment rate
of as high as 13 percent, a 50 percent drop in stock prices and
a decline in house prices of more than 20 percent would produce
aggregate losses of $534 billion over nine quarters.  “My view is that they failed a very onerous test that,
frankly, is probably unrealistic as we move through the next two
years,” said  Michael Rose , an analyst with Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “Out of the realm
of possibilities? I wouldn’t say that. But certainly a very
onerous, unlikely-to-occur scenario.”  Regulators’ focus on the capital deployment of the l9
largest institutions’ reflects a wary attitude toward boards
that paid out more than $43 billion in dividends before the 2007
crisis,  Patrick Parkinson , the former director of the Fed’s
Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, said last year.  “I don’t think these stress tests are about who needs more
capital, clearly it’s about who can return capital,” Rose said.
“So maybe what they asked for might have been a little
aggressive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  