-- Pandit: Citi Aims for ‘Meaningful’ Shareholder Payout
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-03-14T14:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/pandit-says-citigroup-aims-for-meaningful-shareholder-payout.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit said the bank still has capacity to return
more capital to shareholders and will seek clearance for a
“meaningful” payout after the Federal Reserve rejected an
initial plan.  The central bank, which said Citigroup’s proposal would
have caused the firm’s capital to fall below a minimum
requirement in a severe economic slump, should make its models
public, Pandit wrote in an employee memo obtained by Bloomberg
News. Capital plans often seek clearance to boost dividends and
buy back shares, which the Fed allowed for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   “We still believe that our company has the capacity to
return more capital to shareholders,” Pandit said. “We will
work with the  Federal Reserve  to formulate a plan that returns
meaningful capital while satisfying our regulators.”  Pandit, 55, is managing the fallout from yesterday’s
results after telling shareholders since last year that
Citigroup would be ready to return capital to shareholders in
2012. The New York-based bank will submit a new plan to
regulators, the company said yesterday. Its shares fell 2.9
percent to $35.39 at 10:38 a.m. in New York.  The Fed’s decision “is disappointing, but we remain very
optimistic about the long term,” Pandit wrote in his memo.  Shannon Bell , a company spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the memo.  Pandit scrapped the company’s dividend in 2009 and
reinstated a 1-cent payout last year. The Fed didn’t object to
keeping the current quarterly payout, Citigroup said.  “Our hope was that this move would be a prelude to greater
capital returns in the near future,” Pandit wrote. “That goal
has not changed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  