-- Afghan Soldiers Told to Come Unarmed to Panetta Meeting
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-14T17:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/panetta-visits-afghanistan-amid-calls-to-speed-u-s-troop-exit.html
When Afghan troops gathered today
for a meeting with U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  at the
U.S. Marine Corps’ Camp Leatherneck in southern Afghanistan,
they were told to leave their weapons behind.  A commander ordered all the soldiers with weapons to go and
stack them outside the canvas-covered hangar before Panetta
arrived to speak to about 200 troops from 11 countries and their
Afghan partners. About 20 Afghans at the meeting didn’t have to
because Panetta’s security detail had requested that they come
unarmed in the first place, said Marine Master Sergeant Brenda
Varnadore, a military spokeswoman.  Marine Major General Charles “Mark” Gurganus, the new
NATO International Security and Assistance Force commander for
the area that covers Helmand Province, said he ordered the
American and other coalition soldiers to turn in their weapons
to avoid signaling that their Afghan allies can’t be trusted.  “Somebody had said we were going to have the Afghans leave
their weapons outside,” said Gurganus. “I wanted the Marines
to look just like our Afghan partners.”  The gesture couldn’t mask the tension between the Obama
administration’s claims of progress training Afghan forces to
take over the fight against the Taliban and al-Qaeda and
persistent doubts about the loyalty and competence of the Afghan
army and police.  Those doubts have grown since Afghan troops killed six
Americans in so-called green-on-blue attacks in the two weeks
after U.S. troops burned copies of the Koran in a garbage pit on
February 22. Data released by the Pentagon indicate that there
have been more than 45 such attacks on coalition forces since
2007, 75 percent of them in the last two years.  Aftermath of Mass Killing  Panetta flew into southern  Afghanistan  today as the U.S.
military eyes reactions there and at home to a weekend shooting
rampage by an American soldier.  The killing of at least 16 Afghan civilians in Kandahar
Province, allegedly by a U.S. soldier, has cast a shadow on U.S.
claims of progress in the war and on plans for a gradual
reduction of coalition forces through 2014. Panetta landed in
neighboring Helmand Province to visit troops of the 50-nation
NATO force and meet Afghan leaders.  “It is important that all of us -- the  United States ,
Afghanistan, the ISAF forces -- all stick to the strategy that
we’ve laid out,” Panetta told reporters traveling with him. All
those involved need to “bring this war to a responsible end and
achieve the mission that all of us are embarked on.”  Addressing the troops at Camp Leatherneck, Panetta urged
them not to forget the driving motivation for the fight -- the
al-Qaeda attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.  Never Again  “The reason you’re here is to make damn sure that never
happens again,” he told one soldier who asked how he should
explain his deployment to his wife and three children. “Is
there still a threat? You bet there’s still a threat.”  At Forward Operating Base Shukvani, his next stop, Panetta
thanked 100 troops from the Republic of  Georgia  for their role.
The Georgian battalion deployed in November and already has lost
five members, including its commander, a lieutenant colonel who
in December lost both his legs to a pressure-plate roadside
bomb. He’s being treated at a U.S. military medical center in
Bethesda,  Maryland , where President  Barack Obama  recently
visited him.  The U.S. and its partners in the coalition, led by the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, confront a decision this
year on how many more troops to withdraw and at what pace. The
weekend violence was the latest in a series of confrontations
between Americans and Afghans that may further erode trust
between the two sides.  Administration Decisions  The effect of the incidents on the Obama administration’s
decision-making may depend in part on the reaction to the
village killings. Hundreds of Afghan university students called
in a street protest yesterday in the eastern Afghan city of
Jalalabad for the U.S. soldier to be tried in their country’s
courts and to be given the death penalty.  Obama said yesterday he had told Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  that he takes the matter “as seriously as if it were our
own citizens and our own children” who were killed. Anyone
involved must be held “fully accountable with the full force of
the law,” Obama said at the White House.  The U.S. retains legal jurisdiction for prosecutions of
U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan under a U.S.-Afghan accord,
according to a Jan. 5, 2011, report by the  Congressional
Research Service .  The staff sergeant suspected in the killings -- whose name
is being withheld by the military in advance of charges -- could
face the death penalty under the U.S. military justice system,
Panetta told reporters accompanying him.  Withdrawal Plans  “My understanding is, in these instances, that could be a
consideration,” he said.  Panetta will be in Afghanistan for two days, during which
he will also meet Karzai.  Obama has ordered the first 33,000 U.S. troops out of
Afghanistan by the end of September, leaving 68,000 behind, and
other nations are exiting as well.  In the U.S., Republican presidential candidates including
 Newt Gingrich  have called for U.S. forces to come home, and
public opinion polls show waning support for the war effort.  Obama also is discussing the issue with U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  during a White House visit as they prepare for a
May NATO summit meeting in  Chicago .  “The White House is not currently reviewing options for
further troop withdrawals and no decisions have been made,”
Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for Obama’s National Security Council,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “The president will make decisions
on further drawdowns at the appropriate time based on our
interests and in consultation with our allies and Afghan
partners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  