-- Peruvian Jungle Gold Miners Protest Leaves Three Dead
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-03-14T22:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/peruvian-jungle-gold-miners-protest-leaves-three-dead.html
Peruvian protests against
government plans to regulate small-scale mining left at least
three dead and 50 wounded in the southern Amazon jungle today,
the government said.  About 5,000 illegal gold miners threw stones at police who
fired tear gas to clear roadblocks and reopen a highway to
 Brazil  and the airport in the city of Puerto Maldonado, 1,700
kilometers (1,060 miles) southeast of  Lima , in footage aired by
Lima-based Canal N. Police arrested 61 protesters, Interior
Minister Daniel Lozada told the station.  “We’re gaining control of the city and we won’t allow this
to get out of control,” Lozada said. “We’ve identified the
leaders, who will respond for all this trouble.”  The government last year banned gold panning and dredges
that are polluting 5 million hectares (12 million acres) in the
Madre de Dios region of  Peru ’s Amazon River basin. The area
along the border with Bolivia and Brazil accounted for about 13
percent of Peru’s 164 metric tons of  gold output  last year.  Rising gold prices have spurred a $2 billion annual illegal
 mining industry  in 21 of Peru’s 24 regions, according to the
National Society of Mining, Petroleum & Energy, an industry
group. The government has destroyed dozens of dredges and has
decreed up to 10-year prison sentences for illegal miners.  “The State is not taking on subsistence mining, but rather
large illicit organizations that finance illegal mining and
cause irreparable damage to the environment and people’s
health,” the group’s president  Pedro Martinez  said today in an
e-mailed statement. “The real promoters of illegal mining are
well-organized mafia who exploit men, women and children in
conditions of semi-slavery.”  Gold futures for April delivery fell 3 percent to settle at
$1,642.90 an ounce at 1:41 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . Gold,
which touched a record $1,923.70 in September, has doubled in
the past three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  