-- Philippine Bonds Rise on Yields, Inflation Outlook; Peso Drops
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   Y a p
-- 2012-03-14T08:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/philippine-bonds-rise-on-yields-inflation-outlook-peso-drops.html
Philippine bonds rose as slowing
inflation and yields near a 10-week high attracted investors.
The peso fell for a fourth day.  The outlook for  consumer prices , which rose 2.7 percent
last month in the smallest gain since 2009, remains manageable
and allows the central bank to support economic growth, Governor
Amando Tetangco said last week. The  Federal Reserve ’s decision
to refrain from new action to lower borrowing costs in the U.S.
gives the Philippines scope to assess the impact of previous
policies, Tetangco said in a mobile phone message today.  “The medium-term outlook for inflation is still
manageable,” said Jill Singian, senior manager for treasury at
the  Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI)  in Manila. “The recent rise
in yields is a good opportunity to pick up and position,
especially at the long-end.”  The yield on the 7.375 percent March 2021 peso bonds fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.20 percent,
according to prices from Tradition Financial Services at 2:08
p.m. local time. The rate climbed to 5.25 percent yesterday, the
highest level since Jan. 2. The peso dropped 0.5 percent to
42.88 per dollar, data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas cut the  overnight borrowing
rate  by a total 50 basis points this year to 4 percent, the
lowest level in a year. The policy stance will support economic
growth as inflation is expected to average below 4 percent this
year, well within the central bank’s target of between 3 percent
and 5 percent, the governor said on March 6.  The monetary authority may pause after this year’s two rate
cuts, Tetangco said in a March 10 e-mail reply to questions. The
next policy meeting will be on April 19.  Policy makers are “watchful of volatilities” in oil costs
and other prices and are monitoring any “possible second-round
effects to see if there is a need to modify our current stance
of policy,” Tetangco said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  