-- Pimco Deploys Derivatives in Race for Target-Date Assets
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-03-14T18:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/pimco-deploys-derivatives-in-race-for-target-date-fund-investors.html
Invesco Ltd.  and Pacific Investment
Management Co. are adding riskier assets and complicated
strategies in target-date funds as they seek to gain ground on
Fidelity Investments and Vanguard Group Inc. in this fast-
growing segment of the U.S. retirement market.  While sellers promote the funds as a simple choice for
people who don’t want to pick their own investments and
rebalance them, money managers are using inflation hedges and
derivatives to bolster returns. That broadening doesn’t address
target-date funds’ main issues: uneven returns, higher expenses
and an inability to provide for individual retirement needs,
said  Bob Pozen , a senior lecturer of business administration at
Harvard Business School and former chairman of MFS Investment
Management.  Target-date mutual funds hold a mix of assets that become
more conservative as employees age, which is why employers favor
them when automatically enrolling workers in 401(k) retirement
plans. Investments in the funds have swelled more than 380
percent since 2005 to about $343 billion as of September,
according to the Investment Company Institute, a Washington-
based trade group for the mutual-fund industry.  “Some people are losing sight of the risk-management goal
by adding all these additional asset classes,” said  Jim Lauder ,
chief executive officer of Global Index Advisors, whose Atlanta-
based firm runs about $14 billion in target-date fund assets for
 Wells Fargo & Co.  and  State Street Corp.  “If you devastate
their portfolios, inflation doesn’t matter.”  Outliving Savings  The funds’ growth has attracted attention as studies,
including those by the  Government Accountability Office , have
shown that Americans may outlive their savings. Less than 15
percent of Americans are very confident they’ll have enough
money to live comfortably in retirement, the Washington-based
Employee Benefit Research Institute said in a study yesterday.  Invesco and Pimco are trying to attract assets by using
more exotic strategies, which generally have higher fees, said
 Laura Lutton , an editorial director in the fund research group
at Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  Invesco uses exchange-traded futures and some swaps on
futures to invest in commodities such as oil and soy meal, said
 Scott Wolle , chief investment officer of Invesco Global Asset
Allocation. It also uses the derivatives to trade in six global
equity markets and sovereign bond markets, including Australia,
Japan and Germany. Atlanta-based Invesco started offering
target-date funds in 2007 and has about $256 million in assets,
Wolle said.  “There’s complexity in the guts of how we manage the
portfolio but there’s a simple approach,” he said. “We’re
trying to win by not losing.”  Jump in Assets  Invesco’s target-date fund for those retiring in 2020
returned about  9.8 percent  last year with dividends reinvested,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average target-date
fund lost about 1.6 percent last year, Morningstar  data  show,
while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained about 2.1 percent
with dividends reinvested.  Pimco’s offerings saw a 398 percent jump in assets last
year to reach $180 million, said John Miller, head of U.S.
defined contribution and retirement for the firm. The Newport
Beach, California-based company uses derivatives in its target-
date funds to hedge against inflation, credit risks and currency
dislocations by purchasing options contracts, futures or swaps,
Miller said.  Derivatives are financial instruments used to hedge risks
or for speculation. They’re derived from stocks, bonds, loans,
currencies and commodities, or linked to specific events like
changes in the weather or interest rates.  Building Capital  Pimco uses derivatives “to hedge against severe market
dislocations and shocks,” Miller, who’s also a managing
director at the firm, said. “While the hedges do cost something
in terms of putting them into the portfolio, they have the
potential to not only pay for themselves but they can and have
been a source of out-performance at least historically.”  The firm’s target-date fund for those retiring around 2020
returned about  2 percent  with dividends reinvested last year.
The firm started selling its target-date funds about four years
ago because of their increased use by 401(k) plans, Miller said.  Target-date funds generally are designed to build capital
by holding mostly stocks when an employee is younger, and shift
to more conservative assets such as bonds as retirement
approaches and the need for steady income increases. The federal
government endorsed the funds in the  Pension Protection Act of
2006 , leading employers to favor them when automatically
enrolling workers in 401(k) plans, and triggering an influx of
money and companies that sell them.  ‘Tremendous Discrepancy’  The majority, or 53 percent, of plan sponsors that
automatically enroll participants in 401(k)s use target-date
funds as the default investment, according to a 2011 report by
the  Plan Sponsor Council of America , a Chicago-based trade
group. There are more than 40 target-date mutual fund families
employers may choose from and some sellers also offer them in
collective trusts or customized versions, said  Jeremy Stempien ,
director of investments for the retirement solutions group at
Morningstar Investment Management.  “We can see tremendous discrepancy, tremendous differences
among asset managers,” said Harvard’s Pozen, who’s also a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. “I don’t think most
people understand what they’re getting.”  Fees Range  Fidelity, Vanguard and  T. Rowe Price Group Inc.  controlled
about 75 percent of the target-date assets in 2011, according to
Morningstar. The average fee for a target-date mutual fund last
year was about 1.1 percent, according to Morningstar, which
included all share classes and retirement years such as the 2030
or 2040 funds.  Fees for the funds at Pimco and Invesco averaged about 1.2
percent. Vanguard, which mainly uses three broad-market  index
funds  in its series, had the lowest expenses at about 19 basis
points, or 84 percent less than the more expensive funds. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Vanguard reported yesterday that in 2011 about 64 percent
of new enrollees in 401(k) plans administered by the company
invested solely in a target-date fund. The Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based firm managed about $100 billion in the funds
as of Feb. 29, according to spokeswoman  Linda Wolohan .  ‘Flipping Their Assets’  “Folks are being defaulted into these target-date funds,”
said  Ron Surz , developer of a target-date series called the Safe
Landing Glide Path, which moves investors’ assets entirely to
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, by their
projected retirement date. “They think their employers are
looking out for them, but they’re just flipping their assets
into what’s convenient.”  In 2008, some target-date funds designed for those near
retirement lost as much as 41 percent while the S&P 500 Index
fell about 38 percent, according to Morningstar. Since then many
providers have diversified their holdings and added asset
classes to protect against inflation and falling markets.  Providers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  AllianceBernstein
Holding LP ,  Northern Trust Corp.  and State Street Global
Advisors have increased allocations to inflation-sensitive
assets including real estate investment trusts, commodities or
TIPS. Last quarter Fidelity also tacked on floating-rate debt
and real-estate debt as asset classes, said  Joe Cullen ,
institutional portfolio manager at the Boston-based firm.  Vetting the Funds  The proliferation of investment choices has made it harder
for employers to shop for the best plans.  “It’s getting more and more difficult for employers to vet
target-date funds,” because there are so many variations with
little track record, said  Mark Wayne , CEO of Freedom One
Financial Group. It’s especially tough for small businesses with
fewer resources, said Wayne, whose Clarkston, Michigan-based
firm advises companies with 100 to 1,000 employees on 401(k)
plans.  Companies must show they’ve made a good-faith examination
of their investment offerings in order to avoid liability under
Department of Labor rules, said Wayne.  “The problem is, if you take the wrapper off and you look
at the underlying funds in the target-date fund, some of those
will fail any investment screening,” he said. Businesses should
push for target-dates that are comprised of funds from different
investment managers to get the best returns for their workers,
he said.  ‘Getting It Right’  “This is going to be their sole retirement vehicle,” said
Robin Diamonte, chief investment officer for  United Technologies
Corp. , which uses a customized target-date fund as the default
investment when automatically enrolling new hires in its 401(k)
plan. “We think it’s extremely important to get it right.”  The maker of Sikorsky helicopters and Otis elevators has
about 100,000 participants in its 401(k) plan with about $16
billion in assets, of which about $1 billion was held in target-
date funds as of January.  Workers may be better off with a so-called balanced fund
that has 50 percent to 60 percent in equities and 40 percent to
50 percent in bonds because target-date funds generally have
more moving parts and higher fees, said Pozen of the Harvard
Business School.  T. Rowe Price’s  Balanced Fund  has returned about 5.5
percent in the past 12 months as of March 12 compared with a
gain of about 3.8 percent by the firm’s target-date fund for
those retiring around  2050 . The  2020  target-date fund has
returned 4.6 percent in the same time period, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Equity Allocation  Target-date funds generally are going to have a higher
equity allocation than a balanced fund for a period of decades
while a worker is saving, which will tend to produce better
returns over longer time periods, said  Jerome Clark , portfolio
manager of Baltimore-based T. Rowe’s retirement funds. About 90
percent of T. Rowe’s target-date funds are invested in stocks
until investors reach age 40 and by the time they are around
their expected retirement age that figure has dropped to about
55 percent, he said.  Participants and plan sponsors have adopted target-date
funds because they save investors from common mistakes such as
lack of appropriate diversification, not rebalancing or buying
high and selling low, Clark said.  “I don’t think it has over the period of time a big return
advantage,” said Pozen referring to target-date funds. “But
unfortunately you’re getting more investor confusion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 