-- Pimco’s El-Erian Says Bank Tests a Good Signal for Economy
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-03-14T16:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/pimco-s-el-erian-says-bank-stress-tests-a-good-sign-for-economy.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian said the  Federal Reserve ’s stress tests on
financial institutions were a good sign for an economy that may
still receive another round of asset purchases from the bank.  “They were credible and unambiguously this is good news,”
El-Erian, the chief executive officer of the world’s largest
manager of bond funds, said of the bank tests during an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “The big hope for everybody is that they’ll start lending
into the real economy.”  The U.S. central bank yesterday said 15 of 19 banks would
be able to maintain capital levels above a regulatory minimum in
an “extremely adverse” economic scenario, even while
continuing to pay dividends and repurchasing stock. Those
results were due to scrutiny by the Fed on capital payouts over
the past three years, the central bank said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  joined banks
raising dividends and authorizing share repurchases after
passing the stress tests. Citigroup Inc., the lender that took
the most government aid during the financial crisis, said it
will resubmit its capital plan to regulators after failing to
meet some minimum standards in the tests. Citigroup has repaid
$45 billion in Troubled Asset Relief Program money.  ‘Taking More Risk’  “The first step is wanting to give money back to
shareholders -- that’s the easy step for them,” said El-Erian
of  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco. “The harder step is
to start taking more risk and lending to the economy. That is
the most critical thing because we need this recovery to
continue to build steam. It hasn’t yet gone from being fueled by
liquidity to being fueled by fundamentals.”  The central bank has pledged to keep the benchmark  interest
rate  at almost zero through at least late 2014 and has purchased
$2.3 trillion of securities under two rounds of assets purchases
known as quantitative easing, or QE, from December 2008 to June
2011.  “Our own view is that QE3 will probably materialize down
the road simply because the endogenous engines of growth, while
they are picking up, are not strong enough yet given all the
headwinds faced that face the  U.S. economy ,” El-Erian said.  At the same time, investors are growing concerned that
central bank policy will cause the Fed to lose control of
inflation, he said.  ‘Getting Nervous’  The difference in yield between Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities and nominal bonds, known as the break-even
rate, indicated that investors expect consumer prices to rise
2.2 percent annually over the next five years, the highest since
May. The average over the past year is 1.88 percent.  “The markets are getting nervous,” El-Erian said.
“They’re saying, why is the Fed continuing with this pedal-to-
the-metal approach?”  The labor market has “improved further; the  unemployment
rate  has declined notably in recent months but remains
elevated,” the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee 
said yesterday in a statement at the conclusion of a meeting
yesterday in  Washington . While global financial-market strains
have eased, it said, they continue to “pose significant
downside risks to the economic outlook.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  