-- Poland to Meet Half of 2012 Borrowing Needs by End-March
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2012-03-14T16:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/poland-to-meet-half-of-2012-borrowing-needs-by-end-march-1-.html
Poland’s  Finance Ministry  said it
will meet half of this year’s borrowing requirements by the end
of March and plans to complete most of its 2012 plan by the end
of June in case  Europe ’s debt crisis roils markets.  The ministry has covered 47 percent of the plan after an
auction of two-year bonds today, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  told reporters in Warsaw. It would like to cover most
of it in the first half because the European Union’s debt crisis
clouds the situation on financial markets, he added.  “We want to speed up the pace at which we’re covering our
borrowing needs,” Radziwill said. “That’s why we’re putting a
large amount of bonds up for sale right now.”  Poland  was the only EU member to dodge recession in 2009
after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Inc . triggered a global
recession. Local assets are benefiting as the government
overhauls the pension system and increases levies to trim this
year’s budget deficit to within the EU limit of 3 percent of
economic output, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said.  “The trend is clear,” Rostowski told the same news
conference. “The credibility of Poland’s economy and public
finances is improving.”  Five-year credit default swaps, which insure against non-
payment, dipped below France’s for the first time this week,
figures from data provider CMA show. French five-year CDS trade
at 171 basis points, compared with 169 for Poland.  Poland sold 3.99 billion zloty ($1.26 billion) of the zero-
coupon bonds at today’s auction, the maximum planned, after bids
of 7.15 billion zloty. It sold 300 million zloty more at a
supplementary auction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  