-- Post-Qaddafi Libya Bourse Opens as 4 IPOs Seen by Year-End
-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-03-15T13:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/post-qaddafi-libya-exchange-opens-as-four-ipos-seen-by-year-end.html
Libya’s bourse , closed for more
than a year as armed conflict ended Muammar Qaddafi’s four-
decade rule, began trading of 10 stocks today and aims to list
at least three more in 2012 as the economy stabilizes.  Libya ’s LYX index was unchanged today as one trade of
Commercial & Development Bank took place, General Manager Ahmed
Karoud said by phone today. Average daily trading totaled no
more than 400,000 dinars ($318,000) a day prior to the closing
of the Libyan Stock Exchange in February 2011. The bourse is in
talks with three to four companies in the real-estate and oil
industries that are considering initial public offerings this
year, and will announce their names next month, he said.  North Africa’s biggest oil producer has restored 75 percent
of pre-war production levels, pumping as much as 1.2 million
barrels a day, Prime Minister Abdurrahim el-Keib said this
month. The economy, which the  International Monetary Fund   said
in January  may have contracted by 60 percent last year, is
projected to recover in 2012, “concurrent with an improvement
in the security situation,” the fund said.  “There’s stability in Libya,” Karoud said in an interview
at his office yesterday. “The stock market will be one of the
economic activities in the coming period in order to reconstruct
Libya.”  Lack of Stability  The bourse, located in the capital Tripoli, remains small,
with a market value of about $3.1 billion compared with $66.2
billion for the  Egyptian market , North Africa’s biggest.  While the tumble in growth may have slowed, political
tensions remain. Mustafa Abdel Jalil, the head of the National
Transitional Council, said March 7 he is ready to defend
national unity by force. His remarks came a day after political
and tribal leaders declared a semi-autonomous region in the
country’s oil-rich east.  “We are going to require more stability in the country --
this is a must,” Rami Sidani, the Dubai-based head of  Middle
East  and North Africa investments at Schroder Investment
Management, said by telephone yesterday. “We perceive Libya as
a great place that offers great growth potential eventually but
we believe it’s at a very early stage given the political
uncertainty we see at the moment.”  Other companies that are trading on the exchange include
Gumhouria Bank and Libya Insurance. The bourse plans to list by
June two funds valued at a combined 750 million dinars that will
help “participate in rebuilding Libya,” Karoud said.  Trading will start at 10:30 a.m. local time and last 90
minutes for five days a week. The shares are subject to a
maximum daily movement of 3 percent, Karoud told Arabiya TV
today. The exchange signed an agreement last month with the
nation’s Commercial & Development Bank to become the bourse’s
clearing bank, the Libyan  news agency  reported.  There are no restrictions on foreign investment on the
market, Karoud said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  