-- PSA Screening Reduces Deaths From Prostate Cancer, Study Finds
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-03-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/psa-screening-reduces-deaths-from-prostate-cancer-study-finds.html
Routine tests used to detect
prostate cancer reduce the risk of death from the disease,
researchers said, adding more evidence to a debate over the role
of screening.  Those who were screened for PSA, a protein associated with
the cancer at high levels, had a 21 percent lower risk of dying
from the disease than those who weren’t screened, according to
the study published today by the New England Journal of
Medicine. The researchers tracked more than 160,000 European men
older than 50 for a median of 11 years.  To prevent one death from prostate cancer, more than 1,000
men would need to be invited for testing and 37 cancers would
need to be detected, the researchers said. Screening for PSA
didn’t result in a lower risk of death from any cause over the
period of the study, they found. Treatment for the cancer, which
grows slowly in most men, may result in complications including
bacterial infections, incontinence and impotence.  “More information on the balance of benefits and adverse
effects, as well as the cost-effectiveness, of prostate-cancer
screening is needed before general recommendations can be
made,” wrote the researchers, led by Fritz Schroeder at the
Erasmus University Medical Center in Rotterdam, the Netherlands.  PSA testing can miss the disease, or give a positive
reading as a result of benign prostate conditions, according to
the  U.S. National Cancer Institute . Almost  242,000  American men
will be diagnosed with prostate cancer this year, and about
28,000 will die, the institute estimates.  PSA screening doesn’t save sufficient lives to justify
exposing men to risks of death, incontinence and impotence, a
U.S. panel said in a  draft report  in October. The Health and
Human Services Department’s  Preventive Services Task Force 
recommended against PSA tests for men who don’t have symptoms
that are “highly suspicious for prostate cancer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  