-- Pulitzer Winner Shadid Rebuilds His Family’s Home in Last Book
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-03-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/pulitzer-winner-shadid-rebuilds-his-family-s-home-in-last-book.html
Anthony Shadid, the New York Times
reporter who died of an asthma attack in Syria last month,
received two Pulitzer Prizes for his coverage of the  Middle
East .  Yet Shadid devoted his last book, “ House of Stone ,” to a
more personal subject: the reconstruction of his family’s
ancestral home in Jedeidet Marjayoun, southern Lebanon.  Full of nostalgia for the Lebanon of yore, the book is
moving enough as it is. The author’s death at 43 makes it all
the more poignant.  By far the strongest parts of “House of Stone” are those
in which Shadid recounts his own life and career. He only
briefly mentions episodes to which others might have dedicated a
whole book: the bullet wound he received in his shoulder in the
 West Bank  in 2002, the six days he spent as a hostage to Libyan
forces in 2011.  The collapse of his first marriage is summed up in one
paragraph.  “On what had, at the outset, seemed a promising summer
day, I had returned to our house to find that my wife and
daughter had vacated,” he writes. “The lawn was mowed, the
flowers were planted, the tomatoes starting to ripen, but
inside, precisely half of everything was missing.”  War Reporting  Conscious of having been a distracted father and husband,
Shadid heads off to Lebanon to cover the deadly 33-day war
between Israel and Hezbollah in 2006. While there, he stops off
at his great-grandfather’s home, which had recently been
destroyed by an Israeli rocket, and decides to rebuild it as a
gesture to his daughter.  Shadid -- a man of few words when describing turning points
in his personal life -- somehow devotes more than 20 chapters to
the house’s painstaking reconstruction. We meet many of the
inhabitants of Marjayoun, a town of 800: the doctor, the
British-educated gentleman, the tile merchant.  A few become friends. There’s the idle Shibil, who retains
old-fashioned manners yet tunes his TV to porn when Shadid comes
over. There’s Abu Jean, the foul-mouthed elderly foreman who
drives Shadid crazy yet winds up being thanked in the
acknowledgments.  As Shadid settles in, he discovers that a presumed informer
lived in the house during the 1982-2000 Israeli occupation.
Later, he learns that the neighbors are all convinced he’s a
U.S. spy and that President  George W. Bush  is personally paying
for the renovation.  Family Saga  The homebuilding chronicle is interspersed with an account
of how Shadid’s forebears wound up in the U.S. As a
preadolescent, his grandmother was shipped to America with her
aunt and uncle, soon becoming a single mother forced to fend for
herself. His grandfather -- her second husband -- arrived first
in  Texas , left the  oil fields  for  Detroit  and wound up opening a
dry-goods store in  Oklahoma City , where the author was raised.  The family saga makes fascinating reading. Yet you dip in
and out of it -- between reading about the plumbing, the
electricity and the leaking roof.  Had he lived longer, Shadid might have revisited his family
history in greater detail. “House of Stone,” charming though
it is, leaves you longing for that other book. Shadid’s final
tome is, rather, the proud biography of a house that his
daughter and son (born during his second marriage) will now make
their own.  “House of Stone: A Memoir of Home, Family and a Lost
Middle East” is published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt (311
pages, $26). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Farah Nayeri is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Farah Nayeri at  at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 