-- Rand Weakens First Day in Three on Dollar-Purchase Talk
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-14T16:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/rand-weakens-first-day-in-three-after-fed-statement-bonds-drop.html
The rand led declines against the
dollar amid speculation  South Africa ’s central bank increased
purchases of the U.S. currency. Bond yields hit two-month highs
as the  Federal Reserve  raised its outlook for the  U.S. economy .  South  Africa ’s currency retreated as much as 2.1 percent,
the biggest decline since Feb. 10, and traded 2 percent weaker
at 7.6773 as of 5:37 p.m. in Johannesburg, the most out of more
than 25 emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg.
Yields on the nation’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 climbed 16
basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 6.83 percent, the
highest since Jan. 9.  “Market talk suggests that the Reserve Bank has become
more active in mopping up some dollars towards 7.5000 rand” per
dollar,  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM
Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments today. Central bank
activity “should leave the downside reasonably well contained
and the dollar-rand continuing to trade in a 7.48 to 7.60
range,” he added.  Reserve Bank spokeswoman Candice Jeffreys didn’t
immediately return an e-mail or voicemail message for comment.
The central bank adds to its foreign exchange reserves “as and
when appropriate,” though it doesn’t target a level for the
rand and won’t sell dollars to defend the currency, Governor
Gill Marcus said in October.  The central bank’s gross foreign exchange and gold reserves
rose 0.9 percent in February from the previous month to $51.9
billion as the price of gold surged and the dollar weakened,
boosting the value of other foreign currencies, the Pretoria-
based  Reserve Bank  said on March 7. The bank probably made no
“material” dollar purchases in that month, Standard Bank Group
Ltd. said in a research note on the same day.  ‘Rand Strength’  “They probably will be active when there are patches of
rand strength,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the Johannesburg-based
chief dealer at Bidvest Bank Ltd., the nation’s biggest chain of
money-changers, said by phone. “I wouldn’t call it intervention
because it isn’t aggressive, but it is another barrier for the
rand to go stronger.”  The rand has gained 7.3 percent against the dollar this
year, rising to a five-month high on Feb. 29.  South Africa’s currency extended its decline today after a
report said retail sales growth expanded at the slowest pace in
six months in January, adding to signs of a slowdown in Africa’s
biggest economy.  Consumer Spending  Sales growth eased to 3.9 percent from 8.7 percent a month
earlier, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said on its
website. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 10
economists was 6.7 percent. Sales fell 0.6 percent from a month
earlier. The annual rate was the lowest since July.  The retail data “is negative for the rand from a GDP
differential perspective,” Shireen Darmalingam, an analyst at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “Given the backdrop of still weak global economic
growth, the rand could edge weaker as market participants take
their cue from the on-going uncertainty and volatility in the
 euro zone .”  Bonds declined as traders added to bets interest rates will
rise after the  Federal Open Market Committee  said it expects
“moderate economic growth” in the U.S. and predicted the
 unemployment rate  “will decline gradually,” reducing
expectations of a third round of bond purchases.  Three-month forward-rate agreements starting in December
climbed eight basis points to 5.98 percent, implying traders see
a near-100 percent chance of a 50 basis points rate increase
this year. South Africa’s central bank has left its repo rate at
a three-decade-low 5.5 percent for the past 18 months to help
boost growth.  Stocks Gain  Faster economic growth in the world’s biggest economy would
also boost the relative attractiveness of equities over bonds.
South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  climbed for a second day,
rising to a record as three stocks rose for every one that fell.  “The FOMC statement was the trigger for all of this,”
Michael Grobler, an analyst at Afrifocus Securities in  Cape
Town , said by phone. “There may be some rotation taking place,
with money going into equities.”  The yield on South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 bonds due
2024 rose one basis point to 4.18 percent. The extra yield
investors demand to hold the country’s debt rather than U.S.
Treasuries narrowed three basis points to 201 basis points, the
lowest since the bonds starting trading on Jan. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  