-- Rangers Prepare for Crosby, Penguins With Win Over Hurricanes
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/rangers-prepare-for-crosby-penguins-with-win-over-hurricanes.html
Brad Richards scored two goals as
the  New York Rangers  defeated the Carolina Hurricanes 4-2 for
their second straight win in the National Hockey League.  Marian Gaborik’s 34th goal of the season gave the Rangers
the lead after three minutes, two seconds at Madison Square
Garden in New York last night.  Richards added two goals in a three-minute span of the
second period before Tim Brent and Drayson Bowman cut the
deficit to one with the last period to play. Carl Hagelin, who
assisted on both Richards goals, sealed the win seven minutes
from the end.  The Rangers have 95 points, three fewer than league leader
the St. Louis Blues, who lost to the Chicago Blackhawks 4-3 in a
shootout last night.  New York  (44-18-7) leads the race for the top seed in the
Eastern Conference by 12 points over the Boston Bruins, who lost
6-1 against the Tampa Bay Lightning last night. The Rangers
extended their lead in the Atlantic Division over the  Pittsburgh
Penguins  to six points.  Penguins captain Sidney Crosby will return against the
Rangers in their next game, at Madison Square Garden tomorrow
night.  Crosby, 24, has missed 59 games during the past two seasons
because of concussions and their aftermath. He sustained head
injuries in last year’s Jan. 1 Winter Classic against the
Washington Capitals and again four days later against the Tampa
Bay Lightning, causing him to miss the rest of the 2010-11
season.  Crosby returned for eight games this season until he was
sidelined when concussion-like symptoms returned during a game
against  Boston  on Dec. 5 and he was diagnosed with a soft-tissue
injury in his neck.  Former Ranger Sean Avery, 31, announced his retirement two
days ago on the reality television show “Watch What Happens
Live.” Avery, who played 15 games for New York this season
before being sent to its minor-league affiliate, had 247 points
and 1,533 penalty minutes in his 10-year NHL career with the
 Detroit Red Wings ,  Los Angeles Kings , Rangers and  Dallas Stars .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 