-- Chelsea, Madrid Complete Champions League Quarterfinal Lineup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-15T00:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/real-madrid-advances-to-champions-league-soccer-quarterfinals.html
Branislav Ivanovic’s extra-time
goal sent Chelsea into the  Champions League  quarterfinals along
with nine-time winner Real Madrid, preserving the run of English
teams in the last eight.  Ivanovic scored in the 105th minute last night as Chelsea
won 4-1 to complete a 5-4 win over two games to reach the
quarterfinals of European soccer’s elite competition for the
seventh time in nine seasons.  Didier Drogba ,  John Terry  and
 Frank Lampard  got the Blues’ other goals.  “This could top them all for sure,” Chelsea captain Terry
told ITV after his team erased a 3-1 deficit from the first game
in  Italy . “The lads put in a great display and it was really
solid, really resilient.”  Cristiano Ronaldo scored two goals and Gonzalo Higuain and
Karim Benzema added one each as Real Madrid beat  CSKA Moscow  4-1
to complete a 5-2 aggregate victory and reach back-to-back
quarterfinals for the first time since 2004.  Chelsea and Real join defending champion Barcelona, AC
Milan, APOEL Nicosia,  Bayern Munich , Benfica and Marseille in
tomorrow’s quarterfinal draw in Nyon,  Switzerland .  “I have no preference,” Higuain told UEFA’s website. “To
win the competition you have to beat all the teams.”  Ivanovic’s goal at Stamford Bridge in London put a Premier
League team in the final eight for the 16th straight season.
England is the only country to have a quarterfinalist every year
since the Champions League expanded to more than 16 teams in the
1997-98 season.  Opening Goal  Chelsea took the lead in the 29th minute as Drogba headed
in a cross from Ramires. Terry then gave the Blues a 2-0 lead
two minutes into the second half when he headed in Lampard’s
corner kick.  Gokhan Inler put Napoli back in front on aggregate in the
55th minute with a shot from the edge of the area. Lampard
forced extra time with a 75th-minute penalty kick after Andrea Dossena’s handball.  Chelsea’s  Fernando Torres  missed a chance in the first
period of extra time when he shot wide after Drogba’s long ball
into the Napoli area bounced over goalkeeper Morgan De Sanctis.
Ivanovic was then left alone near the penalty spot to score the
winner off a cross from Drogba.  The win was the third straight for Chelsea since manager
Andre Villas-Boas was fired March 5 and replaced by Roberto Di Matteo for the rest of the season.  “It was a fantastic game,” Di Matteo told ITV. “We knew
it would take a lot to go through. The performance of the whole
team was outstanding.”  Real Wins       In the Spanish capital,  Real Madrid  had 62 percent of
possession and a 15-7 shot advantage against CSKA Moscow.  “Many people said that tonight’s game was easy but I knew
what we were facing,” Real coach  Jose Mourinho  told UEFA’s
website. “We controlled the game until 3-0. At 3-1 we got a
little nervous but we managed to close the match out.”  The Spanish league leader went ahead in the 26th minute as
Sami Khedira lofted a ball to the left side of the area for
Kaka, who sent a cross which Higuain tapped into the net.  Ronaldo scored in the 55th minute with a long-range shot
that CSKA goalkeeper Sergei Chepchugov fumbled into his own net.
Benzema made it 3-0 in the 70th before Zoran Tosic scored for
CSKA seven minutes later.  Ronaldo then closed the scoring with a tap-in in the final
minute of stoppage time. It was the Portuguese forward’s 11th
goal in Real’s past seven matches and took his tally to 48 in 46
games for club and country this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  