-- Treasuries Break May Signal Higher Yields: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-14T15:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/treasuries-break-may-signal-higher-yields-technical-analysis.html
The breach of 200-day moving
averages of Treasury 10-year note and 30-year bond yields for
the first time since July may signal further declines in
government-debt prices, according Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on benchmark 10-year notes rose as high as 2.2454
percent in New York, exceeding today’s 200-day moving average of
2.2117 percent. Thirty-year yields reached 3.370 percent,
topping the 200-day average of 3.3625 percent.  “There are finally some signs of life in the long end of
the Treasury yield curve,” wrote  Michael Shaoul , chief
executive officer of New York-based Oscar Gruss, in a note to
clients before the levels were crossed. “Our view remains that
the long end of the curve is at least 100 basis points lower
than it should be given the balance of economic news.”  Yields rose to the highest level in more than four months,
a day after the  Federal Reserve  raised its assessment of the
 U.S. economy  and reduced demand for the relative safety of
government debt.  Comments in a statement following the conclusion yesterday
of the Federal Open Market Committee induced traders to cut the
probability that the central bank will embark on a third round
of so-called quantitative easing. Fed policy makers raised their
assessment of the economy saying “the unemployment rate has
declined notably in recent months but remains elevated.”  Yield resistance is an area on charts where buy orders may
be clustered, making further yield increases more difficult.
Note and bond prices move in opposite direction of yield
changes.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  