-- Refiners Push EPA to Scrap Gasoline Rule That Automakers Want
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/refiners-push-epa-to-scrap-gasoline-rule-that-automakers-want.html
Refiners are pushing the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to delay tighter pollution rules
for gasoline, while automakers say they need the cleaner fuel.  The rules will probably be delayed beyond an EPA deadline
of this month. The agency hasn’t sent them to the White House
for review, a process that can take 90 days to complete. And EPA
Administrator  Lisa Jackson  already pledged that the agency will
limit its rules -- whenever they come out -- to a cut of sulfur
in gasoline.  Despite the delay and rising gas prices, lobbyists
representing  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  aren’t
backing down from the fight against refiners such as  Tesoro
Corp. (TSO) , as they argue that cleaner gasoline is necessary to help
them realize pledged fuel-economy improvements.  “Ever-cleaner cars will need even cleaner fuels,”  Gloria Bergquist , vice president for communications at the Alliance of
Automobile Manufacturers in Washington, said in an e-mail.
Without cleaner fuels, an “unfair proportion” of the burden of
meeting increased fuel-economy standards will fall on
automakers, the group told the EPA last year.  The so-called Tier 3 standards would set pollution emission
levels for gasoline. Tier 2 guidelines were issued in 2000, and
phased in over a decade. The rules the EPA is considering would
cut average allowable sulfur emissions to as low as 10 parts per
million from the current 30 parts per million, according to a
Oklahoma Republican Senator  James Inhofe , who  wrote  EPA in
January to try to head off the regulations.  Inhofe Objections  “With gasoline prices already high, and with so many
Americans already struggling to make ends meet, we urge you to
recognize that now is not the time for new regulations,” Inhofe
and five other senators wrote Jackson on Jan. 12.  The  American Petroleum Institute  commissioned a study that
said tight new EPA rules could increase prices at the pump by 25
cents a gallon. That study factored in standards for vapor
pressure that Jackson has since told lawmakers the agency
doesn’t plan to propose. The EPA estimated the rules would add 1
cent to the cost per gallon.  The  Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers  said sulfur in
gasoline “poisons” emission-control devices, reducing their
ability to cut tailpipe emissions. As a result, carmakers must
“overdesign” the equipment to meet pollution standards, the
group said in document submitted to the EPA.  ‘Strategic Decision’  “We still expect the agency to push for a reduction in
vapor pressure,” Patrick Kelly, senior policy adviser at the
American Petroleum Institute in Washington, said in an
interview. “It’s just a strategic decision on how they would
get there.”  Getting there has taken a detour, as gasoline has grown in
political importance.  Regular gasoline at the pump averaged $3.80 nationwide as
of March 12, up about 3 cents from a week earlier, according to
AAA data. Prices about 15 percent higher this year, generating
angst among consumers in an election year and criticism from
Republicans.  A  Washington  Post-ABC News poll published March 12 showed
65 percent of Americans surveyed disapprove of the way President
Barack Obama is handling gasoline prices, with 26 percent
expressing support. The poll of 1,003 adults taken March 7-10
has a margin of error of four percentage points.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted March 8-11 found that
66 percent place more responsibility for rising prices on  oil
companies  and Middle East nations taking advantage of tensions
with Iran. Only 23 percent say the White House is more at fault.  ‘Election-Year Limbo’  Still, gasoline fears make it unlikely the administration
will issue the fuel rules anytime soon, Peter Iwanowicz,
assistant vice president of the American Lung Association, said
in an interview.  “The rule has gone off into election-year limbo,”  Frank O’Donnell , president of  Clean Air Watch  in Washington and
supporter of the new standards, said in an e-mail.  So far EPA is not backing off: “The agency continues to
develop the Tier 3 vehicle and fuel standards -- engaging
diverse stakeholders as part of that process,” Alisha Johnson,
an agency spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  And neither are automakers. They say Europe and  Japan 
already have rules in place, and that the EPA needs to impose
requirements similar to those being pursued by  California .  “A manufacturer should be required to develop and produce
only one version of a vehicle for the U.S. market, and that
vehicle should be subject to one set of certification
procedures,”  Michael Stanton , president of the Association of
 Global Automakers in Washington , which  represents  companies such
as  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , wrote in a letter to
Jackson on Feb. 17. “Anything more wastes resources.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  