-- Regulators Must Rein In $47 Trillion Shadow Banks, Turner Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-03-15T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/regulators-must-rein-in-47-trillion-shadow-banks-turner-says.html
Global financial supervisors must
act to contain the $47 trillion shadow-banking industry,  Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K.  Financial Services Authority , said
in a speech in London.  Shadow banking, which encompasses financial activities that
take place outside the regulated banking system, is
“potentially very unstable,” and vulnerable to liquidity
shocks, Turner said. The shadow banking industry in  Europe  is
worth $22 trillion, and $25 trillion in the U.S., by some
estimates, he said.  “Our regulatory response should therefore entail a bias to
prudence,” Turner, 56, said in the speech at the Cass Business
School yesterday. Supervisors shouldn’t allow “complex
interconnectivity” and “high leverage to develop in
unregulated institutions or markets.”  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together
regulators, G-20 central bankers and finance ministry officials,
said last year that shadow banks may create “an opportunity for
regulatory arbitrage.” Shadow banking includes money-market
funds, securitizations and off-balance-sheet investment
vehicles.  Regulators will struggle to develop policy responses to
deal with shadow banking because of its complexity, Turner said.  “Any system this complex will defy complete understanding:
and any belief that we can precisely calibrate our response to
it will therefore be a delusion,” he said.  Global regulators at the FSB are committed to proposing
tougher rules for shadow banking by the end of the year, said
Turner, who is also an FSB member.  Repos  The FSA may impose minimum collateral requirements in the
market for  repurchase agreements , considered part of the shadow
banking industry, Turner said in November.  The  European Commission , the executive arm of the European
Union, may tighten rules governing so-called repos, which are
contracts where one investor agrees to sell a security and then
buy it back at a future date and a fixed price, according to a
document obtained on March 6.  A bankruptcy examiner’s report found that Lehman Brothers’
Holdings Inc., the lender whose collapse in 2008 sparked a
financial crisis, used so-called Repo 105 transactions to move
as much as $50 billion off its balance sheet temporarily to show
investors it wasn’t carrying too much debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  