-- Republicans Losing on Birth Control as 77% in Poll Spurn Debate
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-14T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/republicans-losing-on-birth-control-as-77-in-poll-spurn-debate.html
Americans overwhelmingly regard the
debate over President Barack Obama’s policy on employer-provided
contraceptive coverage as a matter of women’s health, not
religious freedom, rejecting Republicans’ rationale for opposing
the rule. More than three-quarters say the topic shouldn’t even
be a part of the U.S. political debate.  More than six in 10 respondents to a Bloomberg National
Poll -- including almost 70 percent of women -- say the issue
involves health care and access to  birth control , according to
the survey taken March 8-11.  That conflicts with Republican presidential candidates  Rick Santorum  and  Mitt Romney , who say Obama is violating religious
freedom by requiring employers -- including those with religious
objections to birth control -- to provide a way for women to
obtain contraceptive coverage as part of their insurance plans.  The results suggest the Republican candidates’ focus on
contraception is out of sync with the U.S. public. Seventy-seven
percent of poll respondents say birth control shouldn’t be a
topic of the political debate, while 20 percent say it should.  “These candidates are talking to a relatively small subset
even among Republicans,” said J. Ann Selzer, of  Des Moines ,
Iowa-based Selzer & Co., who conducted the telephone poll of
1,002 respondents. “They may have the feeling, and their polls
may be showing them, that this is a way in and this is a wedge
issue within the party, but this does not dovetail with the
views of the majority in the U.S.”  Fire Rush Limbaugh  More than half of those interviewed also say radio host
 Rush Limbaugh , who called a female law student testifying
publicly in favor of birth-control coverage a “slut” and
“prostitute,” should be fired based solely on those comments.  Republicans are more likely than respondents generally to
see the controversy over contraception as an issue of religious
liberty, with 54 percent viewing it that way, compared with 42
percent who say it was a matter of health-care access.  While Democrats have charged that the Republican position
amounts to a “war on women,” the poll indicates that they
aren’t benefiting from it in respondents’ perceptions of the two
parties. The survey also suggests that the advantage Democrats
have historically enjoyed among women may have narrowed.  Forty-nine percent of women say they would choose Obama
over Romney, the front-runner in delegates in the Republican
primary, compared with 45 percent who say they’d pick the former
Massachusetts governor. In 2008, Obama won 56 percent of the
women’s vote to 43 percent for the Republican nominee, Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona , according to national  exit polls .  Obama Against Santorum  Obama’s advantage among women is more pronounced over
Santorum, a Roman Catholic who says he is personally opposed to
contraception and has made such social issues a hallmark of his
campaign. Women also back Obama over the former Pennsylvania
senator 51 percent to 42 percent, while voters overall choose
the president by a narrower six-point margin.  At the same time, women’s impressions of the  Democratic
Party  are only slightly better than of the Republicans. Forty-
nine percent view Democrats favorably and 42 percent see them
unfavorably, according to the poll, which has a margin of error
of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points; 44 percent regard
Republicans favorably compared with 48 percent who see them
unfavorably.  “I don’t understand why it’s even an issue in politics --a
woman’s decision of what she’s going to do for her health and
her family,” said Alycia Vetter, a 44-year-old Republican and
Romney supporter in Denver. “And I’m pro-life.”  Work to Do  Margie Omero , a Democratic pollster who has studied women’s
opinions, says the results suggest that while Republicans may
have erred by emphasizing the contraception issue, Democrats
have work to do before the November elections to gain the
support of more women.  “It’s up to candidates and the parties and women’s
organizations to really make a case about why it’s an important
distinction between the parties,” said Omero of the Washington-
based firm Momentum Analysis. “We’re going to absolutely need
women voters and need to have a strong gender gap, and
Republicans have handed us a really strong example.”  The poll also indicated that most Americans aren’t
comfortable mixing religion and policy. Fifty-eight percent of
those surveyed -- including almost half of Republicans -- say a
president’s religious beliefs should never influence his policy
decisions compared with a quarter who say they should sometimes,
and 14 percent who say they should most or all of the time.  Independents, Democrats  Fifty-five percent of Republicans and Republican-leaning
independents who support Romney say religious beliefs should
never influence decisions, compared with just 29 percent of
Santorum supporters.  Men are more likely to say contraception coverage is a
matter of religious liberty, with 38 percent saying so compared
with 28 percent of women who see it that way. Majorities of both
genders -- 57 percent of men and 68 percent of women -- say the
issue is one of women’s health and access to birth control.  While a majority of Republicans see the topic as a question
of religious freedom, only 36 percent of independents and 12
percent of Democrats agree. By contrast, 60 percent of
independents and 81 percent of Democrats call it a matter of
women’s health.  Let’s Move On  “I don’t think it should have made it into the political
realm, but I thought in the  United States  that you have freedom
of religion, and the president made it an issue when he started
telling people that they had to violate their beliefs,” said
Brian Chapman Thomson, 50, a Santorum supporter from  Dallas .  The Obama administration originally said that as part of
the new health-care law, religiously affiliated institutions
would have to pay for birth-control coverage for employees.
After protests by Catholic bishops, the administration announced
a compromise, saying that while the institutions wouldn’t have
to pay for contraceptives, their insurance companies would.  Thomson says it’s appropriate for Republicans to focus on
social issues in the primary, yet he is ready to move on from
the contraception issue. Santorum “had a good ride, but he
needs to move on to other topics,” such as the economy, Thomson
says. “Let’s hear what else you have to say.”  Limbaugh Comments  As for Limbaugh’s derogatory comments about Georgetown
University law student Sandra Fluke, men are split over whether
the radio host should be let go from his job -- 49 percent say
so, while 47 percent disagree. Fifty-six percent of women
support the move compared with 39 percent who don’t. Almost one
in three Republicans, 30 percent, say Limbaugh should be fired
for the remarks.  Limbaugh  mocked Democrats  on the air yesterday for having
thought his comments about Fluke were going to work to their
advantage, saying they failed to gain significant headway among
women voters.  “It wasn’t a big winner for them,” he said. “It didn’t
work out the way they all envisioned.” Instead, he said, Obama
is losing ground with women.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  