-- Republicans Accuse IRS of Scrutinizing Tea Party Groups
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-03-14T21:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/republicans-accuse-irs-of-scrutinizing-tea-party-groups.html
Senate Republicans today expressed
concern that the  Internal Revenue Service  was singling out Tea
Party groups for extra scrutiny in deciding whether to grant
them tax-exempt status.  “It is critical that the public have confidence that
federal tax compliance efforts are pursued in a fair, even-
handed, and transparent manner - without regard to politics of
any kind,” the senators wrote to IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman .  Their letter followed a similar one written March 1 by
House Ways and Means oversight subcommittee Chairman Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican, and followed a call by Senate
Democrats for the IRS to cap political spending by nonprofits
that don’t disclose their donors.  Anti-tax Tea Party groups have backed Republicans, and
gaining nonprofit status would allow them to engage in political
activity while keeping their donors hidden, unlike traditional
political action committees. They are applying for social
welfare status under Section 501(c)(4) of the  tax code , which
means that political activity can’t be their primary focus.  Other nonprofit groups such as Crossroads GPS, affiliated
with Republican strategist Karl Rove; and Americans for
Prosperity, funded in part by Koch Industries Inc. executives
Charles and David Koch, spent more than $130 million on the 2010
elections, with more than $120 million of that going to elect
Republican congressional candidates. The money helped the
Republicans to a net gain of 63 House seats and 6 Senate seats.  Democratic Groups  On the Democratic side, a PAC supporting President Barack Obama’s re-election, Priorities USA Action, has an affiliated
nonprofit that can keep its contributors hidden.  Outside group spending has increased since the Supreme
Court, in its 2010 Citizens United decision, removed
restrictions on independent corporate and union spending on
political ads.  The Chattanooga Tea Party of  Tennessee , Waco Tea Party of
 Texas , the  Kentucky  9/12 Project and other Tea Party groups have
reported that the IRS is seeking additional information in
response to their applications for nonprofit status.  ‘Valuable Roles’  “Civic and social welfare organizations have long
performed valuable roles and offered numerous benefits to our
society,” the Republican senators wrote. “It is imperative
that organizations applying for tax-exempt status are able to
rely on a consistent and foreseeable review structure from the
IRS.  Any significant changes to the IRS review process should
be implemented only after appropriate notice and opportunity for
comment from the public and affected parties.”  A spokesman for the IRS, Anthony Burke, had no immediate
comment on the letter.  The effort was led by Senators  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the
ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, and Rob Portman of  Ohio . Some Tea Party groups oppose Hatch’s re-
election.  Other senators signing the letter were Republican leader
Mitch McConnell of Kentucky; Charles Grassley of  Iowa ; Lamar Alexander and  Bob Corker  of Tennessee; Pat Roberts of Kansas;
John Cornyn of Texas, who is chairman of the National Republican
Congressional Committee; Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas; Jon Kyl
of  Arizona ; John Thune of  South Dakota ; and Rand Paul of
Kentucky.  Limits Request  Senate Democrats on March 12 asked Shulman to impose limits
on political spending by nonprofits and said they would
introduce legislation to do so if the agency failed to act. They
announced yesterday that a working group would draft legislation
to force groups airing political ads to reveal their donors.
Senate Republicans in 2010 blocked similar legislation.  “Making sure that every American knows who is funding the
election ads they see and hear is even more important now that
the  Supreme Court  has allowed companies to contribute unlimited
amounts of corporate cash to influence elections,” said Senator
Al Franken, a Minnesota Democrat.  A coalition of labor unions, consumer groups and
organizations favoring stronger campaign finance laws said this
week that they would start targeting companies that contribute
to nonprofit groups spending money on campaigns.  “‘We the people’ will not stand idly by while the
country’s major corporations use their massive wealth to buy our
democracy,” said Common Cause President Bob Edgar, a former
Democratic U.S. representative from  Pennsylvania . “We will do
all we can to expose the corporate spending that threatens to
drown out voters’ voices.”  Seeking Investigation  Another group, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
 Washington , asked the IRS today to investigate Americans for Tax
Reform, which made $4.1 million in independent expenditures for
the 2010 elections, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, yet reported to the IRS that it spent $1.9 million on
political and lobbying activities in that year.  The group, headed by anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist ,
“strictly abides by the definitions of political activity and
political expenditures maintained” by the IRS and the Federal
Election Commission, said John Kartch, a spokesman. He called it
“another baseless complaint against a conservative
organization.”  IRS spokesman Burke said federal law prohibits the agency
from commenting on whether it is investigating a particular
organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  