-- RIM Short at Eight-Year High in Bet Against Revival Plan
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-14T20:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/rim-shorts-at-eight-year-high-in-bet-against-ceo-s-revival-plan.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  shares have
lost more than 90 percent of their value since mid-2008. That
hasn’t stopped a surge in bets that the stock will sink further
as the BlackBerry maker prepares to report earnings.  Short interest  in RIM climbed to 59.2 million shares at the
end of February, the highest since January 2004, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and  stock exchanges . Investors taking
short positions borrow and sell a stock, aiming to profit by
repaying the borrowed shares at a lower price.  Short sellers are betting that newly appointed CEO Thorsten Heins won’t be able to reverse RIM’s fortunes as it struggles to
stanch market-share losses to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc.
Analysts predict Heins, in his first earnings announcement since
being named to the top post in January, will report sales for
the holiday period that missed the company’s own projections.  “They have not kept up with the new world,” said Buzzy Geduld, chief executive officer of  New York  hedge fund Cougar
Trading. “Where kids used to all use BlackBerrys, they’re all
using iPhones now; where companies used to all use BlackBerrys,
they’re now using iPhones and BlackBerrys.”  While the BlackBerry 7 models introduced last year offer
improved Web browsing and touch-screen navigation, RIM continues
to lose sales to Apple’s iPhone and devices running Google’s
Android software. RIM’s share of the U.S. market fell to 15
percent in the three months through January from 17 percent a
quarter earlier, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  Apple and Google
together share 78 percent of the market, ComScore said.  Shipment Miss?  Even growing sales in  emerging markets  including Indonesia
and India cannot make up for the U.S. slump, where revenue fell
45 percent in the quarter ended Nov. 26. RIM’s share of the
global smartphone market slid to 8.2 percent in the fourth
quarter from 14 percent a year earlier, while Apple’s share rose
to 24 percent from 16 percent, according to IDC.  RIM fell 2.5 percent to $13.15 at the close in New York. It
has slid 9.3 percent this year after losing 75 percent in 2011.  Analysts are growing increasingly bearish in their
forecasts for sales this quarter.  Peter Misek , an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in New York, said this month there is a good
chance that RIM will announce disappointing results before it’s
scheduled to report earnings because BlackBerry shipments will
have missed the company’s target of 11 million to 12 million
units. Misek has the equivalent of a sell rating on RIM.  Tenille Kennedy, a RIM spokeswoman, said the company will
give a business update March 29 and declined to comment further.  Just five  of 53 analysts who rate RIM recommend buying the
stock, while 33 recommend holding and 15 selling. Sales fell to
$4.54 billion in the quarter that ended March 3, the average
analyst  prediction  shows, whereas RIM said in December that the
period’s sales would be $4.6 billion to $4.9 billion.  Losing Traction  Beyond generating more interest in BB7 phones, Heins has
said his most important goal is to get the first BB10 model,
based on the new QNX operating system, into customers’ hands on
time.  Mike Lazaridis , the BlackBerry inventor and former CEO who
Heins replaced in January, said in December it would come out in
the “latter part” of 2012.  “The company will continue to lose traction until it
showcases its next generation of products based on QNX and the
latter is very unlikely to generate renewed consumer traction,”
 Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
in a note yesterday. He rates RIM the equivalent of hold.  Not Much Faith  The first BB10 model will be delayed because the chipsets
needed to deliver better performance and battery life wouldn’t
be available until mid-2012, Lazaridis has said. A spate of
recent product delays has hampered investors’ confidence in RIM,
said Cougar’s Geduld.  “The problem with the pipeline is that these guys keep
postponing when it’s coming out,” Geduld said. “I don’t think
anybody has that much faith that in six months they’re actually
going to have a real game changer.”  The short interest ratio, a gauge of investor sentiment,
for RIM climbed to 4.5 percent on Feb. 29, the highest since
July 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The same
ratio for Apple is 0.42 percent, or about one-tenth of RIM’s.
 Google (GOOG) ’s is 1.4 percent.  A different metric shows short sales continued to rise this
month. Bearish bets against RIM reached 4.7 percent March 9, up
from a 2012 low of 1.2 percent on Jan. 25, according to New
York-based Data Explorers, which compiles securities-lending
data to tally short selling daily. That compares with the 2.8
percent average short interest on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, the benchmark index for American equity, the data show.  ‘Dramatically Different’  Geduld, who has shorted RIM in the past, said he doesn’t
own the stock now as he doesn’t want to be exposed in the event
that a bid emerges for the company and the shares surge.  “The bulls see some value there that somebody comes in and
buys them, and the bears see a continued deterioration in
sales,” he said. “That’s the long and short of it.”  RIM trades about 50 percent below its book value, or the
net value of its property, patents and its other assets, making
it attractive for anyone willing to try and fix RIM’s current
strategy, Bernstein’s Ferragu said.  David Einhorn ’s  New York- 
based Greenlight Capital Inc. hedge fund bought RIM shares in
the fourth quarter.  Heins has said the company has to do something
“dramatically different” to win back U.S. consumers. In his
first conference call with analysts, he said he has no plans to
split up the company or sell businesses. He has also said RIM
has held talks with rivals eager to license its software.  Risking a Squeeze  Harry Rady , who heads Rady Asset Management LLC in  La
Jolla ,  California , held both long and short positions on RIM
last year. He doesn’t now and says it’s currently too risky to
invest either way, particularly when the cost of borrowing to
short the stock is “huge.”  “You risk a short squeeze with any talk of a takeover or
anything being done to unlock its patents,” Rady said in a
phone interview.  In spite of RIM’s falling market share, RIM’s defenders
point to its portfolio of technology patents and base of 75
million subscribers as assets that any rival would want to own.
Those are assets no investor should ignore, Rady said.  “One side of the boat is sinking and the other one is
filled with gold and it’s a question of whether the boat can be
rowed ashore before the treasure is lost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  