-- Romanian Bond Yields Fall as IMF Plan Outlives Government
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-03-15T15:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/romanian-bond-yields-tumble-as-imf-plan-outlives-protest-fallout.html
Investors are betting  Romania ’s new
government will stick to its bailout program in the face of
elections this fall after anti-austerity protests and low voter
support chased former Prime Minister Emil Boc from office.  The  European Union’s  second-poorest member sold a record
amount of debt in the first two months and more than planned for
the quarter as it reaps the benefits of an economic policy path
under International Monetary Fund oversight, while neighbors
such as  Hungary  and Ukraine struggle to access IMF funds.
Romania raised double the amount planned at an auction today,
selling 1 billion lei ($298 million) of five-year bonds  to take
advantage of tumbling yields.  “From a fixed-income perspective Romania is doing most of
the right things,” Blaise Antin, who helps manage $5 billion in
emerging-market debt at TCW Group Inc. in  Los Angeles , said in a
March 13 interview. “It looks to me like Romania will
outperform in macro terms and probably also on the policy side.
The fact that they have an IMF program in place gives an anchor
to the policy side.”  Romania relied on a 20 billion-euro ($26.1 billion) loan
from the IMF and the EU from 2009 to 2011 to emerge from the
deepest recession on record. The government, which has cut state
wages and raised taxes to narrow the  budget deficit  to 1.9
percent of economic output this year from 4.35 percent in 2011,
secured a new 5 billion-euro precautionary accord to reassure
investors before elections this year.  ‘Mediocre Student’  Romania reversed its image as a “mediocre student” on
economic policy after the government last year weathered no-
confidence votes and protests to adhere to its  IMF  agreement,
Jeffrey Franks, the fund’s mission chief in Bucharest, said last
month. The IMF expects any new government to honor the terms of
the current lending accord and keep the fiscal terms laid out.  Romania has sold 23.83 billion lei ($7.1 billion) in
Treasury bonds and bills on the domestic market and $2.25
billion in dollar bonds to international investors this year,
the most since records began in 2005, according to central bank
data. The average yield fell to 6.29 percent at today’s auction
from 6.75 percent at the similar auction on Feb. 16.  The premium investors demand to buy five-year Romanian debt
rather than  Germany ’s has narrowed 125 basis points this year to
3.98 percentage points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.
Hungary’s spread on similar-maturity debt relative to Germany
has narrowed 110 basis points to 7.65 percentage points. The
Germany-Poland five-year yield gap is 4.1 percentage points from
4.57 points at end-2011.  Search for Funds  Hungary has been seeking since November to start talks with
the IMF about financing assistance as the government clashes
with the EU and the Washington-based lender on issues ranging
from central-bank independence to a judicial overhaul. Ukraine’s
bailout has been frozen for a year because the government won’t
approve raising consumer-energy costs.  Romania’s credit-default swaps are among the world’s 16
best performers this year. The cost of insuring against a
default by Romania has declined about 150 basis points this year
to 301 basis points today, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. The CDS are 214 basis points
narrower than Hungary’s and 138 basis points wider than those of
 Poland , the EU’s largest EU member.  “They have done the job over the last year and the IMF is
very happy at the moment,” Guillaume Tresca, an emerging market
strategist at  Credit Agricole  in Paris, said March 13. “They
are implementing strong fiscal measures to meet budget deficit
and fiscal targets.” Credit Agricole recommends investors buy
Romania’s one-year Treasury bills foreign-currency hedged as the
Balkan country improves its fiscal balance and the central bank
has room to cut  interest rates .  Violent Protests  That job was threatened at the start of the year when
accusations of corruption and two years of tax increases and
government spending cuts, including a 25 percent reduction in
public-sector wages, prompted violent protests that left 60
people injured.  The demonstrations and low voter support pushed Boc from
power, one of eight European Union leaders to leave office as
 Europe ’s debt crisis roils financial markets and takes a
political toll on governments reducing spending during an
economic downturn.  It also hit the Romanian leu, the worst-performer so far
this year among the EU’s eastern member’s currencies. The leu
has lost 1.3 percent to the euro in 2012, trading at 4.3830 as
of 4:49 p.m. in Bucharest.  Bottom Line  “The bottom line for Romania is that it’s still enjoying
the support of the IMF and the EU in the form of a precautionary
stand-by arrangement and that’s supporting the relatively low
 risk premium  when you compare it with Hungary,” Michal Dybula,
an emerging-markets economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw, said in
a Feb. 22 interview, adding rising wages may fuel import demand
and lead to external imbalances.  Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu took over as premier last month and
the 43-year-old former spy chief has turned to a new generation
of politicians to resuscitate the government’s fortunes. He made
Bogdan Dragoi, 31, finance minister and Lucian Bode, 38, to
guide the economy as the debt crisis damps demand for the Balkan
nation’s exports and limits credit flows.  The ruling coalition has pledged to keep to the IMF
agreement as well as support economic growth, while President
Traian Basescu on March 7 said public-sector wages should be
reinstated to pre-crisis levels before voters head to the polls.  Romania’s economy will probably grow 1.6 percent this year,
the European Commission forecast on Feb. 21. Polish growth will
be 2.5 percent, the EU’s fastest, and the  Czech Republic  will
stagnate, the commission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  