-- Romney Says Republicans to Unite for Him Against Obama
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-14T22:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/romney-says-republicans-to-unite-for-him-against-obama.html
Mitt Romney  brushed aside questions
about his ability to appeal to Southern Republicans after his
losses yesterday in the Mississippi and Alabama presidential
primaries, saying he has won other states and garnered more
delegates and votes than any of his rivals.  “If I’m a weak frontrunner, what does that make  Newt Gingrich ?” Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, said in an
interview on Fox News. “Some who are very conservative may not
be yet in my camp, but they will be when I become the nominee,
when I face Barack Obama” in a general-election faceoff  He declined to weigh in on whether Gingrich, a former U.S.
House speaker who has won just two primaries, should exit the
race, saying such judgments were up to each candidate.  Supporters of  Rick Santorum , who with victories in
yesterday’s primaries now has won 10 contests, are pushing for
Gingrich to exit to consolidate the opposition to Romney.  Gingrich has resisted such calls and was campaigning today
in Illinois, site of a March 20 primary.  Romney, in the Fox interview, said a Bloomberg National
poll released today showing him running ahead of Obama among
independents debunks the refrain that he has trouble connecting
with ordinary Americans.  ‘Average Americans’  In the survey, 49 percent of independents back Romney, the
former Massachusetts governor who co-founded a private equity
firm, while 41 percent support Obama.  The independents polled who said they back him “aren’t all
wealthy people. These are average Americans,” he said.  Among all general-election voters in the survey, Romney and
Obama each get 47 percent support.  With fundraisers in  New York  and Connecticut today, Romney
also took time for a telephone conference call with Illinois
voters in which he referred to skepticism he arouses among his
party’s most conservative wing.  “I know that it’s popular today to say, ‘Oh, we don’t want
someone who looks like he’s establishment,’” he said, adding,
“I know the term ‘establishment’ frightens people.”  To allay such concerns, he noted endorsements he’s gotten
from Republican leaders with strong conservative credentials,
including Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma, House Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  of Virginia and former Attorney General John Ashcroft.  Romney said their backing should “give a pretty good
indication that, ‘Perhaps the guy’s OK.’”  Delegate Hunt  Romney aides today pressed their case that he is on an
inexorable march to the Republican nomination as he continues to
exceed his rivals in the hunt for convention delegates.  Though Romney ran third in Alabama and  Mississippi , he
garnered some delegates due to the proportion of the vote he
received. And he won caucuses in Hawaii and  American Samoa .  The results “actually increased Governor Romney’s delegate
lead, while his opponents only moved closer to their date of
mathematical elimination,” Romney political director  Rich Beeson  wrote in a memo sent to reporters.  “While Rick Santorum is taking a victory lap after Alabama
and Mississippi, the fact remains that nothing has changed or
advanced his chances of getting the Republican nomination,”
Beeson said.  Santorum disputed such arguments as he campaigned today in
 Puerto Rico , site of a March 18 primary.  “If we keep winning races, eventually people are going to
figure out that Governor Romney is not going to be the
nominee,” he said, according to the  Associated Press .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington
at  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  