-- Rusal Slumps Over Clash Between Russian Tycoons: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-03-14T08:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/rusal-slumps-over-clash-between-russian-tycoons-hong-kong-mover.html
United Co. Rusal (486)  fell to a two
month-low in Hong Kong after its chairman quit citing disputes
with controlling shareholder Oleg Deripaska about dividends and
asset sales at the debt-laden aluminum producer.  Rusal  fell  4.1 percent to HK$5.87 for its lowest since Jan.
20. The benchmark index fell 0.2 percent. Rusal has declined
12.5 percent in the past six months.  Victor Vekselberg, Rusal’s third-largest holder, quit as
chairman citing disagreements with Chief Executive Officer
Deripaska over the billionaire’s refusal to sell a 25 percent
stake in OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel. (MNOD)  Vekselberg sided with  Mikhail Prokhorov , the second-biggest holder, to push for a sale of the
stock, saying it would help reduce debt and aid expansion.  “Investors are concerned about Rusal’s corporate
governance,” said Richard Gao, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Guosen Securities Co. “The resignation is not because of how
big of a crisis the company is in but because of Vekselberg’s
disagreements with Deripaska.”  Rusal may elect an independent chairman on March 16 when
it’s due to hold a board meeting, Deripaska said yesterday on a
conference call. “The chair won’t get cold,” he said.  “Due to the actions of its management, Rusal is presently
facing a deep crisis,” Vekselberg said in a statement. “Rusal
deteriorated from an international aluminum leader into a
company overburdened with debt.” Rusal completed an $11.4
billion debt refinancing in October.  Deepening Conflict  Vekselberg’s exit shows a deepening conflict among
 shareholders  over the investment in Norilsk,  Russia ’s biggest
miner. Deripaska, who controls 47.4 percent of Rusal, has
snubbed three offers since October 2010 to divest the Norilsk
shares, saying it’s a long-term “strategic” holding.  “Relations between Oleg Deripaska and Vekselberg have
worsened materially over the last year,” brokerage Troika
Dialog said yesterday.  Alfa Bank (ALFB)  said minority holders have
grown “uncomfortable” and “could be incentivized to exit
their stakes,” adding that such an option wouldn’t be viable in
the “current market environment.”  Deripaska would consider buying Vekselberg’s stake in Rusal
should he decide to sell, the CEO said on the call. Vekselberg’s
Sual Partners Ltd. holds a 15.8 percent interest, which would be
valued at about $1.9 billion at the current market price,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “We have the right of
first refusal,” Deripaska said.  Sual Partners has no current plans to sell, spokesman
Andrey Shtorkh said by telephone from Moscow.  Russia’s Richest  The departure of Vekselberg, chairman since Rusal took over
his SUAL Group in 2007, “preempted the anticipated
consideration of this matter by the board,” Rusal said in a
statement. The billionaire, ranked Russia’s 10th-richest person
by Forbes magazine last year, hasn’t attended a  board meeting  in
person since February 2011 and “failed to perform his functions
as a public-company board chairman,” the aluminum company said.  “The resignation of Mr. Vekselberg will not have any
material impact on the business of the company, will not have
any significant influence on the company’s operational and
financial results,” the Moscow-based aluminum producer said in
a separate statement.  Share Slump  Rusal’s depositary receipts fell 3.5 percent to 230.88
rubles at the close in Moscow yesterday. Rusal has slumped 45
percent in  Hong Kong  trading since its  initial public offering 
in the city in January 2010, and pays no dividend as it seeks to
curb borrowings.  Vekselberg, together with partners including Len Blavatnik,
started buying shares of aluminum companies in the 1990s. The
partners’ aluminum empire grew into SUAL Group, which by 2006
was Russia’s largest producer of the metal after Deripaska’s
Rusal. Their combination created the world’s top aluminum maker.  Vekselberg has “basically received no returns” since the
2007 takeover, said Valentina Bogomolova, an analyst at UralSib
Capital in Moscow. “Vekselberg’s frustration is understandable
because he can neither cash out nor affect decision-making as
Rusal is a one-man show.”  Deripaska, 44, has hung on to Rusal’s Norilsk stake, even
as Vekselberg urged the sale of the shares for $18 billion last
year, two people with knowledge of the matter said Sept. 20.  Rusal Debt  Concern that Rusal’s debt was too high led Hong Kong
regulators to delay its IPO at least twice, and the company was
barred from marketing the shares to individual investors. Rusal
cut its borrowings by selling stock to investors including Hong
Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing .  In December, the company promised to pay a premium to
lenders should its  ratio  of net debt to earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization exceed 4. It was
3.9 at the end of September, according to Morgan Stanley. Rusal
may cut output by 6 percent in the next 18 months amid declining
aluminum prices, Deripaska said in January.  Rusal produced 4.1 million metric tons of aluminum in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Aluminum for
three-month delivery on the London Metal Exchange has averaged
$2,223.98 a ton this year, compared with $2,421.39 last year.  Deripaska controls his stake in Rusal through EN+ Group
Ltd. and Prokhorov has 17 percent through Onexim Holdings Ltd.
Andrey Belyak, a spokesman for Onexim Group, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  