-- Russian Billionaire Rybolovlev Sued Over Penthouse Purchase
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-03-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/russian-billionaire-rybolovlev-sued-over-penthouse-purchase-1-.html
Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev’s wife sued him over the $88 million purchase of a
Central Park West penthouse in  Manhattan  from former  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  Chairman Sanford Weill.  Elena Rybolovleva, 45, of Geneva, who is seeking a divorce,
yesterday sued her 45-year-old husband in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan. She accused him of fraudulently transferring
property acquired during his marriage in violation of a Swiss
court order to buy the New York penthouse “with the specific
intent of hiding and diverting his personal interest in the
property.”  A company associated with the billionaire’s daughter,
Ekaterina Rybolovleva, signed a contract to purchase the 6,744-
square-foot (627-square-meter), full-floor condominium at 15
Central Park West, Alan Basiev, a spokesman for Rybolovlev, said
in December. The purchase closed Feb. 15, according to the
complaint.  Ekaterina Rybolovleva, who is studying at a U.S.
university, plans to stay at the apartment when visiting  New
York , Basiev said. Her father, ranked number 100 on Forbes
Magazine’s 2012 list of the world’s billionaires with a net
worth of $9 billion, is the former owner of fertilizer maker OAO
Uralkali.  Divorce Filing  Elena Rybolovleva filed for divorce in Geneva in December
2008, and the court later imposed a provisional freeze on shares
and assets of Rybolovlev, including stakes in Russian potash
producers OAO Uralkali and OAO Silvinit, according to the
complaint. The pair married in July 1987 and lived in Geneva
starting in 1995.  His wife is asking the court to establish a trust over the
property so that it “cannot be alienated, conveyed, encumbered,
transferred or wasted” pending the final determination of the
Swiss court.  Basiev and Rybolovlev couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment after regular business hours yesterday in  Russia .  Marc I. Salis, a New York-based lawyer who represented the
penthouse’s buyer, didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The condo was listed for $88 million. The prior record for
a Manhattan residence was the $53 million sale of a townhouse to
private-equity investor J. Christopher Flowers in 2006,
according to  Jonathan Miller , president of New York appraiser
Miller Samuel Inc.  Potash Producer  The condominium was listed for sale by brokerage Brown
Harris Stevens in November. Weill and his wife, Joan, paid $43.7
million for the property in 2007, according to city records. The
apartment has a wraparound terrace, two wood-burning fireplaces
and a library, according to a floor plan on Brown Harris’s
website.  Rybolovlev sold 53 percent of OAO  Uralkali (URKA)  in June 2010 to
billionaire Suleiman Kerimov and his partners, who also took
control over rival OAO Silvinit as part of a plan to create the
world’s largest potash producer.  Rybolovlev, who lives in  Monaco , liquidated his interests
in Uralkali and Silvinit and used part of the proceeds to
acquire the penthouse, according to the suit.  “During the marriage, and during the pendency of the
divorce proceedings and this time in violation of the Swiss
court order, defendant Dmitri Rybolovlev used property acquired
during the marriage to purchase a multitude of new assets, using
for this purpose vehicles such as trusts and limited liability
companies to place them beyond the reach of plaintiff Elena
Rybolovleva,” according to the lawsuit.  Student Housing  Rybolovlev and his daughter planned the purchase of the
penthouse since 2008 despite his assertion that it is student
housing for her, and she doesn’t attend school in New York,
according to the lawsuit.  Rybolovleva has also sued her husband in  Florida  over a
house he purchased from  Donald Trump  in  Palm Beach  for $95
million, which at the time was the most expensive house in the
U.S., according to that lawsuit.  The case is Rybolovleva v. Rybolovlev, 102168/2012, New
York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  