-- S&P’s Chambers Says Greece Faces ‘Hard Slog,’ U.S. Outlook Holds
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-03-14T13:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/s-p-s-chambers-says-greece-faces-hard-slog-u-s-outlook-holds.html
John Chambers , managing director of
sovereign ratings at  Standard & Poor’s , comments on  Greece  and
the U.S. at a conference in Singapore today.  On Greece:  “It’s going to be a long slog for Greece, maybe a decade.
We don’t think Greece will leave the euro area.”  If it does, “whatever private-sector entities that haven’t
yet defaulted would in the end default because their debt would
be denominated in euros and their revenues would be denominated
in the new drachma. Even that might be worth contemplating if
you thought that we could keep the competitiveness gains that
would stem from the devaluation. But if history is a guide, they
wouldn’t keep the competitiveness gains for very long because
the ensuing inflation eats it alive.  ‘‘I don’t think we would have any rational sort of
political actors that would choose to leave the  euro zone . They
can’t be expelled. But all bets are off if you have a long
period of civil strife. That’s not our base case scenario.”  On the U.S. and its negative outlook:  “The Budget Control Act is being carried out. We had low
expectations for the fiscal committee and those expectations
were met. I don’t think anything’s going to happen between now
and November. After November, regardless of who wins the
election, you have a funny period between the end of the term
and the beginning of the next, which all sorts of things could
happen including the lapsing of the Bush tax cuts. If those
lapse completely, which would be kind of an accidental outcome,
it would give you major revenues over the next 10 years if that
was left untouched.  ‘‘You have very serious political paralysis which continues
in the U.S. Although the Budget Control Act patches the problem
up through the autumn, after that who’s going to guarantee
you’re not going to have similar problems. Room for compromise
between the Democrats and Republicans is not very big. The
levels of revenue in the U.S. are low by most standards and the
spending needs are extensive.  ‘‘The outlook speaks to a time horizon of six to 24 months.
What we probably said at that time, which I think still holds,
is that if for any reason the Budget Control Act was watered
down, that could put downward pressure on the rating, and if
things converge that would counteract that.”  “I was getting fairly confident that there was very a
small
chance of that happening but in the last month or so, there’s
talk actually about diluting the Budget Control Act. Of course,
there could always be some countervailing factor not foreseen
last August.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  