-- SAIC to Pay $500 Million to Settle New York CityTime Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-14T19:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/saic-to-pay-500-million-to-settle-new-york-city-time-fraud-case.html
Science Applications International
Corp., the contractor hired to overhaul payroll systems for  New
York  City agencies, agreed to pay $500.4 million under a
deferred-prosecution agreement to resolve claims that it
conspired to defraud the city.  SAIC admitted it failed to investigate claims that a
manager of the CityTime payroll project directed staffing tasks
to a single subcontractor, Technodyne LLC, in exchange for
kickbacks, according to documents unsealed today by federal
prosecutors. The McLean, Virginia-based company also failed to
notify the city of the claims, according to the agreement.  “The people of  New York City  have half a billion reasons
to celebrate,”  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said at a
press conference today, calling the scheme the “single largest
fraud ever perpetrated on the city.”  The $500 million, which the company must pay to the U.S.
Attorney’s office “within one business day,” represents the
“largest by dollar amount arising out of any state or
government contract fraud in history,” Bharara said. It ensures
the city will be reimbursed for all the money it overpaid, plus
a penalty, he said.  The city was billed about $690 million for SAIC to create a
now-operational Web-based, time-keeping payroll management
system, according to  Marc LaVorgna , a spokesman for Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg . City officials intend to use the windfall to
help close a $3 billion deficit in a $72 billion budget
projected for 2014, Bloomberg said.  ‘Face Justice’  “The lesson we take away from this is, if you attempt to
defraud the public you will be caught, you will regret it and
you will face justice,” Bloomberg said. The mayor is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Payments to Technodyne ballooned to $325 million from
$17 million, even as the contract was amended to transfer cost
overruns to the city, according to a statement of responsibility
submitted by SAIC. The scheme was a “fraudsters’ field day that
lasted more than seven years,” Bharara said.  “Those responsible for directly managing the project
failed to enforce the company’s procurement policies in ways
that allowed the irregular Technodyne relationship to
continue,” according to the company’s statement of
responsibility.  Manager Arrested  The project manager, Gerard Denault, was arrested in May
and charged with fraud and conspiracy. His case is pending.
Bharara wouldn’t comment on whether the company’s other
government contracts were under investigation. Prosecutors have
charged 11 defendants plus Technodyne. One died, two pleaded
guilty, and eight cases are pending, Bharara said.  SAIC agreed to the filing of one count of conspiracy to
commit  wire fraud  and agreed to disgorge proceeds of the
offense, including $370.4 million in restitution to the city and
a $130 million penalty, according to a Justice Department letter
describing the settlement. An independent monitor will be
appointed to ensure compliance with the accord and with
procurement policies.  If SAIC pays the money and cooperates with federal
investigators, the U.S. will seek to have the charges dropped
after three years, according to the agreement.  The company provides scientific, engineering, systems
integration and technical services to governments, including
U.S. intelligence and defense agencies, and the Department of
 Homeland Security , according to its  website .  Billings Forgiven  The agreement calls for the company to forgive $40 million
more in invoiced billings to the city, Bharara said. The U.S.
attorney said his office has liens on $52 million more in
illegal gains of individual defendants. A total of $466 million
will be remitted to the city by the  Justice Department ,
according to prosecutors.  Depending on the resolution of frozen assets, the project
will have cost the city $134 million to $186 million of the
$692 million billed, LaVorgna said in an e-mail.  U.S. District Judge George Daniels approved the agreement
today, according to Bharara’s office.  “We welcome this settlement as an important step in our
efforts to move forward as a better, stronger company,” SAIC
Chief Executive Officer John Jumper said in a statement today.
“We have implemented strong improvements to our compliance
program and have new leadership in place. Our financial position
is solid.”  SAIC rose 7 cents to $12.82 at 2:56 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares climbed 3.7 percent this
year before today.  The case is U.S. v.  Science Applications International
Corp. (SAI) , 11-cr-00121, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  