-- Santorum Wins Alabama Republican Primary, Networks Project
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-03-14T02:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/santorum-wins-alabama-republican-primary-networks-project-1-.html
Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum 
won the Alabama presidential primary, television networks
projected, buttressing his bid to turn the race for the
Republican nomination into a one-on-one contest with delegate-
leader  Mitt Romney .  Networks including NBC and CBS projected Santorum the
winner. With 48 percent of the vote counted, Santorum had 35
percent to 30 percent for  Newt Gingrich , 28 percent for Mitt Romney and 5 percent for  Ron Paul , according to the Associated
Press tally.  Santorum also was leading a tight three-way race in
Mississippi’s primary.  Alabama will send 50 delegates to the  Republican National
Convention  in August, most awarded in proportion to how well the
candidate did in the primary.  Even before tonight’s win, Santorum allies had called on
Gingrich to withdraw from the race to consolidate opposition to
Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts .  Santorum, speaking on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on March 11,
said it would be easier for him to take on Romney if Gingrich
withdrew, though he didn’t ask his rival to do so.  “The better opportunity to make sure that we nominate a
conservative is to give us an opportunity to go head-to-head
with Governor Romney at some point, and hopefully that will
occur sooner rather than later,” said Santorum, a former
Pennsylvania senator. “But we’ll wait and see what the speaker
decides.”  Santorum’s campaign didn’t buy any television advertising
time in Alabama, though was it helped by $199,290 in spending by
his allied political action committee, the Red White and Blue
Fund, between Feb. 12 and March 12, according to New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG.  Romney’s campaign and his allied Restore Our Future PAC
spent $1.3 million on ads. Gingrich and his allied PAC spent
$293,610.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  