-- Schlumberger Is Said to Seek Buyer for Oilfield-Supply Business
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-03-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/schlumberger-is-said-to-seek-buyer-for-oilfield-supply-business.html
Schlumberger Ltd., (SLB)  the world’s
largest oil-services company, is seeking buyers for a unit that
distributes oilfield supplies, a business that may fetch as much
as $800 million, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Schlumberger hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to work on the
potential sale, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the process is private. The operations include
Houston-based  Wilson International  and a 56 percent stake in
Calgary-based  CE Franklin Ltd. (CFT) , both acquired through the $11
billion purchase of Smith International Inc. in 2010.  Possible suitors include private-equity firms and
Schlumberger’s rivals, said the people. Competitors include
 National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV)  and MRC Global Inc., which calls
itself the world’s largest distributor of pipe, valves and
fittings to the  energy industry .  Schlumberger plans to “explore possible transactions”
with its 56 percent stake in Franklin, according to a securities
filing released earlier this year. Its 9.72 million shares were
worth about C$94.4 million ($95 million) based on a C$9.71 price
as of the close of Toronto trading March 12.  Schlumberger, based in Houston and Paris, generated more
than $2.6 billion in  sales  from the distribution business last
year, or about 6.6 percent of total revenue. That compares with
$1.9 billion at National Oilwell’s distribution unit and $4.8
billion at MRC.  MRC, based in Houston and formerly known as McJunkin Red
Man, is majority owned by Goldman Sachs’s private-equity arm.
The company filed for an initial public offering in January.  “We don’t comment on market rumors,” said Mary Jo Caliandro, a Schlumberger spokeswoman, via e-mail.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment.  In 2004, CE Franklin offered to buy Wilson from Smith for
about $245 million to $250 million in stock. The offer valued
Wilson, with 2003 sales of $730.4 million, at 34 percent of
revenue.  Talks over the transaction broke down the following year.
Wilson’s business was growing so fast that it had become too
expensive to buy,  Michael West , Franklin’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview at the time.  Franklin said in February that its board formed a committee
of directors without ties to Schlumberger to consider any
transactions that Schlumberger might propose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  