-- SEC Settles With SharesPost Over Private-Share Trading Probe
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-03-15T00:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/sec-settles-with-sharespost-after-yearlong-private-share-inquiry.html
SharesPost Inc.  and its president
will pay $100,000 to resolve claims that the online marketplace
for private-company shares acted as an unregistered broker, as
U.S. regulators took their first action in a probe of trades
involving non-public startups.  As part of the same investigation, Laurence Albukerk and
his firm EB Financial Group LLC, and Frank Mazzola, principal
and chief executive officer of Felix Investments LLC, were
accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of misleading
investors and charging undisclosed fees in raising more than $70
million from investors seeking stakes in Silicon Valley firms,
including  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the SEC said today.  The agency has been scrutinizing trading in closely held
companies such as Facebook, which has filed to sell shares in
the largest initial public offering of an  Internet company . The
SEC is examining whether the trades expose investors to fraud
because the companies aren’t required to disclose financial
data, including revenue,  cash flow  and debt obligations, and
frequently carry restrictions, such as limits on share sales.  “The newly emerging secondary marketplace for pre-IPO
stock presents risk for even savvy investors,” Marc Fagel, head
of the SEC’s San Francisco office, said in the agency’s
statement. “Broker-dealer registration helps ensure those who
effect securities transactions can be relied upon to understand
and faithfully execute their obligations to customers and the
markets. SharesPost skirted these important provisions.”  Compliance Strategy  SharesPost will pay $80,000 to resolve the SEC claims and
company President Greg Brogger will pay $20,000. Albukerk and EB
Financial agreed to pay about $310,000 to settle the claims
without admitting or denying wrongdoing. Mazzola has denied the
SEC’s claims in public broker filings.  The SEC approached SharesPost in December 2010 to probe its
compliance strategy, Brogger said in a telephone interview.  “The exact legal question is whether or not SharesPost
itself should have been a broker-dealer in 2010,” he said.
“They came to the conclusion that we ought to have been a
broker-dealer in 2010.”  SharesPost was granted broker-dealer status by the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in December, Brogger
said. Before that, the firm partnered with registered broker-
dealers that oversaw transactions conducted between parties that
met on the SharesPost site, he said.  $9.3 Billion  Demand for some closely held technology companies has
surged in recent years, with secondary-market transactions
reaching $9.3 billion in 2011, compared with $4.6 billion a year
earlier, according to Nyppex LLC.  New York-based Felix creates pools through which investors
can purchase shares of non-public companies, including Facebook
and Twitter Inc. The SEC also sued another of Mazzola’s firms,
Facie Libre Management Associates LLC, in the matter.  According to the SEC, Mazzola and his firms engaged in
self-dealing, earning secret commissions above the disclosed 5
percent on two funds’ purchases of Facebook stock and resales to
new investors. The fees essentially raised prices investors paid
for Facebook stock by creating a disincentive for Mazzola and
his firms to negotiate for investors, the SEC said.  Mazzola and his firms also misled an investor into
believing a Felix fund had acquired stock of  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and made
false representations about Twitter’s revenue to attract
clients, the SEC said.  Mounting a Defense  In his public broker filings, Mazzola said that he acted
appropriately and “will aggressively defend himself.”  Separate from SEC’s settlement, Finra filed a disciplinary
action today against Felix, alleging that Mazzola and his
colleagues engaged “in the improper public offering and sale of
unregistered securities,” and made misleading claims to
potential investors in private-company shares, among other
offenses, according to an electronic copy of the complaint on
 Finra’s website .  Finra has imposed a fine of $250,000 on Felix and a total
of $80,000 in fines on Mazzola and other representatives of the
firm. It has also asked that Felix hire an independent
consultant to review its policies and procedures, according to
the document.  Albukerk and his firm hid from investors compensation
earned in connection with two  Facebook (FB)  funds they managed,
according to the SEC. They charged investors a markup after
using an entity controlled by Albukerk’s wife to buy Facebook
stock before acquiring interests for his EB Funds, the SEC said.  Mazzola and John Hewitt, a lawyer for McCarter & English
LLP, which represents Felix Investments, didn’t immediately
respond to phone calls seeking comment. Larry Albukerk didn’t
immediately respond to a voice mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  in Washington at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles in San Francisco at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  