-- Securities Suits’ Settlement Value Lowest in Decade, Report Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/securities-suits-settlement-value-lowest-in-decade-report-says.html
The number of securities class
action settlements approved by U.S. courts dropped in a “weak
year” to the lowest point in a decade as the average amount of
each accord fell by 42 percent in 2011, according to a report.  Sixty-five such cases were resolved last year for a total
of $1.4 billion, the fewest settlements and lowest aggregate
dollar value in more than 10 years, Cornerstone Research, an
economics and financial consulting firm, said in a study
released today. The average settlement amount fell from
$36.3 million in 2010 to $21 million last year, according to the
annual report.  “The class action securities fraud market is a business,
just like any other, and the 2011 settlements data indicate that
the plaintiffs and their counsel are coming off a weak year,”
 Joseph Grundfest , a Stanford University law professor, said in a
statement accompanying the report’s release.  The settlement value fell 58 percent, from $3.2 billion in
2010 to $1.4 billion last year, according to the report. The
2011 total is half that of 2002, the next lowest year.  The declining numbers reflect the weakness of cases filed
three to five years ago, tougher standards of proof imposed upon
by the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  and market instability that has made
it more difficult for shareholders filing suit to say they
weren’t aware of the inherent risk of investing, Grundfest said.  ‘Lost Money’  “You couldn’t prove that you lost money because of
anything related to fraud,” said Grundfest, who was a
commissioner on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from
1985 to 1990.  Attorney  Gerald Silk , a partner in the New York-based firm
 Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossman LLP (142230L) , agreed in part with
Grundfest.  “All of these things have, in some respects, made it more
difficult to bring these cases,” he said in a phone interview.
Still, he said, “numbers don’t tell the whole story.”  Silk called the Cornerstone figures a “snapshot” of
securities litigation at a particular moment that doesn’t take
into account all the cases for which agreed-on settlements were
near final approval at the end of the calendar year.  One of those cases handled by Bernstein Litowitz, Silk
said, was a $516 million accord in litigation involving  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  directors and officers that was submitted
to a federal judge in  Manhattan  in December. That case will be
counted in the 2012 annual report.  Weak Crop  Laura Simmons, a co-author of the Cornerstone report, said
in a phone interview that last year’s cases were a weak crop.
She cited a drop-off in the number of cases sparked by
accounting-related allegations such as financial restatements,
and a decline in the number of parallel SEC enforcement actions.  “Certainly, one could point to improved governance,” she
said. Reforms imposed by the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002 would
have had time to take effect by the time the cases covered by
this latest report were filed, she said.  According to the Cornerstone report, the median settlement
value for the 65 cases resolved last year was $5.8 million, the
lowest in 10 years and a drop of almost 50 percent from 2010.  “We’re seeing historic lows in the number and value of
cases settled,” she said.  Settlement Data  Cornerstone has settlement data dating back to 1996. It
began tracking the results after the  U.S. Congress  passed the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.  Fewer new cases are being filed too, Simmons said.  In 1997, the first year Cornerstone published a report,
more than 200 cases were being filed annually. Since 2006, the
average has been lower than 150, she said.  “From everything I’ve seen to date, the peak activity in
this area appears to have passed,” Grundfest said.  “To the extent that recent history is a guide, the data
appears to suggest that there’s not as much money to be made
from plaintiffs’ class action securities fraud litigation,” he
said.  While plaintiffs’ lawyers will say court rulings have made
it harder to bring cases, defense attorneys will counter that
large parts of corporate America are now run with more
transparency and integrity, Grundfest said.  “That doesn’t mean there isn’t fraud,” he said, “just
not as much.”  Silk said even plaintiffs are still filing “good” cases
even if they aren’t filing as many complaints.  “Those cases are not going away,” he said. “They haven’t
gone away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  