-- Senate Leaders Agree to Vote on U.S. Judicial Nominees
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-03-14T21:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/senate-leaders-agree-to-vote-on-u-s-judicial-nominees.html
U.S. Senate leaders in both parties
have agreed to hold votes on 14 federal judicial nominees,
averting a showdown over nominations that may have tied up floor
time in the chamber.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
the 14 nominees will receive confirmation votes by May 7.  “It’s crucial the bipartisan cooperation continue and the
pace of confirmations move forward,” Reid said today as he
announced the plan on the Senate floor.  Reid had planned to force votes on 17 nominees for federal
trial court judgeships starting today after talks on a
bipartisan agreement to speed votes unraveled. Reid canceled the
plan this afternoon as a deal with Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, started to come together.  Twenty-two judicial nominees are pending before the Senate,
and Reid wanted to require votes on all 17 district court
candidates on that list. Nine of the lower-court nominees were
approved last year by voice vote in the Senate Judiciary
Committee.  Confirmations have become a sore point between the parties.
Obama angered Republicans with his Jan. 4 decision to appoint
 Richard Cordray  as the first director of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and three members to the  National Labor
Relations Board  while Congress was on a holiday break.  Obama said he bypassed Republican obstructionism by making
recess appointments allowed under the Constitution. Republicans
said Congress wasn’t in recess because both chambers were
holding brief sessions every few days.  Votes Every Week  Two of the nominees to receive votes under the Senate
leaders’ plan are candidates for federal appeals courts and 12
would serve on trial courts.  The appellate court nominees are Stephanie Dawn Thacker,
nominated by President  Barack Obama  for a seat on the 4th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals; and Jacqueline H. Nguyen, Obama’s
choice for the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.  Since the president made his recess appointments,
Republican leaders have been wary of retaliating by blocking
confirmations. Obama is seeking re-election by running against
what he calls Republican gridlock in Congress.  Earlier today, before Reid and McConnell announced the
agreement, McConnell said on the Senate floor that Obama was
trying “to write a narrative of obstruction for his campaign.”  ‘Power Play’  McConnell accused Reid of planning a “heavy-handed power
play” and said Obama is doing “quite well” in advancing his
judicial choices through the Senate. He’s had 129 lower-court
judges confirmed in the first three years as president, while
former President  George W. Bush  had 120 confirmed for the bench
in his first four, the minority leader said.  “To the extent there’s anyone to blame, the Obama
administration and Senate Democrats should look in the mirror,”
McConnell said on the floor today. “Of the 83 current
vacancies, over half of them don’t even have nominees.”  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-ranking
Democratic leader and a member of the Judiciary Committee, said
earlier today that Republican delays in confirmations were
slowing the work of the federal court system and were
unacceptable as many of the nominees had unanimous support in
the committee.  “I don’t understand how we can do this to the federal
judiciary and to the men and women who are involved in this,”
Durbin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  