-- Sharp Replaces President After Predicting Record Loss
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-03-14T10:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/sharp-names-takashi-okuda-to-replace-president-katayama.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  named Takashi Okuda its
new president after forecasting a record annual loss amid
slumping prices for its Aquos TVs, an economic slowdown and a
tax charge.  Okuda, 58, now an executive officer, will replace Mikio Katayama effective April 1, the Osaka, Japan-based company said
in a statement today. Katayama, 54, will become chairman and
Katsuhiko Machida, who holds that post now, will be an adviser.  Sharp,  Japan ’s largest maker of liquid-crystal-display
panels, follows  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  in replacing
leaders after falling TV prices and a strong yen led them to
forecast worsening earnings. Sharp expects a 290 billion-yen
($3.5 billion) net loss in the year ending March 31, it said Feb.
1, reversing an earlier prediction for a 6 billion-yen profit.  “The big challenge for Sharp remains the same even with
the management change,” said Masamitsu Ohki, a  fund manager  at
Stats Investment Management Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund.
“There is a doubt whether the LCD market will recover.”  The electronics maker, founded in 1912, plans to halve
output at its largest TV panel factory in Sakai, Japan. In April,
Sharp said it suspended production at its two biggest LCD plants.  Rating Cut  Sharp (6753)  rose 4.3 percent to 531 yen at the close of  Tokyo 
trading, paring earlier losses, after saying it planned to
announce management changes. The stock has declined 21 percent
this year, compared with an 18 percent increase in the Topix
Index, Japan’s broadest equities gauge.  Rating & Investment Information Inc. cut Sharp’s credit
rating by two levels to A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade,
from A+ because “it will likely take time for the company to
improve earnings capacity,” the Tokyo-based ratings company
said earlier this month.  Okuda heads Sharp’s overseas business and previously
oversaw the LCD-TV business, according to the company’s website.
He joined Sharp in 1978, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company wants to unveil a business plan by the time it
announces full-year earnings, Okuda said at a press conference
in  Osaka . Katayama also apologized to shareholders for the
record loss.  IPad Display  “I will basically follow in Katayama’s footsteps,” Okuda
said. “We’ll do our best to rebuild Sharp to live up to
expectations.”  Sharp last month  widened  its operating-loss estimate for
the solar-cell business by 50 percent to 24 billion yen for this
fiscal year because of weak demand, stronger competition and
price declines. The business contributes to 7.8 percent of its
sales.  Company shares declined 5.1 percent earlier today after an
analyst with iSuppli said  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  will provide
the screen for Apple Inc.’s new iPad after  LG Display Co. (034220)  and
Sharp didn’t meet the U.S. company’s quality requirements.  Sharp and LG Display may start shipping panels for the new
iPad in April, according to Vinita Jakhanwal, a senior manager
at iSuppli, a unit of Englewood, Colorado-based  IHS Inc. (IHS)  The new
tablet goes on sale March 16.  “The top management change won’t fix Sharp’s problems,”
said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. “The change is
more from the aspect of taking responsibility for the worst loss,
rather than a forward-looking move.”  Japan’s biggest makers of TVs, phones and chips announced
leadership changes after saying they’ll lose about $17 billion
this year. Osaka-based Panasonic named Kazuhiro Tsuga, 55, to
succeed President Fumio Ohtsubo, 66, the company said Feb. 28.  Tokyo-based Sony named  Kazuo Hirai , 51, to replace
President and Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer , 70, the
company said Feb. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  