-- Ships Vie With Japan Utilities as Fuel Supplies Dwindle: Freight
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-03-14T16:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/ships-vie-with-japan-utilities-as-fuel-supplies-dwindle-freight.html
Oil refiners’ investment in more-
efficient facilities is leaving shipping lines competing with
Japanese power producers for a fuel that no one wants to make.  Refiners are upgrading plants to cut output of  fuel oil , a
byproduct from making gasoline and diesel, as it sells for less
than the price of crude. Shipping lines are seeking more of the
product -- known in the industry as bunker -- to fuel expanding
fleets, while Japanese electric companies are speeding purchases
as they close nuclear plants for checks after 2011’s tsunami.  “We have a bunker market that’s still growing, and we have
no fuel,” said Fereidun Fesharaki, chairman of Singapore-based
Facts Global Energy Inc. “Everyone is destroying the capability
for fuel-oil production.”  The crunch means  bunker  has averaged 25 percent higher so
far this year in Singapore trading than a year earlier, more
than the 17 percent rise for Dubai crude. Container lines are
unable to pass the increase to customers because of
overcapacity, leaving AP Moeller-Maersk A/S’s cargo-box unit,
the world’s largest, forecasting a 2012 loss and Orient Overseas
(International) Ltd. predicting a “difficult” year.  “Shipping lines are in a very tight squeeze,” said Um Kyung A, a Seoul-based Shinyoung Securities Co. analyst. “Even
with the recent rate increases, they’re not going to earn enough
to cover costs.”  Container Lines  Bunker-fuel prices may reach $800 per metric ton this year,
11 percent more than last year’s high, amid a possible supply
shortage, she said. Asian bunker demand may grow 3.4 percent
this year, JBC Energy GmbH said in a March 8 report. It didn’t
give a production forecast.  The price of 380-centistoke bunker fuel has traded at an
average discount of 51 cents a barrel to Dubai crude this year
in  Singapore . Gasoline has traded at a premium of $12.  Container lines are more affected by fuel prices than
operators of dry-bulk vessels and tankers as they run scheduled
services that take place whatever the level of demand. Other
vessels generally only operate when they have cargo. They also
travel at slower and more fuel-efficient speeds, and customers
are more likely to be contracted to pay for fuel.  Tighter environmental regulations have also increased fuel
costs, as bunker has had to contain less sulfur since January,
said Basheer Ahmed Sayeed, chief executive officer of fuel
trader Chemoil Adani (Singapore) Pte. Meeting that requirement
means fuel oil has to be blended with more expensive and cleaner
types of refined oil, he said.  “Already the shipping industry is in such a tight spot, and
this is an added pressure,” he said. “As a bunker supplier,
whether to give credit lines to shippers is a big question.”  Japan Purchases  Japan  is increasing fuel-oil purchases as power companies
burn more of the substance to offset lost nuclear capacity. The
country boosted imports 19 percent to 799,010 kiloliters in
January, the highest since Bloomberg began tracking the  data  in
2001. Demand from local  power plants  may rise 7.1 percent this
year, according to Vienna, Austria-based  JBC Energy .  Fuel oil is among residual fuels that are the heaviest and
most-polluting products created from refining crude. Refiners
break down crude into four main types of products -- liquefied
petroleum gas; light fuels such as gasoline; middle distillates
including diesel; and residual fuels. The residuals also include
bitumen and asphalt.  China, Russia  Governments are also discouraging fuel-oil production in
favor of lighter fuels.  China ’s  output  fell 2.7 percent to 1.35
million metric tons in February, the lowest for the month in at
least five years, according to data from the China Economic
Information Network. Russia has increased export taxes on
residual fuels, which may cut shipments this year by 7 percent,
or 90,000 barrels a day, according to JBC Energy.  Fuel-oil output in  Asia , the largest crude-consuming
region, may fall to 2.25 million barrels a day in 2020 from 2.96
million barrels in 1995, according to  Facts Global Energy.   Refiners upgrading plants include Mangalore Refinery &
Petrochemicals Ltd., which has said it may stop fuel-oil exports
this year following work at a facility in southern  India .
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , operator of the world’s largest oil-
refining complex, doesn’t produce any fuel oil at its second
plant in Jamnagar, India, which started operations in 2008.  Hyundai Oilbank Co. , a unit of Ulsan, South Korea-based
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., reduced bunker-fuel production in
2011 for at least a third straight year to 21.1 million barrels,
according to its website.  “Korea used to be the largest supplier in Asia, now it
makes almost nothing,” said Fesharaki.  Hydrocracking Investments  Refiners are also investing in hydrocracking and coking, a
way of turning fuel oil into higher grade products such as
diesel.  Hyundai Oilbank  last year started operating a 2.6
trillion won ($2.3 billion) plant that will almost double its
high-end refining capacity to 120,000 barrels a day.  “You have gradually more demand from complex refineries
that need to buy fuel oil to crack into diesel,” said Torbjoern Kjus, a senior oil analyst with DnB Nor in Oslo. “It is
affecting bunker supply to the market.”  To cope with the rising fuel costs, container lines are
slowing vessels, cutting capacity and adding larger, more fuel-
efficient ships. The global fleet was traveling at an average
10.53 knots last month compared with 11.15 knots a year earlier,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. A 10 percent reduction
in speed can cut fuel use by as much as 30 percent, according to
 Det Norske Veritas , which assesses seaworthiness of vessels.  Idled  There were also 115 vessels with a capacity of more than
10,000 boxes in service at the beginning of February, compared
with three in 2006, according to  Clarkson Plc  data. Another 160
are on order. A vessel that can carry 13,000 20-foot containers
will consume about 250 tons of fuel a day, according to Um. That
compares with 495 tons for three vessels able to haul 4,000
boxes each, she said.  Container lines had also idled 289 vessels, able to hold a
combined 840,000 boxes, as of Feb. 27, to pare overcapacity,
according to  Alphaliner . That could rise to 1.1 million
containers by year-end, the shipping-data provider said.  “While lines are trying to take vessels out from existing
routes in an attempt to boost rates, I’m not sure how effective
that would be,” said Simon Wong, an analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service in Singapore. It won’t help “if demand doesn’t improve
or if fuel-oil prices continue to remain at high levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  