-- Sierra Club Spurns $30 Million Gift as Fracking Turns Toxic
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-14T20:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/sierra-club-spurns-30-million-gift-after-fracking-turns-toxic.html
Environmental and health groups are
calling for tougher U.S. regulation of hydraulic fracturing for
natural gas, turning on a one-time donor to their causes:
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)   The Sierra Club, the largest U.S. environmental group, is
rethinking early support of natural-gas development after
activists and scientists linked the drilling to tainted water
and increased air emissions, Executive Director  Michael Brune 
said yesterday in an interview. The group turned down $30
million from Chesapeake after he took over in 2010, he said.  “Five years ago most environmental groups thought of gas
as a clean but flawed alternative” to coal, Brune said at a
Bloomberg Government breakfast with reporters and editors in
 Washington . “The more we heard from people” with water issues
“the more we realized that there were more problems with gas
than we thought.”  The American Lung Association, which like the  Sierra Club 
got donations from Chesapeake, is urging the Environmental
Protection Agency to force gas drillers to cut down on methane
emissions, calling for tougher rules even as industry asks to
weaken the standards. Those EPA rules are now being reviewed by
the White House.  Taken together, the calls show that fracking is becoming
toxic for Washington-focused environmental groups, which once
backed cheap natural gas as a way to push out coal-fired power
plants and cut the  carbon-dioxide  emissions scientists blame for
causing  climate change .  ‘Anything But Coal’  “Groups like the Sierra Club have been consumed until
relatively recently with an ‘ anything but coal ’ agenda,”
Anthony Ingraffea, a professor of engineering at  Cornell
University  and critic of fracking, said in an interview. “When
shale gas came around, the groups found themselves wittingly or
unwittingly painting themselves into a corner.”  Brune  disclosed  last month that the San Francisco-based
Sierra Club got $26 million from subsidiaries or individuals
associated with Chesapeake Energy, the second-largest U.S.
natural-gas supplier. Brune said that in 2010, after he became
executive director, he halted the corporate gifts, meaning the
group walked away from an additional $30 million from
Chesapeake. The group hasn’t returned the donations, used to
“kickstart” its Beyond Coal campaign, he said yesterday.  “If you look at everything that the Sierra Club is
concerned about, both Chesapeake and our industry groups are
addressing them,” Michael Kehs, a spokesman for Chesapeake,
said in an interview today.  Lung Association  The Sierra Club announced in July a $50 million, four-year
gift from Bloomberg Philanthropies, formed by New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg , for the coal campaign. Bloomberg is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Chesapeake also aided the American Lung Association. In its
2010 annual report, the group credited the Oklahoma City-based
company, saying it “generously funded” the Fighting for Air
public-service campaign. The amount wasn’t disclosed.  Natural-gas futures have declined 23 percent this year amid
mild winter weather and record production, aided by a surge in
fracking. Gas fluctuated today amid forecasts for warmer-than-
normal weather this month that may limit demand.  When burned to generate electricity, natural gas emits half
the carbon dioxide of coal, and almost no mercury, according to
the EPA. The record has endeared the fuel to public-health
groups.  ‘Less Pollution’  “We’re about less emissions,” Peter Iwanowicz, assistant
vice president of the Healthy Air Campaign at the lung
association, said in an interview. “What comes out at the stack
really matters,” and that’s less pollution with gas, he said.  Iwanowicz and Brune said their groups now are watching
methane that escapes as companies first drill for gas, using a
process that rams a mix of water, chemicals and sand into rock
to free trapped gas.  Once those emissions are considered, natural gas releases
more greenhouse gas emissions than coal, according to an
analysis by Ingraffea.  Experts  such as Michael Levi of the
Council on Foreign Relations  dispute  that analysis, saying it
overstates the amount of leaking methane and doesn’t count the
higher efficiency of natural-gas  power plants .  And it’s not just emissions. Earthquakes last year in  Ohio 
were probably caused by wastewater from drilling that was
injected into a disposal well, a state report said last week.
The EPA is now analyzing water from communities in  Pennsylvania 
and a town in  Wyoming  where residents say their wells were
contaminated after fracking nearby.  Costs, Jobs  Industry groups are fighting off efforts by federal
agencies to tighten rules on air, water and chemicals used in
the gas drilling.  “More regulation could increase costs and delays for
operators, which could harm new projects, sacrificing thousands
of new jobs and depriving government of billions in revenue,”
Kyle Isakower, vice president for economics and regulatory
policy at the  American Petroleum Institute  in Washington, told
reporters March 1. That group, which represents Chesapeake and
companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is pushing the EPA to delay
implementation and ease off on requirements for drillers on air
emissions, for example.  Weaker regulation isn’t what environmental groups say they
want. Instead, Brune said new federal legislation is even needed
to toughen government oversight.  “If loopholes aren’t closed, we shouldn’t feel confident
that fracking is being done in a safe” manner, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  