-- Singapore Exchange Adds Trading Hubs in London, Chicago
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-03-14T09:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/singapore-exchange-adds-trading-hubs-in-london-chicago.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. will create
derivative trading hubs in London and  Chicago , and offer  MSCI
Indonesia (MXID)  futures as it steps up efforts to become the bourse of
choice for Asian trading.  The exchange also agreed with Eurex to put their offshore
servers into each other’s data centers for faster access,
according to a statement. NYSE Technologies, an arm of  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , has also placed servers in Singapore’s co-location
center. The bourse said it will also offer a real-time India
 Nifty futures  index through Standard & Poor’s.  Bourses are looking for ways other than acquisitions to
expand their businesses after more than $37 billion in proposed
exchange mergers failed since October 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Australian government in April
rejected a bid by  Singapore Exchange (SGX)  for ASX Ltd., saying the
deal was not in the national interest.  Singapore Exchange rose 2.2 percent to close at S$7.05 in
Singapore today. The stock has gained 15 percent this year.  The hubs in Chicago and London will be the first of their
kind for an Asian exchange and will open in April after risk
mechanisms meet  Futures Industry Association  standards, SGX said.
Investors will only be able to trade Singapore-listed
derivatives until pre-trade risk controls are extended to cover
other securities, Tinku Gupta, head of market data and access,
said via e-mail today.  Hong Kong  and Tokyo may be two more potential hub sites,
SGX Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  said in a statement.  The bourse will begin offering MSCI Indonesia Index futures
in the second quarter of this year. These would be the first
offshore futures on an Indonesian benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  