-- SocGen Will Have ‘Zero Cost’ From Greek CDS, Oudea Says
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-03-14T12:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/socgen-will-have-zero-cost-from-greek-cds-chief-oudea-says.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s
second-largest bank, will have no costs related to Greek credit-
default swaps after the biggest sovereign restructuring in
history, Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said.  “For Societe Generale it will be zero cost,” Oudea said
today at a press conference in Paris. Societe Generale has “no
net exposure” on Greek credit-default swaps, he said.  Private investors, including Societe Generale,  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP)  and Germany’s Deutsche Bank AG, last week forgave more than
100 billion euros ($131 billion) of debt, paving the way for a
second bailout for  Greece  from euro-area authorities and the
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  Greece’s use of collective action clauses requiring
investors to take losses under a debt restructuring triggers
payouts on about $3 billion of default insurance, the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association said March 9. A
total 4,323 CDS contracts may be settled after ISDA’s
determinations committee ruled the use of collective action
clauses is a  credit event , the industry group said.  “European banks’ net positions are contained,” said
Oudea, who is also the head of the French Banking Federation.
“CDSs, according to all circulating figures, do not represent a
significant issue for any bank nor for the financial system.”  Greece, ending nine months of negotiations with private
bondholders and public authorities on a debt restructuring,
reached its target for participation in the debt swap after
using the collective action clauses to get the holdouts to join,
with investors holding 95.7 percent of the bonds taking part.  CDSs pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
not respect its debt agreements.  Societe Generale, which also operates an Athens-based
branch network, had 1.06 billion euros of Greek sovereign bonds
as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  