-- South Sudan Cuts Budget by 26 Percent After Shutting Oil Output
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-03-14T12:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/south-sudan-cuts-budget-by-26-percent-after-shutting-oil-output.html
Sudan  Sudan has cut spending by 26
percent a month after it shut down oil production in a dispute
with Sudan over crude-transportation fees, Finance Minister
Kosti Manibe Ngai said.  The government of the newly independent nation has reduced
monthly spending to 650 million South Sudanese pounds from 880
million, he told reporters today in the capital, Juba. The
official  exchange rate  ranges from 2.9 to 3.1 pounds per dollar.  “We can still go down below that if need be,” he said.
The government depended on oil revenue for 98 percent of its
budget before the production shutdown. Salaries of state
employees, which account for about 40 percent of the budget,
haven’t been reduced, he said.  South Sudan  halted oil production in late January after
accusing Sudan of stealing its shipments. Sudan said it
confiscated the crude to make up for unpaid fees. The countries
have been embroiled in a dispute since the south gained
independence in July, assuming control of three-quarters of the
formerly united country’s output of 490,000 barrels a day.  The latest round of talks ended yesterday in the Ethiopian
capital,  Addis Ababa , without an agreement on how much the
landlocked south should pay to transport its oil through a
pipeline across Sudan.  Ngai said that the government has made cuts throughout the
budget, except some programs such as water and sanitation.  Concessional Loans  “There are others that have been reduced by 80 percent,
mostly in the security sector, health, education,” he said.
“The majority have been reduced to about 50 percent of
operating and capital expenditures.”  The government is seeking loans “on concessional terms”
to finance infrastructure projects, Ngai said after signing a $9
million grant from the  World Bank  to provide small loans to
entrepreneurs. “We are also negotiating commercial loans.”  South Sudan will probably become a World Bank member next
month, Laura Kullenberg, the bank’s country manager, said. The
bank will be providing further grants aimed at building feeder
roads and strengthening health, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  