-- Sperm Goes Limp With Fatty Foods While Fish Perks Them Up
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-03-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/sperm-goes-limp-with-fatty-foods-while-fish-perks-them-up.html
Men who eat fatty foods may be
harming their chances for fatherhood, researchers say.  Sperm samples from almost 100 men on a range of diets
showed those with the highest total of saturated fat intake had
lower semen counts and concentrations, according to the study
published today by the  journal  Human Reproduction. Men who ate
more omega-3 fatty acids, found in some fish and flax, had a
larger amount of normal-shaped sperm, scientists said.  Infertility affects about 15 percent of couples, with men’s
health linked to the issue 40 percent to 60 percent of the time,
researchers said. While an earlier study showed an association
between obesity and fewer healthier sperm, today’s analysis
looked at types of fats consumed among overweight individuals,
said  Jill Attaman , lead author.  “This is the first study to demonstrate such an
association,” Attaman, an assistant professor of obstetrics and
gynecology at Dartmouth Medical School in Hanover,  New
Hampshire , said in an interview.  The study examined sperm samples and food surveys from 99
men, 71 percent of whom were obese or overweight, taken from
2006 to 2010 at Massachusetts General Hospital Fertility Center
in  Boston . Participants were asked how often in the past year
they ate specific foods. Men in the top third of fat consumption
had 43 percent fewer sperm and 38 percent lower sperm
concentration than those in the lowest fat intake group.  A reduced sperm count and concentration can decrease the
odds of fertilizing an egg, according to the  Mayo Clinic . Having
normal-shaped sperm, or morphology, is also important.  Lifestyle Changes  “There are a few clearly identifiable lifestyle
modifications that can be made to optimize natural fertility,
especially for males,” Attaman said.  Omega-3 fatty acids, a polyunsaturated fat, have been shown
to benefit heart health, according to the  American Heart
Association . U.S. sales of fish and animal oil supplements
containing omega-3 increased 11 percent to $1.1 billion in 2010
from the previous year, according to the  Nutrition Business
Journal .  Attaman said the study may be limited because participants
self-reported their food consumption and the results must be
matched in further research before a definitive association can
be made between diets with fatty foods and sperm quality.  The study was funded by the U.S. National Institutes of
Health. Preliminary results were presented at the American
Society for Reproductive Medicine Annual Conference in 2010,
Attaman said. She conducted the research while a clinical and
research fellow at Massachusetts General and an instructor at
 Harvard Medical School .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 