-- Swiss Reject Proposal Aimed at Curbing SNB Powers to Intervene
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-03-14T11:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/swiss-reject-proposal-aimed-at-curbing-snb-powers-to-intervene.html
Swiss lower-house lawmakers
rejected a proposal to curb the central bank’s ability to
intervene in  currency markets , with some calling on policy
makers to raise the franc ceiling.  Lawmakers in Bern rejected the proposal initiated by the
 Swiss People’s Party  to toughen supervision over currency
purchases by 129 votes to 52. They also voted against a motion
to force the central bank to keep a buffer of equity and
currency reserves of at least 40 percent of overall assets,
while backing a proposal demanding the government examine ways
to weaken the Swiss currency.  The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  imposed a franc ceiling of 1.20
versus the euro in September to protect exports and fight
deflation threats. The economy has since shown increasing signs
of stabilization and Swiss President Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf
said today it’s important that the central bank maintains its
ability to take “independent decisions in turbulent markets.”  “The franc exchange rate to the euro needs to reach 1.40,
or even higher,” said Susanne Leutenegger Oberholzer, a
lawmaker from the  Social Democratic Party . “It’s not acceptable
if the central bank continues to tolerate an exchange rate of
1.20. You all know the consequences -- we’re losing jobs, we’re
facing a massive growth loss over time, tourism is massively
suffering, exports are increasingly under pressure.”  Currency Purchases  The SNB was put under pressure after unprecedented currency
purchases to weaken the franc in the 15 months through June 2010
sparked a record loss. The Zurich-based central bank said on
March 8 it had a profit of 13.5 billion francs ($14.6 billion)
in 2011, partly as the franc ceiling helped stabilize currency
holdings.  The SNB, led by interim chairman Thomas Jordan, will keep
its cap at 1.20 per euro tomorrow, according to all 14
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That level hasn’t been
breached since the central bank imposed the measure six months
ago. It will publish its decision at 9:30 a.m. in Zurich.  The ceiling “helped limit the damage,” said Ada Marra, a
lawmaker from the  Social Democrats . “It’s incomprehensible why
one is waiting to lift the cap. The crisis is not far.”  Swiss lawmakers also debated the resignation of Philipp Hildebrand in January over a purchase of $504,000 by his wife in
mid-August, three weeks before policy makers imposed the franc
ceiling. People’s Party deputy leader  Christoph Blocher , who
helped pass leaked details of Hildebrand’s account to
authorities last year, said during the debate that SNB policy
makers shouldn’t be allowed to purchase or sell currencies.  Fulvio Pelli, head of the  Liberal Party , said that
Hildebrand’s resignation was an “intelligent decision.”  “Hildebrand did an excellent job,” Widmer-Schlumpf said.
He was “probably a bit too strong for some political forces and
he couldn’t be influenced enough. Fortunately for our country we
have a strong” SNB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  