-- Swiss Bus Crash Kills 22 Children, Six Adults on Ski Trip
-- B y   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-03-14T18:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/swiss-bus-crash-kills-28-people-tages-anzeiger-reports.html
The cause of a crash of a bus
carrying schoolchildren back to Belgium from a ski vacation in
 Switzerland , killing 28 people and injuring 24 others on board,
is unclear, police said.  Twenty-two of the fatalities from yesterday’s accident at
about 9 p.m. in a Swiss highway tunnel between Sion and Sierre
were 12-year-olds. The beige-yellow bus that crashed an hour
into its journey from southwestern Switzerland to Belgium had
seat belts and was considered well-maintained. Both drivers were
killed and three children remain in critical condition,
authorities said.  “It was with great consternation and deep emotion that I
found out yesterday evening about this tragic bus accident,”
Swiss President Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said. “I can well
understand as a mother of three children how painful it must be
to lose a child in this way.”  Swiss prosecutor Olivier Elsig said at a news conference in
Sion there was no evidence yet that the bus was speeding, video
footage from the scene was being analyzed and authorities were
examining whether the bus driver wasn’t well.  The schoolchildren returning from a ski break in the Val
d’Anniviers area died when their bus slammed into the A9 tunnel
wall, Valais cantonal police said. All six adults on board
perished.  ‘Tragic Day’  It’s “an absolutely tragic day for our country,” Belgian
Prime Minister Elio di Rupo said. “When you lose an adult, it’s
tragic; when you lose a child there are no words.”  The bus was headed back to  Belgium ’s Dutch-speaking
Flanders region carrying two classes from the Sint-Lambertus
school in Heverlee and ’t Stekske school in Lommel, according to
the Belgian newspaper Het Belang van Limburg. They were on
holiday in Saint-Luc, a resort between Crans-Montana and
Zermatt, the Lommel school said.  Nine Dutch children were in the bus accident, Aad Meijer,
spokesman for the Dutch Foreign Ministry, said in a phone
interview.  The Valais crash comes 13 years after a truck blaze killed
39 people in the 12-kilometer (7-mile) Mont Blanc road tunnel
connecting Chamonix,  France , and Courmayeur,  Italy , trapping
victims and vehicles under Western Europe’s highest mountain.
Eleven were killed after a fire broke out in Switzerland’s 17-
kilometer Gotthard tunnel in 2001 following the collision of two
trucks.  None ‘Even Crying’  The Belgian bus drivers arrived in Switzerland on March 12,
and the vehicle had a valid safety certificate,  Environment,
Energy and Mobility Minister Melchior Wathelet said, according
to the Belga news agency.  “There isn’t, at first sight, any issue with working or
resting hours” for the drivers, Wathelet’s office said in a
statement quoted by Belga. “They had been on their way for
about an hour when the accident occurred.”  Among the stunned and injured survivors, “none of the
children were even crying any more,” rescue chief Claude Peter
told the Swiss newspaper Le Matin. “It’s the injuries that were
the most impressive” as some children’s legs “were in a
terrible state.”  Accident ‘Incomprehensible’  The bus owner, Toptours of Aarschot, Belgium, “has an
excellent reputation” and complied with all conditions to be a
tour operator, Wathelet was quoted as saying by Belga. Touring
Club Suisse spokesman David Venetz told Swiss TV that the tunnel
met all safety standards.  The children’s families, most still uncertain about their
fate, were taken to the Melsbroek air base near Brussels and
flown to Switzerland by military aircraft, Belgian papers said.
 King Albert II  and Queen Paola met them at the base.  “The government is doing everything to properly inform the
members of the victims’ families with the utmost dignity,” Di Rupo said in a statement. The prime minister traveled to
Switzerland today and attended the news conference.  While those killed were being identified, some 15 doctors
were tending to the injured, aided by 12 ambulances, eight
helicopters, 30 police officers and 60 firefighters.  The accident is “incomprehensible,” Foreign Minister
 Didier Reynders  told the Belgian newspaper De Standaard. Only
the bus was involved, “no other vehicles,” he said.  “It’s a very tragic accident,” Lommel local government
official Geert Jansen told Het Belang. Swiss police opened a
help line for relatives at +41 848 112 117.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Verschuur in Zurich at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  