-- Symrise Defends Margins With Medical Nutrition, Menthol
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-03-14T17:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/symrise-says-menthol-medical-foods-will-defend-profit-margins.html
Symrise AG (SY1) , the fourth-largest
flavor and fragrance maker, will defend profitability that’s the
highest in its field by expanding production of menthol and
ingredients for medical nutrition as raw material prices rise.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization amounted to 20 percent of sales in 2011, down from
21.1 percent a year earlier, yet beating the margins of
competitors, the Holzminden, Germany-based company said today.  “Look at our rivals -- none of them managed a margin of 20
percent last year,” Chief Executive Officer Heinz-Juergen Bertram told journalists in  Frankfurt . “Our strategy of
backward integration helps us, and we plan to do more of that.”  The Ebitda margin will remain at the 2011 level this year
and next, while sales will increase between 2 percent and 4
percent in both years, Symrise forecast. Unlike competitors,
Symrise has its own production for key ingredients including
citrus and mint flavors, onion oil and vanilla, which
complements its purchasing.  Givaudan SA (GIVN) ’s Ebitda margin was 19.4 percent last year
after higher raw-material costs and restructuring. Closely-held
Firmenich International SA does not publish data on
profitability.  “We don’t believe in raw-material prices coming down a lot
this year, like many others,´´ Chief Financial Officer Bernd Hirsch said. “We believe they will rise moderately this year.”  Shares Decline  Symrise’s guidance for 2012 “doesn’t provide any potential
for a significant upward revision on our estimates,” Nadeshda Demidova, an analyst at Equinet in Frankfurt, wrote in a note to
clients today. She cut her recommendation on the shares to
“hold” from “accumulate.”  The company’s shares fell 5.7 percent to 21.16 euros in
Frankfurt, the biggest decline since Aug. 4.  CEO Bertram said that the price of menthol was $20 to $25
per kilogram last year, jumped to $75 three weeks ago, and was
about $50 at the beginning of this week.  “These are extremely volatile markets, and since we are
the largest consumer of menthol, we also want to be the largest
producer,” Bertram said.  Symrise will double menthol production facilities at
Holzminden this year, and its partnership with Indevex Biotech
will add expertise for medical nutrition, Bertram said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  