-- Syracuse Title Chances, Bracket Pools Take Hit With Fab Melo Out
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-14T04:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/syracuse-title-chances-bracket-pools-take-hit-with-fab-melo-out.html
The loss of center Fab Melo has
diminished  Syracuse University ’s chances of winning the men’s
college basketball championship, according to Las Vegas
oddsmakers. It also may shake up office pools around the nation.  Syracuse’s odds of winning the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament moved to 20-1 from 12-1 at the Las Vegas
Hotel & Casino’s sports book after Melo was ruled out yesterday
because of eligibility issues.  The 7-foot Melo was averaging 7.8 points and a team-leading
5.8 rebounds for the Orange, which has a 31-2 record and is one
of the four No. 1 regional seeds in the 68-team tournament. Word
of his ineligibility came as Syracuse prepared to face the
 University of North Carolina -Asheville in its opening game
tomorrow in Pittsburgh.  “They probably have enough to get through that first game,
it’s going forward that the next tests are going to be
tougher,” Jay Rood, the sports book director at the  MGM Mirage (MGM) ,
said in a telephone interview. “This makes it exceedingly more
difficult to get to the Final Four.”  Rood said the MGM Mirage adjusted Syracuse’s odds of
winning the title to 6-1 from 9-2. The only school with more
tickets written to win the championship at the Mirage’s future
book is the  University of Kentucky , Rood said.  At the LVH sportsbook, six schools now have better odds of
winning the championship than Syracuse:  Kentucky ,  North
Carolina , Ohio State, Michigan State,  Kansas  and  Missouri .  Bracket Changes  Melo’s ineligibility may also impact those filling out
tournament brackets in office pools and online contests.  RJ Bell, the founder of Las Vegas-based handicapping
information website  Pregame.com , estimates that $3 billion will
be wagered this year on bracket-style NCAA pools. The pools are
popular at workplaces throughout the U.S., with participants
getting points for picking winning teams through the April 2
championship in  New Orleans .  “It will have an impact, though a majority of people fill
them out in the last day or so,” Bell said by telephone. “But
a significant chunk of those filling out the brackets are going
to be unaware of this. They’re the casual fan who quite frankly
doesn’t follow player by player.”  Syracuse could have a second-round matchup against Kansas
State or Southern Mississippi, while second-seeded Ohio State,
No. 3 Florida State and No. 4  Wisconsin  are the other top teams
in the East Regional. NCAA spokesman Cameron Schuh said there’s
no chance the teams would be re-seeded.  Fans’ Overreactions  Bell said fans who follow a sport closely tend to overreact
to the loss of a player such as Melo, a sophomore from  Brazil 
who had 88 blocked shots this season and was chosen the  Big East
conference ’s defensive player of the year.  “Everyone always thinks a single player is worth more than
Vegas actually thinks he’s worth,” Bell said. “I talked to a
number of bookmakers and they think in these early games his
absence is going to be worth a half-point, and then when it
comes to potentially final eight or Final Four games he might be
worth up to two points.”  At the MGM Mirage, the point spread for Syracuse’s opener
against UNC-Asheville (24-9) has been lowered to 16 1/2 points
from 17. Since 1985, No. 1-seeded teams have a 104-0 record in
the NCAA men’s tournament against 16th-seeded teams.  “We’ll see what happens in the first game, though that
might not be the acid test,” said Rood, who added that Syracuse
coach  Jim Boeheim  has the experience to deal with the loss of a
player such as Melo.  Boeheim ranks third in men’s Division I college basketball
history in wins and is making his 29th NCAA tournament
appearance at Syracuse, which won a national title in 2003.  “If there’s a coach who can deal with it and rally the
troops, Boeheim has seen it all,” Rood said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  