-- U.S., U.K. Plan ‘Robust’ Steps to Deliver Syria Humanitarian Aid
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   F r a n c i s   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-14T18:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/syrian-forces-seize-northern-city-of-idlib-opposition-says-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  and
Britain’s Prime Minister  David Cameron  plan a new and “robust”
effort to deliver  humanitarian aid  to Syrians affected by civil
strife in the Middle Eastern country.  Speaking at a joint press conference in  Washington  today,
the two leaders also pledged measures to help unify the
fragmented Syrian opposition.  “There may be some immediate steps that we’ve discussed
just to make sure that humanitarian aid is being provided in a
robust way,” Obama said. The two countries also sought to
ensure “that an opposition unifies along principles that
ultimately would provide a clear platform for the Syrian
people.”  The U.S. and British leaders spoke on a day that Syrian
troops seized the northern Syrian town of Idlib, one of the last
remaining urban rebel strongholds. A day earlier, Syrian
opposition leaders including Kamal al-Labwani, said they were
leaving the Syrian National Council.  More than 7,500 Syrians have died and 32,000 have fled the
country during the yearlong uprising against the government of
President Bashar al-Assad. At least 40 people were killed across
the country today, the Local Coordination Committees, an
opposition group, said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. leader said military intervention in  Syria  could
make the situation worse.  “Assad will leave power,” the president said. “It’s not
a question of if but when. And to prepare for that day, we’ll
continue to support plans for a transition to support the
legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people.”  Little Resistance  Syria’s army faced little resistance as it combed the
northern and central parts of Idlib, a city of about 100,000
people, the pro-government Syrian Al-Watan newspaper said today.
Many residents fled in fear of a crackdown, according to the
opposition.  “Fighters retreated from the main streets of Idlib because
they are no match for the security forces,” al-Labwani, the
opposition leader, said in a telephone interview from Amman,
Jordan today. He said Free Syrian Army fighters still hold more
than 40 villages surrounding the northern city, which is close
to the Turkish border.  Syria’s opposition and human rights groups say that
arbitrary arrests and executions followed the entry of Syrian
forces into rebel areas, like the central city of Homs this
month. The Baba Amr district of Homs fell to the Syrian
government less than three weeks ago.  Some rebels have refused to withdraw from Idlib’s side
streets and are continuing to fight, Rami Abdel Rahman, head of
the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said by
telephone today.  ‘Very Significant Area’  Idlib was one of the main rebel strongholds and a “very
significant area, especially because of its proximity to the
Turkish border,” Salman Shaikh, director of the Brookings Doha
Center, said in a telephone interview. “These are local
fighters who know where to go and hide to regroup and organize
themselves,” which is probably their next step, he said.  The joint United Nations-Arab League Syria envoy  Kofi Annan , who met Assad in Damascus on March 10 and March 11, has
received a response from the Syrian government to a proposal to
end the violence and has asked further questions.  “But given the grave and tragic situation on the ground,
everyone must realize that time is of the essence,” his
spokesman said in an e-mailed statement today. “This crisis
cannot be allowed to drag on.”  Torture, Shelling  Amnesty International  issued a report today accusing Syrian
government forces of abuses including the torture of detainees,
shelling civilian areas, firing live ammunition at peaceful
protesters, carrying out extrajudicial executions and arbitrary
arrests, burning and looting homes, targeting medical
professionals and denying treatment to injured protesters.  It said Syria is using 31 methods of torture and ill-
treatment to create a “nightmarish world” for the detainees.  Heavy clashes were reported today in the southern city of
Daraa between Syrian security forces and rebel fighters from the
Free Syrian Army, the Local Coordination Committees of Syria
said. Daraa is the largest city still in rebel hands.  Syria’s divided opposition has been divided over how to
proceed in its fight against the Assad regime, with some groups
advocating the arming of rebel groups inside the country while
others oppose it. Those divisions were exacerbated yesterday
when three leading opposition figures, including al-Labwani,
quit the  Syrian National Council , the leading opposition group.  Al-Labwani said the council was too disorganized to lead
the opposition, especially the armed groups inside Syria. He
said he hoped a new council will be formed at an opposition
conference that will be held in  Turkey  in the next few weeks.  Italy’s Foreign Ministry said today it has suspended
activities at its embassy in Damascus and was withdrawing its
staff. Syria’s civil unrest has raised “serious concern” about
 food security  in the country, the  United Nations ’  Food and
Agriculture Organization  said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  