-- U.K. Unemployment Jumped More Than Forecast in February
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-03-14T11:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/u-k-jobless-claims-increased-more-than-forecast-in-february-1-.html
U.K.  jobless claims  rose more than
economists forecast in February and a broader measure of
unemployment remained at the highest rate in 16 years,
underscoring the weakness of the labor market even as the
economy shows some signs of recovery.  Unemployment-benefit claims climbed by 7,200 from January
to 1.612 million, a 12th straight monthly increase, the  Office
for National Statistics  said today in London. The median
forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News Survey was for a
gain of 5,000.  Unemployment (UKUEILOR)  measured by International Labour
Organization methods held at 8.4 percent in the three months
through January, the highest since 1995.  The data may fuel arguments from opposition politicians
that Prime Minister David Cameron is cutting  government spending 
too fast to tackle the deficit and comes after the economy
contracted in the fourth quarter. While some indicators signal
the economy returned to growth this quarter,  consumer confidence 
remains weak on concern that job cuts may continue.  The “labor-market figures paint a generally weak
picture,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at  Capital Economics 
in London. “The recent pickup in economic growth seems to be
insufficient to bring down unemployment.”  The pound pared its gain against the dollar after the
report. It traded at $1.5703 as of 10:49 a.m. in London, little
changed from yesterday. Gilts stayed lower, with the yield on
the 10-year government bond up 10 basis points at 2.275 percent.  Jobless Rate  The increase in the number of people claiming jobless
benefits last month put the  claimant-count rate  at 5 percent,
unchanged from January. Claims rose by 7,000 in January instead
of the 6,900 initially reported. In the three months through
January, the number of unemployed rose 28,000 to 2.67 million
people, the statistics office said. The number of people in work
increased 9,000 to 29.1 million.  While surveys of manufacturing and  services  this month
indicated that the U.K. economy returned to growth in the first
quarter after a 0.2 percent contraction in the last three months
of 2011, financial turmoil in the euro area has dented
confidence in the U.K.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) , Britain’s largest state-supported banks, will eliminate
2,064 jobs in the U.K. to control costs, the two lenders said in
separate statements yesterday.  Carmaker Boost  Still, some companies are hiring.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  said on March 5
that it will add 20,000 U.K. jobs as part of a “substantial
program” that will also see Britain’s biggest supermarket chain
renovate hundreds of stores and open new locations over the next
two years. Nissan Motor Co. plans to build a new model at its
Sunderland, England, plant, adding about 2,000 jobs, including
at suppliers, the Japanese carmaker said on March 6.  The government said there were “signs of encouragement”
in today’s report, with private-sector jobs being created,
vacancies rising and the level of unemployment increasing the
least in almost a year.  “Any sign of improvement is welcome but we’re only just
beginning to see some signs of stabilization,” Employment
Minister Chris Grayling told  BBC television .  Grayling said that “looking at the economic outlook now”
he hoped the  Office for Budget Responsibility  will cut its for
unemployment forecasts when it unveils new economic projections
at the March 21 budget. In November, the fiscal watchdog
predicted the ILO unemployment rate would peak at 8.7 percent
this year, with jobless claims reaching 1.77 million in 2013.  Pay Slowdown  The weakness in the labor market is damping wage pressures,
according to today’s report. Total pay growth slowed to 1.4
percent in the three months through January from 1.9 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2011, strengthening the Bank of England’s
argument that  above-target inflation  isn’t fueling wage demands.
The central bank maintained its target for bond purchases at 325
billion pounds ($510 billion) this month after increasing it by
50 billion pounds in February.  Weekly pay excluding bonuses slowed to 1.7 percent from 2
percent. In January, bonuses fell by 9.3 percent from a year
earlier, the biggest drop since April 2010.  In a separate report, the statistics office said the number
of public-sector workers fell 37,000 to 5.942 million in the
fourth quarter, while private-sector employment grew 45,000 to
23.2 million. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is
cutting spending and jobs to reduce a  budget deficit  equal to
about 9 percent of gross domestic product.  Euro Inflation  Euro-area data today showed inflation in the 17-nation
region stayed at 2.7 percent in February for a third month as
 European Central Bank  turns its focus to increasing price
threats. Industrial output rose 0.2 percent in January from the
previous month, a separate report showed.  In  China , Premier  Wen Jiabao  said that  home prices  remain
far from a reasonable level and relaxing curbs could cause
“chaos” in the market, indicating no imminent relaxation of
cooling measures.  “We must not slacken our efforts in regulating the housing
sector,” Wen said at a press conference in Beijing, according
to an English translation. A bursting property bubble would hurt
the entire economy, and the government wants “long-term steady
and sound growth” in housing, he said.  Meanwhile,  India  reported today that wholesale-price
inflation accelerated more than forecast last month to a 6.95
percent rate, from 6.55 percent in January.  In the U.S., a Labor Department report is forecast to show
prices of  imported goods  rose in February for the third time in
four months, while the  Mortgage Bankers Association  will release
data for loan applications. The Commerce Department may say the
U.S. current-account deficit widened in the fourth quarter to
$115 billion, according to a separate survey of economists.  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Andrew Atkinson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  