-- Current-Account Deficit in U.S. Widens to $124.1 Billion
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-14T12:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/u-s-fourth-quarter-current-account-gap-widens-to-124-1-billion.html
The  current-account deficit  in the
U.S. widened more than forecast in the fourth quarter to $124.1
billion, the biggest in three years.  The gap, the broadest measure of international trade because
it includes income payments and government transfers, grew 15
percent from a revised $107.6 billion shortfall in the prior
quarter that was smaller than initially estimated, a Commerce
Department report showed today in Washington. The median forecast
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a $115
billion fourth-quarter deficit.  Imports (USTBIMP)  of goods may keep rising as an improving job market
underpins  consumer spending , and businesses replace outdated
equipment. The overall balance of payments deficit is also a
reminder of U.S. dependence on foreign investors for funding.  “A widening of the balance just tells you about the
relative growth rate of the U.S. compared with other economies,”
said Jeremy Lawson, a senior U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in  New
York . “There’s a fairly good chance that the deficit will widen
again because imports are on track to outpace exports.”  The gap for all of 2011 widened to $473.4 billion, or 3.1
percent of gross domestic product, from $470.9 billion a year
earlier.  Estimates of the 43 economists in a Bloomberg survey ranged
from deficits of $103 billion to $126 billion. The third-quarter
shortfall was revised from a previously reported $110.3 billion.  Import Prices  Prices of goods imported into the U.S. rose less than
forecast in February, reflecting the biggest drop in food costs
in three years, another report today showed. The 0.4 percent gain
in the import-price index follows little change in January, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . Economists
projected the gauge would increase 0.6 percent, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The gap represented 3.2 percent of GDP last quarter,
compared with 2.8 percent in the third quarter.  The trade deficit, which accounted for most of the current-
account gap, widened 4.7 percent to $141.1 billion in the fourth
quarter, today’s report showed.  Rising oil costs are contributing to the shortfall. Crude
oil futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  averaged $94.06
last quarter, up from $89.54 the prior three months.  January Deficit  More recent figures indicate the current-account balance may
widen this quarter. The  trade gap  grew to $52.6 billion in
January, the biggest deficit since October 2008, from $50.4
billion in December. Imports rose to a record in January, as did
exports of autos and capital goods.  “For many products, demand has been above our ability to
produce,”  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor relations  at
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s biggest maker of trucks, said on a
Jan. 26 conference call with analysts. “We have invested in
Caterpillar factories in the  United States  and around the world
to increase production.”  U.S. income on overseas assets fell by $5.7 billion to
$180.7 billion in the fourth quarter, today’s report showed.
Foreign earnings on U.S. assets, including wages and
compensation, increased by $4.6 billion to $130.5 billion.  That left a $50.3 billion surplus on income payments, down
from $60.6 billion surplus in the prior quarter. U.S. investments
overseas generally yield more than the  Treasury securities  that
foreign investors prefer to buy, helping maintain the income
surplus.  Payments by the U.S. government to foreigners and other
private transfers abroad exceeded inflows from overseas by $33.3
billion last quarter, compared with $33.5 billion in the previous
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  