-- U.S. Said to Have Received Saudi Assurances on Ample Oil Supply
-- B y   I n d i r a   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-03-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/u-s-said-to-have-received-saudi-assurances-on-ample-oil-supply.html
The U.S. has received assurances
from  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates  and Kuwait that they
would raise oil production to help offset the effect of economic
sanctions on Iranian exports, according to participants in
discussions between the U.S. and oil-producing countries.  While there have been no formal requests, negotiations or
agreements for increased output, the U.S. officials said they
are confident that the Saudis and the UAE will boost production
enough to prevent a dramatic increase in  oil prices .  The three Arab countries had excess  capacity  of 2.47
million barrels of oil a day, with most of that coming from
Saudi Arabia, according to the Paris-based International Energy
Agency’s Feb. 10 market report. While that’s not enough to
compensate for the loss of all of  Iran ’s 3.5 million barrels, it
would help limit the increase in crude and gasoline prices that
the sanctions cause when they start to take full effect in July.  “That’s a very pragmatic approach for the Saudis because
they don’t want to see an oil shock and $150 crude,”  Kyle Cooper , director of research at IAF Advisors, a Houston-based
energy consulting firm, said by phone yesterday. “For some
people in the market, it will be treated with a certain degree
of doubt because Saudi Arabia probably cannot completely make up
what Iran is producing.”  Brent crude , the benchmark for more than half of the
world’s oil, has risen 18 percent this year on the London-based
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange as the U.S. and Europe imposed
sanctions on the Persian Gulf country. The oil is the third-
biggest gainer among the 24 commodities on the Standard & Poor’s
 GSCI index . West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark, has
advanced 8 percent on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Economic Sanctions  The U.S. and the European Union have imposed a series of
economic sanctions on Iran in an effort to persuade Tehran to
produce conclusive evidence that it has abandoned any efforts to
develop nuclear weapons. Iran has said its nuclear program is
for peaceful purposes and has threatened to close the  Strait of
Hormuz , the transit point for about 20 percent of globally
traded oil, in reaction to the sanctions.  The alleged Iranian-sponsored attempt to assassinate the
Saudi ambassador to the U.S. last year by bombing a  Washington 
restaurant erased any hesitancy the Saudis may have had about
raising production to offset declines in Iranian oil exports,
U.S. and Saudi officials said. One of them called the Iranian
move one of the stupidest things the Islamic Republic could have
done, considering the sanctions targeting its oil exports. Iran
said it “categorically” rejected the assassination allegation.  Libyan Contribution  Increased output from  Libya (OPCRLIBY)  also could help markets cope
with the loss of Iranian oil. Libyan Prime Minister Abdurrahim
el-Keib said in an interview last week that production is 75
percent of the level before the violent Arab Spring revolt that
ousted dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  last year, at 1.2 million
barrels per day compared with 1.6 million before the rebellion.  While  Libya  is still facing divisive internal conflicts, one
of the U.S. officials said, its location on the south side of
the Mediterranean Sea and its reserves of light, sweet crude
make it well positioned to make up the loss of Iranian oil to
Greece, Italy and  Spain .  “The basic assumption in the market is that Saudi Arabia
will pick up the difference so the assurance won’t have much of
an impact on prices,” James Williams, an economist at WTRG
Economics, an energy-research firm in  London ,  Arkansas , said by
phone. “The Saudis are behaving more or less as they have for
the last almost 40 years. They don’t want to see prices so high
that there is permanent demand destruction.”  Saudi Supply  The U.S. hasn’t asked for additional  Saudi Arabian (OPCRSAUD)  crude
supplies from July onward, when international sanctions against
Iran take effect, a person familiar with the kingdom’s oil
policy said yesterday.  U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said yesterday in
Washington that the U.S. typically holds talks with producers to
replace output lost through unplanned disruptions.  “We do have discussions with various countries on things
like that,” Chu said, without directly saying if the U.S. had
requested for additional oil from Saudi Arabia, the world’s
largest crude exporter. “We do engage with countries in terms
of, should there be interruptions to supply, should there be
things of that nature, that countries with some spare capacity
then could meet world demands.”  Saudi Arabia’s oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, is in  Kuwait  at
a meeting of the International Energy Forum, a gathering of
energy producers and consumers that takes place every two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  