-- Iran Says West Is Using Oil as Political Weapon
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   L a r a   S e t r a k i a n
-- 2012-03-14T17:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/u-s-meets-iran-on-energy-panel-to-debate-oil-price-volatility.html
Iran (OPCRIRAN) ’s oil minister played down
prospects of war and denied his country was losing oil income
due to sanctions on its nuclear program, while blaming western
nations for soaring international fuel prices.  Some oil-importing countries are using the commodity as a
political weapon, Rostam Qasemi said today in an interview at
the  International Energy Forum  in Kuwait. Those “unreasonable
measures” will raise costs for governments pursuing them and
bolster Iran’s oil revenue, he said.  U.S. Deputy Energy Secretary Daniel Poneman, speaking at
the same venue, called on producers to pump more crude to help
lower prices that are “too high.” Poneman and Qasemi attended
a panel at the IEF to discuss ways to mitigate price volatility.
The Iranian and U.S. delegations didn’t converse directly during
the session, which took place under a marquee, according to
three people who attended the session.  Brent crude  has risen 17 percent this year amid supply
concern as the U.S., the world’s biggest oil consumer, and the
Europe Union tighten sanctions against Iran over its nuclear
program. As much as 1 million barrels a day of Iranian exports
may be lost because of the ban, the  International Energy Agency 
said in a report today. The Islamic republic maintains that its
atomic plans are for civilian use.  Oil as a Weapon  “We have never utilized oil as a political or military
weapon or instrument,” Qasemi said in a Bloomberg Television
interview at the executive lounge in the Regency Hotel, where
the conference is held. “Those who have used a weapon in that
manner, they will see the outcome of what they have done,” he
said, without naming any specific country.  Representatives of the two rival nations, which broke
diplomatic relations after  Iran ’s 1979 revolution and an ensuing
hostage crisis at the American embassy in the Persian Gulf
state, gave speeches on ways to mitigate crude-price volatility,
according to the IEF agenda.  As much as 1 million barrels a day of Iranian exports may
be lost as sanctions hamper buyers ability to pay and find
transport for the crude, the International Energy Agency said in
its monthly report released today. Qasemi said Iran would
produce as much as the market needs and that the country hadn’t
reduced its output or exports.  Brent crude for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange traded at $126.21 a barrel, down 1 cent,
as of 5:09 p.m. local time.  ‘Prices are Good’  “The prices are good and we don’t think we will make
less,” Qasemi said. “We think that at least we will have the
income of last year. Our budgetary dependence on oil revenues
has decreased significantly.”  Ali al-Naimi,  Saudi Arabia ’s oil minister, said the world’s
largest crude exporter can make up for any shortage in global
supply in an effort to assuage markets concerned that flows may
be disrupted by a Middle East conflict.  “Saudi Arabia and others remain poised to make good any
shortfall, perceived or real, in crude oil supply,” al-Naimi
said, in a speech in the same session as Qasemi and Poneman.  The kingdom is set to pump about 9.8 million barrels a day
this month, roughly in line with output in February, according
to a person familiar with the state’s energy policy. The IEA,
which said Saudi output reached 10 million barrels a day last
month, forecast that the country’s crude could displace Iranian
barrels as buyers cut back on purchases from that country.  “The world is large enough and it is full of customers,”
Qasemi said, when asked what would happen to supplies previously
sold to the EU.  Arabic Coffee  During the formal meeting held in a tent set up outside the
hotel’s conference room delegates sat in alphabetical order
around a U-shaped table and speakers addressed the gathering
from their seats.  Ministers and company executives from nations including
Kuwait,  Oman , Saudi Arabia and  Japan  sipped Arabic coffee and
were served local sweets and dates by children in traditional
dress as they passed through the lobby to the meeting area.  Poneman thanked Saudi Arabia and other suppliers for
agreeing to make crude available to meet market needs, according
to the people who heard his address. In comments to reporters
afterwards, he said Iran’s pursuit of a nuclear program was at
fault for market volatility.  “People need to comply with international nuclear non-
proliferation norms,” Poneman said. “That is creating a
tension in the region and the sooner we address those underlying
issues the sooner I think calm will return to the market.”  The IEF, consisting of a group of nations that account for
more than 90 percent of global oil and gas supply and demand,
concludes its two-day gathering in  Kuwait  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Kuwait at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Lara Setrakian in Kuwait at 
 lsetrakian1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  