-- Tudou Owners Get World’s Best Deal Taking Youku Stock: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-03-14T02:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/tudou-owners-get-world-s-best-deal-taking-youku-stock-real-m-a.html
Youku Inc. (YOKU) , owner of  China ’s most-
popular online video site, is giving shareholders of Tudou
Holdings Ltd. the best deal in the world.  Tudou, which lost about half its value after going public
in the U.S. in August, almost tripled this week after agreeing
to sell itself for equity in Youku. With Beijing-based Youku
reaching a seven-month high, the value of the takeover ballooned
40 percent to $1.29 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest increase among all-stock offers
greater than a half-billion dollars in announced equity value.  While Youku is also paying the most expensive takeover
premium among pending deals to combine China’s two biggest
providers of online videos, its own advance is still giving
arbitragers a chance to reap an 18 percent profit -- the most
for comparable stock transactions globally. Together, Youku and
Tudou account for a third of Web video advertising sales in a
nation with more Internet users than the entire  U.S. population 
and where access to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube is restricted.  “There are opportunities for arbitragers as far as the
price gap,” Echo He, a New York-based analyst who covers
Chinese Internet stocks for Maxim Group LLC, said in an
telephone interview. “By combining these two companies, they
will be a clear market leader and widen the gap between them and
the runner-up. It’s a situation where the synergies mean one
plus one is more than two.”  Yu Zhou, a spokesman for Shanghai-based Tudou, didn’t
immediately return telephone calls or e-mailed requests seeking
comment today. Jean Shao, a spokeswoman for Youku, referred to
Chief Executive Officer Victor Koo’s remarks on the conference
call announcing the deal and declined to comment further.  Couch Potato  “This deal creates a win-win,” Koo said on the call.
“Both companies see tremendous value in coming together and
believe the transaction represents the best value-creation
opportunity for its respective shareholders.”  Youku, which means “ excellent and cool ” in Chinese, and
 Tudou , whose name refers to a couch potato in that language,
have sites that let users watch movies, television shows and
music videos, as well as user-generated clips, over the Internet.  They make money from advertising and are similar to
Google’s YouTube and Hulu LLC, the online TV service owned by
ABC, NBC and Fox, according to Maxim’s He.  Both Chinese companies are traded in the U.S., with Youku
completing its initial public offering in December 2010 and
Tudou selling shares in August. Owners of Tudou’s American
depositary receipts will get 1.595 ADRs of Youku for each Tudou
ADR they hold, the companies said in a statement on March 12.  Relative Value  Youku shareholders will own 71.5 percent of the combined
entity, which will be named Youku Tudou Inc. Shareholders of
both companies need to approve the deal, which is expected to be
completed in the third quarter.  Based on Youku’s  average price  in the 20 days before the
announcement, the agreement valued Tudou at $37.03 a share, 160
percent more than its 20-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. ADRs represent ownership stakes in overseas companies,
issued by U.S. banks, which usually trade on American exchanges.  The premium for Tudou is almost seven times more than the
average that acquirers in pending stock takeovers worth more
than $500 million have agreed to pay, the data show.  While shares of Tudou soared 176 percent to $42.50 in the
two days after the agreement was announced, Youku’s stock also
gained 25 percent, lifting the offer price to $50.05 a share.
Youku’s  advance  has increased the takeover value of shares held
by Tudou owners by about $369 million, the most of any similar-
sized stock agreement on a percentage basis.  Deal Rationale  The $7.55-a-share gap to Youku’s offer price also indicates
that arbitragers can still earn a greater windfall from betting
on the takeover than any other pending stock transaction of more
than a half-billion dollars, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Youku’s acquisition of  Tudou (TUDO)  will enable the company to
extend its lead as demand increases for online videos in China,
which had  513 million   Internet users  as of Dec. 31, according to
the  China Internet Network Information Center .  Youku accounted for about 22 percent of the nation’s online
video advertising revenue in the fourth quarter, while Tudou had
a 14 percent share, research firm  Analysys International  said.
Sohu.com Inc., owner of China’s third-biggest Internet search
engine, had 13 percent and Baidu Inc., the nation’s largest
search engine, had 6.9 percent.  By acquiring Tudou, Youku will attract more advertising
dollars and give it an advantage as online-video providers spend
more on programming to lure viewers, according to Maxim’s He.  Content Expenses  Buying content and increasing the speed that it can be
streamed over the Internet are some of the biggest costs facing
online-video providers, according to Andy Yeung, a New York-
based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co.  Selling to Youku would also help  shareholders  of Tudou,
which has yet to turn an annual  profit  and had tumbled 47
percent before the transaction was announced. Michael Xu, a
senior vice president at Youku, said during the conference call
that the deal would cut as much as $60 million a year in  costs .  “With this, we’re seeing industry consolidation that will
potentially make the industry healthier,” Oppenheimer’s Yeung
said in a telephone interview. “That’s why the reaction from
investors was positive for both Youku and Tudou.”  One reason the gap between Tudou and Youku’s offer price
remains so wide is because some traders may be wary of companies
based in China, where the regulatory process is less transparent
than in the U.S., according to Louis Meyer, a New York-based
special-situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.  Opportunity Cost  “It’s not like the U.S. where you know the process well,”
he said in a telephone interview. “You’ve got some things that
cannot be handicapped as tightly as you do with a U.S. deal.
There’s no way you can just plow into this one.”  For Oppenheimer’s Yeung, the trepidation is creating an
opportunity that is worth betting on.  “We view the transaction positively,” he said. “It’s
easy to take advantage of this arbitrage opportunity if you can
find the shares to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 