-- Tullow Targets 1.4 Billion Barrels With French Guiana Wells
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-03-14T16:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/tullow-targets-1-4-billion-barrels-from-wells-off-french-guiana.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , which opened a new
oil frontier off the northeast coast of  South America , said it’s
targeting about 1.4 billion barrels of oil and gas resources
from three wells off French Guiana.  The London-based company that has the most licenses in
Africa plans to drill the Zaedyus-2 appraisal well in the third
quarter and the Dasypus-1 well in the Guyane Maritime in the
fourth quarter, it said today on its website. Tullow will also
appraise the initial Zaedyus discovery next year.  Tullow along with partners  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total
SA (FP)  spent more than $250 million last year drilling the Zaedyus-1
offshore well, which found light and heavy oil. Tullow today
increased the estimate for the field’s gross reserves to 840
million barrels of oil equivalent, up from its September
forecast of 700 million barrels in the  Demerara Plateau’s
Eastern Slope  frontier.  “Now the basin is calibrated and the future wells should
be lower costs,” Tullow Exploration Director Angus McCoss said
today in an interview. The partners used the Zaedyus well “to
accelerate the appraisal and understanding of the reservoir.”  The partners will need now to appraise the prospect, which
will require additional drilling, Tullow Chief Operating Officer
Paul McDade said in a phone interview. French Guiana authorities
will possibly approve the field development next year with
partners then making an investment decision. It will take at
least 30 months after that to pump the first oil from the
Zaedyus, he said.  French Guiana is an overseas region of France with a
population of about 230,000. Tullow is the operator of the
Guyane Maritime license with a 27.5 percent stake, Shell has 45
percent, Total 25 percent and Northpet 2.5 percent.  Tullow shares have risen 5.7 percent this year and gained
1.9 percent to 1,482 pence in  London  today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  