-- Hungary Court Scraps Decision on Opposition Radio License
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-03-14T14:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/hungary-court-invalidates-decision-on-opposition-radio-mti-says.html
A Hungarian court overruled a
decision by the country’s media authority to award the frequency
of opposition radio station  Klubradio  to another company.  A Budapest court ordered the media authority to start a new
procedure, according to an audio recording of the ruling posted
on Budapest-based Klubradio’s  website  today.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  drew international criticism
last year for passing a media law that critics said would curb
press freedom and for setting up a media authority led
exclusively by ruling party appointees.  The European Commission has blocked  Hungary ’s request for
financial assistance on concerns ranging from the independence
of the central bank to the judiciary. Commission Vice President
 Neelie Kroes  said on Jan. 24 she is “worried about media
pluralism and media freedom in Hungary.”  The bid submitted by the tender’s winner, Autoradio Kft.,
didn’t comply with tender regulations, the court said, according
to MTI state news service. Klubradio, which placed second,
should now be declared the winner, its Chief Executive Officer
Andras Arato said on the station today.  The court’s decision, which can’t be appealed, “probably
makes the validity of other radio tenders doubtful,” the media
authority said in a statement today, without elaborating.  Klubradio should have already been assigned another
frequency it was awarded in 2010, which the new media authority
refused to approve, Nepszabadsag reported on Feb. 28, citing a
first-instance court ruling which confirmed Klubradio’s contract
for the other frequency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  