-- Hungary’s Heroes, Artists Enlisted to Push Orban Policy: Review
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-03-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/hungary-s-heroes-artists-enlisted-to-push-orban-policy-review.html
There’s a place for party political
campaigns. It’s not the national art museum.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s right-wing government is
presenting its own version of the national historical narrative
at the  Hungarian National Gallery  in Budapest, with an ill-
judged show of contemporary art that it commissioned to
illustrate the new constitution. (Copies of the basic law, by
the way, can be purchased in the museum shop.)  The National Gallery is in Buda Castle, the ancient seat of
kings on the crest of a hill overlooking the Danube. The
propaganda begins upstairs, in an exhibition titled “Heroes,
Kings, Saints,” which runs through Aug. 26.  A hall to the left shows hallowed relics, such as a replica
of St. Stephen’s crown, the symbol of Hungarian statehood,
alongside portraits of 19th-century reformers including Istvan
Szechenyi and artists like the poet Mihaly Vorosmarty.  Hefty copies of the constitution sit on tables for visitors
to browse, presenting the law as a natural progression from the
glories of the past. In reality, it’s a polarizing bone of
contention: As many as 100,000 protestors took to the streets on
Jan. 2, a day after it took effect.  The halls to the right address the sacrifices made in the
name of Hungarian nationhood, mainly through huge 19th-century
romantic  oil paintings . The centerpiece of the show is Mihaly
Munkacsy’s monumental 1893 canvas “The Hungarian Conquest,”
painted for the parliament building. It shows Arpad, chief of
the Hungarian tribes, atop a white horse, receiving gifts from
the grateful native Slavs.  Where Is Nagy?  Hungary’s most famous martyr of modern times -- Imre Nagy,
the communist politician who was executed for his role in the
1956 uprising against Soviet rule -- gets short shrift. High
above eye level, at the end of a hall of rich oils, is an offset
poster portrait. Blink and you’d miss it.  Socialism and heroism clearly don’t go together in the
vocabulary of Orban’s government. Tacked on to the show, in a
room downstairs, the new historical narrative starts to take
shape in a way that would be sinister if it weren’t laughable.  Nagy turns up again here, this time dead. A painting by
Tamas Galambos depicting Nagy’s 1989 reburial looks
superficially naive, yet carries an insidious message. Official
speakers on stage are separated from a banner-carrying crowd by
a row of featureless men in dark suits.  The reburial, an event that marked the end of four decades
of communism in  Hungary , is reduced to a sham display by the
Socialists still in power to appease the crowds and suppress
Hungarians’ desire for a strong nation (preferably including
bits it lost after World War I).  ‘Chaos’  The undermining of the 1989 revolution chimes with the
government’s hypothesis, formulated in a parliamentary statement
in June 2010 after Orban’s party bloc won a two-thirds majority.
Hungary has experienced “46 years of occupation and
dictatorship and two chaotic decades of transition,” it read.  That line sweeps aside the achievements of the past 20
years. The path hasn’t always been smooth, yet Hungary has
introduced democracy and a market economy, and joined NATO and
the EU, to name a few of the successes. In the government’s
narrative, the new dawn only began when it took power in 2010.  Perhaps the most ridiculous of the works is “The Birth of
a New Constitution” by Ivan Szkok. An array of dignitaries pays
homage to the new law, a chunky bound volume similar to those on
display. Bathed in a soft golden light, the great and good of
Hungarian history (no Socialists, obviously) watch over them as
King Matthias blesses the volume with his sword.  Press Scorn  In a healthy show of cynicism, the Hungarian press has
poured scorn on the new artworks, commissioned at a cost of 20
million forints ($90,000) by a government that’s making drastic
cuts in arts funding.  Gabor Bellak, the curator of the “Heroes” exhibition,
also sought to distance himself from the contemporary show in an
interview with the news website Origo, saying the National
Gallery had done nothing more than provide the space for it.  “If this is state patronage of the arts and fine art
representation, then it’s cheap, weak, dull and didactic,”
Bellak said, according to Origo. “One must either do better or
nothing.”  There is nothing new about authoritarian regimes using art
to promote their cause. A modern, democratic Hungary at the
heart of  Europe  shouldn’t need to resort to such measures.  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 