-- UnitedHealth Expands in Middle East With Al Sagr Insurance
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-03-14T20:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/unitedhealth-expands-in-middle-east-with-al-sagr-insurance-pact.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the
biggest U.S. health insurer by sales, will expand coverage in
the  Middle East , joining rival health plans in a race to win
international business to offset changes at home.  UnitedHealth reached an agreement to provide insurance and
medical services through an alliance with Dubai-based  Al Sagr
National Insurance Co. (ASNIC) , the companies said in a statement today.
The partnership enables UnitedHealth to offer coverage to
companies with workers in  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab
Emirates , Jordan, Qatar, Oman, Lebanon, Bahrain and Kuwait.  U.S. insurers have sought to grow outside the country as
they prepare for new costs and regulations from the health care
overhaul passed by Congress in 2010. Bloomfield, Connecticut-
based  Cigna Corp. (CI) , the fifth-largest insurer, said last month it
expects to grow  international revenue  by as much as 30 percent
this year as a hedge against changes in the U.S. health system.  UnitedHealth “is committed to addressing the challenges
faced by our clients across the globe, by making seamless access
to high-quality health care easier,” said Simon Stevens,
president of global health for the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
company.  The insurer has expanded services for expatriate workers
and multinational corporations, Chief Financial Officer David Wichmann told analysts on a Nov. 29 conference call. It’s too
soon to provide revenue projections from the Al Sagr deal, a
spokesman, Tyler Mason, said in a telephone interview.  UnitedHealth rose less than 1 percent to $55.78 at the
close of New York trading. The company’s  shares  have jumped 29
percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  