-- Unveil Corporate Money in Politics: Gomory, Hindery
-- B y   R a l p h   G o m o r y   a n d   L e o   H i n d e r y   J r .
-- 2012-03-14T23:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/unveil-corporate-money-trail-in-u-s-politics-gomory-hindery.html
(Corrects details on formation of and disclosure by super-
PACs in 17th paragraph.)  America today is very different
from the country that fought the Revolutionary War and framed
the Constitution. Then, it was a nation of farmers; today, it’s
a nation of corporations. Most Americans now work for
corporations, the largest of which command resources and money
on a scale beyond that of many nations.  Yet when it comes to public issues like jobs, the
distribution of wealth or even plain old politics, we still talk
as we did 200 years ago. Remarkably, too few citizens discuss
the effects of corporate behavior on jobs, health care and the
economy, even though corporations affect all of these through
their influence on elections and the actions of government.  As President  Theodore Roosevelt  noted in his first annual
message to Congress: “Great corporations exist only because
they are created and safeguarded by our institutions; and it is
therefore our right and our duty to see that they work in
harmony with those institutions.”  The key to doing this is to hold corporations accountable
by ensuring that their activities are made visible.  From the end of World War II until about 1980 -- even
through the economic travail of the ’70s, as the U.S. faced the
Arab oil embargo, rampant inflation, significant growth in
foreign competition and the aftermath of the  Vietnam War  -- it
was generally considered normal for large corporations to
acknowledge all of their constituencies.  Maximizing Equity  Still, the public debate about the role of corporations
began during these years. One view came from  Milton Friedman ,
who in 1971 wrote in the New York Times Sunday Magazine that
corporations’ only responsibility was to maximize the value of
their  shareholders’ equity .  On the other side, notably, were Edmund Littlefield of Utah
International and Reginald Jones of General Electric Co., who
argued that they and their fellow chief executive officers were
equally responsible to their employees, customers, communities
and the nation. In 1981, at their urging, the  Business
Roundtable , made up of the nation’s most prominent CEOs,
formally embraced this view.  Real-life interests tend to ignore such intellectual
pronouncements, however. Large shareholders came to realize that
if they gave top management unprecedented quantities of options
on company stock, the executives would single-mindedly focus on
raising the stock price.  By 1997, the  Business Roundtable  reversed itself, saying in
effect that corporate responsibility extends only to shareholder
value.  Of course, one way to boost profits and stock prices was to
hold wages down. And so management and shareholders each came to
stand against the interests of employees.  In the 1980s, management compensation rose sharply, while
wage earners were left out of the benefits of growth. The
average CEO of a public company, who had for a century earned
about 15 to 20 times what his average employee earned, began
taking a bigger and bigger piece of the pie. Today, that
earnings ratio is about 400-to-1.  In trying to understand the consequences of corporations
focusing only on  shareholder value , it’s important to know who
the shareholders are. If they are mainly ordinary people with
invested pensions, then the idea of working to give them as much
value as possible, even if there is an adverse effect on wages,
doesn’t seem so bad. But if corporate shares are concentrated in
only a few hands, then the stock price is a less-appealing goal.  Wealthy Stockholders  While many people do have small stakes in corporations
through their pension funds and 401(k) plans, the bulk of
equities are held by the wealthiest individuals. In 2007, the
richest 5 percent of Americans held more than two-thirds of the
value of all corporate shares, and more than half those shares
belonged to the top 1 percent. In their pursuit of shareholder
value only, corporations are now in fact dedicated to making the
nation’s wealthy wealthier.  The effects are visible. From 1980 until the onset of the
recession in December 2007, almost all economic growth benefited
the upper 10 percent of Americans. The lot of the remaining 90
percent barely changed at all.  Maximizing profits excuses the offshoring of millions of
U.S. jobs and of American technology. It also explains many of
the perverse financial industry practices that contributed to
the crash.  Making matters worse, it has led many large companies to
spend more and more money on lobbying. Congress has tried to
counteract the influence of money on politics -- for example, by
passing the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, widely known
as McCain-Feingold. However, in 2010, with its decision in
 Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission , the  Supreme
Court (1000L)  struck down the provisions of the act that had barred
corporations and unions from running advertisements mentioning
candidates within 60 days of a general election or 30 days of a
primary. This ruling handed a small group of CEOs and
billionaires (unions don’t have as much money) near-unlimited
powers of persuasion in the democratic process.  At the same time, the Court paved the way for the formation
of super-PACs --“independent-expenditure only committees” --
to raise unlimited amounts of money from corporations, unions
and wealthy individuals for specific candidates or causes.
Super-PACs are required to identify their contributors, but too
often the individual givers are masked through the use of shell
corporations.  We can hope that the  Supreme Court , seeing the effect of
its rulings, will find a way to reverse or limit the decision.
But while we are waiting, efforts should be made to make
corporate political activity transparent.  The Securities and Exchange Commission should use its
existing authority to protect investors by requiring that
corporations disclose their political contributions. To be
effective, this requirement would also need to apply to
donations to intermediaries, such as the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce.  Labels for Corporations  Corporations should also voluntarily disclose their
political dealings to consumers. When any of us chooses a bank
or buys a car, we should be able to tell if our money will go to
push a political agenda that we might oppose.  Common Cause  and other civic organizations committed to
transparency could rate corporations on their political
activities, and post the ratings on their websites. One such
scale already exists, the Zeitlin & Schroder CPA Index, and has
been used to assess the political activities of 32 major
corporations.  This is only the beginning, however. Corporations also
affect our lives through their influence on jobs, offshoring,
health care and wages. These actions, too, should be disclosed
and rated.  As this effort gathers momentum, it will be important for
the rating organizations to be clear about the source of their
own funding. We would not want to find that ratings were
effectively for sale (as were once, apparently, the financial
gradings of Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s ).  As a nation, we have reached a turning point where we must
decide how much power we will allow large corporations and the
extremely wealthy to have over our lives and our political
system. Making their activities visible and transparent is a
first step toward ensuring that we don’t become a nation for the
rich but rather one that works to provide a good life for all.  (Ralph Gomory, a research professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business, was formerly senior vice
president for research and technology at IBM. Leo Hindery Jr. is
chairman of the  New America Foundation ’s U.S. Economy/Smart
Globalization Initiative and former chief executive of AT&T
Broadband. The opinions expressed are their own. )  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Ralph Gomory at  gomory@sloan.org ;
Leo Hindery Jr. at  leohindery@msn.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 