-- Vets Denied Contracts for Aiding Haiti, Living in California
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-14T22:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/vets-denied-contracts-for-aiding-haiti-living-in-california-2-.html
The U.S. Department of  Veterans
Affairs  has rejected almost two-thirds of veterans seeking
special contracts, snubbing some of them because they live in
community property states or did emergency work in Haiti.  The VA says it has turned away about 4,700 of the more than
7,200 companies requesting preferential status as veteran-owned
businesses since it began a verification process last year.
Veterans say they are baffled by the explanations, including the
agency’s concerns about laws in California and eight other
“community property” states where a spouse might be entitled
to half a veteran owner’s share in a business.  Kevin Treiber was rejected in February, when the VA told
him he wasn’t eligible because the  Department of Health  and
Human Services had paid him for two weeks of work helping  Haiti 
earthquake victims in 2010. Technically, that made him a
government employee, the VA said. He was reinstated today.  “I am happy to be reinstated, but extremely disappointed
that this entire incident happened,” said Treiber, 40, a
disabled Army veteran and nurse who owns TDY Medical Staffing
Inc. of Lower Makefield,  Pennsylvania . “My hope is that VA will
improve this process and make attempts to become more veteran
friendly. I hope that other veterans who own businesses won’t
have to be subjected to this sort of stress and aggravation.”  Honor System  His business has missed out on bidding for at least $1
million in contracts since he was rejected in February, Treiber
said. He also lost the chance to participate in a small business
mentorship program because his company lacked the agency’s
verification, he said in a March 14 e-mail.  “I feel like I’ve been arguing with a machine for the past
month,” said Treiber, who says he suffered joint injuries after
serving in  Saudi Arabia  during the  Gulf War .  The reversal occurred after VA lawyers reviewed additional
information about Treiber’s federal government work and deemed
him a “special government employee,” said Jo Schuda, an agency
spokeswoman. His company is now eligible to compete for VA
contracts reserved for disabled veterans unless the work is tied
to his “activity” with the disaster medical assistance team
organized by the health department, she said in an e-mail.  Other federal agencies operate on an honor system, allowing
disabled veteran owners to pledge that they manage and control
their businesses.  New Law  The VA had the same requirement until October 2010, when
President  Barack Obama  signed a law requiring the agency to
verify ownership and management of companies seeking special
contracts reserved for veterans. Companies had until March 21,
2011, to submit documentation proving their eligibility.  The crackdown came after the Government Accountability
Office, Congress’s investigative arm, reported in October 2009
that 10 ineligible companies received about $100 million in
contracts for disabled veterans through fraud or abuse from
fiscal 2003 through July 2009. Six of the companies had received
VA contracts, according to the report.  The VA’s inspector general estimated last July that the
department awards as much as $500 million in contracts a year to
companies ineligible for status as a small business owned by a
veteran or disabled veteran.  “It seems like the pendulum has swung maybe a little too
far in the other direction at this point,” said Jonathan
Williams, a partner at the  Washington  law firm PilieroMazza,
which specializes in government contracting. “It’s deny first
and ask questions later.”  Community States  The VA should work more with small businesses early in the
process, helping them avoid snags that may lead to rejection,
Williams said in an interview. He said the agency doesn’t seem
to do a lot of “back and forth” with most applicants to point
out issues that might be easily corrected.  Married veterans living in community states, for example,
might need to have their spouses fill out paperwork, he said.
That’s because the VA’s  website contends  that a spouse may own
half the veteran’s share of a business in those states, making
it impossible for the veteran to be considered a majority owner
unless the spouse relinquishes ownership.  “It’s really troubling for a lot of these firms that are
not fronts, they’re not frauds, but they might not have all
their t’s crossed in some documents,” Williams said.  Eligibility Criteria  The agency has “verification assistance briefs” on its
website that help  small business owners  avoid pitfalls, said
Schuda, the VA spokeswoman. Those briefs include one on the
issue with community property laws in  Arizona , California,
 Texas ,  Nevada ,  New Mexico , Washington,  Louisiana ,  Wisconsin  and
 Idaho .  “The high rejection rate is due to the fact that the
business model of many companies does not fit the eligibility
criteria for the program,” Schuda said in an e-mail.  “The vast majority of those who are denied are not
fraudulent; they simply are not eligible,” she said. “It is a
business decision each owner must make if he or she wants to do
business with VA -- that is, ensure that the company conforms to
the eligibility criteria.”  More than 1,000 businesses rejected during the past year
after seeking veteran-owned status have filed appeals with the
agency, Schuda said.  The VA is unique in that it sets aside contracts for small
businesses owned by all veterans. Other federal agencies focus
on disabled veterans.  Rejection Letter  The VA awarded $3.5 billion to all veteran-owned
businesses, mostly to those with disabilities, in the fiscal
year ended last Sept. 30, according to February testimony by Tom
Leney, director of the agency’s Office of Small and
Disadvantaged Business Utilization.  Bill Hoover, a disabled veteran who owns a wireless
communications company in Oxnard,  California , says he received a
rejection letter from the VA in October. The agency said his
marriage and California residence might affect the ownership
status of his namesake business, Hoover Enterprises Inc.  “I said, ‘What do you want me to do, divorce her?’”
Hoover, 61, said in an interview. “It’s just another damn
bureaucratic situation where they are supposed to be helping us
veterans, but instead they are making it harder.”  Hoover, who says he suffers from joint and back injuries
after serving in the Marines and Navy from 1970 to 1990, has
appealed the decision.  Ownership Issues  The agency’s response has been too strict, costing
legitimate business owners access to millions of dollars in
contract revenue, said Lisa Wolford, a Marine Corps veteran and
owner of Bellevue, Nebraska-based Client/Server Software
Solutions Inc., a technology services vendor.  Wolford’s 160-person company was booted from the program
last August, when she received a letter from the VA saying it
wasn’t able to verify control of the company because her
ownership was linked to a trust that included her two children
as beneficiaries.  She asked the agency to reconsider the decision and
received a second denial in October.  In January, Wolford filed a lawsuit against the VA in U.S.
District Court in Washington and was reinstated soon after, she
said. Her company missed out on competing for at least $20
million in contract work during the roughly five months it was
excluded, she said.  “This was very, very harmful to my company, my employees,
because we undoubtedly lost contracts because of it,” Wolford
said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  