-- Wall Street Fees Dwindle on AIG Offerings as Insurer Buys Stock
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-03-14T12:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/wall-street-fees-dwindle-on-aig-offerings-as-insurer-buys-stock.html
Wall Street’s fees are dwindling on
U.S. Treasury Department sales of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  shares as the insurer buys back some of its own stock from
the government to help wind down a 2008 bailout.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Morgan Stanley
earned 10.9 cents a share when the Treasury sold stock at $29
last week, a regulatory filing shows. That compares with 14.5
cents in an offering in May when the U.S. divested shares at the
same price. Half of last week’s $6 billion sale was to AIG,
which didn’t pay underwriters for its purchase. In May, AIG was
a seller, increasing Wall Street fees.  The Treasury will need more share sales to exit its 70
percent  stake  in New York-based AIG as it seeks to wind down
bailouts from 2008 and 2009 that were designed to prevent a
collapse of the banking system and protect jobs. Underwriting
fees in the most recent AIG offering were 0.375 percent,
compared with a 3.04 percent average of U.S. additional equity
offerings last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A sale like this could be a very consuming activity for a
bank,” and underwriters probably had “slim” margins, said
Sica Wealth Management LLC Chief Investment Officer Jeffrey Sica. “The Treasury has made them do something they wouldn’t
ordinarily do.” His Morristown, New Jersey-based firm oversees
more than $1 billion.  The government needs to sell its stake at an average of at
least $28.72 a share to recoup taxpayer funds. AIG is
responsible for paying banks for underwriting the offerings.
Mark Herr, a spokesman for the insurer, and the Treasury’s
 Matthew Anderson  declined to comment, as did representatives of
Citigroup,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Credit Suisse.  Citigroup, GM  The government has arranged fees of less than 1 percent for
its sale of stock in other firms rescued in 2008 and 2009. Banks
made 0.75 percent on the $18.1 billion sale of  General Motors
Co. (GM)  shares and 0.4 percent on a $10.5 billion offering of
Citigroup shares in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Treasury holds about  a third  of GM’s common
shares.  The expectation of future share sales by the Treasury has
 weighed  on AIG’s stock in recent months, since investors assumed
the government would sell if shares climbed to the break-even
price, said Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. AIG’s repurchase of half the recent offering reduced the
number of shares outstanding and removed some of that pressure,
he said.  Treasury’s Approach  “If this represents the approach the Treasury will
continue to take as it distributes shares in the future,
assuming an improving broad market, the government’s cost basis
should switch from being a ceiling to a floor,” Stirling said
in a note to clients last week.  He  rates  the insurer market perform, which means the stock
will probably trade within 15 percent of the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index during the next year. AIG advanced 25 cents yesterday
to $28.40.  AIG and the Treasury are prevented from selling additional
shares for 60 days after the most recent offering, according to
an agreement with underwriters. Banks are able to waive that
condition if they choose.  AIG has sold more than $50 billion in assets, including
non-U.S. life insurers, a consumer lender and an asset manager,
to help repay a taxpayer bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion.
The Treasury converted a preferred stake into 92 percent of the
company’s common shares in January 2011.  That holding was reduced to 77 percent in a May offering
that raised $5.8 billion for the government. AIG sold an
additional $2.9 billion of its stock alongside the Treasury in
that transaction to prove that it could access equity markets.  Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan  Underwriters on the 2011 offering included  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  Fees for the sale totaled $43.5 million for 300
million shares.  Last week’s sale generated $11.3 million in underwriting
fees on about 103 million shares offered to investors excluding
AIG, according to the filing. Morgan Stanley, Citigroup and
Credit Suisse accounted for more than 95 percent of the
securities sold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  