-- Wartime Cookie Caught in Australia Grocery Crossfire
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-03-15T05:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/wartime-cookie-caught-in-australia-grocery-crossfire.html
The Anzac Biscuit survived the D-
Day landings and the jungle combat of  Vietnam . Now it’s fighting
for survival on a new front: a price war between Australia’s
supermarkets as consumer spending stalls.  Unibic Australia Pty., the biggest maker of the sweet oat-
and-coconut cookies and one of a small group with  permits  from
the Department of Veterans’ Affairs to make them, came out of a
12-day bankruptcy process March 13, after struggles with rising
costs and price competition had pushed it to the brink.  Weak consumer spending and intensifying competition between
 Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ’s Coles chain, which
together account for about 80 percent of Australian grocery
sales, has squeezed suppliers.  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ) ,  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) ,
and Kirin Holdings Co. have all cited the impact on earnings
since November of pressure from retailers in the  A$108 billion 
($114 billion) food and grocery market.  “Consumers are more price conscious,” said Kate Carnell,
chief executive officer of the Australian Food and Grocery
Council, the nation’s biggest food manufacturers’ lobby. “To
keep their profitability up at a time when they’re pushing
retail prices down,” supermarkets have been pressing suppliers
to cut prices and introducing their own brands to compete,
Carnell said by telephone from Canberra.  Sputtering Consumer  For Unibic, rising grain prices, spending on its main
factory in  Melbourne  and fierce competition have been compounded
by restrained retail spending.  While demand for commodities fueled Australian economic
growth of 2.3 percent in 2011, faster than the U.S. and Europe,
households have cut back on spending and boosted  savings rates 
to levels last seen in 1987.  A measure of Australian consumer confidence yesterday
recorded its seventh decline in nine months.  The Australian dollar has been the best-performing major
currency against the greenback over the past 18 months, driving
down the cost of imported goods and adding to pressure on local
producers.  Woolworths, the country’s largest retailer, this month
reported that net income fell for the first time since at least
2000, as its market-share battle with second-ranked  Coles (CGJ)  pushed
its grocery selling prices down 3.7 percent.  An index of local food prices  fell  1.5 percent in the
December quarter compared with the September period, its biggest
drop since 2007. Such deflation is a major risk for retailers,
whose costs typically rise in line with inflation even when
their revenues do not.  ‘Dead Wood’  “The supermarkets cannot afford to have any dead wood,”
Mark Epper, lead Australian partner for food and beverages at
 KPMG , said by phone from Sydney. “The retailers only want stuff
on their shelves which is moving, so you have to be the number
one or two brand in your category.”  Woolworths’  shares  have risen 1.7 percent this year while
Wesfarmers’ have fallen 2.2 percent. That compares with a 5.5
percent gain in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 index . The  MSCI World
Food and Staples Retailing Index  has advanced 1.2 percent in the
same period.  Australian supermarkets are bringing brands in-house in an
attempt to defend their profit margins because products
exclusive to their own shelves can’t be undercut by rivals.  Private labels have been less prominent in Australian
stores than in  Europe  and  Canada , Ben Gilbert, a Sydney-based
analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a November report. In 2009, private
labels made up 15 percent of sales in Australian stores,
compared to almost 20 percent in Canada and more than 35 percent
in  Germany  and the U.K., Gilbert wrote.  That is changing.  Doubling Sales  Grant O’Brien, chief executive officer at Sydney-based
Woolworths, has promised to double private label sales, having
added 600 lines last year alone. Coles also plans to widen its
private-label range, which currently accounts for about a fifth
of its product lines.  That threatens shelf space for independent producers, who
struggle to match private-label prices because of their higher
marketing costs.  The country’s Senate held a nine-month  inquiry  last year
into the impact on the  dairy industry  of a push by the two
chains to reduce milk prices to A$1 a liter in a battle for
market share. It concluded that the private-label market needs
“to be monitored for any signs of anti-competitive conduct.”  Goodman Fielder Ltd. (GFF) , Australia’s largest baker, last month
cited “severe retail price competition” for a 77 percent drop
in  first-half profit  as Coles and Woolworths compete to sell A$1
loaves of bread.  Mighty Soft, Helga  Goodman Fielder ’s Mighty Soft and Helga brands have lost
shelf space at the chains and while the Sydney-based baker is
trying to compensate with contracts for private-label brands,
those sales are less profitable.  “We’re producing more private-label bread, but less
proprietary bread,” Ian Greenshields, a Sydney-based spokesman,
said by telephone. Goodman Fielder shares fell about 80 percent
from a July 2007 peak before Singapore-based food processor
 Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  revealed on Feb. 28 it had bought a
stake.  International companies are feeling the impact, with
Pittsburgh-based Heinz posting a “double-digit” decline in
Australian sales in the three months to October, Chief Executive
Officer William Johnson said in a Nov. 18 earnings call, after
its Greenseas tinned tuna was removed from Coles’ shelves.
 Australia  has almost become “fairly immaterial to us going
forward, because it has taken such a hit,” he said.  Heinz has shut down a tomato processing plant, cut capacity
at two other factories and brought in new management in an
attempt to shake up the under-performing division.  Tim Tams  Lion, a brewer and milk processor owned by Tokyo-based
Kirin, said Feb. 10 that aggressive discounting in the
Australian dairy industry was largely responsible for a A$1.2
billion  writedown  in its full-year results.  Campbell’s Arnott’s unit, whose Tim Tam biscuits are so
celebrated in Australia that they were an official gift to
President  Barack Obama  during his visit to the country last year,
saw sales drop in the two successive quarters to Jan. 29.  The dominance of Coles and Woolworths has grown, with their
share of the market  rising  to 78 percent in 2009 from 58 percent
14 years earlier. That may attract the attention of the
competition regulator, according to David Cooke, an analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc.  The Australian Food and Grocery Council’s Carnell wants a
limit of about 30 percent on the space retail chains dedicated
to own-brand products, and the  Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission  has promised to focus on any abuse.  “Our priority in 2012 will be to determine whether or not
there are breaches” in the way supermarkets deal with their
suppliers, ACCC Chairman Rod Sims  said  last month.  New Owners  For Unibic’s former owners, Michael and  Paul Quinn , any
support from the regulator will come too late, as the company’s
emergence from bankruptcy on March 13 cut their stake to 20
percent from 100 percent.  That process will help clear its A$30 million debt load and
preserve all 170 jobs at its Melbourne factory, said  Michael
Smith , an external spokesman for accountants  Lawler Draper
Dillon  at Inside Public Relations.  Matt Forster, who will be managing director of the new
company to be called Modern Baking Co., said he is grateful for
the “patience and support” of Coles and Woolworths.  “The marketplace has a job to do,” he said by phone from
Melbourne.  Military Rations  Anzac cookies are named after the Australia and  New Zealand 
Army Corps, a World War I military division that fought at the
battle of Gallipoli. The first recipes for the biscuits began
appearing in cookbooks in the war’s aftermath,  Helen Leach , a
professor of anthropology at the University of Otago in Dunedin,
New Zealand, said by phone.  While the cookies are still occasionally  included  in
military ration packs, they are not generally sold outside
Australia and New Zealand. Anyone wanting to use the name
commercially in Australia must get  permission  from the
Department of Veterans’ Affairs under a 1921 law. About 60
permits have been granted since they were first issued in 1994,
Felicity McDonald, a spokeswoman for the department, said by e-
mail.  Even the use of the American English term “cookie” is
frowned upon because of its “non-Australian overtones,”
according to the department’s  website .  Unibic donates 4 percent of its revenue to the Returned and
Services League, Australia’s largest veterans’ organization, and
carries the RSL’s coat of arms and a map of the Gallipoli
battleground on its packaging.  Making sure supermarket shelves are well stocked is the
priority for Unibic’s new owners, since about a fifth of the
cookie’s sales come in the month leading up to the April 25
national Anzac Day public holiday, Forster said.  “It’s an iconic product,” he said. “It has great
heritage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  