-- Wen Says Curbs Needed to Avoid China Property ‘Chaos’: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-14T09:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/wen-says-curbs-needed-to-avoid-china-property-chaos-economy.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
that  home prices  remain far from a reasonable level and relaxing
curbs could cause “chaos” in the market, indicating no
imminent relaxation of cooling measures.  “We must not slacken our efforts in regulating the housing
sector,” Wen said at a press conference in Beijing today,
according to an English translation. A bursting property bubble
would hurt the entire economy, and the government wants “long-
term steady and sound growth” in housing, he said.  Chinese stocks slumped on concern that prolonging the
government’s crackdown on real-estate speculation will deepen a
slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy. Wen’s comments
mean the government will probably maintain property curbs for
most of this year at least, said Cui Li, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc who previously worked at
the  International Monetary Fund .  “Wen seems determined not to relax as long as he’s in
charge,” said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial
Markets in  Singapore  who previously worked at the International
Monetary Fund. “The authorities can use their discretion to
fine-tune where needed to support growth, but the persistent
housing restrictions may be a stiff headwind” for Chinese
shares.  At the same time, easier monetary policy since November is
likely to support growth and help reduce risks of a deeper
slowdown, Condon said.  Stocks Slide  The Shanghai Composite Index closed 2.6 percent lower, the
biggest decline since Nov. 30. In a sign that the government may
be taking more steps to support growth,  China  is easing
restrictions on lending capacity at three of the nation’s four
biggest banks, officials at the lenders with knowledge of the
matter said.  Wen said that if the government loosened property
restrictions, “past gains will be lost and there will be chaos
in China’s housing sector.”  China’s factory output in the first two months rose the
least since 2009, while retail sales increased less than
economists predicted and inflation eased to the slowest pace in
20 months, data showed last week.  Wen also said that the yuan may be near an equilibrium
value and that policy makers will allow greater movement in the
 exchange rate . The currency is down 0.7 percent this year
against the dollar after gaining 4.7 percent in 2011.  The yuan “may possibly have reached an equilibrium level”
based on trading in  Hong Kong  since September, Wen said at the
press conference, according to the English translation. The
government will “continue to enhance reform of the exchange-
rate mechanism, especially to allow relatively wider, two-way
fluctuation,” he said in Chinese.  More Volatility  “The currency will be more volatile” this year even as
“modest” gains are still likely, said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “This
explains this week’s yuan moves,” especially as Wen highlighted
a current-account surplus that dropped to 2.8 percent of gross
domestic product last year, Kowalczyk said.  The yuan weakened as much as 0.3 percent today to 6.3471,
the lowest level against the dollar since Dec. 20 and the third
straight decline, before trading little changed at 6.3323 at
4:30 p.m. in Shanghai.  Elsewhere in  Asia , Sri Lanka left benchmark  interest rates 
unchanged today while  South Korea  said that the number of people
with work rose in February for the first time since October. The
nation’s jobless rate was 3.7 percent.  India Inflation  India reported today that wholesale price inflation
accelerated more than forecast last month to a 6.95 percent
rate, from 6.55 percent in January.  The European Union’s statistics office may say euro-area
inflation picked up in February to 2.7 percent, a survey
indicated. European industrial production fell for a second
month in January, the statistics office may say.  In the U.S., a Labor Department report is forecast to show
prices of imported goods rose in February for the third time in
four months, while the  Mortgage Bankers Association  will release
data for loan applications. The Commerce Department may say the
U.S. current-account deficit widened in the fourth quarter to
$115 billion, a separate survey showed.  China’s home sales declined 25 percent in the first two
months of the year after surging 26 percent in January and
February of 2011. The government’s two-year effort to control
the property market included measures from raising down-payment
and mortgage-rate requirements, imposing property taxes for the
first time in  Shanghai  and Chongqing, and home purchase
restrictions in about 40 cities.  ‘Scared Stiff’  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Hong Kong-based chief
Asian and emerging-market equity strategist, said he’s “scared
stiff” about what’s happening in the Chinese property market.
 China’s economy  is in a “hard landing,” Mowat said at a
conference in Singapore today.  In a March 5 speech, Wen said the government “will
strictly implement and gradually improve policies and measures
for discouraging speculative or investment-driven housing
demand, build on progress made in regulating the real estate
market, and bring property prices down to a reasonable level,”
he said.  Wen’s comments are “bad news” for developers with high
proportions of debt, said  Pan Shiyi , chairman of  Soho China
Ltd. (410) , the biggest developer in Beijing’s central business
district. “If developers who are highly geared can’t raise
prices and sell homes quickly they would face a lot of problems
with their  cash flow ,” Pan said today at a press conference in
Hong Kong.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  