-- Wen Tells Future Leaders to Embrace Political Change
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-14T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/wen-says-yuan-may-be-near-equilibrium-as-more-flexibility-seen.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , set to
leave office next year after a decade in power, said his nation
must adopt political change to support an economic
transformation that has produced rapid development at the cost
of a widening wealth gap.  “Without successful political reform, it’s impossible to
carry out economic reform,” Wen, 69, told reporters in Beijing
yesterday in a three-hour press conference closing the
legislature’s annual gathering. “There’s even the possibility
of losing what we’ve achieved.”  Wen’s remarks reflect widening protests over illegal land
grabs and discontent with declining purchasing power as  China (GDPNTTL) ’s
wealthy drive up housing costs. At stake for China’s next
generation of leaders, scheduled to be selected in a process
that begins later this year, is maintaining social order in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Wen’s remarks echoed comments he’s made in the past,
including a speech in 2010 where he said reversing policies of
reform and openness would be a “dead end” for development. The
comments two years ago were directly refuted by an editorial in
the Communist Party’s official newspaper, suggesting that other
leaders did not share his views.  A former geological surveyor who became premier in 2003,
Wen said at the press conference in the Great Hall of the People
on Tiananmen Square that he had many regrets, felt guilty for
problems in Chinese society and took responsibility for all that
had occurred during his tenure. Tiananmen Square is where Wen
and former Communist Party General Secretary Zhao Ziyang met
student protesters in 1989, two weeks before the government
crushed the demonstrations.  ‘Tragic Tone’  “What he said he’s said before, but he said it with a more
tragic tone,” Yu Guoming, deputy dean of the journalism school
at Beijing’s Renmin University, said in a phone interview.
“He’s quite alone -- it’s not the consensus within the party
leadership.”  In the briefing, Wen embraced greater private capital in
 China ’s financial system, warned against relaxing controls on
property prices, called for deeper Sino-U.S. trade and
investment ties and said officials will allow greater two-way
movement in the yuan’s exchange rate.  Chinese stocks slumped on concern that prolonging the
government’s crackdown on real-estate speculation will deepen a
slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy. The Shanghai
Composite Index closed 2.6 percent lower, the biggest decline
since Nov. 30.  Cultural Revolution  In the absence of political change, Wen said China risked a
repeat of the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution, which threw the
nation into chaos as Chairman  Mao Zedong ’s Red Guards attacked
the party apparatus and persecuted millions of people.  “I’m deeply aware that we need political reform,
especially the reform of the party and the mechanism of the
leadership, in order to solve these problems,” Wen said.  While he oversaw China overtaking  Japan  as the world’s
second-largest economy, and  Germany  as the top exporter, the
success was accompanied by widening wealth disparity. The net
worth of the 70 richest delegates in China’s National People’s
Congress, which closed its session yesterday, rose to 565.8
billion yuan ($89.3 billion) in 2011, according to figures from
the Hurun Report, which tracks the country’s wealthy.  China’s per capita  annual income  in 2010 was $2,425, a
fraction of the $37,527 in the U.S. The country under Wen and
President  Hu Jintao  has also seen violence flare in regions with
minorities, from  Inner Mongolia  to Xinjiang to  Tibet . Wen said
he was distressed at some Tibetans immolating themselves.  Mao-Era Songs  Wen’s warnings on the dangers of returning to the chaos of
the Cultural Revolution contrast with the policies of Chongqing
Communist Party Secretary  Bo Xilai , who has encouraged a
resurgence of Mao-era songs and sayings to broaden his appeal to
ordinary Chinese who feel bruised by 30-plus years of
modernization.  Wen said the government was making progress investigating
the case of Wang Lijun, the Chongqing vice mayor who went to the
U.S. consulate in  Chengdu  last month. Wang’s visit led to
speculation that he was seeking asylum and that Bo’s chances to
join the Politburo Standing Committee, the Communist Party’s
highest decision-making body, were now much lower.  “The current party committee and government in Chongqing
must seriously reflect on the Wang Lijun incident and learn
lessons from that incident,” Wen said. “What has happened
shows that any practice that we take must be based on the
experience and lessons we have gained from history.”  Village Standoff  China’s democratic system will move forward in keeping with
the country’s “national conditions” and no force can hold that
back, Wen said, without offering specifics on possible changes.
Wen said village elections, which China has been touting for a
decade or more, had been successful and people had shown
enthusiasm for the process.  Those comments come after a standoff in the southern
village of Wukan between police and residents who ousted their
leaders in a dispute over land grabs and election violations.
Regional party heads later allowed Wukan to elect local leaders
again.  Addressing social discontent also featured in remarks at
the NPC gathering by Bo and another candidate for the Politburo
Standing Committee, whose membership will change as part of the
leadership transition.  On March 9, Bo said China’s Gini coefficient, an index of
the  income gap , had exceeded 0.46. The index ranges from 0 to 1
and the 0.4 mark is used as a predictor by analysts for social
disturbances.  Shortly before Bo spoke, the Communist Party chief in
 Guangdong province , Wang Yang, said the region will hold a
conference to share what it learned from Wukan.  “The leadership are quite aware of the immense socio-
political challenges,” said Xianfan Ren, an economist at IHS
Global Insight in Beijing. “When the government has made the
choice of slowing down economic growth, they have to make tough
decisions regarding political reforms at the same time, as high
growth has helped to sweep under the carpet many socio-political
tensions in the past.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  