-- BYU, Western Kentucky Make Record Comebacks in NCAA Openers
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-03-14T13:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/western-kentucky-wins-ncaa-opening-game-before-obama-cameron.html
Western Kentucky (28272MF)  University’s
record late-game comeback to win the men’s college basketball
national tournament opener was trumped by  Brigham Young
University , which orchestrated the biggest rally in tournament
history in the game that followed.  Western  Kentucky  beat Mississippi Valley State 59-58 in the
first game at Dayton, Ohio, as U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron watched from the front row.  The Hilltoppers rallied from a 16-point deficit with 4
minutes, 51 seconds remaining, marking the biggest margin
overcome by a team in the final five minutes in the tournament’s
history, according to the National Collegiate Athletic
Association.  BYU then played Iona College, and the Cougars rallied from
25 points down in the first half to win 78-72. It was the
biggest reversal in tournament history, topping Duke’s 22-point
comeback against  Maryland  in a national semifinal game in 2001.  Obama and Cameron left University of Dayton Arena between
games, taking in only half of the record-setting night.  “It’s a crazy feeling,” Derrick Gordon, who had 11 points
and 11 rebounds for Western Kentucky, told reporters. “That’s
the president of the  United States  coming to watch our game. We
wanted to put on a show. Things didn’t work our way for the
first 35 minutes, but we came away with the W.”  The  Hilltoppers  (16-18) trailed 53-37 before starting their
charge. Their reward for winning is a matchup tomorrow against
the top-seeded  University of Kentucky  (32-2). Western Kentucky
is the only school with a losing record in the 68-team field.  Poor Shooting  Kevin Burwell had 20 points for the Delta Devils (21-13),
who are winless in five NCAA appearances. Western Kentucky hit
just 30 percent of its shots and was 2-for-16 on 3-pointers.  “Both teams are shooting terribly,” Obama said in a
televised halftime interview.  Obama and Cameron, who was watching his first basketball
game, flew to Dayton on Air Force One before returning to
 Washington  for meetings and a state dinner today at the White
House.  “It’s pretty fast and furious,” Cameron said of
basketball. “It’s hard to follow sometimes exactly who’s done
what wrong. He’s giving me some tips. He’s going to help me fill
out my bracket.”  Obama has selected Kentucky, Ohio State,  Missouri  and North
Carolina as his Final Four men’s teams. His women’s picks for
the national semifinals are Baylor, St. John’s,  Connecticut  and
 Notre Dame . The president’s pick for the men’s national
championship will be revealed today on ESPN, and for the women’s
title two days later.  BYU Comeback  Noah Hartsock scored 16 of his 23 points in the second half
for BYU (26-8), which trailed 49-24 with just over six minutes
left in the first half and 55-40 at halftime. Scott Machado had
15 points and 10 assists for Iona (25-8), the New Rochelle, New
York-based school that led the nation in scoring this season by
averaging 83.3 points per game.  BYU next will play Marquette University.  There are two more first-round games tonight.  Lamar
University (81040MF)  faces the University of Vermont for a spot against
the Midwest Region’s No. 1 seed,  North Carolina , while the
University of California-Berkeley plays South  Florida  for the
12th seed in the Midwest and a matchup against Temple
University.  Full NCAA tournament play begins tomorrow. The Final Four
is scheduled for March 31 at the Louisiana Superdome in New
Orleans, with the title game two days later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  