-- What Business Would Do to Restore U.S. Competitiveness
-- B y   M i c h a e l   E .   P o r t e r   a n d   J a n   W .   R i v k i n
-- 2012-03-14T14:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/what-business-would-do-to-restore-u-s-competitiveness.html
     Our prior blog post posed the
question, "Will Business Step Up or Step Out?" Will business
leaders reconnect with their communities and do their part to
restore U.S. competitiveness? Or will they move from location
to location, in search of better short-term deals? In this
post, we share some data that encourage us to believe that the
great majority of business leaders are willing, even eager, to
step up.  The U.S. Competitiveness Project at Harvard Business
School, which we chair, asked the School's alumni to share
their assessments of U.S. competitiveness in a survey last
October. Nearly 10,000 responded. Like reconnaissance officers
strategically placed on the front lines of global
business, they told us what they see going on in and around
the  U.S. economy . The survey's findings (PDF), which we
released in January, paint a troubling picture of the state
and trajectory of U.S. competitiveness.  To find out what these business leaders would recommend
to address the competitiveness challenge, we opened a National
Suggestion Box at the end of the survey. We invited each
respondent to make one specific suggestion to government
officials to improve U.S. competitiveness and to identify one
action that his or her firm could take to help its U.S.
operations compete more effectively.  What do business leaders suggest to improve the long-term
future of the American economy? Among the 4,425 suggestions
for policymakers, we found a number of narrow pleas for
preferential treatment. These were disappointing, but not
particularly surprising. In the last few decades, the nature
of the engagement of business with government has been
dispiriting — driven heavily by the pursuit of special
interests and a tendency to blame government for economic
woes. Cut my taxes, some respondents said. Eliminate
regulations affecting my business. Give us tariff protection
to deal with "dumping" from abroad.  This approach has, if anything, contributed to the
decline in American competitiveness. The convoluted tax
system, for example, is not simply the product of
dysfunctional politics. It has been shaped, and indeed
distorted, by business leaders who have pleaded for special
tax breaks and loopholes. Similarly, the erosion of America's
skills base in recent decades is due in part to a tendency by
some business leaders to migrate in search of low wages rather
than invest deeply in the skills of local workers.  We were encouraged, however, that the great majority of
the suggestions we received had a very different character:
they asked not for special treatment or a better deal but for
a more efficient, stronger U.S. business environment. For
example, while taxes were the dominant category of
suggestion, recommendations to simplify the  tax code 
significantly outpolled requests to reduce effective tax
rates. Of the 852 talent-related suggestions, just 87 called
for reducing the power of organized labor, making layoffs
easier, or reducing or eliminating the minimum wage. More than
300 called for immigration reform to welcome more high-skilled
talent into the country, and a combined 339 called for
improving K-12, vocational, STEM, and other education and
training.  There were relatively few pleas for government to support
parochial company interests. Just 51 called for tariffs or
trade protection, for example. The great majority of business
leaders understand that what is necessary is investments in
the business environment and efforts to reach consensus on
issues such as health care costs, balancing the budget, and
tort reform. Regulate us, to be sure — respondents said — but
regulate us more efficiently, and phase
out regulations that do not pass cost-benefit scrutiny. What's
more, many of the suggestions for government do not require
more spending; simplifying the tax code and facilitating the
entry of foreign talent simply require smarter policy, not
more money.  We also asked respondents what their companies could do
to help their U.S. operations compete more effectively. They
submitted 1,747 actions, and again, some of these were
disappointing: outsource; cut costs, wages, benefits, or
headcount; lobby to get policy concessions.  But these more self-interested actions were the minority.
More than three times as many responses focused on company
actions to improve the fundamentals: improving training;
hiring more skilled employees; investing in technology and
R&D; growing exports or expanding to new markets; motivating
the workforce and attracting top talent; increasing pay.  The entries in our National Suggestion Box reveal that
the attitude of business is undergoing a sea change. CEOs are
waking up to the idea that companies have a role to play in
addressing weaknesses in the business environment — in the
 United States  or elsewhere — and that business needs to invest
in the "commons" to prosper, not just pursue its narrow
self-interest. For our own part, we've been inspired by the
many examples of companies that have undertaken efforts to
improve the U.S. business environment. Through the U.S.
Competitiveness Project's outreach effort, we hope to
encourage and mobilize business to do even more.  This post is part of the HBR Insight Center on American
Competitiveness.  MICHAEL E. PORTER AND JAN W. RIVKIN
Michael E. Porter is the Bishop William Lawrence University
Professor and Jan W. Rivkin is the Bruce V. Rauner Professor
of Business Administration at Harvard Business School. They
are the co-leads of the  Harvard Business
School 's U.S. Competitiveness Project 