-- Wheat Imports by Indonesia Seen Climbing as Incomes Rise
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-03-14T10:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/wheat-flour-imports-by-indonesia-to-climb-as-incomes-rise-1-.html
Wheat and flour  imports  by
 Indonesia ,  Asia ’s biggest buyer, may gain at least 6 percent
this year as rising  incomes  boost food demand in the world’s
fourth most populous country, an industry executive said.  Purchases may reach 6.6 million metric tons in 2012 from
6.2 million tons a year earlier, said Franciscus Welirang,
chairman of the Association of Flour Producers in Indonesia.  “Every year, the milling capacity increases by 400,000
tons,” said Welirang, also a director at PT Indofood Sukses
Makmur, owner of the world’s largest flour mill. “That’s how
fast demand is rising.” Companies producing wheat-flour
increased to 18 last year from just four in 1998, he said.  Rising purchases may curb an 11 percent slump in Chicago
futures in the past year. Prices have declined as global
 production  surges to a record, taking  inventories  to a 12-year
high before the next Northern Hemisphere harvest, according to
the March 9 estimate by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Wheat declined 0.7 percent to $6.4425 a bushel at 6:09 p.m.
Singapore time today, extending a drop to 1.3 percent this year
on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Demand in Indonesia, which relies completely on imports,
jumped more than 50 percent in the past decade, surpassing  Japan 
as Asia’s biggest importer, USDA data showed. That surge is
attracting exporters including the U.S., Australia and  Russia ,
the top three shippers.  Import Demand  Growth in imports will be driven by  developing countries ,
including Indonesia and Vietnam, where incomes and population
are rising and consumers are shifting marginally from rice to
wheat, the USDA said in its 10-year  outlook  on Feb. 13.  About 85 percent of Indonesia’s imports by volume are wheat
and the rest flour, Welirang said in an interview today in
Singapore where he’s attending a conference. The total is
expressed in wheat equivalent, he said.  Imports from  Australia , the world’s second-largest shipper,
rose to 3.8 million tons in the 12 months to September 2011,
from 3.2 million tons a year earlier, according to data from the
 Australian Bureau  of Agricultural and Resource Economics and
Sciences. That makes Indonesia the biggest buyer of Australian
wheat, accounting for 21 percent of total shipments, it showed.  From the U.S., the largest exporter, purchases surged to
695,194 tons from June 1 to March 1, from 555,070 tons in the
same period a year earlier, USDA data showed.  Indofood’s (INDF)  PT Bogasari Flour Mills is the largest miller in
a single location in the world, according to the company’s
website and the Russian Grain Union. Bogasari has a milling
capacity of 4.338 million tons at its plants in Jakarta and
Surabaya, representing more than half of the nation’s total,
according to Welirang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  