-- Will EU Fail Stress Tests?: Kashyap, Schoenholtz, Shin
-- B y   A n i l   K   K a s h y a p ,   K i m   S c h o e n h o l t z   a n d   H y u n   S o n g   S h i n
-- 2012-03-14T23:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/will-europe-flunk-stress-tests-kashyap-schoenholtz-shin.html
(Corrects probable timing of EBA’s Europe-wide stress tests
in second, fourth and final paragraphs.)  The  Federal Reserve ’s 2012 stress
tests of U.S. banks suffered from some of the same weaknesses as
the ones it conducted last year.  We hope the same won’t hold true of the  European Banking
Authority , which has delayed another round of exams of the
region’s banks until 2013, after failing to credibly carry out
its supervisory mandate in 2011.  The EBA’s swing-and-a-miss followed similar disappointing
performances in 2009 and 2010 by its predecessor in this role,
the Committee of European Banking Supervisors. Now,  euro-area
banks  are deleveraging, deepening the recession by starving
European companies of financing. They also lack the capital to
support an eventual recovery in the region. Until the capital
shortfall is measured and addressed, there will be no end to the
twin sovereign and banking crises in the euro area.  When the EBA gets a fourth turn at bat next year, the
authority can -- and should -- make use of a growing body of
knowledge and experience regarding stress tests. And supportive
actions by the  European Central Bank  and the fiscal authorities
may raise the chances of success.  The stakes are high: Another stress-test failure would
undermine the fragile consensus on policy efforts to contain the
crisis, feeding a run on the region’s weaker banks.  What would a successful stress test require? Our  research ,
conducted jointly with  David Greenlaw , highlights two
prerequisites for success. First, it would need the effective
application of macroprudential principles, which means looking
at the entire financial system.  Capital Needs  A stress test should aim to prevent fire sales, credit
crunches and systemic defaults. It should assess capital needs
based on the state of the system as a whole, taking account of
the effect of spillovers at one bank on the behavior and well-
being of others.  Most importantly, in contrast to the usual exclusive focus
on credit risk and the riskiness of bank assets, an effective
stress test should attend also to the system’s liabilities --
such as wholesale funding -- that may be vulnerable to a run.
Guidance resulting from the tests should include recommendations
on the capital levels needed to prevent (or end) deleveraging,
which amplifies adverse economic shocks. In this respect, even
the Fed’s stress-test results, released March 13, fall short by
taking a-one-bank-at-a-time approach to capital needs and paying
too little attention to funding needs.  The second prerequisite is a credible strategy to make up
the measured capital shortfall. Ideally, the additional equity
should come from the private sector. When they are credible,
stress tests can reopen private sources of capital to banks. The
classic example is the 2009 test of U.S. banks by the Federal
Reserve. Yet, no stress test is likely to be credible without an
ample public backstop in the event that new private capital
isn’t forthcoming. Lacking such a promise of public funds,
policy makers cannot reveal that a bank is insolvent, because
such an announcement would trigger an instant run.  For the past three years,  Europe ’s stress tests have failed
both of these requirements. Lacking a credible public backstop,
the EBA was naturally reluctant to reveal any large capital
shortfall. When it first published the 2011 test results in
July, the EBA measured the gap at a mere 2.5 billion euros ($3.3
billion).  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian lender that failed after
a run less than three months later, received a clean bill of
health.  Accounting Tricks  Later in 2011, the EBA, using the same stress-test data,
raised its estimate of the system’s shortfall to 115 billion
euros. Yet, amid the euro area’s poor economic outlook, this
revision failed to convince private suppliers of bank capital.
As a result, only a few banks moved to bolster their balance
sheets. Instead, in a fundamental violation of macroprudential
principles, the EBA allowed banks to address their capital
shortages in part through accounting tricks that lowered risk-
weights on assets and through deleveraging by shedding assets.  The greatest failure may have been the EBA’s lack of
attention to bank-funding issues. Compared with banks in other
industrialized countries, European institutions are particularly
dependent on wholesale funding, which can be impossible to roll
over in a crisis. Within the narrower euro area, most of this
wholesale funding is cross-border in nature. The result is an
explosive mix in the peripheral countries, where many banks hold
portfolios of domestic assets while relying on short-term funds
from abroad.  It should come as no surprise, then, that a wholesale
“bank trot” is well under way in the region. For many banks in
the euro-area periphery, the interbank fund market has become
inaccessible, forcing reliance on the ECB as the lender of last
resort. The enormous market impact of the central bank’s three-
year unlimited funding operations in December and February
highlights how liquidity-starved these institutions had become.  Instead, much of their funding has flowed to banks in the
core euro-area countries, whose central banks recycle them
through the ECB. (In doing so, countries such as  Germany  are
accumulating enormous -- and politically controversial -- claims
versus the euro area’s central banks. As of January 2012, the
Bundesbank’s claims approached 500 billion euros, or almost one-
fifth of Germany’s annual gross domestic product.)  To be sure, the science of stress testing is in its
infancy, and there is major scope for improvement, even where
tests have been more effective than in Europe. For example,
following its 2011 stress test, the Fed allowed a distribution
of capital by some banks at a time when the banking system as a
whole still suffered from a capital shortfall. And this year’s
U.S. tests still lack an intimate connection between the
“living wills” that banks must promulgate and the estimation
of their capital needs. The lack of attention to liquidity
concerns also persists.  Stability Mechanism  The EBA, however, can’t afford a fourth strike. Euro-area
policy makers are soon expected to discuss enlarging the buffer
or firewall when the European Stability Mechanism goes into
operation in July. If they reach consensus, the availability of
a public backstop will allow the EBA to assess euro-area banks
aggressively and insist on capital increases to offset any
shortfall.  If European authorities apply basic macroprudential
lessons, their next stress test is likely to be far more
effective, allowing supervisors to help end the crisis.
Otherwise, the run on weaker euro-area banks will probably
continue.  (Anil K Kashyap is a professor of economics at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business and a contributor
to  Business Class . Kim Schoenholtz is a professor of economics
at New York University’s Stern School of Business. Hyun Song Shin is a professor of economics at  Princeton University . The
opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Anil K Kashyap at  Anil.Kashyap@chicagobooth.edu ;
Kermit Schoenholtz at  kschoenh@stern.nyu.edu ;
Hyun Song Shin at  hsshin@princeton.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  