-- Williams Touts F1 Energy-Saving Systems for London Buses
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-03-14T13:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/williams-touts-f1-energy-saving-systems-for-london-buses.html
Nine-time Formula One champion
Williams is seeking to supply  London ’s buses with energy-saving
technology developed for the world’s richest auto racing series.  U.K.-based Williams is working on providing a flywheel
system that would recoup energy each time a bus driver applied
the brakes or stopped for passengers, Chairman  Adam Parr  said in
an interview.  Go-Ahead Group Plc (GOG) , which operates 1,500 London
buses, has discussed the plan, spokesman Sheldon Malcolm said.  Williams, whose past champions included Ayrton Senna and
Alain Prost, bought startup Automotive Hybrid Power Ltd. in 2010
to help develop the flywheel, even as the technology was shelved
in Formula One racing that year on cost grounds. The Grove,
England-based team used a less-bulky battery-powered hybrid
engine last season, when it finished ninth of 12 teams.  “The really interesting thing in business terms is buses,
trams and subway systems,” Parr said by telephone, with
potential for selling “thousands or hundreds of thousands” of
units and for the Williams logo to appear on vehicles.  A flywheel would last longer than the maximum 10-year
lifespan of electric hybrids and could also be used for delivery
and refuse trucks, according to Vitaly Belskiy, a Warsaw-based
consultant on the transport industry at  Frost & Sullivan .  ‘Perfect Solution’  “The flywheel looks like the perfect solution for this
segment of the market,” Belskiy said, adding that the main
concern for bus operators would be any reliability issues.  The flywheel business, Williams Hybrid Power, had a net
loss before tax and interest of 1.9 million pounds ($3 million)
on sales of 2.1 million pounds last year because of research and
development costs, according to earnings published March 9.  Parent company Williams Grand Prix Holdings Plc, listed on
the Frankfurt stock exchange after an initial public offering
last year, boosted earnings 30 percent to 7.8 million pounds.  Newcastle upon Tyne , England-based Go-Ahead is London’s
largest bus operator, controlling about one-fifth of the market
and carrying 1 million passengers per day on more than 100
routes, according to a statement on Sept. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  