-- Women Athletes’ Grad Rates Found Higher Than Men’s in Study
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-14T16:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/women-athletes-grad-rates-found-higher-than-men-s-in-study.html
A study of graduation rates for
teams in the women’s college basketball championship tournament
found higher numbers than those in the men’s event and a smaller
disparity between white and black players.  The 64 teams in the women’s  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  tournament, which begins March 17, had an average
graduation rate of 89 percent, with an 8 percent gap between
rates for white and black players, according to the study by the
 University of Central Florida ’s Institute for Diversity and
Ethics in Sports. Rates are calculated by how many athletes
graduate within six years of entering school.  The women’s numbers are higher than scores for the 68 teams
in the NCAA men’s tournament, which were released this week.
Men’s teams had a graduation rate of 67 percent, and a 28
percent gap between white and black athletes.  “Historically, women’s basketball student-athletes place
great importance on academics and the data supports this
claim,” Richard Lapchick, author of the study and chairman of
 Central Florida ’s DeVos Sports Business Management Graduate
Program, said in a statement. “Hopefully, in the future,
women’s basketball student-athletes will continue to succeed,
the men will continue to do better, and we will see a decreased
disparity between white and African-American student-athletes.”  The race disparity in the women’s scores, unlike that of
the men, didn’t improve from last year’s numbers. White female
athletes are graduating at a rate of 93 percent versus 85
percent for blacks, maintaining the 8 percent gap from 2011. The
male athletes closed the race disparity by 4 percentage points
since last year.  Perfect Rate  The  University of Notre Dame , last year’s runner-up and one
of the four No. 1 seeds in the 2012 women’s tournament, is among
22 teams in this year’s field with a graduation rate of 100
percent. Others include Ivy League-champion  Princeton
University ,  Penn State University  and  Duke University .  “Women’s teams continue to achieve at this high rate, with
98 percent of the teams graduating at least 50 percent of their
basketball student-athletes,” Lapchick said. “In comparison,
only 79 percent of the men’s teams in this year’s tournament
graduated at least 50 percent of their basketball student-
athletes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  