-- Yahoo Investor Third Point Plans Proxy Contest on Nominees
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-03-14T23:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/yahoo-investor-third-point-plans-proxy-contest-on-board-nominees.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  investor  Third Point 
LLC plans to take the first steps toward seeking shareholder
votes on its proposed slate of four new directors, saying the
Web company has been “dismissive” of its plans.  Third Point, which owns about 5.8 percent of Yahoo’s
shares, said it plans to file a preliminary proxy statement
“within the week,” according to a letter addressed to  Scott Thompson , the Web portal’s new chief executive officer, and
signed by Third Point CEO Daniel Loeb.  Loeb has been stepping up pressure on the company to make
changes following a sales slump and the loss of its leadership
in Internet advertising. Thompson, who joined Yahoo in January,
is trying to drive a turnaround after the company fired its
previous CEO,  Carol Bartz , in September. Yahoo has failed to
keep pace with rivals such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
which are attracting more ad dollars and user time.  “The board’s stonewalling, apparent insouciance and
decision not to engage with us in a serious manner, has left us
no choice but to directly approach our fellow owners,” Loeb
wrote in the letter, released today in a  filing . “It is not too
late for you to take decisive leadership action and avoid the
costs and distraction of an expensive proxy contest fighting the
shareholder slate.”  The hedge fund’s nominees, announced last month, are  Harry Wilson , CEO of Maeva Advisors LLC; Michael Wolf, head of
Activate Inc.; Jeffrey Zucker, former CEO of  NBC Universal ; and
Loeb himself.  Reviewing Candidates  Yahoo stands by the review process for potential board
members, according to an e-mailed statement.  “To achieve the best possible outcome for all Yahoo
shareholders, the board’s nominating and corporate governance
committee continues to review a wide range of highly qualified
candidates,” the company said. “The committee has included
Third Point’s candidates in its thorough review process and will
make its recommendations to the full board in due course.”  Third Point said today it would be amenable to  Gary Wilson 
staying on Yahoo’s board and becoming chairman. Current Yahoo
Chairman Roy Bostock announced last month that he, Wilson and
two others wouldn’t stand for re-election.  Yahoo, owner of the most popular U.S. Web portal, rose less
than 1 percent to $14.63 at the close in  New York . Shares of the
Sunnyvale, California-based company have fallen 9.3 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  