-- Yes, Mr. Smith, Goldman Sachs Is All About Making Money: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-14T22:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/yes-mr-smith-goldman-sachs-is-all-about-making-money-view.html
Apparently, when  Greg Smith  arrived
at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  almost 12 years ago, the legendary
investment firm was something like the Make-A-Wish Foundation --
existing only to bring light and peace and happiness to the
world.  Smith, who was executive director and head of the firm’s
U.S. equity derivatives business in  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa , does not go into details in his already notorious op-ed
article in Wednesday’s New York Times, “ Why I Am Leaving Goldman
Sachs .” But one imagines Goldman bankers spending their days
delivering fresh flowers to elderly shut-ins and providing
shelters for abandoned cats. Serving clients was paramount. “It
wasn’t just about making money,” Smith writes. “It had something
to do with pride and belief in the organization.”  It must have been a terrible shock when Smith concluded
that Goldman actually was primarily about making money. He
spares us the sordid details, but apparently it took more than a
decade for the scales to finally fall from his eyes.  He says that Goldman has changed. “Culture was always a
vital part of Goldman Sachs’s success. It revolved around
teamwork, integrity, a spirit of humility, and always doing
right by our clients.” And he warns: “Without clients you will
not make money. In fact, you will not exist.” It’s tragic that
Goldman is losing an employee who realizes that you need
customers to stay in business.  And what an employee! He worked at Goldman as an intern in
college and worked there continuously until today. “I was
selected as one of 10 people (out of a firm of more than 30,000)
to appear on our recruiting video, which is played on every
college campus we visit around the world.” Then there was being
“a Rhodes Scholar national finalist” and “winning a bronze medal
for table tennis at the Maccabiah Games in  Israel , known as the
Jewish Olympics.”  We have some advice for Smith, as well as the thousands of
college students who apply to work at Goldman Sachs each year:
If you want to dedicate your life to serving humanity, do not go
to work for Goldman Sachs. That’s not its function, and it never
will be. Go to work for Goldman Sachs if you wish to work hard
and get paid more than you deserve even so. (Or if you want to
make your living selling derivatives but don’t know what a
derivative is, as Smith concedes in passing that he didn’t at
first.)  Goldman and other investment banks do perform an important
role in our economy, and Goldman bankers -- most of them, at
least -- can hold their heads up high. But it is not charity
work. Goldman’s clients are mostly very well-off. Smith’s lament
that the bank no longer serves their needs above and beyond its
own does not tug at our heartstrings.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 