-- YPF to Sue Argentine Province After Losing Output
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-03-15T20:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/ypf-given-five-days-to-retract-argentine-province-price-increase.html
YPF SA (YPFD) , the Argentine oil producer
that will lose 7 percent of its output after operating licenses
were revoked, will sue the province of Chubut as a dispute with
the government escalates over investments.  The provinces of Chubut and  Santa Cruz  yesterday pulled
four oilfield licenses, saying YPF hasn’t invested enough.
Mendoza province also yesterday told the producer to retract
fuel price increases within five days or face “severe”
sanctions. YPF lowered prices after it was told to do so, the
company said in a separate statement.  YPF, based in  Buenos Aires , is facing mounting pressure
from President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government and
oil-producing provinces to boost investments amid output
declines and rising fuel imports. The company,  controlled  by
 Spain ’s Repsol  YPF SA (YPF) , said March 13 it invested about $1.3
billion in the two provinces from 2007 to 2011.  “We got tired of policies created in Spain to take away
our oil,” Santa Cruz Governor Daniel Peralta said. “You don’t
play with oil because it’s a public asset.”  YPF has up to 90 days to return the fields to Chubut, said
Martin Buzzi, governor of Chubut, at the same press conference.
The fields for which the licenses were withdrawn represented
about 7 percent of YPF’s 2011  oil output , according to
Argentina’s Energy Secretariat data.  ‘Enforcing the Law’  YPF may lose another 5 percent of its output in  Argentina 
if the province of Neuquen withdraws concessions at the
company’s Don Ruiz, Chihuido de la Salina and Rincon del
Mangrullo fields, Dominique Patry, a Paris-based analyst at
Cheuvreux said in a research note today.  Chubut “doesn’t have the legal framework to allow YPF and
its partners to operate normally,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement. It plans to sue Chubut and is analyzing terms
from Santa Cruz before deciding whether to sue the other
province, YPF said in another statement, adding that Santa Cruz
didn’t provide a timetable.  “The federal government supports this decision by the
provinces because it’s about enforcing the law,” Argentina’s
Energy Secretary Daniel Cameron said at the press conference.
President Fernandez supports the measure, he said.  Argentina’s Planning Minister’s Coordination Undersecretary
Roberto Baratta, who represents the government on YPF’s board,
also participated in the press conference in Santa Cruz.  Price Freeze  A decade-long freeze on  oil prices , which set the maximum
producers could charge for exports at $42 a barrel, cut
investment. Production dropped to 35.3 million cubic meters in
2010 from 45.4 million in 2001, according to the most recent
data published by the Buenos Aires-based Argentina Oil and Gas
Institute. In the past three years, international crude prices
have more than doubled to about $107 per barrel.  Yields on YPF’s dollar bonds due in 2028 rose 50 basis
points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 10 percent at 5:08 p.m.
local time. YPF’s American depositary receipts climbed 4.5
percent to close at $27.97. The ADRs have slumped 19 percent
this year. Repsol gained 1.1 percent to 19.18 euros in  Madrid .  Repsol’s current share price “embeds no value” for its
interest of YPF, Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec
Securities in  London , said in a note to clients today.  Argentine fuel imports more than doubled in 2011 from a
year earlier to $9.4 billion, contributing to the narrowing of
the country’s trade surplus to a one-year low of $280 million in
December. Kirchner and oil-producing provincial governments are
demanding that companies from YPF to Pan American Energy LLC
raise investments to reduce the rising dependence on imports.  Re-Nationalizing YPF  The government is looking for legal ways to acquire control
of YPF, Buenos Aires-based newspaper Ambito Financiero reported
on Feb. 29. A month earlier, Pagina 12 newspaper said government
officials had discussed re-nationalizing YPF, which was sold to
investors in 1993. Madrid-based  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  acquired control
of the company six years later.  Spain “sees it is positively that the federal government
of Argentina hasn’t taken decisions that run counter to the
interests of YPF,” the country’s industry minister Jose Manuel
Soria said in a televised press conference today.  YPF delayed a decision on its dividend after it allowed
Cameron and Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof to attend a
March 8 board meeting.  Barred From Meeting  Cameron and Kicillof were barred from accompanying Baratta,
who represents the Argentine government on YPF’s board, in a
Feb. 23 meeting. Six days later, Argentina’s securities
regulator annulled decisions made during the meeting by
declaring it “irregular” and “inefficient” because the
officials weren’t allowed to participate. YPF appealed the
ruling March 5.  The government wants the company to halt dividend payments
and reinvest the cash in exploration, production and refining,
the Planning Ministry said March 8.  YPF invested a record 13.3 billion pesos ($3.1 billion) in
2011, 50 percent more than in 2010, the company said in a Feb. 8
regulatory filing. The oil producer said the following day that
$25 billion a year will be needed over a decade to develop shale
oil resources at the Vaca Muerta formation in southwest
Argentina, which probably holds 23 billion barrels.  YPF is 57 percent owned by Repsol, Spain’s largest oil
producer, while the Eskenazi family’s Petersen Group controls 25
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  