-- Yuan Declines to Weakest Level in Seven Weeks: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-03-14T09:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/yuan-declines-to-weakest-level-in-seven-weeks-shanghai-mover.html
The yuan fell to the lowest level
in more than seven weeks on speculation policy makers will limit
appreciation to support exporters and the economy.  The People’s Bank of  China  set the currency’s fixing 0.1
percent weaker at 6.3328 per dollar today. The world’s second-
largest economy had the biggest trade deficit in at least 22
years last month and the smallest increase in January-February
factory output since 2009, government data showed last week.
Premier Wen Jiabao said in Beijing today the yuan may be near an
equilibrium and policy makers will allow greater movement in the
 exchange rate .  “There’s an assessment the weak trade numbers reported
over the weekend will prompt policy makers to limit yuan
appreciation,” said  Brian Jackson , a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. “I don’t expect the yuan to
weaken significantly on a sustained basis. We expect exports to
pick up again.”  The yuan dropped 0.1 percent to 6.3323 per dollar in
 Shanghai , the weakest level since Jan. 30, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency has
depreciated 0.3 percent this week.  The goal of China’s exchange-rate regime reform is to
benchmark the yuan’s value to a trade-weighted basket instead of
just the dollar, Bank of America Corp. economists led by Ting Lu
wrote in a note to clients. A basket-currency regime will make
the yuan more volatile against the dollar, the report said.  The  Dollar Index  traded on ICE Futures in  New York  gained
0.1 percent today after a 0.4 percent increase yesterday. The
U.S. Federal Reserve expects “moderate economic growth” as the
labor market has improved and the  unemployment rate  fallen,
according to a statement released yesterday.  ‘More Volatile’  The yuan “may possibly have reached an equilibrium level”
based on trading in  Hong Kong  since September, Wen said at the
press conference. The government will “continue to enhance
reform of the exchange-rate mechanism, especially to allow
relatively wider, two-way fluctuation,” he said.  “The currency will be more volatile” this year even as
“modest” gains are still likely, said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “This
explains this week’s yuan moves.”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, rose 0.20 percentage point to 2.45
percent.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan increased 0.1
percent to 6.3305. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell
0.10 percent to 6.3456, a 0.2 percent discount to the onshore
spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  