-- Zynga Plans $400 Million Share Sale in Secondary Offering
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 2012-03-14T20:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-14/zynga-plans-400-million-share-sale-in-secondary-offering.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the social-gaming
company that held its initial public offering in December, is
planning a secondary offering of $400 million, saying it will
improve the distribution of its stock.  The share sale is being underwritten by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., as well as  Bank of America   Merrill
Lynch (MER) ,  Barclays Capital , Allen & Co. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
the San Francisco-based company said in a regulatory filing
today. Zynga won’t receive any proceeds from the offering.  The move is designed to let investors sell some stock while
getting large shareholders to agree to a longer “lockup”
period that keeps them from unloading shares, three people
familiar with the plan said before the filing. Zynga, which gets
most of its revenue from  Facebook Inc. (FB)  users, is trying to avoid
the fate of  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , whose stock dropped after the end of
its lockup in November, said two of the people.  Company insiders are typically forbidden from unloading
shares for six months after an IPO, in part to keep sell orders
from flooding the market.  “They may be fearful of what’s going to happen in June,”
said  David Menlow , president of Green Brook, New Jersey-based
IPOfinancial.com, a research company focused on stock offerings.  Zynga fell 0.2 percent to $13.35 at the close in New York.
The stock is up 34 percent from its $10 IPO price.  In a secondary offering, venture-capital backers and other
shorter-term investors typically sell stock to long-term
shareholders such as investment banks -- on the condition they
agree to a longer lockup, said Carter Mack, president of San
Francisco-based investment bank JMP Group Inc.  Stock Liquidity  “Zynga probably does not need to raise any additional
capital,” Mack, whose firm doesn’t have a relationship with
Zynga, said in a televised interview yesterday on “Bloomberg
West.” “This is a way to offer their existing shareholders a
chance to get liquidity on the stock.”  When it went public, Zynga sold about 14 percent of shares.
While that’s a lower amount than in the typical IPO, other
Internet companies offered an even smaller portion in their
stock debuts last year. The amount of shares floated in the IPOs
of LinkedIn,  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  were all below
10 percent, a strategy that helps protect the value of existing
investors’ stakes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in  New York  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  