-- 
A&P Wins Approval of Executive Bonuses Ahead of Union Talks on Labor Costs

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-28T18:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/a-p-wins-approval-of-executive-bonuses-ahead-of-union-talks-on-labor-costs.html
Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. (GAPTQ) ,
the bankrupt supermarket company, won approval to pay bonuses to
senior executives as it’s about to negotiate with union workers
to cut labor costs.  The United Food and Commercial Workers union, an A&P union,
asked a bankruptcy judge to reject the bonus plan, saying in a
court filing that it is “too rich” and “destructive of
employee morale.”  “This is an inequitable and unfair plan,” Richard
Seltzer, a lawyer for the union, told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Robert Drain at the hearing in White Plains,  New York .  The plan approved by Drain could pay as much as $1.3
million to Chief Executive Officer Sam Martin as the company
restructures in bankruptcy, according to a company court filing.
As much as $3.7 million could be paid to a total of six
executives based on company performance, according to the
filing.  A&P, based in Montvale,  New Jersey , is about to enter
negotiations with union workers to seek concessions from them,
according to the judge. The judge approved the bonus proposal
even though it could appear “inequitable” given upcoming union
talks.  “This is an incentive program where the covered employees
are not being paid a bonus simply to continue doing their jobs
but rather to achieve a result that is exemplary and therefore
should be viewed as an incentive,” Drain said.  Also at today’s hearing, Drain said A&P could move ahead
with plans to sell 25 of its Superfresh stores at an auction.
There are 22 of the stores in  Maryland , two in Delaware and one
in the  District of Columbia , the company said.  The case is Re The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. 10-
24549,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  