-- 
Labor Day May Be Trigger Germany Needs to Ease Shortage

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-04-29T09:49:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/labor-day-may-be-trigger-germany-needs-to-ease-worker-shortage.html
When Germany opens its borders to
workers from Eastern Europe on May 1, it may provide the trigger
Europe’s largest economy needs to fill a worker shortage that is
set to worsen as its population ages.  Starting next month, Germany will allow jobseekers from
 Poland ,  Czech Republic ,  Hungary ,  Estonia ,  Latvia ,  Lithuania ,
Slovakia and Slovenia to work freely within its borders, seven
years after most of its European Union peers. The influx of as
many as 400,000 migrant workers in the first two years may add
about 0.3 percentage points to Germany’s gross domestic product,
BNP Paribas economists and the European Commission estimate.  Manufacturers including Siemens AG and  Robert Bosch GmbH 
are hiring to meet booming export orders, with the government
predicting 2.6 percent economic growth this year after a record
3.6 percent in 2010. The number of vacancies at German companies
reached a record in April, according to the Federal Labor
Office’s monthly BA-X index, which tracks job demand.  Unemployment is at 7.1 percent, the lowest since
reunification two decades ago, and companies are finding it
difficult to hire, the labor agency said yesterday.  Opening its borders “is the best thing that can happen to
 Germany  and badly needed to keep the economic momentum going,”
said Michal Dybula, an economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw. “We
expect that the first wave of people going over will be young
and skilled, which will help to alleviate labor bottlenecks in
German industry.”  Ageing Population  Germany was heading toward a record post-WWII unemployment
rate of 12 percent when the eight countries joined the EU in
2004. That led it to make use of a rule that restricts movement
of labor from new members for seven years.  Now, economists estimate 100,000 to 400,000 migrant
workers, mainly Poles, will seek work in Germany in the first
two years after the labor market opens.  Germany’s working age population will shrink by almost 10
percent by 2020, the European Commission estimates.  “Germany’s economy is ageing and shrinking so studies have
shown that we need about 400,000 immigrants a year to keep up
our  labor productivity ,” said Marion Dezenter, an economist at
Helaba Bank in  Frankfurt . “Germany can’t afford not to do
this.”  More than a third of Germany’s medium-sized companies plan
to take on staff in the second quarter, Impulse magazine said on
April 25, citing an ASU family-owned businesses association
survey of 385 companies.  Open Borders  Siemens is seeking to fill about 14,000 positions
worldwide, 3,800 in Germany. Europe’s biggest engineering
company needs engineers, scientists and computer specialists, it
said. The Munich-based company will “welcome any new applicant
from new European member countries” after May 1, said spokesman
Michael Friedrich.  Germany and  Austria  are the last two EU member states to
open their borders to jobseekers from the eight members that
joined in 2004. Romanians and Bulgarians, whose countries joined
the EU in 2007, will gain access to the German labor market in
2014.  As many as 2 million Polish workers migrated west after
2004, the Polish Labor Ministry estimates, helping to fuel a
construction boom in the U.K. and Ireland.  “The consensus view is that recent migration to the U.K.
has had a strong effect” on economic growth, adding about 0.2
percentage points to GDP, Richard Upward from the University of
Nottingham said in a  study  on the economic impact of immigration
from new member states.  U.K. Struggling  With the U.K. economy struggling to maintain momentum in
its recovery from a recession that lasted 1 1/2 years, prompting
many Eastern European workers to leave, Germany may be an
attractive destination.  Germany’s trade unions are concerned that wages in lower
paid industries, such as meat processing, hospitality and
nursing care, will be pushed down even further by large numbers
of new workers willing to work for less, said Thorsten Schulten,
an economist at the trade-union affiliated Hans-Boeckler
Foundation in Dusseldorf.  At 2,100 euros ($3,108) a month, the average German gross
wage was 2.5 times higher than the Polish one of 820 euros in
2010, BNP’s Dybula says.  “Unlike the U.K., which has a minimum wage, there are
concerns that there is no wage floor and people are worried
about competition from Eastern  Europe ,” said Schulten.  At the same time, there will be no “dramatic influx of
workers from Eastern Europe,” he said. “The general mood now
is quite pragmatic in Germany, people know there are problems in
some sectors but overall it’s going to be good for the
economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  