-- 
Ackermann Says ‘Uncertainties’ Persist Amid Sovereign Crisis

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-04-28T11:54:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ackermann-says-uncertainties-persist-amid-sovereign-crisis.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said uncertainty on capital markets
remains because of the European sovereign debt crisis.  “Despite the agreement to expand the EU rescue package and
the establishment of a permanent crisis mechanism to begin in
2013, uncertainties persist in the capital markets, mainly due
to substantial refinancing requirements on the eurozone
periphery,” Ackermann said in a letter to shareholders today.  The sovereign debt crisis has moved back into the political
and public spotlight this month after German officials put Greek
debt restructuring on the table, sparking Greece’s two-year bond
yields to rise above 26 percent for the first time today.
Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender, had net sovereign
exposure to  Greece  of 1.6 billion euros ($2.4 billion) at the
end of last year, it said in March.  The bank’s total net sovereign credit risk exposure to
Portugal, Ireland,  Italy , Greece and  Spain  was 12.1 billion
euros at the end of last year, including 8 billion euros to
Italy, according to its 2010 financial report.  “If we assume a haircut for Greek and Portuguese bonds, it
wouldn’t hurt the equity base of Deutsche Bank very much,”
Konrad Becker, a Munich-based analyst at Merck Finck & Co. said
in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “But people fear a
Greek haircut could have comparable consequences to the Lehman
Brothers collapse and no one knows what the indirect
consequences could be.”  Concerns Recede  Bank refinancing has stabilized and “immediate concerns”
about the sovereign debt crisis have declined in some European
countries such as  Portugal  after political decisions, Deutsche
Bank said in its interim report today.  Chief Financial Officer Stefan Krause said the key risks to
the bank’s outlook remain regulation, sovereign debt concerns,
foreign exchange volatility and uncertainty in North Africa and
the Middle East, according to a presentation on the bank’s
 website  today. Still, he said the lender is “on track to
deliver” on its 2011 profit targets.  The publication of the results of European Union stress
tests in June is “unlikely to cause greater concern for the
sector as a whole, but may do so for individual institutions,”
Deutsche Bank said in its interim report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  