-- 
Macquarie Forecasts Higher 2012 Profit as Moore Bets on Recovery in Deals

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-04-29T06:45:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/macquarie-second-half-profit-falls-less-than-earlier-forecast.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  forecast
profit growth this fiscal year as its U.S. expansion boosts
returns, and dealmaking and equity trading rebounds.  Australia’s biggest investment bank said earnings will top
the A$956 million ($1.04 billion) posted today for the 12 months
to March 31. Second-half net income slipped 3.2 percent to A$553
million from a year ago, beating the A$544 million median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  While Macquarie joins Wall Street rivals including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in reporting a drop in earnings, the Sydney-
based bank’s second-half trading income jumped 27 percent from
the preceding six months. Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Moore
positioned the bank for a rebound in markets by expanding in the
Americas, Asia and  Europe , which accounted for a record 64
percent of earnings in the second half.  “They’ve got what they need to profit from any recovery,”
said Mark Nathan, who helps manage $5.5 billion of assets at
Arnhem Investment Management in Sydney. “From here on out, the
transition is largely complete, and now it’s just building out
what they’ve already got.”  Shares of Macquarie gained 0.7 percent to A$35.16 in Sydney
today. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index fell 1 percent.  Improved Result  Moore, who expanded into new products and markets following
the financial crisis, said today that “overall we expect an
improved full-year 2012 result.”  That’s “reflective of where we’ve been trading over the
last six months” when earnings rose from the previous half-year
period, Moore said in a telephone interview with Bloomberg News.
“Those second-six month conditions we don’t see abating any
time soon.”  Moore, 52, earned A$8.69 million in the year to March 31,
down from A$9.56 million the previous year, according to the
company’s annual report, which was also released today.  Profit at Macquarie Capital, which advises on takeovers,
debt sales and stock issues, more than doubled to A$196 million
from A$85 million in the half-year ended Sept. 30.  “The pipeline is definitely better than it was last
year,” Chief Financial Officer Greg Ward told reporters today.  Deals Rise  Transactions involving companies in  Asia  in the six months
to March 31 climbed to $384 billion from $310 billion in the
prior six months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Macquarie worked for Rio Tinto Ltd. on its A$3.9 billion offer
for Riversdale Mining Ltd., and advised Origin Energy Ltd. as it
bought New South Wales electricity assets, the data show.  Net trading income at Macquarie’s securities business in
the half-year ended March 31 rose 46 percent to A$217 million
from the previous six months, today’s report shows. Fee and
commission income was little changed at A$464 million.  Profit at the fixed income, currencies and commodities unit,
which contributed the most to the group’s earnings, jumped to
A$408 million in the six months ended March 31 from A$167
million in the previous half-year period.  “Globally we’re seeing an improvement in confidence, but
certainly people are not at a period of optimism just yet,”
Moore told Bloomberg in an interview. “Things have become
calmer than they were, but we continue to be in uncertain
markets.”  Dividends Materialize  The proportion of Macquarie’s full-year income generated
outside  Australia  was 60 percent, with 30 percent derived from
the Americas. Asia contributed 16 percent, while Europe, the
Middle East and  Africa  accounted for 14 percent.  “Macquarie has invested heavily in markets outside
Australia over the past two years,” Victor German, an analyst
at Nomura Australia Ltd. in Sydney, said in an interview ahead
of today’s earnings. “We are expecting to see some dividends
and benefits from that investment materialize.”  Macquarie, founded in 1969 with three employees, had a
15,556-strong payroll as of March 31, after Moore almost doubled
his workforce in the Americas in the last two years by buying
units such as Fox-Pitt Kelton Cochran Caronia Waller LLC.  “The world market is improving, prices have moved up and
so therefore it’s less appealing to buy and more appealing to
grow,” Moore said in the phone interview today. “If
opportunities do arise, we’ll step up, but at the moment, given
the improved market conditions we’ve been experiencing, it looks
less likely.”  As of March 31, Macquarie had A$3 billion of capital above
the regulatory minimum, down from A$4 billion a year earlier.
The group’s return on equity was 8.8 percent in the 12-month
period, compared to 10.1 percent a year earlier. In the fiscal
second half, the measure was 10.2 percent.  “We’d like it to be higher,” Macquarie’s Ward told
reporters today. “There is still a lot of improvement
possible.”  The bank plans to pay a second-half dividend of A$1 a share,
taking the full-year payout to A$1.86.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  