-- 
Lactalis Seen Winning Most Cash Windfall in Berlusconi Milk Deal: Real M&A

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-28T08:36:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/lactalis-seen-winning-most-cash-windfall-in-berlusconi-milk-deal-real-m-a.html
Silvio Berlusconi  has opened the
door for France’s biggest cheesemaker to snap up Italy’s largest
dairy company at the cheapest valuation for a milk takeover.  Groupe Lactalis’s unsolicited bid this week to buy the 71
percent of  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  it doesn’t own valued the Collecchio,
Italy-based company at 16 times net income, the lowest for an
acquisition in the industry over $500 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 3.38 billion-euro ($5 billion)
takeover of Parmalat, which has the most cash of any dairy
company in the world, would also be second cheapest to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  A month after Italy’s government sought to block Lactalis
from gaining management control of Parmalat, Prime Minister
Berlusconi now says he doesn’t consider the Laval, France-based
company’s bid hostile and pledged with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to create French-Italian companies capable of competing
globally. While the deal would create one of the world’s largest
dairies and end a half-century of Italian ownership, investors
of Parmalat would recoup some of their losses since it emerged
from  Italy ’s biggest bankruptcy as a public company in 2005.  “It looks like a deal was agreed between Sarkozy and
Berlusconi,” said Kevin Shacknofsky, who helps manage $7
billion in Purchase,  New York , for Alpine  Mutual Funds . “The
French are benefiting because they are getting an
underperforming asset at a reasonable price that they can
optimize with their added scale. Parmalat is a fallen angel.”  Dairy Acquisitions  Officials from Lactalis, which makes  Sorrento  ricotta
cheese and President Camembert cheese, and Parmalat, maker of
the namesake milk and Santal fruit drinks, declined to comment.  Three telephone calls to Italy’s government spokesman went
unanswered.  Lactalis, the privately held company that boosted its stake
in Parmalat to 29 percent last month, on April 26 offered 2.60
euros a share for the rest of the company. The deal, which
Lactalis said will create the world’s biggest dairy company,
values Parmalat at 16 times its 282 million euros in net income
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  No other dairy acquisition of more than $500 million was
struck at an equity value less than 20 times net income, the
data show.  “It’s a good deal for Lactalis and that’s probably the
best Parmalat can hope for,” said Rob Plaza, an analyst at the
private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland , which oversees $22
billion. “The Parmalat operations combined with Lactalis’s
business are a much more stable foundation and they will be able
to compete better.”  Acquisition Cost  Lactalis’s total acquisition cost is even lower because
Parmalat has 1.44 billion euros more in cash and short-term
investments than it owes in debt. Including its net cash, the
takeover is valued at 1.77 billion euros, or 8.2 times its 377
million euros in Ebitda last year, Bloomberg data show.  That’s less than every dairy deal except for confectionery
maker Meiji Seika Kaisha Ltd.’s acquisition of Meiji Dairies
Corp.,  Japan ’s biggest dairy company, which was struck at about
8 times Ebitda in September 2008.  Parmalat Chief Executive Officer Enrico Bondi built up the
company’s cash hoard by winning settlements from former
creditors after its bankruptcy in December 2003. The company
collapsed amid allegations former managers hid billions of euros
in losses and debt. Bondi, 76, sued Parmalat’s former lenders,
saying their financing helped sustain the fraud.  While Bondi accumulated a larger cash pile than any other
dairy company, its shareholders haven’t been rewarded with
bigger advances. Since returning to stock-market trading in
October 2005, Parmalat’s equity value has declined 16 percent,
even after rallying 24 percent in the past year.  Stock Gains  The median gain for publicly traded dairy companies was 64
percent in the same period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a good deal for both,” said Chad Morganlander, a
 Florham Park , New Jersey-based money manager at Stifel Nicolaus
& Co., which oversees $110 billion in client assets. “Valuation
is appealing to a long-term strategic investor. Political
posturing should not prevent Lactalis from being a majority
shareholder.”  Bondi came under fire as Toronto-based Mackenzie Financial
Corp., Skagen AS in Stavanger,  Norway , and Zenit Asset
Management AB of Stockholm called for Parmalat to boost
shareholder returns. Lactalis last month bought the 15.3 percent
stake that the three firms held in Parmalat for 2.80 euros a
share, making Lactalis the biggest shareholder. The purchase
price was 7.7 percent higher than its offer to current owners.  Berlusconi Government  After Lactalis’s purchase last month the Berlusconi
government adopted a series of measures to block the French
company from transforming its stake into management control of
Parmalat. Italy authorized its state-owned lender to buy shares
in companies identified as strategic and also allowed Parmalat
to reschedule a vote on Lactalis’s management slate to give
Italian investors more time to mount a defense. The measures
were announced less than a month after  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC)  of Paris agreed to buy Rome-based  Bulgari SpA. (BUL)   Following the annual French-Italian summit on April 26,
Berlusconi and Sarkozy said they both support the creation of
“big French-Italian” groups, with the Italian premier saying
he aims for Italian investors to remain in Parmalat. Sarkozy
said he couldn’t speak on behalf of Lactalis.  ‘Global Competition’  “I welcome the creation of big French-Italian and Italian-
French groups that can hold together in the face of global
competition,” Berlusconi said at a press conference in  Rome 
after the talks with Sarkozy.  Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA, Italy’s state lender, Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA and Mediobanca SpA were working together to find an
alternative solution for Parmalat, Intesa General Manager
Gaetano Micciche said earlier this month. UniCredit SpA was
advising on the plan.  Now, the plan is for Cassa Depositi to purchase a stake,
said a person familiar with the discussions, who declined to be
identified because the talks were private. A spokeswoman for
Cassa Depositi declined to comment, as did officials for
Mediobanca and Intesa Sanpaolo.  Deal Rationale  The Lactalis offer “will allow the emergence of a world
leader in milk and cheese with a strong position in Italy”
without forcing minority investors into accepting Italian
ownership at a lower price, said Sophie Cabo-Broseta, an analyst
who covers Parmalat at AlphaValue in Paris.  The offer from Lactalis is conditional on gaining 55
percent of Parmalat’s shares, Lactalis said in a letter to the
regulator. The company is seeking to buy all of Parmalat after
losing out on French yogurt maker Yoplait last month.
Minneapolis-based General Mills Inc. entered exclusive talks to
buy half of Yoplait from PAI Partners for 810 million euros.  The deal for Parmalat is the latest in a wave of dairy
takeovers that have totaled $11.4 billion in the past year as
food companies try to boost sales and take advantage of
increasing demand in  China  and other emerging economies.  Buying Parmalat will help Lactalis, which is controlled by
the Besnier family, expand in  Brazil ,  India  and China, where the
companies currently have a “limited presence,” Lactalis said
in a statement on April 26.  Dairy Sales  Dairy sales are forecast to increase 13 percent from 2010
through 2015, more than the 10 percent growth for all packaged
food sales, according to London-based market researcher
Euromonitor International Ltd.  By combining Parmalat with its Italian business, Lactalis
may be able to generate 100 million euros of “synergies,”
according to Andy Smith, an analyst at MF Global in  London .
Lactalis bought Italian brand Galbani in 2006 and that brand and
President together account for about a third of its total 9.4
billion euros in sales, about 60 percent of which come from
outside of  France , according to Lactalis.  As a standalone company, analysts estimate that per-share
earnings at Parmalat will decline 33 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While traders that profit from mergers and acquisitions
haven’t pushed Parmalat’s shares above Lactalis’s offer price --
indicating they don’t anticipate a competing bid -- Lactalis
still has room to increase its offer to fend off any potential
rivals, according to MF Global’s Smith.  “One and one isn’t going to equal two, it will be more
like three,” with Lactalis and Parmalat, said Marco Elser, a
partner at AdviCorp Plc, a London-based investment banking firm.
With the cash and cost cuts, “Lactalis will be able to pay
itself back for this acquisition,” he said.  Overall, there have been 7,960 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $778.9 billion, a 25 percent increase from
the $623.2 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 