-- 
Australian Football League Gets Record $1.3 Billion in New Broadcast Deal

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-04-28T06:38:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/afl-gets-1-3-billion-in-broadcast-deal-with-seven-west-foxtel-telstra.html
Seven West Media, Foxtel Management
Pty Ltd. and Telstra Corp. will broadcast Australian Football
League matches from 2012-16 in a deal worth a combined A$1.25
billion ($1.37 billion) to the sport.  Seven West Media will broadcast four games each week during
the AFL Premiership season, while pay-TV provider Foxtel will
show every game of the season live except the grand final and
re-establish a dedicated channel for the sport, the AFL said
today.  Combined with the agreement with Telstra for online rights,
officials including AFL Chief Executive Officer Andrew Demetriou
negotiated the sport’s biggest broadcast deal as the league
moves toward an 18-team competition from 2012 with the addition
of a club based in western Sydney. The total cash contribution
is worth A$1.118 billion compared with A$749 million in the previous
agreement, Demetriou said.  “This is a great outcome for the football industry,”
Demetriou said in a televised news conference in  Melbourne . “We
didn’t set out to set records. We tried to do the best in the
interests of the code.”  Foxtel is Australia’s biggest pay television operator with
1.55 million direct subscribers at Dec. 31. Foxtel is half-owned
by Telstra, the nation’s largest phone company, while 25 percent
stakes are held by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News. Corp. and James Packer’s  Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (CMJ)   Foxtel acquired the rights to exclusively show five of the
nine regular-season games live in each round starting next year.
Seven West secured free-to-air rights for four matches a week
and hasn’t ruled out on-selling some games to rival  Ten Network
Holdings Ltd. (TEN) , according to CEO David Leckie.  Good Relationship  “We still have a very good relationship with Channel 10,”
Leckie said at the news conference. “That may continue.”  Under the 2007-11 agreement, Seven and Ten paid A$780
million for the rights and on-sold matches to pay-TV. The
networks showed two games each week, with Foxtel and Austar
United Communications Network Ltd. showing the other four.  Telstra will broadcast every regular-season game and all
finals matches on its mobile platform. The AFL’s website and all
AFL club sites will continue to be managed by Telstra.  There will be nine games per round from next season with
the introduction of the Greater Western Sydney Giants as the
18th team. The Gold Coast Suns entered the league this year.  The AFL Commission, which runs  Australia ’s most-popular
spectator sport, will rule on the structure of the 2012
competition later this year. It will consist of at least 22
rounds of nine matches, with at least four weeks of finals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  