-- 
AIG Swaps Unit Sues ICP Asset Management for $350 Million Over CDO Losses

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-04-28T17:21:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/aig-sues-icp-asset-management-in-new-york-state-supreme-court.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
swaps unit sued ICP Asset Management LLC for fraud in connection
with collateralized debt obligations that the insurer says cost
it more than $350 million.  AIG Financial Products Corp., in a complaint filed today in
New York state Supreme Court, said the investment advisory firm
and other defendants victimized AIG and U.S. taxpayers over two
CDOs known as Triaxx that were created and managed by ICP
entities.  The ICP defendants benefited through “windfall profits and
artificially inflated management fees, and through conferring
benefits upon favored clients,” including Moore Capital
Management LP, according to the complaint.  The allegations are related to a lawsuit the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filed in June claiming ICP
and founder  Thomas Priore  arranged more than $1 billion in
trades that defrauded clients or broke rules limiting CDO risks.  Priore denied wrongdoing when the SEC suit was filed. He
didn’t return calls for comment on today’s complaint. A voice-
mail message left with ICP Capital, ICP Asset Management’s New
York-based parent company, wasn’t immediately returned.  “We have not seen AIG’s complaint and therefore cannot
comment it,” said Shawn Pattison, a Moore Capital spokesman.
“The SEC action against ICP has not alleged any wrongdoing by
Moore.”  Unauthorized Purchases  ICP entities executed $1.5 billion in unauthorized or
above-market purchases for the Triaxx CDOs, which were designed
to benefit them at AIG’s expense, AIG said in its suit. New
York-based AIG, which was bailed out by the U.S. government in
2008 after bets on subprime mortgages brought the insurer to the
brink of collapse, said the filing is part of an effort to
recoup “potentially billions of dollars” from alleged fraud.  The AIG bailout included a commitment of as much as
$30 billion to retire credit-default swaps sold by the insurer
to protect banks led by  Societe Generale , Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG from losses on securities tied to
subprime mortgages. A Federal Reserve facility, known as Maiden
Lane III, acquired the CDOs tied to the derivatives so that AIG
could meet its obligations to the banks.  ‘Harmed by Conduct’  “At last year’s annual meeting, AIG CEO Bob Benmosche said
we would review our dealings with all of the counterparties with
which we did business before and during the financial crisis to
see if they harmed us by their conduct,” AIG said today in a
statement. “This suit is the first result of that review.”  AIG’s accuses ICP of breach of contract, breach of
fiduciary duty, common-law fraud, negligent misrepresentation
and unjust enrichment.  ICP entities entered an agreement in August 2007 for Triaxx
and other CDOs to purchase $1.3 billion in residential mortgage-
backed securities from an ICP client at a price based on June
levels, before that market deteriorated, AIG said. As a result,
the Triaxx CDOs bought a substantial percentage of the portfolio
at above-market prices, according to the complaint.  The Triaxx CDOs entered into dozens of transactions to buy
residential mortgage-backed securities that were structured in a
way that they paid more than $150 million more than was
reasonable, AIG claimed. In addition, the Triaxx CDOs executed
more than $900 million of collateral purchases that weren’t
approved by AIG and weren’t authorized, the insurer said.  The case is AIG Financial Products Corp. v. ICP Asset
Management, 651117/2011, New York state  Supreme Court 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  