-- 
Thailand Says Inflation Risks Exceed Threats to Growth as Output Tumbles

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-04-28T09:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/thailand-says-inflation-risks-exceed-threats-to-growth-as-output-tumbles.html
Thailand ’s borrowing costs are
inappropriate as inflation risks exceed threats to growth, the
central bank said as the government predicted industrial output
will revive from the worst slide since 2009 after  Japan ’s quake.  The economy will expand 4.1 percent in 2011, driving
consumer inflation to 3.9 percent for the year, the Bank of
Thailand said in Bangkok today. Manufacturing output fell 6.67
percent in March, the most in 19 months, a report from the
Office of Industrial Economics showed earlier.  The central bank has said the March 11 disaster in Japan,
Thailand’s second-biggest export market, will hurt shipments
only in the short term and has signaled further increases in
interest rates and the baht to damp price gains. While first-
quarter production fell 2.1 percent, it will expand 6 percent to
8 percent in 2011, the industrial economics office said.  “We think the gradual adjustment of the key interest rate
to a normal level is still needed and appropriate,” Bank of
Thailand Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said after
releasing the economic projections. “It’s still possible that
 core inflation  may hit the upper end of, or breach, our target
slightly in the second half due to strong economic expansion.”  The baht appreciated 0.3 percent to 29.90 per dollar as of
3:23 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The benchmark SET Index fell 0.5 percent.  Toyota Motor Corp. said last week its Thai production will
be reduced through early June because of supply-chain
disruptions.  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI) , the country’s
largest carrier, said this month the number of seats it filled
in March fell 7.4 percent from a year earlier as demand declined
following the temblor.  Continuing Rate Rises  “The supply chain disruption will probably have a negative
impact until the third quarter as Thailand has quite a big auto
sector and many Japanese firms manufacture goods there,” said
 Hideki Hayashi , a global economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in
 Tokyo . Still, “a main scenario of continued economic growth and
rate hikes will remain in place,” he said.  Thailand’s general election, which the government has said
will be held in June or July, capital flows and inflation are
key issues for the nation’s economy in the second half, central
bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said two days ago.  The annual pace of consumer inflation climbed to 3.14
percent in March, a seven-month high. Core inflation will be 2.3
percent this year, the central bank said today.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s government has added
price controls, kept oil subsidies and pledged higher wages to
ease the impact of rising costs ahead of the vote.  Oil Prices   The monetary authority raised its benchmark rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 2.75 percent on April 20, the
sixth increase in less than 12 months. Asian nations from  India 
to  China  have also boosted borrowing costs this year to damp
inflation stoked by elevated oil costs following unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa.  The central bank has lifted its assumption for the average
price of Dubai crude oil this year to $107.7 per barrel from
$91.3 per barrel in January, Paiboon said. Oil is expected to
average $110 per barrel in 2012, he said.  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy is expected to grow
4.2 percent next year, Paiboon said. Gross domestic product
surged 7.8 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in 15 years.  The central bank in January predicted 2011 GDP expansion of
3 percent to 5 percent and consumer inflation of 2.5 percent to
4.5 percent. It will no longer provide a forecast range and
instead give a single number to increase transparency, it said.  The industrial production index slid for a second straight
month in March, after contracting a revised 2.97 percent in
February, today’s report showed. The median estimate of 12
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a decline of 4.9
percent. The revision was calculated by Bloomberg using data
from the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  