-- 
Air India Cuts 71 Flights as Pilot Strike Enters Second Day

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-04-28T14:37:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/air-india-cuts-71-flights-as-pilot-strike-enters-second-day-1-.html
Air India  Ltd., the state-owned
carrier, canceled 71 of 320 flights today as a pilot strike
entered its second day.  “We have a contingency plan in place to minimize
inconvenience to passengers,” Director Vipin Sharma told
reporters in New Delhi. The airline has stopped fresh bookings
on domestic and short-haul overseas routes until May 3, he said.  Members of the Indian Commercial Pilots Association,
representing Air India employees who once worked at Indian
Airlines, started the strike yesterday to demand pay parity with
their colleagues. Indian Airlines merged with Air India in 2007.  The ICPA has about 800 members, Civil Aviation Minister
Vayalar Ravi said yesterday. The carrier had 1,794 pilots as of
March, Ravi told parliament last month.  The airline may lose about 40 million rupees ($900,293) of
revenue a day because of the disruption, Sharma said.  Air India is working on a financial restructuring plan
after its losses and debt mounted amid rising competition from
low-cost carriers such as IndiGo. The airline had a loss of 34.5
billion rupees in the first half of the year ending in March,
Ravi told parliament last month. That followed a loss of 55.5
billion rupees the previous fiscal year, he said.  The airline fired a seventh pilot today and has suspended
six since the strike began, Sharma said.  Low-fare carrier SpiceJet Ltd. will fly stranded Air India
passengers on its routes, Chief Executive Officer Neil Mills
said in a statement yesterday.  The government invested as much as 20 billion rupees in Air
India in two years, Ravi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  