-- 
Major Study Finds Rapid Adoption of Hosted Email Compliance

-- B y  
-- 
2011-04-28T13:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/major-study-finds-rapid-adoption-of-hosted-email-compliance.html

Press Release  Cloud-based archiving meets regulations, reduces risks and costs  New York -- Financial institutions are rapidly moving to hosted
email compliance and storage services to deal with increasing
costs, risks and regulations, according to a study conducted by
Forrester Consulting. The study was commissioned by Bloomberg
Vault, a service that helps corporations globally meet
compliance, regulatory and eDiscovery requirements.  The poll of 187 executives with responsibility for compliance,
messaging and legal risk mitigation indicates that financial
services firms that once relied on in-house software are now
moving to hosted solutions. The cost of meeting new regulatory
mandates is a major issue, the study says. More than 60 percent
of the respondents polled say that their shift to cloud-based
solutions is driven by the promise of lower total cost of
ownership (TCO), faster deployments and easier management than
on-site deployments. Half of the financial services firms polled
say they plan to use hosted compliance solutions by 2012.  “The market has reached a tipping point,” said Harald Collet,
global business manager of Bloomberg Vault, which has secured
more than 240 clients since it launched a year ago. “We expect
to see a significant adoption of cloud‐based message archiving
by financial services enterprises of all sizes over the next two
years.”  Scott Black, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer,
Hudson Bay Capital Management LP, said, “We evaluated a number
of solutions and concluded that a hosted service would
streamline compliance and reduce costs. We chose Bloomberg Vault
because we wanted an end-to-end solution that integrates real-
time policy management and archiving for all our corporate
communications. We are especially impressed with Bloomberg’s
customized search functionality, as well as its ability to
efficiently capture both Bloomberg email and corporate
electronic communications.”  Richard Farber, Chief Compliance Officer, KGS-Alpha Capital
Markets LP., said, “Security is crucial when selecting a hosted
service, and we believe that Bloomberg Vault offers us a secure
hosted compliance solution.  In addition, we chose to use this
service on the basis of the ease of establishing this service
through Bloomberg, and the availability of an integrated
solution for oversight and surveillance of emails along with
Bloomberg messages.”  Key findings of the survey include:  Financial services firms struggle with eDiscovery and data
privacy - 55 percent of respondents describe complying with
data privacy laws as challenging. Also, decision‐makers
report significant difficulties in meeting litigation
requirements, recording and archiving obligations, employee
communications monitoring needs and other regulatory
requirements.  Compliance challenges are multi-faceted - Edging out
concerns about cost, 75 percent of the financial services
decision‐makers surveyed highlight concerns about
reputational damage in conjunction with regulatory
oversight and investigations. Respondents also cite major
concerns with compliance‐related application integration
and lengthy response times.  Financial services firms focus on a broad set of content
for compliance - In addition to email, organizations
perceive file shares, physical records, line‐of‐business
applications, mobile messaging and a wide range of other
content types and applications to be critical for
regulatory purposes.  About Bloomberg Vault  Bloomberg Vault is the first compliance solution to integrate
real-time monitoring, search analytics, and archiving of
Bloomberg messaging, corporate email, and other electronic
content. The hosted service leverages the reliability, security
and scalability of Bloomberg’s global private network, including
biometric authentication of users for security and redundant
data centers for disaster recovery.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 166 locations
around the world.  Media Contacts:  Pam Snook, Bloomberg LP,  pamsnook@bloomberg.net , +212-617-7652
Sophie Fischman,  Bloomberg@cognitomedia.com , +1 646 395 6300
Stuart Macaulay,  BloombergEMEA@cognitomedia.com , +44 20 7438
1100
Anne Karumo,  BloombergAsia@cognitomedia.com , +65 8112 64 09
 