-- 
Alcatel, Siemens Said to Weigh IPOs for Enterprise Units

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-29T07:57:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/alcatel-lucent-siemens-said-to-consider-ipos-for-enterprise-businesses.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA and  Siemens AG (SIE) 
are weighing initial public offerings of their businesses that
sell phone equipment and services to companies, according to
people familiar with their plans.  Alcatel-Lucent is also considering a sale of the enterprise
assets, which may fetch about 1.5 billion euros ($2.2 billion),
one of the people said. Siemens Enterprise Communications, which
has been folded into a venture with Los Angeles-based Gores Group
LLC, is leaning toward an IPO, another person said. Both people
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.  Products from the companies range widely from office phones
to routers and conferencing gear. Phone-equipment providers are
looking to shed slower-growing units to focus on more promising
wireless technologies. Last year, Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent
sold its vacuum technology unit for 200 million euros, after
earlier divesting a stake in aerospace firm  Thales SA. (HO)   Siemens,  Europe ’s largest engineering group, has got out of
cordless-phone and wireless handset making and moved its network
equipment business into a venture with  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   Peter Benedict, a spokesman for Alcatel-Lucent, and
Alexander Becker, a spokesman for Munich-based Siemens, declined
to comment.  Alcatel-Lucent fell as much as 2.4 percent to 4.26 euros
and was down 1.7 percent as of 9:55 a.m. in Paris trading.
Siemens declined as much as 0.5 percent to 97.78 euros and was
down 0.3 percent in Frankfurt.  Alcatel-Lucent’s Options  The French company’s enterprise assets generated as much as
1.4 billion euros in annual revenue, and discussions on whether
to move forward with a sale or an IPO haven’t been decided, one
of the people said. Alcatel-Lucent, which doesn’t break out
revenue from the business, had 16 billion euros in total sales
in 2010.  Siemens Enterprise’s Amsterdam-based holding company
reported 2.46 billion euros in sales and a net loss of 458
million euros for the year ended Sept. 30, 2009, the most recent
period for which data is available. The business, run by former
Deutsche Telekom AG executive Hamid Akhavan, sells technology
used in  call centers , messaging and teleconferencing.  Siemens’s Withdrawal  Siemens created the venture with Gores, which owns a 51
percent stake, in 2008 as part of a retreat from
telecommunications activities.  “We have no intentions to indefinitely hold on to
Enterprise Communications, we have made that clear,” Siemens
Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said in an interview with
Bloomberg News in January.  At Alcatel-Lucent, Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen
has pledged to turn around years of losses that followed the
2006 merger of Alcatel SA and Lucent Technologies. The former BT
Plc CEO has focused on wireless technologies such as so-called
long-term evolution wireless networks to stay ahead of rivals
including Nokia Siemens Networks and Huawei Technologies Co. of
 China .  Alcatel-Lucent is scheduled to announce first-quarter
earnings May 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in  London  at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 