-- 
Allstate, Lincoln Lead Rally After Earnings Beat Estimates

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-28T15:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/allstate-lincoln-lead-rally-after-earnings-beat-estimates-1-.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest
publicly traded U.S. auto and home insurer, and life insurer
 Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  led an industry rally in New York trading
after first-quarter earnings beat analysts’ estimates.  Allstate advanced $1.46, or 4.6 percent, to $33.40 at 10:36
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the most
since 2009. Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Lincoln jumped $1.59, or
5.2 percent, to $31.95, the biggest gain since January 3.  Lincoln and Allstate are among insurers benefiting from
improved investment results in the first quarter. Lincoln
reported gains on alternative investments, such as  hedge funds ,
while Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate said losses narrowed
on derivatives. Allstate’s results also improved as claims from
costs tied to natural disasters declined.  “They had extremely good results last night,”  Mark Dwelle , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, said of Allstate in
an interview. “After missing their fourth quarter so badly, the
expectations were pretty low, probably.” He rates the shares
“outperform.”  Allstate’s operating income, which excludes some
investment results, was 93 cents a share, exceeding by 25 cents
the average estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the
insurer said yesterday after normal trading hours in New York.
Net realized  capital gains  in the first quarter were $96
million, compared with a loss of $348 million a year earlier, as
impairment writedowns and derivative losses narrowed.  Catastrophe Losses  Catastrophe losses narrowed by almost half to $333 million
from $648 million a year earlier, when a winter storm caused
damage in 24 U.S. states.  Lincoln National reported operating income of $1.08 per
share, beating by 16 cents the average estimate of 18 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The KBW Insurance Index advanced 1.7 percent.  Aflac Inc. (AFL) ,
the world’s largest seller of supplemental health insurance,
jumped 4 percent after reporting results that beat analysts’
estimates. Assurant Inc., the insurer of foreclosed properties,
rose 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  