-- 
Dollar Swaps Offering Savings as Alumina Eyes Debut Sale: Australia Credit

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-04-29T02:11:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/alumina-eyes-debut-aussie-dollar-bonds-on-swaps-savings-australia-credit.html
Alumina Ltd. (AWC) , Alcoa Inc.’s partner
in  Melbourne , may consider selling its first bonds in Australian
dollars and take advantage of the currency swaps market where
savings are almost double the 10-year average.  The five-year Australian dollar basis swap has risen 0.3
basis point this month to 21.8 basis points, offering a bigger
discount to exchange debt in the local currency to U.S. dollars,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  World Bank  and
 Germany ’s Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank are among borrowers in
 Australia  that have cut funding costs with the transaction.  “A lot of people are borrowing U.S. overseas and swapping
into Australian dollars,” Judith Downes, Alumina’s chief
financial officer, said in an interview. “You could potentially
get a few extra basis points by doing it in the opposite
direction.”  The swaps market may bring savings for other mining
companies with U.S. dollar revenue, ranging from Perth-based
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to Aston Resources Ltd., as they
expand production to meet Chinese and Indian demand for raw
materials. The nation’s biggest resources boom in a century is
fueling economic growth as the currency trades at the strongest
level since it was floated in 1983.  The basis swap measures the cost of switching interest
based on the London interbank offered rate for payments linked
to Australia’s bank bill swap rate. It peaked at 48 basis points
in November 2009, and averaged 11 basis points in the past 10
years, Bloomberg data show. The higher the level, the greater
the discount for borrowers in Australia swapping proceeds to the
U.S.  World Bank Discount  “Since the financial crisis the  basis swap  range has
shifted higher and basis curves are structurally steeper,” said
Sally Auld, a Sydney-based interest rate strategist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Basis swaps are likely to remain at similar levels
for the time being, she said.  The swaps market is offering discounts even though
Australia’s benchmark interest rate is 4.75 percent. The U.S.
Federal Reserve has held its benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008.  The World Bank’s International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development sold A$600 million ($654 million) of 5.5 percent
October 2014 notes on Jan. 18 that were priced to yield 49.25
basis points more than similar-maturity government debt,
Bloomberg data show.  That rate equated to about 10 basis points less than Libor,
once swapped into U.S. dollars, the data show. IBRD priced $2
billion of floating-rate bonds due July 2011 in June to yield 5
basis points more than Libor.  Mining Boom  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which forecasts economic
growth of 4.25 percent this year, raised the benchmark lending
rate by 175 basis points from October 2009 to November 2010 to
control prices as the mining-investment boom drove unemployment
below 5 percent.  Consumer prices may rise an annual 3 percent in the next
five years, according to the gap between yields on  government
bonds  and inflation-indexed notes.  The yield on the 10-year government note fell 3 basis
points to 5.42 percent as of 12 p.m. in Sydney today, or 211
basis points more than similar-dated Treasuries.  The nation’s dollar soared 17 percent in the past 12
months, the third-best performance among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The so-called Aussie traded at $1.0897 as
of 12:02 p.m. in Sydney today, after touching a record $1.0948
yesterday.  Alumina, partner with New York-based Alcoa in the world’s
biggest producer of the material used to make aluminum, sold
$350 million of convertible bonds in May 2008 to fund production
expansion in  Brazil  and refinance debt. The company, which in
February reported a swing to full-year profit as metal prices
rebounded, had net debt of $353 million at Dec. 31, according to
its 2010 annual report.  ‘Active Eye’  The sale of more securities is an option, though the
company isn’t actively pursuing it at the moment, Downes said.  “We keep a very active eye on watching the market in terms
of instruments that we could use for debt funding at any point
in time,” she said.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the company’s credit rating to
BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, from BBB- this month,
citing higher dividend payments from Alumina’s 40 percent-owned
Alcoa World Alumina and Chemicals business and its
“conservative financial management.”  Alumina’s profit may rise to $286 million this year,
according to the median of nine analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with $35 million last year. Morgan
Stanley this month raised its 2011 price forecast for aluminum
by 8 percent.  U.S. Dollar  Sales  Australian companies have sold $31.4 billion of U.S. dollar
bonds this year, 84 percent more than the same period in 2010,
Bloomberg data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds in
the U.S. currency instead of similar-maturity government debt
has fallen 20 basis points to 146 basis points this year and
touched 145 on April 8, the lowest since October 2007, a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index shows. Spreads on Australian dollar
corporate bonds have narrowed 35 basis points to 162.  Fortescue, Australia’s third-largest producer of  iron ore 
used in steel production and the seventh-biggest issuer of high-
yield bonds in the U.S. last year, has said it may sell more
notes. Brisbane-based coal mining company Aston Resources and
copper producer  OZ Minerals Ltd. (OZL) , based in Melbourne, have also
said they are considering U.S. dollar issues.  “The cross currency basis swap is affected by the demand
for currency flows,” said Ben Byrne, credit analyst at Nomura
Australia Ltd. High demand to “swap U.S. dollar borrowing back
to Australian dollars has increased the costs of doing this,
providing an opportunity for issuers to benefit from doing the
reverse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  