-- 
Manchester United Poised to Bid $40 Million for Schalke’s Neuer: Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-04-28T09:20:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/manchester-united-poised-to-bid-40-million-for-schalke-s-neuer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Neuer for Old Trafford?  Manchester United  will bid 24 million pounds ($40 million)
for Schalke goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer , who had looked set to join
Bayern Munich, the  Daily Star  reported.  Neuer’s “stunning” performance in United’s 2-0 Champions
League win at Schalke this week convinced manager Alex Ferguson
he should make one last attempt to sign a player he’s tracked
for 18 months, the Star added.  ‘New Drogba’  Chelsea is near to clinching the 18 million-pound signing
of Anderlecht striker Romelu Lukaku,  the Sun  reported.  Barcelona has opened the way for the Blues by pulling out
of the race for the 17-year-old, who’s been dubbed the “new
Didier Drogba,” the Sun added.  The  Daily Mirror  says Florent Malouda and  Nicolas Anelka 
will be among those leaving Chelsea in the offseason. Paulo
Ferreira, Jose Bosingwa and Yuri Zhirkov will also go, the
newspaper said.  Barton Targeted  Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish may make a 5 million-pound
bid for Newcastle midfielder Joey Barton, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  Blackburn’s Phil Jones, Charlie Adam of Blackpool, Aston
Villa duo Ashley Young and Stewart Downing and Ipswich’s Connor
Wickham are also among Dalglish’s targets, the Mail reported.  Black Cat Bothroyd?  Sunderland manager Steve Bruce is ready to sign Cardiff
striker Jay Bothroyd on a free transfer at the end of the
season, according to the  Mirror .  Bothroyd’s goals and assists have boosted Cardiff’s push
for promotion to the Premier League this season, and he’s
attracting interest as he lets his contract run down, the Mirror
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 