-- 
Mantello Throws Fit in ‘Normal Heart’; Rock’s Queen: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-04-28T15:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/mantello-throws-a-fit-in-normal-heart-rock-s-queen-reviews.html
In a Broadway season robust with
bravura performances, comes another that makes demands of our
souls along with our ears.  In “The Normal Heart,” Joe Mantello plays Ned Weeks, a
stand-in for playwright Larry Kramer, founder and later ex-
communicant from the  Gay Men’s Health Crisis . The year is 1985
and for some time now, healthy young gay men have been
developing mysterious ailments, including tell-tale purple
lesions that never heal. They are dying in ever-greater numbers.
No one is paying attention.  Ned befriends the sympathetic doctor treating most of these
patients with a growing sense of helplessness. Dr. Emma
Brookner, played by Ellen Barkin with a bit too-practiced
sternness, believes that whatever it is, it’s probably spreading
through sexual contact. The only way to stop it, she believes,
is to get gay men to stop having sex until the pathologists can
figure out what it is.  This is unwanted news in an age when anonymous sex is seen
by outspoken gay men as not merely a right but a form of
political expression. And so Ned, never easy in the best of
circumstances, becomes the Cassandra of the  West Village ,
hollering his alarmist message at anybody who’ll listen and
especially at those who won’t. He’s unpleasant company.  Dead or Dying  As played -- no, embodied -- by Mantello with fathomless
compassion and dignity (not to mention charm and humor), Ned is
impossible to ignore. He is, after all responding to a
nightmarish fact: All of his friends are dying or dead.  The main targets of Kramer’s jeremiad included a callous and
possibly closeted Mayor Ed Koch, the squeamish New York Times
and a homophobic medical establishment. But they are nothing
compared with the wishy-washy crew who join Ned in organizing to
alert the citizenry to the scourge. Some fear coming out. Some
are just gentle souls ripe for Ned’s abuse.  In addition to Mantello’s riveting performance and a stellar
cast, this revival, co-directed by Joel Grey and George C. Wolfe, has two things going for it that Michael Lindsay-Hogg’s
brave original at the  Public Theater  lacked.  The first is memory: Over the course of the evening, the
walls of David Rockwell’s blanched set become crowded with the
projected names of the dead. When those walls no longer can
contain them, the entire Golden Theatre becomes a sob-inducing
memorial.  The second thing is the comforting illusion that with the
advent of protease inhibitors, the plague ended. It didn’t.
Which is why you may find Kramer on the sidewalk as you leave
the theater, handing out a letter imploring you not to think of
his play as ancient history.  “The Normal Heart” is unabashed agitprop, which is rarely
welcome on Broadway, and Ned Weeks is an unlikely hero. But as
“ Jerusalem ” is also showing us, not all heroes wear white
hats. Some are unpleasant company, doing what they must,
demanding that attention be paid. (Gerard)  At the Golden Theatre, 252 W. 45th St. Information: +1-212-
239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: ***1/2  ‘Baby, It’s You!’  Borrowing from the conventions of “Dreamgirls,” “Jersey
Boys” and “Memphis ” -- all hit musicals about the early days
of rock and roll --  “Baby It’s You!” chronicles the
Shirelles, four black women from  New Jersey  who topped the
charts beginning in the late 1950s. It focuses on Florence
Greenberg, the housewife turned recording executive who plucked
them from obscurity, and Luther Dixon, who composed for and
produced the group.  “Tonight’s the Night,” “Foolish Little Girl” and other
Shirelles hits sound splendid, as do standards performed by
contemporaries including “Walk On By” and “It’s My Party.”
But Floyd Mutrux and Colin Escott’s skimpy, episodic book offers
less useful information about Greenberg and the Shirelles than
the group’s Wikipedia entry.  Excerpts from the show: “When you got teenagers singing
about teenagers, you got a hit!” Greenberg (Beth Leavel)
instructs; dad gets cranky when mom embraces career and neglects
family; Greenberg and Dixon’s interracial romance raises
eyebrows around town; and Greenberg and her husband generously
dispense Yiddishisms.  Mutrix and Escott were sounder last season with “Million
Dollar Quartet” Not much of a story there either, but
“Quartet” embraced its limitations and let its virtuosos
showboat unencumbered.  The “Baby” players make the most of their threadbare
parts. Leavel elevates the enterprise with pitch-perfect
singing, acting and bouffant, her Florence blowzy and
vulnerable.  Near the end, Greenberg concedes that the Shirelles sound
needs updating. The women record the resplendent title number,
co-written by the then-up-and-coming Burt Bacharach. For a
fleeting instant, the first major girl group of the rock era and
the show about them seem to be going somewhere new.  This week, the producers of the show, which include Warner
Bros. Theatre Ventures, were sued. In the complaint filed in  New
York  Supreme Court, Beverly Lee, one of the original Shirelles,
and Dionne Warwick, who is depicted briefly in the show, “seek
redress for the brazen unauthorized use of their names and
likenesses” in connection with the show. Warner Bros. spokesman
 Paul McGuire  said Warner would not comment on the suit. (Boroff)  At the Broadhurst Theatre, 235 W. 44th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard and Philip Boroff are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers on this story:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net   Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 