-- 
Apple, Pocket Bra, Yamaha, Warner: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-28T11:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/apple-pocket-bra-yamaha-warner-intellectual-property.html
Although  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is “not
tracking the location of your iPhone,” according to a company
statement yesterday, a recently published patent application for
the Cupertino, California-based company indicates that data can
be collected from what it calls a “location aware device.”  Patent application  20110051665 , published in the database
of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office March 3, provides for
the use of a baseband processor to collect transmitted IDs. That
information can be translated into geographic position
coordinates, which can be used together with a time stamp,
according to the application.  The location history can be used for display in a map view,
Apple says in its application. This information can be used to
provide “location-based services,” according to the
application.  Application for the patent was filed in September 2009. No
outside counsel is listed on the application.  Apple and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have been at the center of a growing
debate over whether mobile-phone location technologies breach
privacy rules. The companies’ current practices, which can be
used to deliver more targeted advertising and to help users find
nearby services, have sparked consumer lawsuits and inquiries in
the  U.S. Congress .  Wisconsin  Inventor Claims Pocket-Bra Patent Infringed  The inventor of a bra with side pockets for concealing
items has sued a Wisconsin clothing manufacturer for patent
infringement.  Tammy Pintor of Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, is the owner of
patent 7,753,759. The patent, which was issued in July, covers a
bar-like device with pockets on each of the sides of the breasts
to accommodate small objects. According to the patent, placing
the pockets on the sides of the breasts minimized the bulk of
the concealed objects.  Pintor says the Purse-Les items produced by Van Dorf Market
Concepts LLC of Nashotah, Wisconsin, infringe the patents.
According to the  Purse-Les website , the Purse-Les products
resemble either  a sports bra  or a tank top. Each has pockets
along the outer sides of the breasts.  In her suit filed April 25 in federal court in  Milwaukee ,
Pintor says she’s suffered “irreparable injury” from the
alleged infringement by the sale of the Purse-Les products and
that the infringement is deliberate.  She asked the court to order Van Dorf to quit producing and
selling infringing products and for awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Purse-Les didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Pintor is represented by  Matthew R. McClean ,  Joseph S.
Heino  and  Patrick M. Bergin  of  Davis & Kuelthau SC  of Milwaukee.  The case is Tammy Pintor V. Leslie E. Van Dorf, 2:11-cv-
00398-NJ, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Wisconsin
(Milwaukee).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Yamaha Sued Former Licensee for Infringing Trademark  Yamaha Motor Co. sued a  Pennsylvania  seller of motorcycle
gear for trademark infringement.  Metro Racing Inc. , of Brackney, Pennsylvania, is a former
licensee of Yamaha’s, according to the complaint filed April 26
in federal court in Scranton, Pennsylvania.  Although its license to use the Yamaha trademarks expired,
Metro Racing continued to sell motorcycle accessories and
apparel bearing the marks, Yamaha said in its complaint.  Yamaha claims Metro Racing ignored three cease-and-desist
letters and continued to sell unauthorized merchandise. The
Shizuoka, Japan-based company said the public is confused and is
likely to believe falsely that some connection exists between
the two companies.  Potential customers are diverted from Yamaha’s authentic
goods by Metro Racing’s infringing products, Yamaha claims. The
alleged infringement has been conducted “willfully,
intentionally, deliberately and knowingly,” the Japanese
company said in its pleadings.  It asked the court to bar further infringement of its marks
by Metro Racing, and for an order for destruction of all
infringing products and promotional materials. The company also
seeks awards of attorney fees, litigation costs and money
damages. Alleging the infringement was done “willfully, with
fraud, malice or oppression,” Yamaha asked that the money
damages be tripled.  Metro Racing didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Yamaha is represented by  William J. Conroy  of  Boston ’s
 Campbell Campbell Edwards & Conroy PC  and  Jennifer Lantz  of
Dallas-based Haynes & Boone LLP.  The case is Yamaha Motor Corp. USA v. Metro Racing Inc.,
3:11-cv-00804-UN2, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Scranton).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Warner Music Group Sued Over Sale of Digital Music, Ring Tones  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  was sued for copyright
infringement by a Florida-based record company.  DM Records Inc. of North Miami Beach,  Florida , said that
beginning in 1999, it had a distribution contract with a company
acquired by Warner Music Group in 2006.  After the acquisition, DM said it entered into a new
agreement with New York-based Warner for distribution of its
digital catalog, including the sale of ring tones, digital
downloads and streaming downloads.  Although the agreement ended in March 2009, Warner
continued to distribute and sell DM works, according to the
complaint filed April 26 in federal court in Miami. They were
sold to a wide range of customers, including Deutsche Telecom
AG’s T-Mobile,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Amazon Digital and Apple Inc.,
DM claims.  DM seeks payment for the content sold by Warner Music
Group, and a court order for the destruction of all infringing
content and barring further infringement. Additionally, it asked
for money damages and an award of Warner Music Group’s profits
attributable to the alleged infringement.  The Florida company is represented by  Richard C. Wolfe  of
 Ehrenstein Charbonneau Calderin  of Miami.  Warner Music Group didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mailed request for comment.  The case is DM Records Inc. v. Warner Music Group Corp.,
1:11-cv-21465-UU, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (Miami).  John Wiley & Sons Accused of Infringing Photographer’s Rights  John Wiley & Sons Inc., a publisher of textbooks, technical
books and the “For Dummies” series of how-to books, was sued
for copyright infringement by a  Chicago  photographer.  According to the complaint filed April 25 in federal court
in Chicago, Wiley is accused of making unauthorized use of
photos by John Frerck. He is the owner of  Odyssey Products Inc. ,
a photo archive.  Frerck said that although he granted Wiley limited licenses
to some of his work, Wiley’s use of the images exceeded the
limits outlined in the licenses.  He claims Wiley had a practice of “requesting and paying
for limited uses it was going to exceed.” He accuses the New
York-based publisher of violating the terms of “thousands of
visual arts licenses.”  He asked the court for an order barring Wiley from
unauthorized use of his work, and for seizure and destruction of
all unauthorized copies and digital files. Additionally, he
asked for an award for money damages and all of Wiley’s profits
attributable to the alleged infringement.  Frerck also requested awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Wiley didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for
comment.  Frerck is represented by Maurice Harmon and Christopher
Seidman of  Harmon & Seidman LLC  of Grand Junction,  Colorado , and
E. Bryan Dunigan of the Law Offices of E. Bryan Dunigan of
Chicago.  The case is Frerck v. John Wiley & Sons Inc., 1:11-cv-
02727, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  For more copyright news, click here.  Obituary  Leo Raskind, IP Professor at Many Universities, Dies at 91  Leo J. Raskind, who taught  intellectual property  law at the
University of  Minnesota , died at the age of 91.  Raskind,  a professor emeritus after teaching at Minnesota
from 1970 to 1992, then became a visiting professor of IP law at
the Brooklyn Law School until his retirement in 2006.  He had a master’s degree in economics from the University
of  Washington , and a doctorate in the same subject from the
 London School of Economics . Raskind received his law degree from
 Yale University .  Before he joined the University of Minnesota faculty,
Raskind taught IP law at  Stanford University , Vanderbilt
University and  Ohio State University .  Raskind is survived by his wife of 62 years, one daughter
and a son. A memorial service will be held at a later date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  