-- 
Harper Says NDP in Government Would Mean ‘Destruction’ for Canada Economy

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-28T16:05:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/harper-says-ndp-government-would-be-devastating-for-canadian-economy.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper, seeking to stem a surge in the polls by the pro-labor
 New Democrats , said a minority government led by NDP leader  Jack Layton  would mean “a lot of destruction” for the economy.  After attacking his main rival Liberals during much of the
five-week campaign for the May 2 election, Harper has turned his
focus this week on the NDP, which polls show has surpassed the
Liberals as the second-most popular party.  Harper, speaking in Niagara Falls, Ontario, said the NDP’s
 platform  underscores the need for Canadians to elect a
Conservative majority government, which he says is needed to
secure the country’s recovery.  “Canadians need to understand how dramatically different
the choices really are,” Harper told reporters. “One with a
Conservative majority, the other a minority parliament with a
ramshackle coalition led by the NDP that will not last but will
do a lot of destruction.”  In the 2008  election , the Conservatives won 143 seats with
38 percent of the vote, the Liberals took 77 seats with 26
percent of the vote and the NDP won 37 seats with 18 percent.
Harper has been governing since 2006 without a majority.  The NDP had 30 percent support among decided voters,
according to the CTV/Globe/Nanos tracking poll published this
morning. The Conservatives had 37 percent support, while the
Liberals had 22 percent. The poll surveyed 1,200 eligible voters
and has a margin of error of 2.8 percent.  Focus on Platform  The growing NDP support has led opponents to focus on its
C$68.9 billion ($72.5 billion) platform, which says its promises
will be financed by raising corporate taxes, cracking down on
 tax havens , ending subsidies for fossil-fuel exploration that
benefit companies like Calgary-based  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , and
revenue from a cap-and-trade system for carbon.  Harper said the NDP’s cap-and-trade proposal, projected to
raise about C$20 billion over four years, will increase the cost
of gasoline by at least 10 Canadian cents per liter.  “The NDP’s positions on these things are the most starkly
clear,” Harper said. “Higher taxes, higher spending, higher
prices, protectionism.”  Layton dismissed Harper’s attacks. “We have got some
attacks of our own,” Layton said at a rally today in
Yellowknife, Northwest Territories. “We want to attack poverty.
We want to attack  climate change . We want to attack
unemployment.”  The NDP platform compares with the ruling Conservatives’
C$6.6 billion of  promises  over five years.  Canada ’s dollar has fallen against all but three of 17
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg News since April 20 as
polls showed NDP support growing.  A pickup in support for the NDP can help the Conservatives
in Ontario, where Harper’s main rival is the  Liberal Party  in a
majority of districts. It can hurt the Conservatives in other
regions like British Columbia where the NDP is the main rival.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Niagara Falls, Ontario, at   targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, at
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 