-- 
Asian Currencies Gain, Led by Won, as Fed’s Monetary Stance Spurs Inflows

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-04-28T08:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/asian-currencies-gain-led-by-won-as-fed-s-monetary-stance-spurs-inflows.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led
by  South Korea ’s won, after the  Federal Reserve  renewed a pledge
to keep U.S.  interest rates  low, supporting a global economic
recovery and spurring demand for higher-yielding assets.  All of the region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the
yen gained this year as the world’s fastest economic growth and
interest-rate increases helped attract funds. China,  India ,
South  Korea , Taiwan, Indonesia,  Thailand  and the  Philippines 
have raised interest rates in 2011 to stem inflation, while
speculation Malaysia’s central bank will join them helped to
push the ringgit to the strongest level in more than 13 years.  The won rose 0.8 percent to 1,071.23 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, while the  Taiwan  dollar gained 0.5 percent
to NT$28.76, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s
ringgit climbed 0.4 percent to 2.9665 and the Philippine peso
advanced 0.7 percent to 42.935.  “One major trend is the weak dollar, reinforced by the
Fed’s pledge to continue stimulus measures,” said  Minoru Shioiri , chief manager of foreign-exchange trading at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Asian central
banks, on the other hand, are tightening their policies. Funds
are flowing into  Asia  and other emerging markets due to their
strong growth prospects.”  Asia’s developing economies will expand 8.4 percent this
year, outpacing growth of 2.8 percent in the U.S., 1.6 percent
in the euro area and 4.7 percent in Latin America, according to
International Monetary Fund forecasts published this month.  U.S. Rate Outlook  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major trading partners, dropped to the lowest
level since July 2008 after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
signaled yesterday that record monetary stimulus will be
maintained. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which
tracks the region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen,
rose to its highest level since August 1997.  Indonesia  and India have benchmark interest rates of 6.75
percent, while the Fed has kept its target for overnight lending
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. Global
funds boosted their holdings of shares in India, South Korea and
Taiwan by $7.6 billion this month, according to the latest data
from exchanges.  The won reached a 32-month high today after the central
bank reported a widening of the current-account surplus to $1.43
billion in March from $1.13 billion the previous month. The Bank
of Korea will maintain its forecast for an $11 billion surplus
this year, Director General Kim Young Bae said, adding that
overseas sales will likely remain strong in April as currency
gains have had a limited impact on exporters.  Widening Korean Surplus  “The Fed has made it clear it will sustain the low-rate
policy for some time and that’s prompting market players to sell
dollars and buy other currencies, including the won,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul.
“A widened current-account surplus and the central banker’s
comments are also supporting the won.”  Taiwan’s dollar advanced to the strongest level in more
than 13 years. Exchange data show overseas investors bought a
net $596 million local shares this week through yesterday.  “The dovish comments coming out from Bernanke led to the
Taiwan dollar’s appreciation,” said  Henry Lin , a Taipei-based
foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial Bank.
“It’s mostly foreign investors buying the currency.”  Risk-Taking  Malaysia ’s ringgit advanced for a seventh day, its longest
winning streak in a year. Bank Negara Malaysia, which has kept
its overnight rate at 2.75 percent since July after raising it
three times earlier in 2010, will meet to decide on interest
rates on May 5. Inflation in Southeast Asia’s third-largest
economy accelerated 3 percent in March, the fastest since April
2009, the government said on April 20.  “The U.S. didn’t show any sign of abandoning its super-
loose monetary policy, and that has encouraged risk-taking on
the ringgit and other Asian currencies,” said Azmi Shukri Rahman, a foreign-exchange trader at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd.
“In this dollar-negative environment, we could expect central
banks to step in and tone down the rally.”  Elsewhere, the Indonesian rupiah appreciated 0.6 percent to
8,578 per dollar, the Thai baht rose 0.3 percent to 29.90 and
 China ’s yuan gained 0.15 percent to 6.5015. The Singapore dollar
advanced 0.4 percent to S$1.2275 and India’s rupee strengthened
0.2 percent to 44.3675.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  