-- 
Auburn Quarterback Newton Is Oddsmakers’ Favorite as No. 1 NFL Draft Pick

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-28T13:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/auburn-quarterback-newton-is-oddsmakers-favorite-as-no-1-nfl-draft-pick.html
Quarterback Cam Newton is the
favorite of oddsmakers to be taken with the No. 1 overall pick
in tonight’s National Football League draft.  The Carolina Panthers have the top pick in the  draft  and
may choose Newton after scoring a franchise-low 196 points
during last year’s 2-14 season.  Newton, 21, won the Heisman Trophy as college football’s
best player in 2010 while leading  Auburn University  to an
undefeated season and national championship. He’s the 1-2
favorite to be drafted No. 1 overall, according to Antigua-based
Internet sports book  Bodog.com .  “The first pick definitely brings a sense of urgency to
get a player who will impact your football team,” Panthers
General Manager Marty Hurney said during a news conference.
“That pick and that player will get a lot more attention than
other picks you’ve made in your career.”  University of Alabama defensive lineman Marcell Dareus is
the second-favorite to go No. 1, with 3-2 odds. University of
Missouri quarterback Blaine Gabbert has 10-1 odds of being the
top pick, followed by Louisiana State cornerback Patrick
Peterson at 12-1, according to Bodog.  The top-rated college players, according to ESPN’s Scouts
Inc., are Dareus, Peterson, Texas A&M linebacker Von Miller and
Georgia wide receiver A.J. Green.  “We’ve tried to answer a lot of questions about a lot of
guys,” Panthers first-year coach Ron Rivera said. “We’ve asked
our scouts to do a lot of work.”  ‘Quarterback League’  Dating back to  Peyton Manning  in 1998, quarterbacks have
been taken No. 1 overall in 10 of the past 13 years.  The St. Louis Rams took quarterback  Sam Bradford  with the
first pick last year and the Detroit Lions made Matthew Stafford
the No. 1 selection in the 2009 draft.  “It’s a quarterback league,” said Hurney. “That position
has always been the most important on your football team -- he’s
the guy who handles the ball on every snap -- but the importance
has increased even more in recent years.”  The last non-quarterback taken No. 1 overall was offensive
tackle Jake Long by the  Miami Dolphins  in 2008. The last
defensive player drafted first was lineman Mario Williams by the
Houston Texans in 2006.  The  Denver Broncos  have the second overall pick tonight at
Radio City Music Hall in New York.  The first round begins at 8 p.m. New York time, while the
second and third rounds are set for tomorrow. The draft
concludes April 30 with the final four rounds.  Bills Pick Third  The  Buffalo Bills  hold the No. 3 pick, followed by the
Cincinnati Bengals, Arizona Cardinals, Cleveland Browns,  San
Francisco  49ers, Tennessee Titans,  Dallas Cowboys  and  Washington
Redskins .  The  New York Giants  have the 19th choice and the  New York
Jets  have the 30th selection in the opening round, which
concludes with picks by the Pittsburgh Steelers and Super Bowl
champion Green Bay Packers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  