-- 
Australia Risks Dumbing Down RBA Leadership in Pay Debate, McGauchie Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-29T06:15:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/australia-risks-dumbing-down-rba-leadership-mcgauchie-says.html
Australia ’s central bank must keep
the power to set senior officials’ pay, averting an infringement
of its ability to recruit and retain talent, said Donald
McGauchie, who headed the bank’s compensation committee until
last month.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  indicated this month the government
may consider removing the Reserve Bank of Australia’s control of
its top executives’ salaries, including Governor Glenn Stevens’s
package worth A$1.05 million ($1.15 million). Stevens’s base pay
in 2010 was more than what the heads of the  European Central
Bank  and U.S. Federal Reserve made combined.  The debate between the RBA and Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government centers on the wages the RBA needs to pay
to keep officials in public service in a nation with the world’s
sixth-highest gross domestic product per capita. The average
compensation of chief executive officers of Australia’s four
biggest banks in the most recent fiscal year was A$11 million.  “We have an outstanding central bank,” McGauchie, a
central bank board member until his term expired last month,
said in an interview. “It’s incredibly important that those
people are properly remunerated. I mean the last thing we want
is the dumbing down of the  Reserve Bank .”  The treasurer’s office declined to comment on the issue
when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Macquarie’s View  Nicholas Moore, chief executive officer of Macquarie Group
Ltd., echoed McGauchie’s comments in an interview today, while
declining to comment on pay at the RBA, the  Australian
Prudential Regulation Authority  or the Treasury.  “The people who have performed the roles at the Reserve
Bank and APRA and Treasury in this country have done self-
evidently a very good job” through the global financial crisis,
Moore said. His pay dropped 9.1 percent in the 12 months through
March 31 to A$8.69 million after profit at Macquarie fell from
the previous fiscal year, Australia’s biggest investment bank
said in its annual report today.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  was paid 367,863 euros
($546,570) last year, 2 percent more than his 2009 salary,
according to an ECB report in March. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  made $199,700.  McGauchie said the disparity between Stevens and his peers
was explained by the belief that an RBA governor wouldn’t be
able to command the same income as his global central bank peers
after leaving the post.  Bernanke’s Prospects  “You try and compete with Bernanke,” McGauchie, chairman
of Nufarm Ltd., Australia’s largest supplier of farm chemicals,
said in a telephone interview. “Bernanke will get a quarter of
a million dollars a speech when he retires. I mean two or three
speeches a year and he’ll make more than our governor.”  Alan Greenspan , after retiring as Fed chairman in 2006,
took on roles with Deutsche Bank AG and Pacific Investment
Management Co.  Within a year of stepping down as Reserve Bank chief,
Stevens’s predecessor, Ian Macfarlane, joined the boards of
Australia’s biggest retailer,  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , the nation’s
largest construction company,  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , and one of
its four main banks,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
He also took on an advisory role with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   ‘Serious Concerns’  RBA board member Jillian Broadbent, in correspondence last
September with Swan released under a Freedom of Information
request from Bloomberg News, expressed “serious concerns”
about the possibility that responsibility for remuneration of
senior officers could be moved away from the board “to the
general ambit of the Remuneration Tribunal.”  The  tribunal  is an independent authority established in
1973 with three members appointed by Australia’s governor
general, a ceremonial representative of  Queen Elizabeth II . The
panel determines, reports on or provides advice about
remuneration, including allowances and entitlements that are
within its jurisdiction for federal lawmakers, judicial and non-
judicial offices of federal courts and tribunals and others.  McGauchie said the letter from Broadbent, a member of the
RBA remuneration committee, wasn’t a response to any government
proposal to move control.  ‘Step Back’  “There’s been no government contact,” he said. “The
treasurer’s been completely proper about this.” McGauchie also
said the removal of that control would be “a huge step back”
in the RBA’s independence.  Stevens was one of seven central bank chiefs to receive an
‘A’ grade in a September 2009 Global Finance Magazine  survey  for
navigating their economies through the world’s worst financial
crisis since the 1930s.  Australia was one of the few developed countries to skirt
the global recession as Stevens slashed the overnight cash-rate
target to a 50-year low of 3 percent and the country benefited
from sustained Chinese demand for its exports. As the economy
rebounded, he raised  interest rates  in seven quarter-point steps
from October 2009 to November last year.  The Reserve Bank forecasts Australia’s economy will expand
4.25 percent this year, driven by mining investment and record
job growth that helped spur the nation’s currency to the highest
level since it was freely floated in 1983.  Stevens’s salary is more than double that of Gillard’s base
pay of A$355,264. Swan has suggested the governor’s pay was too
high. In a press conference earlier this month, the treasurer
said he understood community concern related to the governor’s
compensation, describing it as a “matter that’s before the
government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  