-- 
Author of Policy That Enraged China to Challenge Ma for Taiwan Presidency

-- B y   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-04-28T08:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/author-of-policy-that-enraged-china-is-dpp-s-pick-to-take-on-ma.html
Taiwan ’s opposition picked Tsai Ing-wen as its candidate for presidential elections next year,
pitting the author of a policy that prompted  China  to cut off
dialogue a decade ago against an incumbent who has forged warmer
ties between the former civil-war foes.  Democratic Progressive Party  Chairwoman Tsai, 54, helped
pen the “state-to-state relations” doctrine for former
President Lee Teng-hui that led China to brand him “a rat” and
“the sinner of 10,000 years.” Taiwan’s growing dependence on
commerce with its giant neighbor has shaped politics on the
island since democratic elections began in 1996.  President Ma Ying-jeou, who heads the Kuomintang party that
fought China’s communists six decades ago, reversed the DPP’s
pro-independence stance when he took office in 2008. Taiwan has
since signed 15 economic agreements with the mainland in a
policy that Tsai derided as “boxed in a frame set by China.”  “On the surface she seems mild and rational,” said Wang
Jianmin, a researcher on Taiwan at the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences  in Beijing. “She is in fact quite a separatist. If she
becomes president, the cross-strait relationship will suffer a
huge reversal.”  The Kuomintang Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek retreated to
Taiwan with tens of thousands of followers in 1949 after losing
the civil war to  Mao Zedong . Though political rivals, the KMT
and Communist Party are united in their one-China policy, while
native Taiwanese like Tsai and Lee have increasingly sought to
carve out an independent state.  No Disguise  “If Taiwan bases cross-strait policy on an independent,
one-side one-country basis, then it doesn’t matter how ingenious
the packaging is,” Yang Yi, a spokesman on Taiwan affairs for
China’s State Council, said at a weekly briefing in Beijing
yesterday. “It will affect cross-strait exchange and dialogue
and damage the peaceful development of relations.”  China’s threats to retake the island by force may not be
necessary as growing trade, investment and financial links make
disengagement more difficult. Taiwan’s economy grew 11 percent
last year, the fastest pace in 23 years. Exports to the mainland
reached a record $3.25 billion in March according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, giving the island the world’s biggest
trade surplus with China.  Ma’s policies risk falling into the trap of “making
political concessions in exchange for economic benefits,” Tsai,
a former vice premier who has a doctorate in law from the  London
School  of Economics, said in a speech on Feb. 23.  “I don’t see a significant shift coming on Taiwan’s
domestic economic policy whether Tsai or Ma gets elected,” said
Eric Hsing, a fixed-income trader at First Securities Inc. in
Taipei. “To me, the only major difference between the two
political parties is their stance on China.”  First Woman  Tsai served as the head of the Mainland Affairs Council,
Taiwan’s top China policymaking agency, from 2000 to 2004 and is
the first woman candidate for president in the four direct
elections held for the post. The elections, the first combined
legislative and presidential poll, will be held Jan. 14.  “I think Ma Ying-jeou has a better chance to win,” said
David Dong, executive vice president at Uni-President Management
Corp., which oversees NT$75 billion of assets. “He’ll come up
with policies to help win a second term, and his China policies
are more favored.”  In the 2008 presidential poll, the KMT beat the DPP 58
percent to 42 percent by pledging direct flights to China,
lifting of investment restrictions by Taiwanese companies and
allowing wider  market access .  China and Taiwan in January lowered  import taxes  on more
than 800 products under the first trade treaty between the two.
The two sides may reach an agreement to allow individuals from
China to visit the island as early as June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  