-- 
Baidu CEO Sees Years of Growth as Internet Search Becomes China’s Favorite

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-04-28T04:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/baidu-has-plenty-of-room-to-expand-in-china-ceo-li-says.html
Baidu Inc., the owner of  China ’s
most popular search engine, has “plenty of room” to expand,
Chief Executive Officer Robin Li forecast after some analysts
projected slowing growth at the company.  “Search just became the most popular application for
Chinese  Internet users , and there is still a lot of growth to
expect for many years down the road,” Li said in a conference
call with analysts today. Baidu yesterday reported first-quarter
profit more than doubled and forecast sales this quarter that
beat analysts’ estimates as advertising fees surged.  Li, ranked China’s richest man by Forbes magazine, is
spending more to boost Baidu’s search business and expand into
services including social networking and electronic commerce.
Still, analysts at Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse Group AG
said Baidu’s growth this year won’t match the increase in 2010,
when the company gained market share as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  pulled its
search engine from the country.  “The growth rate will not be as fast as last year,” said
Muzhi Li, an analyst at Mizuho Securities in  Hong Kong . Baidu’s
revenue will be helped by advertising spending by online
commerce companies, he said.  Baidu stock fell less than one percent on Nasdaq Stock
Market trading yesterday before the earnings announcement. It
has gained 57 percent this year, compared with the 88 percent
gain in Sina Corp., owner of China’s most popular microblogging
service, and a 29 percent increase in  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
operator of the most popular Chinese online-chat software.  Wealth Doubled  Li more than doubled his wealth last year as Baidu’s stock
has more than tripled since Google announced plans in January
2010 to pull its search engine out of China.  Baidu’s net income climbed to 1.07 billion yuan ($164.5
million), or 3.06 yuan per American depositary receipt, compared
with 480.5 million yuan, or 1.38 yuan, a year earlier, Baidu
said in a statement yesterday. That exceeded the 1.02 billion
yuan average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Second-quarter sales will be 3.23 billion yuan to 3.3
billion yuan, Baidu said. That tops the 3.14 billion yuan
projected by analysts.  Baidu may “record a slower growth rate in the second half
of 2011 due to tougher annual comparisons,” Morgan Stanley
analysts including Richard Ji wrote in an April 15 report.
Baidu’s revenue growth this year may slow to 69 percent, after
sales increased 78 percent in 2010, according to a March 16
report by Credit Suisse.  Google’s Share  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
accounted for 19.2 percent of China’s search market by revenue
in the first-quarter, declining from 19.6 percent three months
earlier, according to research company Analysys International.
Baidu’s market share rose to 75.8 percent from 75.5 percent,
according to Analysys.  Google has been losing share in China’s search-engine
market since the  Mountain View , California-based company said it
was no longer willing to comply with Chinese regulations to
self-censor Web content. Two months later, the U.S. company shut
its Google.cn service and redirected Chinese users to an
unfiltered site in Hong Kong.  Baidu’s search engine is installed as the default option on
80 percent of phones in China that run Google’s Android
operating system, Yue Guofeng, general manager at Baidu’s mobile
Internet division, said this week.  Baidu is working on its “box-computing” technology, which
makes it easier for mobile-phone users to access Internet
content and applications, CEO Li said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  