-- 
Bank of America, Citibank, UBS Manipulated Libor, Suit Says

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-28T22:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bank-of-america-citibank-ubs-violated-antitrust-law-suit-says.html
A West Virginia pension fund sued
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Citibank unit and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
claiming they manipulated the London Interbank Offered Rate, or
Libor, in violation of U.S. antitrust law.  The Carpenters Pension Fund of West Virginia filed a
complaint in federal court in  Manhattan  yesterday claiming the
banks and a group of unnamed co-conspirators deliberately
understated their borrowing costs to depress Libor, lowering
their interest expenses on products tied to the rate.  The pension fund seeks to represent a class of all clients
of the banks that invested in Libor-based products between 2006
and 2009. The suit seeks unspecified damages, which may be
tripled under antitrust law.  “About $350 trillion worth of financial products globally
reference Libor, and the lower Libor rates during the relevant
period robbed lenders of significant amounts of interest
income,” the pension fund claimed in its complaint.  “We believe the suit is without merit,” said Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, had no immediate comment on the
suit. Torie Pennington von Alt, a spokeswoman for Zurich-based
UBS, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking
comment on the suit.  On April 15, three European asset-management firms sued a
group of banks including Bank of America, Citibank, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Barclays Bank Plc, claiming they manipulated
Libor.  U.S. and U.K. officials are cooperating in a probe of
possible Libor manipulation, a person close to the investigation
said last month.  The case is Carpenters Pension Fund of West Virginia v.
Bank of America, 11-CV-2883, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 