-- 
BofA Said to Target Individual States in Foreclosure Inquiry

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-28T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bank-of-america-said-to-target-individual-states-to-block-foreclosure-deal.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was accused
by a top official at the Iowa attorney general’s office of
engaging in a divide-and-conquer strategy by undermining support
for the settlement of a nationwide probe into foreclosure
practices, a person familiar with the matter said.  The bank tried to get  attorneys general  to break away from
those supporting the proposed accord, Iowa Assistant Attorney
General Patrick Madigan said during a recent conference call,
according to the person. A second person familiar with the
settlement talks said the bank sought to sow dissent among the
states, eight of which have publicly criticized the proposal’s
terms. Both people asked not to be identified because the talks
are private. Madigan declined to comment.  “We have held face to face negotiating sessions and our
negotiations continue,” Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, a
Democrat who leads the 50-state effort, said in a statement.
“We believe all the banks are negotiating in good faith.”  Madigan, who was giving an update to state officials, said
the largest U.S. lender by assets was taking a “divide-and-
conquer” approach in a bid to disrupt negotiations, according
to the person on the call. Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank, declined to comment.  State and federal agencies including the Justice Department
last month submitted a 27-page settlement proposal, or term-
sheet, to five mortgage servicers, including Bank of America.
The document was offered to start negotiations with banks as
part of the 50-state investigation.  Six-Month Probe  The six-month probe was triggered by claims of faulty
foreclosure practices following the housing collapse, which
state officials said may violate their laws. The people said
Madigan’s comments were made on a call that took place within
the past two months, after the term sheet was made public.  Since the settlement proposal was circulated in early
March, at least eight Republican attorneys general have assailed
its terms as overreaching. They specifically oppose a proposal
that would require the servicers to pay for reducing mortgage
balances owed by borrowers.  In addition to Bank of America, the other banks negotiating
with state and federal officials are  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial  Inc. They control
more than half of the mortgage servicing market, Miller has
said.  Geoff Greenwood, Miller’s spokesman, said state attorneys
general would begin talks with other mortgage servicing
companies after reaching a final agreement with the five banks.  “We will start looking at servicers beyond the largest
five after we finish this phase of our effort,” he said.  Principal Reductions  As of last week, the states had yet to approach banks with
a proposed dollar amount that would fund principal reductions
for borrowers, Greenwood said at the time.  Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, a Republican, said
last week he may negotiate an alternative accord with the banks
if the national settlement turns out to be “inconsistent with
our conviction.”  Pruitt said in a letter to Miller last month that forcing
lenders to reduce mortgage balances would take away incentives
for banks to loan money and “destroy an already devastated
housing market.”  Besides Oklahoma, state attorneys general who have
criticized the proposal to reduce principal balances are
 Florida ,  Texas , South Carolina,  Virginia ,  Alabama ,  Nebraska  and
 Georgia .  Four of them said in a letter to Miller that principal
reduction constitutes a “moral hazard.”  No Overt Requests  Lauren Kane, a spokeswoman for Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens, said in an e-mailed statement that “no one has asked”
Olens to oppose the settlement proposal. One bank, which Kane
declined to identify, discussed with her office a recent
settlement with federal regulators over foreclosure practices,
she said.  “We have been in contact with numerous industry
representatives on the local and national level, who have voiced
their concerns throughout the process,” said Diane Clay, a
spokeswoman for Pruitt, in an e-mailed statement.  Adam Piper, a spokesman for  South Carolina  Attorney General
Alan Wilson, said “two banking representatives shared
research” with his office and “pointed out some concerns with
certain provisions.” While not identifying the banks, he added
that they didn’t ask Wilson to oppose a potential accord.  In their talks so far, the states agreed on some terms
while failing to reach an accord on monetary payments by
lenders, a person familiar with the talks said this month.  Mortgage Servicers  In March, mortgage servicers agreed with U.S. banking
regulators to a series of reforms, including conducting a review
of loans that went into foreclosure in 2009 and 2010 and
improving procedures for modifying loans and seizing homes.  The 50 states and the  Justice Department  seek to set
requirements for how banks service loans and conduct home
foreclosures.  Any state agreement with banks on principal reductions will
depend on the size of the writedowns, the incentives for the
servicers built into the settlement and other details which
continue to be sorted out, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are confidential.  Another person familiar with the talks said last week that
a final agreement could take as long as four months to reach.  Pruitt said his plan could be a model for other states.  On April 26, Jennifer Meale, a spokeswoman for Florida
Attorney General Pam Bondi, said Bondi “looks forward to
reviewing” Oklahoma’s plan. Yesterday, Meale said Bondi hasn’t
been urged by the banks to oppose the term sheet.  “We have had general discussions with banks about how the
matter might be resolved,” Meale said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  