-- 
Banks’ Claims on Ireland Fall 18% as Assets Shift, BIS Reports

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-04-28T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/banks-claims-on-ireland-fall-18-as-assets-shift-bis-reports.html
International banks’ claims against
Irish borrowers declined by 18 percent in the final quarter of
2010 as they shifted soured loans into state-backed bodies to be
wound down,  Bank for International Settlements statistics  show.  Total lending to Irish borrowers, including government and
banks, fell to $462.3 billion at the end of 2010 from $563.7
billion three months earlier, according to statistics published
today by the BIS in Basel,  Switzerland . German banks’ claims on
Irish borrowers declined $36 billion to $118 billion in the
quarter as Hypo Real Estate Holding AG moved assets to a so-
called bad bank, the BIS reported.  BIS statistics show claims based on the nationality of the
ultimate owners and final borrowers and are confined to so-
called reporting banks. In the final quarter of 2009, for
example, Swiss banks’ claims against Greece plunged to $3.6
billion from $64 billion after  Greece ’s EFG Eurobank Ergasias
moved its headquarters to Luxembourg from Geneva.  “Transfers of distressed assets to non-bank asset
management companies” caused foreign claims of the 24 reporting
countries on banks to decline by $172 billion, according to a
statement accompanying the report.  Hypo’s Depfa Bank Plc unit, which transferred loans and
other securities to  FMS Wertmanagement , had its headquarters in
Dublin’s International Financial Services Center. German-based
FMS-WM, which is winding up Hypo’s assets, doesn’t have a
banking license and so its claims on countries including Ireland
are no longer reported.  Greece, Portugal  In Greece, German banks have cut their holdings to $34
billion from more than $40 billion, while the French have
reduced claims to about $57 billion from $63 billion, the
figures show.  In  Portugal , German lenders hold about $36.4 billion, down
from $40 billion at the end of the third quarter. French
exposure has fallen by more than $10 billion to $27 billion, the
figures show.  Irish claims against  Germany  almost doubled to $72 billion
from $43 billion in the period, the figures show. The nation’s
claims against the U.K. slipped to $159 billion from $193
billion after  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  closed its Halifax branch
network in Ireland and pulled  Bank of Scotland  (Ireland) out of
the country last year. An outsourcing company, called Certus, is
in charge of running down its loan book of about 32 billion
euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 