-- 
Banks in EU May Curb Growth on Too-Big-to-Fail ‘Uncertainty’

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-04-28T18:13:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/banks-in-eu-may-curb-expansion-on-too-big-to-fail-uncertainty-.html
Banks in the European Union may be
curtailing expansion outside their home country because of
“global uncertainty” over rules for lenders whose collapse
would jeopardize the stability of financial markets.  Lack of clarity over “regulatory developments concerning
systemically important financial institutions,” is among
“major constraints holding them back,” the European Commission
said in a  report  on the EU’s website.  The report is based on a survey of eight “large pan-
European banks” that accounted for a fifth of the region’s bank
assets at the end of 2009, the Brussels-based commission, which
did not identify the lenders, said. Anxiety over the level of
future minimum liquidity rules is cited as another impediment to
banks’ expansion, the commission said.  The Group of 20 nations said last year that so-called too-
big-to-fail lenders whose failure would imperil the wider
financial system should face tougher capital rules than other
banks, to help them to cover any losses. Global regulators don’t
yet have a list of such banks, Financial Stability Board
Chairman  Mario Draghi  said after the board’s meeting in  Rome 
earlier this month.  The commission said in January that it was working on
measures, including writedowns of senior bondholders, to prevent
future taxpayer rescues of lenders deemed to be too big to fail.  Capital Cost  An overhaul of banking regulations in the EU may “increase
the cost of capital,” affecting banks’ future strategies, said
 Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of the Centre for European
Policy Studies, a Brussels-based research institute. Lenders are
likely to “reconsider their business models” in response to
the new measures, he said.  Draft liquidity rules published last year by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  “could have severe
consequences for market liquidity and for banks’ access to long-
term funding” the lenders said, according to the commission
report.  The banks complained that a requirement for banks to hold a
minimum amount of “stable” funding “unfairly penalizes retail
commercial banks,” the commission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brusselst .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  