-- 
Barents Sea Strike Offers Norway’s Oil Industry Arctic Revival

-- B y   S t a n l e y   R e e d   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-04-28T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/barents-sea-strike-offers-norway-s-oil-industry-arctic-revival.html
In April, the Polar Pioneer, a
Transocean drilling rig working for  Statoil ASA (STL) , the Norwegian
state energy company, and its partner,  Eni SpA (ENI) , struck oil in
about 1,000 feet (304 meters) of water some 120 miles north of
the Norwegian mainland and the same distance south of Bear
Island in the  Barents Sea , inside the Arctic Circle.  Statoil thinks the find -- now called Skrugard -- as well
as surrounding areas might eventually yield 500 million barrels
of oil. That is not a huge discovery, but it has sent a frisson
of excitement through the industry.  “It is phenomenal, it confirms that the Barents Sea
after so many disappointments is worthwhile,” says A. Bjarne Moe, the lanky, bearded director general of the Norwegian
Ministry of Petroleum and Energy.  Skrugard comes as a huge relief, since  Norway ’s status as
one of the world’s great oil producers is under threat. Oil
production has fallen by 48 percent from its 2000 peak as old
fields found decades ago are depleted--bad news for an industry
that accounts for about one-quarter of Norway’s economy.  The last great find was a  gas field  called Ormen Lange in
deepwater off the craggy west coast in 1997. With shallow waters
unlikely to produce major finds, explorers have been moving out
into deeper waters and harsher territory in the Barents and the
western part of the  Norwegian Sea .  Highest hopes have been for the Barents, a vast
vaguely defined body of water shared by Norway and Russia and
named for the 16th century Dutch navigator Willem Barents. The
government forecasts that 5.9 billion barrels of oil and gas
will be found there.  Barents Wells  Until now, the search for those billions has been
disappointing. Malcolm Dickson, a research analyst at Wood
Mackenzie in Edinburgh, figures that 74 wells drilled in the
Barents prior to Skrugard have produced only two commercial
developments: Snohvit, a Statoil-operated liquefied natural gas
project, and Goliat, an oil and gas field being developed by
Italy’s Eni.  One problem, according to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Norway
chairman, David Loughman, is that the central Barents Sea, where
much of the drilling has taken place, has experienced a recent
uplift in the earth’s crust below the sea bottom. That may have
removed the cap that trapped oil and gas.  Eni and Statoil, responsible for all the success in the
Barents so far, are confident they have finally cracked the
geologic code. In late April, they grabbed more drilling
licenses to add to their existing stakes in the same area, which
is farther offshore than other drilling.  Flows Readily  Claudio Descalzi, head of exploration and production
at Eni, says the oil there at Skrugard flows readily out of the
rocks and will be easy and quick to produce. “We really think it
is a breakthrough,” he says.
Jerry Kepes, a partner at consultants PFC Energy in
 Washington , says it would take several major finds to turn
Norway’s industry around. Yet the discovery undoubtedly will
encourage exploration, and the Norwegians are trying to lure
more  oil companies . The government, long known for its tight
hold on the industry, now covers most of the cost of even
unsuccessful exploration. It has also allowed foreign companies
bigger stakes in projects. Shell, for instance, has only a
17 percent stake in Ormen Lange. By contrast, Eni has 65 percent
of Goliat, a much more recent venture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stanley Reed in  London  at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net ;
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 