-- 
BAT First-Quarter Sales Advance on Higher Cigarette Prices

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-04-28T08:11:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bat-first-quarter-revenue-advances-on-higher-cigarette-prices.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,
Europe’s largest cigarette maker, said first-quarter revenue
rose as higher prices offset declining consumption.  Pricing helped boost sales as shipments declined 2.4
percent in the three months ended March 31, London-based BAT
said in a statement today. Volume excluding acquisitions
declined 1.8 percent. Organic revenue growth was 5 percent at
constant exchange rates.  The maker of Lucky Strike and Pall Mall cigarettes said
volume declined “significantly” in markets including Spain,
Mexico, Australia and Vietnam in the quarter, though it
increased its market share in those countries. The global
cigarette market will probably shrink by 2.5 percent in 2011,
Chief Executive Officer Nicandro Durante said on Feb. 24. His
forecast excluded  China , which is largely closed to foreign
 tobacco companies .  “It’s a decent first-quarter update, and shows a good
result compared to PMI last week,”  Martin Deboo , a London-based
analyst at Investec Securities, said by phone. He has a “buy”
rating on the stock.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company, said April 21 that cigarette
shipments excluding acquisitions fell by 3.3 percent in the
first quarter. The company also raised its annual earnings per
share forecast 20 cents to a range of $4.55 to $4.65, citing an
improved business outlook and exchange rates.  Australia,  Japan   BAT shares fell as much as 0.2 percent and traded at 2,628
pence, down 0.1 percent, at 9:08 a.m. in  London . The stock has
climbed 6.4 percent this year.  Australia ’s government on April 7 proposed a law that would
make the country the first to ban logos on cigarette packaging
in a bid to combat smoking. The measure would take effect in
2012. BAT has a 42 percent market share in the country, the
company said in February.  BAT had “higher than expected” shipments to Japan, it
said today, though “the environment remains highly uncertain”
after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Supply-chain disruptions for Japan Tobacco Inc., the
country’s market leader, boosted BAT’s shipments to Japan and
the benefit will probably tail off as the year progresses,
Michael Prideaux, a spokesman for the U.K. company, said by
phone.  BAT is also monitoring the market for possible
acquisitions, Prideaux said, which will be “in the single-
country nature.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 