-- 
Bayer Raises Forecast, Sees Improvement at Crop Science Unit

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-04-28T06:04:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bayer-raises-forecast-sees-improvement-at-crop-science-unit-1-.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  raised its forecast for
sales and earnings this year, citing an improvement at its crop-
chemicals business.  Net income increased to 684 million euros ($1.02 billion)
from 631 million euros a year earlier, the Leverkusen, Germany-
based drug and chemical maker said today in a statement. Profit
fell short of the 799.1 million-euro estimate of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  A good start to the season and high prices for agricultural
raw materials helped sales at Bayer’s CropScience division climb
16 percent, Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said in the
statement. Bayer is relying on its chemical units to drive
growth this year, forecasting that revenue gains at the drug
division won’t match the market.  “The most exciting question is how dynamic the growth of
the chemicals business will be and what effect the cost
increases will have,” Ulrich Huwald, a Hamburg-based analyst
for MM Warburg Investment Research, said in a telephone
interview before the results were released. Huwald has a “buy”
recommendation on Bayer’s shares.  Bayer forecast sales will rise 5 percent to 7 percent this
year, above the 4 percent to 6 percent it previously estimated.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
before special items will exceed 7.5 billion euros, the company
said, while core earnings per share are expected to improve by
about 15 percent, up from a previous estimate of 10 percent.  Bayer has gained 4.1 percent this year in Frankfurt
trading, lagging behind the 7.1 percent increase in  Germany ’s
30-member benchmark  DAX Index. (DAX)   Sales at Bayer’s HealthCare unit rose 7.7 percent to 4.17
billion euros. The company is awaiting regulatory approval for
Xarelto, a blood thinner, for patients with irregular heartbeats
who face the risk of a stroke. Bayer estimates the medicine may
generate more than 2 billion euros in annual sales once its
wider use is approved.  Revenue at the MaterialScience chemical unit rose 21
percent to 2.69 billion euros. Sales at the CropScience
division, which makes pesticides and other agricultural
chemicals, increased to 2.26 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  