-- 
BB&T, PNC Are Said to Show Interest in RBC’s U.S. Bank

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-28T20:09:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bb-t-pnc-are-said-to-be-interested-in-bidding-for-rbc-s-u-s-retail-bank.html
BB&T Corp. (BBT)  and  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. (PNC)  are among lenders that have shown interest
in buying  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s U.S. consumer bank, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Royal Bank, which put the money-losing RBC Bank unit up for
sale this year, is seeking to sell the business for stock rather
than cash, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private.  “Doing a stock deal would prevent RBC from fully cutting
ties to this market, but at the same time RBC may be recognizing
they’re not in the best position to be the operator,”  Craig Fehr , an analyst with Edward Jones & Co., said.  Royal Bank has spent about $4.6 billion buying a network of
U.S. consumer banks over the past decade, beginning with its
2001 takeover of Centura Banks, since renamed RBC Bank. RBC Bank
has posted annual losses totaling almost $3.1 billion since
2007, according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. filings.  Royal Bank, based in Toronto, rose 5 cents to C$59.63 at
the 4 p.m. close of trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  RBC Bank, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , may fetch as
much as $3.7 billion, according to Peter Routledge, an analyst
at National Bank Financial. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is advising
Royal Bank on the potential sale, other people with knowledge of
the situation said earlier this month.  Southeast Branches  BB&T, the Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based lender, would
use an acquisition to grow in the U.S. Southeast, where it
already has branches in each of the six states in which RBC Bank
operates. BB&T Chief Executive Officer Kelly King said earlier
this year that he’d be “aggressive” in pursuing takeovers.  David White, a spokesman for BB&T, and  Fred Solomon , a
spokesman for PNC, declined to comment. Katherine Gay of Royal
Bank said the lender hasn’t made a decision to sell the unit.  BB&T, the ninth-largest U.S. bank by deposits, has 1,800
offices, according to its website. The lender, which didn’t post
a quarterly loss during the financial crisis, had profit of $816
million in 2010.  PNC, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by deposits, would fill a
gap in its network in the Southeast, adding branches in the
Carolinas, Georgia and  Alabama . The Pittsburgh-based lender
reported last week that first-quarter net income rose 24 percent
to $837 million from a year earlier. Its purchase of National
City Corp. in 2008 helped propel PNC to record profit of $3.4
billion last year.  On the Horizon  “M&A is always on the horizon,” PNC Chief Executive James Rohr said on a conference call with investors last week. “There
are a number of things for sale, but I think we just have to be
disciplined.”  Royal Bank’s domestic rivals Toronto-Dominion Bank and Bank
of Montreal have expanded by acquiring assets. Toronto-Dominion,
 Canada ’s second-largest bank, purchased Chrysler Financial for
about $6.3 billion. Bank of Montreal agreed to buy Wisconsin
lender Marshall & Ilsley Corp. for about $4.1 billion.  Royal Bank CEO Gordon Nixon told investors in January he’s
unsure whether the company would be a buyer or seller of U.S.
banking assets.  “In the short term, our priority is to get the U.S. bank
performing at a more normalized level,” Nixon said at a banking
conference in Toronto.  Royal Bank’s international-banking unit, which includes RBC
Bank, had 10 consecutive quarterly losses before returning to
profit in the first fiscal quarter of 2011, according to the
bank’s financial statements. RBC Bank “was still slightly
unprofitable” in that period, Nixon said on March 3.  “Taking an equity stake in a larger US bank is probably
the best way for RBC to avoid taking a large writedown on the
sale of their U.S. consumer bank,” said  Todd Johnson , a
portfolio manager with BCV Asset Management in Winnipeg,
Manitoba. “Prices on U.S. banks are not near their values when
RBC acquired their U.S. assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net , Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
   dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at +1-212-617-2358 or  dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at +1-212-617-2716 or
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 