-- 
BCR’s Profit Declines 69% on Lower Interest Rates, Bad Loans

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-04-28T05:31:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bcr-s-profit-declines-69-on-lower-interest-rates-bad-loans.html
Banca Comerciala Romana SA,
 Romania ’s largest bank by assets, said its first quarter profit
fell 69 percent as interest income declined and expenses from
bad loans remained high.  Net income dropped to 76.1 million lei ($28 million) from
243 million lei in the same period of last year, the Bucharest-
based bank said today in an e-mailed statement. Net-interest
income, or the difference between money paid on deposits and
earnings on loans, dropped 11.6 percent to 859 million lei from
972 million on lower lending demand and falling  interest rates .  Romania’s banking industry, which is about 90 percent
controlled by international banks, has been hampered by non-
performing loans as a two-year economic contraction left
citizens unable to obtain new loans or pay for homes, cars and
foreign vacations they bought on credit. The country’s economy
is posed to recover “gradually” as the end of the recession
“is near,” BCR said.  “There is still a difficult economic context impacting our
customers and therefore BCR,” Dominic Bruynseels, the bank’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement. “However the
results are encouraging especially on risk costs. Credit demand
remains low as the economic recovery is gradual.”  Provisions for bad loans rose 0.2 percent to 457.4 million
lei from 456.4 billion, as the Romanian companies and
individuals are still confronted with adverse market conditions,
the bank said.  Bad loans stood at 16.8 percent of lending in the first
quarter. The most new bad loans came from the corporate segment
in the first quarter and the small businesses remained most
pressured from liquidity constraints,  BCR said.  Total assets at the bank, which is majority-owned by
 Austria ’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , dropped 2.5 percent to 71.7
billion lei, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  