-- 
Bernanke Begins Public Dialogue With Pledge to Maintain Record Stimulus

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-28T13:28:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bernanke-starts-dialogue-with-public-pledges-to-keep-stimulus.html
Ben S. Bernanke , at the first press
conference by a Federal Reserve Chairman following a policy
meeting, said the economy still requires monetary support while
the need to contain inflation means further easing is unlikely.  The 57-year-old former Princeton University professor
stepped before the television cameras in a top-floor conference
room in the Fed’s Washington headquarters yesterday and began a
dialogue with the American public about the central bank’s goals
and strategies. He explained the tension between reducing an 8.8
percent unemployment rate and keeping a lid on inflation.  “It’s not clear that we can get substantial improvements
in payrolls without some additional inflation risk,” Bernanke
said to nearly 60 reporters. “Ultimately, if, if inflation
persists or if inflation expectations begin to move, then
there’s no substitute for action,” he said. “We would have to
respond.”  The Fed’s decision to have its chairman hold press
conferences four times a year fulfills a key goal Bernanke has
sought since he was a governor in 2002. The added transparency,
already practiced by central banks from the U.K. to New Zealand,
over time is likely to narrow the range of estimates on when the
Fed will change course and reduce swings in short-term interest
rates, said  Julia Coronado  at BNP Paribas.  If the Fed can communicate its intentions better, “there
would naturally be less volatility,” especially in money
markets that are most affected by changes in the Fed’s policy
rate, said Coronado, the firm’s New York-based North America
chief economist.  Five-Paragraph Statement  The 46-minute press conference gave Bernanke a chance to
explain yesterday’s five-paragraph statement by the Federal Open
Market Committee, released less than two hours earlier. The FOMC
agreed to finish $600 billion of Treasury purchases in June and
said surging commodity prices will probably have a transitory
effect on inflation.  “While it’s very, very important for us to try to help the
economy create jobs and to support the recovery, I think every
central banker understands that keeping inflation low and stable
is absolutely essential to a successful economy,” Bernanke
said.  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate in
the first quarter, slowing from the 3.1 percent pace in the last
three months of 2010, the Commerce Department said today in
 Washington . The Fed’s preferred price measure, the personal
consumption expenditures index, minus food and energy, rose at a
1.5 percent annual rate.  Treasury Yields  Treasury 10-year yields approached the lowest in more than
a month today as growth slowed more than forecast by economists.
The yield dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 3.32 percent at 9:05 a.m. in  New York .  “You have to look at this in a broad sweep of history,”
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in reference to the press
conference. “It is a matter of being more open and having
another avenue to convey to the public what the basic strategy
is.”  Before yesterday, economists such as Stanley searched out
changes of even a few words in the FOMC statement, trying to
discern why policy makers decided to raise or lower  interest
rates  or do nothing at all. While the statement provided hints
about future moves, Bernanke placed the discussion yesterday in
the context of prices and jobs, the Fed’s two mandates from
Congress.  Teaching the Public  “He is teaching the American public about how monetary
policy works and about the tradeoffs the Fed faces,” said  Ethan Harris , head of North American economics at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York.  Bernanke’s comments provided additional context to the
statement that normally wouldn’t be available to investors until
the minutes are released three weeks later, or in speeches or
congressional testimony.  The live press conferences depart from more staged events
such as Bernanke’s interviews with CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes”
program in 2009 and 2010, and a town-hall-style discussion on
PBS television.  Once the Fed finishes its $600 billion bond-purchase
program in June, “we are going to continue to reinvest maturing
securities, both Treasuries and MBS, so the amount of securities
that we hold will remain approximately constant,” Bernanke
said, referring to mortgage-backed securities. “Monetary policy
easing should remain constant going forward from June.”  He added that “an early step” in reversing this policy
“would be to stop reinvesting all or a part of the securities”
maturing.  ‘Marcel Marceau’ Policy  As a professor and policy maker, Bernanke has been a
promoter of central bank transparency. When he was a Fed
governor in 2003, he said a central bank that didn’t explain
itself had a “‘Marcel Marceau’ monetary policy, allowing its
actions to convey all its intended meaning.”  University of Chicago  economist Robert Lucas, winner of the
Nobel Prize in 1995, showed that government policies would be
more effective if public expectations were aligned with credible
goals. For Bernanke’s generation of central bankers, Lucas’s
theory became a matter of creed.  Central banks in the U.K.,  New Zealand ,  Canada ,  Australia 
and  Sweden  all adopted numerically specific inflation goals in
the 1990s to help set public expectations. Central banks also
enhanced their communications strategies. The  Bank of England ,
the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand, the Bank of  Japan  and the
 European Central Bank  all hold regular press conferences.  ‘Big Believer’  “I personally have always been a big believer in providing
as much information as you can to help the public understand
what you’re doing, to help the markets understand what you’re
doing, and to be accountable to the public for what you’re
doing,” Bernanke said yesterday.  Under Alan Greenspan in the late 1980s, the Fed began
targeting the federal funds rate, achieving what economists call
“instrument transparency.”  Still, it would take about two decades for the Fed to give
the public greater clarity about how it defined low inflation
and full employment.  The Fed decided in 1994 to release a statement when policy
actions had been taken, and in 2000 to issue a statement after
each meeting.  “There was a view that there was some benefit to
opaqueness” among Greenspan and his deputies at the Fed, even
though modern macroeconomic theory pointed to the contrary, said
Mark Gertler, a New York University economist who has co-written
research with Bernanke.  Press Officer  Former Fed Vice Chairman Alan Blinder said in a 2002 paper
that when he joined the Fed in 1994, the Board’s press officer
discouraged him to speak about the economy.  “Trust me, his briefing was not to extol the virtues of
transparency,” Blinder wrote. “At one point, he informed me:
‘We don’t talk about the economy.’ I looked at him incredulously
and replied, with just a trace of sarcasm: ‘Then what would you
like me to talk about? The weather?’”  Under Bernanke, who took over in 2006, the Fed began
publishing quarterly forecasts of  Federal Open Market Committee 
members. In 2009, FOMC members added longer-run estimates for
growth, unemployment and inflation. Those estimates served as
implicit targets.  The Fed will now release those forecasts three weeks
earlier than in the past, and the chairman explained them in his
opening remarks. Policy makers lowered their forecasts for
economic growth this year and raised estimates for a key gauge
of inflation that excludes volatile food and energy prices.  Marvin Goodfriend , an economist at Carnegie Mellon
University in Pittsburgh, said the press conferences will allow
the Fed chairman to explain how the central bank plans to use
its tools to achieve its longer-term goals. The former Richmond
Fed policy adviser calls it “deliberative transparency,” where
the Fed chairman provides “the public with a sense of the
reasons for Fed policy and actions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  