-- 
Bernanke Avoids Gaffes at Debut News Conference, Regrets Rogoff Chess Game

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-28T14:21:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bernanke-succeeds-by-avoiding-media-gaffes-economists-say.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  avoided saying anything yesterday at his first press
conference that shocked or confused investors. In other words,
economists said, his appearance was a success.  During 46 minutes answering questions, Bernanke commented
on a broad spectrum of economic issues, saying he expected
inflation in fuel costs to slow and the end of the central
bank’s $600 billion bond purchase program in June to have little
impact on markets. He veered away once from the business at hand
to mention his “big mistake” to play chess against economist
 Kenneth Rogoff , a former professional player.  Bernanke’s success in avoiding a gaffe may help validate
the Fed’s decision to open up more to the public after decades
in which Fed chairmen limited their appearances largely to
speeches and congressional testimony. The Fed has now joined
central banks in  Europe , Japan and the U.K. in holding regular
press briefings.  “From the Fed’s point of view it was beautiful,
brilliant,” said William Ford, a former Atlanta Fed president
who teaches at Middle Tennessee State University. “He didn’t
make any goofs and came away as knowledgeable and smart. It was
wonderful PR for him,” Ford said.  Bernanke, 57, said the central bank decided to hold press
conferences four times a year after judging that the benefits
from providing more information and transparency outweighed the
risks of potentially creating “unnecessary volatility in
financial markets.”  Economic Projections  The press conference gave the chairman the chance to
elaborate on a Federal Open Market Committee statement that was
little changed from last month. He also discussed economic
projections that were released concurrent with the meeting for
the first time, instead of three weeks later.  Traders took Bernanke’s comments, and the FOMC statement
released two hours earlier, as a signal the Fed is likely to
maintain record monetary stimulus. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose to an almost three-year high, while long-term
Treasury yields rose and the dollar tumbled.  The press conference contrasted with Bernanke’s rocky start
with the media after he took office in 2006. In April of that
year, he told CNBC reporter Maria Bartiromo at a Washington
party that markets had misinterpreted his remarks to Congress
that had suggested the Fed was finished raising rates. Bonds
tumbled when CNBC reported the conversation. Bernanke later said
the incident was a “lapse in judgment.”  Bernanke Lampooned  Bernanke was lampooned in December by U.S. comedian  Jon Stewart  for likening Fed loans in 2009 to “printing money” and
then telling CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program in December that
the Fed wasn’t printing money by buying $600 billion in  Treasury
securities .  The Fed chief showed more control of the message yesterday,
commenting on how the Fed may maintain stimulus and respond to
any increase in inflation expectations. He tried to show
compassion for the average American, saying the Fed has pursued
record stimulus to help people facing long-term unemployment and
that higher gasoline prices are “absolutely creating a great
deal of financial hardship for a lot of people.”  Bernanke’s body language betrayed his emotions and conveyed
“hopelessness” over long-term unemployment, said Greg Hartley,
a former U.S. Army interrogator and author of “The Body
Language Handbook.” Bernanke also showed emotion when
discussing  Japan ’s response to its March earthquake and nuclear
disaster, Hartley said.  ‘Natural Human Reaction’  “That’s a natural human reaction,” Hartley said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Taking Stock” with Pimm Fox. “He got
more comfortable as time went, and I think the next time we’ll
see a more polished person, but he could use some coaching.”  Bernanke appeared at precisely 2:15 p.m., striding into a
conference room at the central bank’s Martin Building, across
the street and reachable via tunnel from the Eccles Building
headquarters where he chaired the FOMC meeting.  The former Princeton University professor took a seat, to
the clatter of camera shutters, at a mahogany desk on a platform
in front of about 60 reporters seated classroom-style in five
rows of tables. For 11 minutes, or almost one-fourth of the
allotted time, Bernanke read a statement discussing the FOMC’s
actions and its forecasts.  Michelle Smith , Bernanke’s chief spokeswoman, stood off
camera selecting reporters for questions. Bernanke didn’t
hesitate after a reporter suggested that the Fed has been
“unsuccessful” in supporting the dollar. He said investors
flocked to the dollar as a safe haven during the financial
crisis, and its drop over the last couple of years reflects
reduced “uncertainty.”  Reinhart, Rogoff Book  The final question, about a book on the history of
financial crises by  Carmen Reinhart  and Rogoff stoked Bernanke’s
memory about Rogoff, a graduate school classmate of Bernanke’s
at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in the late 1970s who
is now at  Harvard University .  “I’ve known him for a long time,” Bernanke said. “I
even played chess against him, which was a big mistake.”  Charles Lieberman , former head of monetary analysis at the
New York Fed, said Bernanke parried well questions that put him
in a “no-win situation.”  “He refused to answer hypothetical questions or get
distracted by weak arguments,” said Lieberman, chief investment
officer with Advisors Capital Management LLC in  Hasbrouck
Heights ,  New Jersey .  The central bank chairman succeeded in “being informative
and clarifying and not making a lot of news,” said  Diane Swonk ,
chief economist at Mesirow Financial Inc. in  Chicago , who has
tracked the Fed since 1987.  Rogoff in an interview today declined to comment on his
chess game against Bernanke, other than to say Bernanke played
as black using an opening strategy known as Petrov’s Defense.  As for the press conference, “I thought he gave, speaking
of chess, a masterful performance,” Rogoff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Washington at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  