-- 
Best Job Market for U.S. Grads Since 2008 Bears Multiple Offers

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-04-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/best-job-market-for-u-s-graduates-since-2008-leading-to-multiple-offers.html
Hamza Afzal had such a hard time
finding an electrical-engineering internship in the recession
that he delayed his graduation, took pre-med classes and applied
to law school. This year, he got two job offers in his field.  “I definitely saw a shift in the job market,” said Afzal, a
24-year-old senior at  San Jose State University , who will start
May 30 at chipmaker  Linear Technology Corp. (LLTC)  in nearby Milpitas,
 California . “There was a lot of pressure off my shoulders.”  The class of 2011 is enjoying the best job market for new
graduates since the 2008 financial crisis, according to the
 National Association of Colleges and Employers . The turnaround
is being driven by gains in finance, energy and technology, said
Edwin Koc, who heads research at the association. Companies are
filling a backlog of jobs after two years of stagnant hiring and
looking to younger workers to fill vacancies, he said. This
year, 1.61 million students are expected to graduate, he said.  Job creation  is booming in Silicon Valley, where postings
have doubled from two years ago at technology career website
 Dice Holdings Inc.   “It’s quite a stunning comeback,” said Lance Choy, director
of the career development center at  Stanford University  near
 Palo Alto , California. “Over the past couple of years there’s
been a lot of anxiety. It’s been a bleak time for students.
We’ve come back from quite a dip.”  ‘Recruit Once, Hire Twice’  Postings  at Stanford’s online job board for full-time
positions surged 36 percent to 1,900 in the fourth quarter of
last year compared with a year earlier, Choy said. Internship
postings climbed 31 percent.  Emerging areas of technology like social media, mobile
applications and e-commerce are fueling rapid hiring at large
companies like  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Apple Inc. as well as at hundreds
of venture capital-backed startups.  At San Jose State, job postings increased by 59 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier, according to Cheryl
Allmen-Vinnedge, director of the school’s  career center . A job
fair at the university on April 12 drew more employers than the
school had room for, she said.  Increasingly, students are finding that internships can
lead to full-time jobs as companies use them to audition
potential employees, Allmen-Vinnedge said.  “Employers want to recruit once and hire twice,” she
said.  Internship Fever  Robert Fischer, 22, a San Jose State senior from  Los Altos ,
California, spent three years interning at Google and will start
a full-time position after graduating in May.  “I look at an internship as sort of an extended interview,”
said Fischer, who became fascinated with engineers at  Mountain
View , California-based Google while in high school. “I showed
them how hard I was willing to work and the things I could do. I
think that helped.”  Zynga Inc., the biggest maker of online games on Facebook
Inc., is hiring about 130 college graduates this year, 35
percent more than last year, said Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for
the San Francisco-based company.  Facebook is “aggressively hiring the best talent we can in
the quickest manner possible,” said Adam Ward, a recruiting
manager at the Palo Alto company, who didn’t disclose how many
positions are being added.  That kind of hiring is a switch from the past few years,
when the recession crimped hiring of new graduates by the
biggest consulting firms and investment banks. Students were
forced to work harder at networking and contacting alumni, said
Stanford’s Choy.  “There’s a lot of frustration,” he said. “They wondered,
‘Gee, all this education, what is it worth?’”  Early Offers  In 2009, the  University of California , Berkeley, halved its
 job fair  from two days to one because of a dearth of interested
employers. This year, the April event returned to two days and
drew 160 companies, up from 95 last year.  The hiring climate is also improving outside Silicon
Valley. Schools from  New York University  to  Northwestern
University  in Evanston,  Illinois , say opportunities this year
for graduating students have increased, and that the recruiting
process began earlier than in past years.  Employer attendance at Northwestern’s fall job fair grew 42
percent, according to Lonnie Dunlap, executive director of the
school’s career services. Job postings have climbed 48 percent.  Danielle Even, 22, an NYU senior with a double major in
finance and economics, accepted a job offer last August. The
Brooklyn native interned during the summer at  Evercore Partners
Inc. (EVR)  and was offered a full-time position at the investment bank
that starts in June.  “I was able to sign and really not have to worry about
searching for a job throughout my whole senior year,” Even said
in a phone interview.  Tough for Some  The path to the workforce isn’t smooth for all students.  Alice Boudes, 21, a Boston University senior majoring in
communications, has been searching for a job without a specific
occupation in mind.  “It’s super competitive,” the French-born student said.
“Especially for communications, jobs don’t really open up until
later in the year. It’s tough. I’m a part-time student this
semester, and I did that on purpose so that I could have more
time to try to find a job.”  Graduate students may be the biggest winners of the hiring
boom, especially those with degrees in business,  engineering  or
computer science.  Madhavi Sewak, 22, a computer science master’s candidate at
Stanford from  New Delhi , received three job offers and will
start at Google when she graduates. Fellow Stanford student
Adithya Rao, 30, from Bangalore,  India , had five offers.  Less Risky Path?  The frenzy to hire business and engineering students makes
it a great opportunity for job seekers, who can gain valuable
experience being part of a startup, said  Baba Shiv , a professor
at Stanford Graduate School of Business who studies human
behavior.  “For students, it’s the perfect time to take chances,” he
said. “Do it now. In five years, it will be over.”  That’s the route Hamid Schricker, 30, is taking. A student
at the Haas School of Business at Berkeley, Schricker took a
leave of absence in December to work at  Fwix , a  San Francisco 
startup that offers an online news service for local
communities, after an internship there.  “There was less risk to join the company than to stay in
school,” said Schricker, who is from San Francisco. “I can
always go back to business school and complete my degree.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  