-- 
Blackstone Is Said to Agree on $764 Million Price for Valad Property Group

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-04-28T21:06:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/blackstone-is-said-to-agree-on-764-million-price-for-valad-property-group.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  agreed to buy
 Valad Property Group (VPG)  for about A$700 million ($764 million)
including assumed debt, said two people with knowledge of the
deal, its first major acquisition of real estate in Australia.  The people, who asked not to be identified, declined to say
how much Blackstone will pay on a per-share basis because the
buyout of the Sydney-based company hasn’t been announced.  Valad ,
whose stock-market value is A$133 million, has about A$500
million of debt, according to the people.  Stephen Schwarzman , Blackstone’s chairman and chief
executive officer, told investors on a March 8 conference call
that the New York-based buyout firm will continue to
“aggressively deploy capital” in real estate as prices recover
with the economy. A fourfold increase in profit from its real
estate funds helped Blackstone post its best quarterly results
since going public in 2007, the company said April 21.  Blackstone fell 34 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $19.15 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock,
which yesterday reached its highest price since May 2008, has
returned 41 percent including dividends in the past year.  Valad oversees about A$8 billion of real estate, including
office buildings and industrial properties, mainly in Australia,
according to its website. It also manages unlisted property
funds in Australia and  Europe .  ‘Material Transaction’  Valad is in talks with a third party “in relation to a
material transaction regarding the whole of the Valad
business,” the company said today in a letter asking the
Australian Stock Exchange to halt trading of its stock. The
shares closed yesterday at A$1.155, down 57 percent in the past
year.  Blackstone bought A$165 million of Valad convertible notes
from  Kimco Realty Corp. (KIM) , said  New Hyde Park , New York-based
Kimco yesterday in a statement.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for New
York-based Blackstone, declined today to comment.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, is
scheduled to complete its $9.4 billion purchase of the U.S.
shopping centers of Australia’s  Centro Properties Group (CNP)  around
mid-year.  Centro is Blackstone’s largest real estate deal since 2007,
when it bought the hotel chain since renamed Hilton Worldwide
and Equity Office Properties Trust. Both Centro and Valad
struggled to repay debt after the global  property market  tumbled
from late 2007 to 2009.  Valad Resignation  Peter Hurley resigned as managing director of Valad on
April 18 after his proposal for a management-led buyout of the
company’s European unit failed. Valad in December called the
proposal “incomplete.”  Buying Valad would add to Blackstone’s acquisitions last
year of 180 warehouse properties from Denver-based  ProLogis (PLD)  and
investments in hotel chain Extended Stay Inc. and mall owner
 General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)  In November, Blackstone took over
the management of $2 billion of Asian real estate assets from
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Blackstone is planning to raise its next real estate fund,
with a target of about $10 billion, later this year. The company
has the largest real estate business of the big private-equity
firms, with $33.2 billion under management at the end of 2010.  “I think from just talking with people in the marketplace
on a regular basis that a lot of investors are looking for a way
to take advantage of this asset class,” Schwarzman said on
March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  