-- 
Blackstone to Buy Valad in Second Distressed Australian Deal

-- B y   H u i - Y o n g   Y u   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-04-29T06:36:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/blackstone-agrees-to-buy-all-valad-securities-at-a-1-80-each.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  agreed to buy
 Valad Property Group (VPG)  in its second deal with a distressed
Australian property company in less than two months.  The world’s largest private-equity firm will pay A$1.80 a
share, 56 percent more than Valad’s closing price on April 27,
the Sydney-based company said in a statement. The purchase
values the owner of Australian office buildings and industrial
properties at A$208 million ($227 million), according to Valad
spokesman Ian Pemberton, principal at P&L Corporate
Communications. Blackstone will also assume some A$600 million
of Valad’s liabilities, Pemberton said.  The deal follows Blackstone’s $9.4 billion March agreement
to buy the U.S. shopping centers of Australia’s  Centro
Properties Group. (CNP)  For Valad shareholders, who watched the stock
sink 99 percent in the 22 months to March 2009, it offers a way
out after the company struggled to pay off debt after the value
of its assets tumbled through the financial crisis.  “In the absence of another bid, this is the lesser of the
two evils,” said Winston Sammut, managing director of Sydney-
based Maxim Asset Management Ltd. “If there was a wind down of
the company, it’s doubtful whether shareholders would be able to
get that price.”  Valad’s shares soared 52 percent to A$1.75 as of the 4:10
p.m. close in Sydney, the most since December 2002. The shares
peaked at A$42.92 in May 2007, then slumped to 44 Australian
cents in March 2009. Blackstone shares fell 1.7 percent to end
the day at $19.15 in  New York  yesterday.  Deploying Capital  Stephen Schwarzman , Blackstone’s chairman and chief
executive officer, told investors on a March 8 conference call
that the New York-based buyout firm will continue to
“aggressively deploy capital” in real estate as prices recover
with the economy. A fourfold increase in profit from its real
estate funds helped Blackstone post its best quarterly results
since going public in 2007, the company said on April 21.  Centro is Blackstone’s largest real estate deal since 2007,
when it bought the hotel chain since renamed Hilton Worldwide
and Equity Office Properties Trust. Both Centro and Valad
struggled to repay debt after the global  property market  tumbled
from late 2007 to 2009.  Valad oversees about A$8 billion of real estate, including
office buildings and industrial properties, mainly in  Australia ,
according to its website. It also manages unlisted property
funds in Australia and  Europe .  Board Recommends  Peter Hurley resigned as managing director of Valad on
April 18 after his proposal for a management-led buyout of the
company’s European unit failed. Valad in December called the
proposal “incomplete.”  Valad bought more than A$2 billion worth of properties in
2007. While it has sold off some of them and raised new equity
to repay loans since then, the company has struggled to cut debt,
reporting a A$50.7 million net loss in the six months to
December.  Valad’s board unanimously recommended Blackstone’s bid “in
the absence of a superior proposal,” the company said in
today’s statement.  Blackstone bought A$165 million of Valad convertible notes
from  Kimco Realty Corp. (KIM) , New York-based Kimco said in a
statement on April 27.  Buying Valad adds to Blackstone’s acquisitions last year of
180 warehouse properties from Denver-based  ProLogis (PLD)  and
investments in hotel chain Extended Stay Inc. and mall owner
 General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)  With the Valad purchase,
Blackstone adds buildings from the Gold Fields House in Sydney’s
center to the MacGregor Mega Center in Brisbane. In November,
Blackstone took over the management of $2 billion of Asian real
estate assets from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Blackstone is planning to raise its next real estate fund,
with a target of about $10 billion, later this year. The company
has the largest real estate business of the big private-equity
firms, with $33.2 billion under management at the end of 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  