-- 
BOJ Policy Makers Reject Proposal to Expand Asset Purchases

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-04-28T05:13:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/boj-policy-makers-reject-proposal-to-expand-asset-purchases-1-.html
Bank of Japan  policy makers
rejected a proposal by a deputy governor to expand its asset-
buying program by 5 trillion yen ($61 billion) to cope with last
month’s record earthquake.  The other eight members of the policy board voted against
Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura’s proposal to increase a 40
trillion yen program to inject cash into the market, according
to a statement released in Tokyo today. The policy makers
decided unanimously to keep the benchmark overnight rate between
zero percent and 0.1 percent.  Nishimura’s proposal underscores the pressure Japan’s
central bank is facing to provide further monetary stimulus as
the extent of damage from last month’s disaster becomes clear.
Government data this week showed a record decline in industrial
production in March and retail sales slumping most in 13 years.  “The BOJ will probably implement additional easing
measures should the economy’s outlook deteriorates further,”
Izuru Kato, chief market economist at Totan Research Co. in
Tokyo, said before the announcement. “It will likely expand the
asset-buying bund again, to 15 trillion yen.”  Standard and Poor’s yesterday lowered its outlook on
 Japan ’s sovereign rating of AA- to “negative,” as the nation’s
reconstruction costs will likely widen budget deficits.  The central bank has injected a record amount of cash in
the money market and doubled its asset-purchase program since
the March 11 earthquake that has killed or left missing almost
26,000 people. Prime Minister Naoto Kan last week unveiled a 4
trillion yen spending package for relief efforts and indicated
that tax increases may be needed to fund stimulus.  Stalling Activity  Data released in the past month point to stalling activity
in the world’s third-largest economy. Exports fell for the first
time in more than a year and a report earlier today showed
factory output slid a record 15.3 percent in March from February,
the biggest drop since data began in 1953. Core consumer prices,
the bank’s preferred measure, fell 0.1 percent.  The board will update its forecasts for economic growth and
consumer prices at 3 p.m. in  Tokyo  today. The BOJ predicted
gross domestic product would grow 1.6 percent in the year ending
March 2012 and inflation would rise 0.3 percent when they
reviewed the projections in January. Policy makers will probably
cut their GDP estimate and raise their inflation outlook,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Add Stimulus  Central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa this week
indicated the central bank is ready to add stimulus if necessary,
signaling the possibility of increasing a growth program
targeted at encouraging lending to industries ranging from
energy, the environment and agriculture.  Analysts said they don’t see Bank of Japan directly
purchasing debt from the government to help fund public burden
of reconstruction. Shirakawa this week reiterated that it’s
“undesirable” to purchase debt directly because it could fan
inflation. Buying  government bonds  may also discourage the
government from raising taxes amid calls for Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  to resign over his handling of the earthquake and
nuclear disaster.  “Having the BOJ underwrite debt would effectively end any
debate on raising taxes,” said  Ryutaro Kono , chief economist at
BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd in Tokyo. “Embarking on debt
monetization would spur inflation, drive up bond yields and
invite a financial crisis.”  Risk of a rout in the  bond market  could be avoided by just
increasing its 1.8 trillion yen of monthly government debt
purchases from the market, according to Jun Ishii, chief fixed-
income strategist at chief fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  