-- 
Retailer Magazine Luiza Joins Consumer IPO Boom With $911 Million Offering

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-04-28T03:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/brazil-retailer-luiza-joins-consumer-ipo-boom-with-911-million-offering.html
Brazilian electronics and furniture
retailer  Magazine Luiza SA  plans to raise as much as 1.43
billion reais ($911 million) in an initial public offering,
becoming the fourth consumer company in the nation to seek
equity financing for the first time this year.  The Franca-based company plans to sell as many as 67.9
million shares at 16 reais to 21 reais each, according to the
prospectus published April 17 in Valor Economico. The shares are
scheduled to be priced after the market closes today and begin
trading on May 2.  Six Brazilian companies sold shares this year, raising a
total of about 3.64 billion reais, 47 percent more than in the
same period last year. Consumer companies are gaining from
retail sales growth exceeding 8 percent for 17 straight months
and the fastest economic expansion in two decades.  “Retail companies have benefitted not only from credit
expansion, but also from a stronger tendency of Brazilians to
consume,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 70 million
reais at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis,  Brazil , said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It turns out that one thing
leads to the other, and this sector really stood out in terms of
the number of IPOs.”  Magazine Luiza has 611 stores and plans to use part of the
proceeds from the IPO to open new outlets, according to the
prospectus. The retailer was founded in the  Sao Paulo  city of
Franca in 1957 by Luiza Trajano and Pelegrino Jose Donato. Luiza Helena Trajano, their niece, took over management in 1991 and is
the company’s chief executive officer.  Newspaper Campaign  Luiza is selling shares amid signals consumer spending may
slow. Brazil’s bank lending expanded in March at the second-
slowest pace in 13 months as the government stepped up efforts
to contain demand and inflation by curbing  consumer credit ,
according to a central bank report released yesterday.  Through newspaper and television  advertisements  featuring
Trajano, Magazine Luiza is marketing the sale to individual
investors in a nation where record economic and employment
growth are creating a new class of potential shareholders.  “The idea, on top of attracting big investors interested
in Brazil, is to also reach a part of the population that is
starting to invest in stocks and is exactly the target public
for the company,” Jean-Marc Etlin, vice president for
 investment banking  at Banco Itau BBA SA said in an April 19
interview in Sao Paulo. Itau is managing the sale along with BTG
Pactual SA, BB Investimentos,  Barclays Capital  and Banco
Santander SA.  New Investor Class  In the ads, Trajano calls on customers to become Magazine
Luiza’s partners, with the slogan: “In each stock, many
values.”  “Luiza wanted a personal touch in the IPO campaign,”
Etlin said. “It was her idea to be in the advertisements.”  During former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s eight
years in office, 21 million Brazilians were brought out of
poverty, and unemployment fell to a record low 5.7 percent in
November.  Latin America ’s largest economy grew 7.5 percent in
2010, the fastest pace in more than two decades, and should
expand 4.5 percent in 2011, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
April 26.  President  Dilma Rousseff , who took office this year, said
eradicating poverty will be her main goal. Unemployment in March
rose less than forecast to 6.5 percent. That was the lowest on
record for the month, indicating the economy is still heated.  Of the Brazilian companies that have sold shares this year,
only T4F Entretenimento SA, a live-entertainment services
provider, has declined, sliding 8.3 percent from its offering
price of 16 reais on April 11. Footwear maker Arezzo Industria &
Comercio SA has gained the most, rising 28 percent from the
initial price of 19 reais.  Consumer IPO Trend  The trend of consumer and retail companies leading Brazil
IPOs is likely to continue, BM&FBovespa SA’s CEO Edemir Pinto
told reporters in Sao Paulo this week.  “This is a sector that is attracting a lot of interest
from investors outside Brazil,” Itau’s Etlin said.  Magazine Luiza also plans to use the money from the IPO to
remodel stores, acquire companies in the electronics and retail
industry and bolster its cash position, according to the
prospectus. The company and shareholders declined to comment,
citing the so-called quiet period before the offering, according
to Magazine Luiza’s outside press agency in Ribeirao Preto.  Will Landers, manager of the $1.06 billion Latin America
Fund at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said in an April 13 interview that
Brazil IPO valuations are too high and that companies seeking
share sales may have to cut their prices to make them
attractive.  At least four Brazilian company IPOs were priced either at
the bottom of initial estimates or below this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net 
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  