-- 
Brazil’s Bovespa Stock Index Falls on Earnings, Credit Tightening Concerns

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-04-28T20:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/brazil-s-bovespa-stock-index-futures-fall-on-earnings-tightening-concern.html
The Bovespa stock index fell for a
second day on disappointing earnings and prospects for
additional monetary tightening in  Brazil  and  China .  The benchmark gauge of Brazilian financial shares fell the
most since March 10, led by Banco Santander Brasil SA on
earnings that trailed a larger rival.  Natura Cosmeticos SA (NATU3) ,
Brazil’s biggest cosmetics maker, tumbled after first-quarter
profit missed forecasts.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) 
led steelmakers lower after posting an unexpected net loss.
Losses were offset as card-payment processors Cielo SA and
Redecard SA surged more than 5 percent.  The Bovespa fell 0.9 percent to 65,673.21 at the 4:15 p.m.
New York time close, paring a slide of as much as 1.8 percent.
Forty-nine stocks declined on the index while 20 rose. The real
lost 0.6 percent to 1.5762 per dollar.  “We’re in a bad environment from a technical point of
view, with foreigners leaving Brazil and flows very negative
year-to-date,” said  Roni Lacerda , who helps manage 2.8 billion
reais ($1.77 billion) at Rio de Janeiro-based Mercatto Gestao de
Recursos.  Investors pulled 3.87 billion reais from  Latin America ’s
biggest equity market this year through April 18, data from the
Sao Paulo exchange show. Brazilian stocks fell the most in a
week yesterday as banks tumbled on speculation that slowing
credit expansion isn’t enough to stave off additional curbs.  Adjustment Cycle  Brazil’s central bank said that it will prolong its
interest-rate adjustment cycle at a slower pace even though a
“substantial” part of its fight against inflation has already
been carried out, according to the minutes of its April 19-20
meeting. Traders reacted by pushing up yields on shorter-term
interest-rate futures contracts.  In China, Brazil’s biggest trading partner, stocks fell for
a fifth day on speculation the government will increase  interest
rates  by as early as next week to tame inflation.  The MSCI Brazil/Financials Index fell 2.7 percent.  Santander Brasil slipped 4.5 percent to 17.95 reais, the
most since November. The bank’s first-quarter profit rose 18
percent to 2.1 billion reais from a year earlier, according to a
regulatory filing today. Spanish parent Banco Santander SA’s
Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz said on a webcast that the
bank will still need time to “catch up” with the performance
of Brazilian peers.  Bradesco Earnings  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Brazil’s second-biggest bank by market
value, yesterday reported a 28 percent jump in profit. The stock
today fell 2.4 percent to 31.08 reais after Portuguese lender
Banco Espirito Santo SA agreed to sell a 2 billion-real stake.  Natura said profit rose 6.3 percent to 150.5 million reais
from a year earlier, falling short of the mean estimate of 161.8
million reais by eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock
slid 3.4 percent to 43.25 reais.  Usiminas fell 3 percent to 16.20 reais after swinging to a
quarterly loss of 26.1 million reais. Redecard gained 6 percent
to 23.90 reais after first-quarter results showed the company
collected higher-than-expected fees, easing concerns that
increasing competition would reduce profits. Cielo, its biggest
rival, jumped 5.4 percent to 14.70 reais.  Retailers paid Redecard an average of 0.71 percent on each
debit-card transaction in the first-quarter, 0.01 percentage
point more than in the previous quarter, the company said. The
average fee charged on credit-card payments declined to 1.13
percent from 1.18 percent. The rates were higher than expected
by Daniel Malheiros, an analyst at Spinelli Corretora SA
brokerage in  Sao Paulo .  Magazine Luiza IPO  Brazilian electronics and furniture retailer Magazine Luiza
SA plans to raise as much as 1.43 billion reais in an initial
public offering, becoming the fourth consumer company in the
nation to seek equity financing for the first time this year.  The Franca-based company plans to sell as many as 67.9
million shares at 16 reais to 21 reais each, according to the
prospectus published April 17 in  Valor Economico . The shares are
scheduled to be priced tonight and begin trading on May 2.  The Bovespa is down 5.2 percent this year after declines in
 oil companies , homebuilders and banks outweighed a rally in
telecom shares. The index trades at 10.7 times analysts’
earnings estimates, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 13.8 for the Shanghai
Composite Index, 7.5 for  Russia ’s Micex, and 15.5 for  India ’s
Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  