-- 
Brazilian Central Bank Sees a ‘Prolonged’ Cycle of Interest Rate Increases

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-04-28T14:14:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/brazil-central-bank-sees-a-prolonged-cycle-of-interest-rate-increases.html
Brazil ’s central bank said it will
raise  interest rates  at a slower pace for a longer period than
initially planned as the country’s inflation outlook worsens,
according to the minutes of its April 19-20 meeting.  Policy makers raised the benchmark Selic rate by 25 basis
points, to 12 percent, on April 20 after 50 basis-point
increases at each of their two previous meetings this year. They
said today that a “substantial” part of their anti-
inflationary effort has already been implemented given the
recent rate increases and measures to curb credit.  The decision to slow the pace of interest rate increases
was “associated to the decision to prolong the adjustment
cycle,” the bank said. “The monetary policy committee
understands, with unanimity, that given uncertainty over the
persistence of recent inflationary pressures and the complexity
of the global environment, the total adjustment of the reference
interest rate should be, starting at this meeting, sufficiently
prolonged,” today’s minutes said.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is relying on a
mix of higher borrowing costs, measures to curb credit growth
and spending cuts to bring the fastest inflation in 29 months
back to policy makers’ 4.5 percent target in 2012. Consumer
prices are likely to exceed the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
target range in the third quarter, according to central bank
estimates.  “The majority of the committee believes that a substantial
anti-inflationary effort was already introduced in the economy
over the past four months,” the central bank said.  Yields, Currency  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012, the most traded on Sao Paulo’s BM&F exchange
today, rose two basis points to 12.33 percent at 9:11 a.m. New
York time, after the minutes reinforced bets that the central
bank will raise rates again in June.  Policy makers will raise the benchmark rate by a quarter
point at each of its next two meetings, pushing the Selic to
12.50 percent before pausing, said  Zeina Latif , a senior
economist with RBS Securities Inc. in  Sao Paulo .  “The tone and assessment of inflation risks changed
meaningfully,” Latif said via e-mail. “Inflation forecasts
worsened, and it reduced the central bank’s confidence in the
previous strategy.”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, now expects the central bank to raise rates by
25 basis points at its next three meetings, he said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. Santos had previously
forecast a single further rate increase.  Fuel Costs  Policy makers, who had expected gasoline prices to remain
unchanged, now see fuel costs jumping 2.2 percent this year
because of turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East, the
minutes show. They also revised their 2011 forecast for
increases in regulated prices, including public transport and
utilities, to 4.3 percent from 4 percent.  Developing nations from  China  to  Chile  are stepping up
efforts to tame inflation that’s being stoked by a 32 percent
jump in commodity prices in the past 12 months.  Consumer prices in Brazil accelerated to 6.44 percent in
the year through mid-April, the fastest pace since November
2008. The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or
minus two percentage points to accommodate price shocks.  The central bank is “buying time” by extending its cycle
of rate increases as it assesses the effects of the actions it
has already taken, said Enestor Dos Santos, senior Brazil
economist for BBVA in  Madrid .  Praying For Help  “They are waiting for these actions to have an impact and
praying for the international environment to provide some
help,”  Dos Santos  said, speaking by telephone. “There is a
difference between this central bank and the previous one. In
the past you would see them shooting first and asking questions
later. This time they are asking before shooting.”  Rousseff’s government pledged to cut 50.7 billion reais
($32.4 billion) from its 2011 budget to help curb inflationary
pressure. In December the central bank raised banks’ reserve
requirements to slow credit growth, and this month the
government doubled to 3 percent the so-called IOF tax on
 consumer credit .  Taming inflation will require an “incisive” effort,
central bank President Alexandre Tombini said on April 26.  Less Lending Growth  Bank lending expanded in March at the second-slowest pace
in 13 months, the central bank said in a report yesterday. Total
outstanding credit rose 1 percent in March to 1.75 trillion
reais from a revised 1.73 trillion reais in February, down from
a 1.3 percent increase in the previous month. The average
interest rate charged on consumer loans rose to 45 percent in
March, up from 43.8 percent in February, the bank said.  The central government primary surplus, excluding interest
payments, widened to 9.1 billion reais in March, the Treasury
said April 26. The surplus was wider than the median 8.2 billion
reais estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts.  Recent measures announced and implemented by the government
show that “fiscal consolidation” is being carried out, the
minutes said.  Growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy will slow to 4.5
percent this year from 7.5 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in
more than two decades, according to estimates by the  Finance
Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  