-- 
Brazil Central Bank Takes Over Payroll Lender Morada For ‘Serious’ Abuses

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 
2011-04-28T16:48:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/brazil-central-bank-takes-over-payroll-lender-morada-for-serious-abuses.html
Brazil’s central bank took over
control of payroll lender Banco Morada SA because of “serious”
financial violations by the country’s 69th biggest lender by
deposits.  Morada, which has 41 employees at its single branch in  Rio
de Janeiro , didn’t comply with asset requirements and its
controllers didn’t present a viable recovery plan for the
institution, the central bank said in  a statement . The
intervention follows a bailout last year of mid-size lender
Banco Panamericano SA by the nation’s deposit insurance fund and
Banco BMG SA’s 230 million-real ($145 million) purchase
yesterday of Banco Schahin SA, the 43rd biggest by deposits.  Morada probably faced difficulties raising funds as a
result of market speculation over the past two years that it was
for sale, said Gilberto Braga, a finance professor at the
Instituto Brasileiro de Mercado de Capitais, a business school
in Rio.  “During every crisis, it was a bank that the market saw as
having problems,” Braga said in a telephone interview. “It was
always rumored to be up for sale.”  About 32 percent of Morada’s short- and long-term deposits
are covered by  Brazil ’s deposit insurance fund, according to the
central bank’s statement.  The closely held Morada’s 566 million reais in assets
accounted for 0.01 percent of Brazil’s financial system and its
388 million in deposits represented 0.03 percent of the total in
December 2010, the central bank said.  Payroll Lending  Morada was the fastest-expanding lender among Brazil’s
small and mid-sized banks in a 2010 ranking by Valor Economico
newspaper. The bank’s credit grew 282 percent in 2009, according
to the Valor1000 annual list of Brazil’s biggest and best
businesses.  The bank, which was founded in 1967, is focused on
providing payroll loans to pensioners, members of the military
and public sector employees, according to its  website . Braga
said the takeover shouldn’t be taken as a sign that Brazil’s
market for consigned credit, one of the biggest sources of
credit growth in recent years, is at risk.  “News of the intervention was well received because it
shows that the central bank has taken correct action,” Marcial Portela, chief executive officer of Banco Santander Brasil SA,
told reporters in  Sao Paulo . “The cost of having an
overprotected system pays for preventing banks from becoming
inviable.”  Phone calls by Bloomberg to Morada weren’t answered.  Panamericano, Schahin  Panamericano was Brazil’s 21st-biggest lender and the
largest for used cars before the central bank launched an
accounting fraud investigation last year. Banco BTG Pactual SA
on Jan. 31 agreed to buy a controlling stake in Panamericano for
450 million reais.  Yesterday, BMG said it agreed to buy Schahin in a bid to
expand its presence in the payroll lending market. Schahin,
which was founded in 1978, had 872 million reais in assets at
the end of 2010.  Bank Lending  Regulators will investigate Morada further and may adopt
administrative sanctions as well as consult other authorities
should wrongdoings emerge, according to the  central bank 
statement.  The central bank said it was also taking control of a
travel agency, credit card administrator and information
technology firm owned by the bank’s parent, Morada Investimentos
SA.  Brazil’s bank lending expanded in March at the second-
slowest pace in 13 months as the government stepped up efforts
to contain demand and inflation by curbing credit to consumers.  Speculative-Grade  Total outstanding credit rose 1 percent in March to 1.75
trillion reais from a revised 1.73 trillion reais in February,
down from a 1.3 percent increase in the previous month. The
average interest rate charged on consumer loans rose to 45
percent in March, up from 43.8 percent in February.  Brazil’s mid- and small-size banks will continue to be
“largely dependent on wholesale funding at home and abroad,”
given their funding profiles, Fitch Ratings director Robert
Stoll wrote in a note to clients today.  “These banks will face significant challenges going
forward, in order to preserve their relevance and sustain their
business models,” Stoll said. “Mid- and small-size banks have
become active players in the increased bank penetration in
Brazil, despite their relatively small share of the country’s
overall financial system, and this trend is expected to continue
in the short to medium term.”  Companies of this segment tend to be rated speculative-
grade on an international scale, as ratings are constrained by
the small size and low business diversification, Stoll said.  Policy makers will rely on a variety of policies, which
includes higher borrowing costs, measures to curb credit growth
and spending cuts to bring inflation back to the government’s
target by the end of next year, the central bank said in its
quarterly inflation report last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  