-- 
Brazil’s Wholesale Inflation Index Slowed More Than Expected This Month

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-04-28T11:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/brazil-s-wholesale-inflation-index-slowed-more-than-expected-this-month.html
Brazil’s broadest measure of
inflation slowed more than economists expected this month as
wholesale prices eased.  Prices, as measured by the IGP-M  price index , rose 0.45
percent in April from the previous month, the Getulio Vargas
Foundation said. That’s less than the 0.57 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 29 analysts and less than the
0.62 percent registered in March.  The jump in prices was the lowest since a 0.15 percent
increase in July, 2010. Prices rose 10.6 percent from last year.  Wholesale prices, which constitute 60 percent of the index,
rose 0.29 percent compared with 0.65 percent gain in the
previous month. Consumer prices rose 0.78 percent in the month,
more than the 0.62 percent in March, while construction prices
rose 0.75 percent.  Policy makers slowed the pace of interest rate increases
last week, raising the benchmark Selic rate by 25 basis points,
to 12 percent, after 50 basis-point increases at each of their
two previous meetings this year.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said on April 26
that the task of slowing inflation back to target next year will
require a “prolonged” and “incisive” effort. Consumer prices
in  Brazil  are being fueled by a jump in commodity prices and by
domestic factors as well, Tombini said. Services inflation has
remained high, reflecting a heated economy, he said.  The central bank will rely on a mix of policies, which
include higher  interest rates , spending cuts and measures to
curb credit, to slow inflation back to the midpoint of its
target range next year, policy makers said in their quarterly
inflation report March 30.  Brazil targets an annual inflation rate of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  said this week she’s
“immensely worried” about accelerating prices and “committed
to controlling inflation,” as her government is ready to take
measures whenever necessary. Brazil has demand pressures that
should be controlled, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  