-- 
Brazil Short-Term Interest Rate Futures Increase on Central Bank’s Minutes

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-04-28T21:50:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/brazil-short-term-interest-rate-futures-increase-on-central-bank-s-minutes.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts due in January rose while contracts maturing
in five years fell after the central bank said it will continue
increasing borrowing costs over a longer period than traders had
expected.  Yields on the futures contract due in January increased 2
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.33 percent at 5
p.m. in  New York . Yields on the contract due in January 2016
fell 7 basis points to 12.61 percent. The real weakened 0.7
percent, its biggest daily decline since April 18.  Brazil’s central bank said it will prolong its interest-
rate adjustment cycle at a slower pace even though a
“substantial” part of its fight against inflation has already
been carried out, according to the minutes of its April 19-20
monetary policy meeting. Policy makers raised the benchmark
Selic rate by 25 basis points, to 12 percent, on April 20 after
50 basis-point increases at each of their two previous meetings
this year.  “The minutes show the preoccupation of the central bank”
with inflation, said Vladimir Caramaschi, chief strategist at
Credit Agricole Brasil SA DTVM in  Sao Paulo . “They really
emphasized the importance of keeping inflation under control,”
he said in a telephone interview.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is relying on a
mix of higher borrowing costs, measures to curb credit growth
and spending cuts to bring the fastest inflation in 29 months
back to the 4.5 percent target in 2012. Taming inflation will
require a “prolonged” and “incisive” effort, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said on April 26.  Inflation Data  Consumer prices in Brazil, as measured by the IPCA-15
index, rose 6.44 percent in the 12 months through mid-April, the
fastest pace since November 2008. The central bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points to
accommodate price shocks.  Bank lending expanded in March at the second-slowest pace
in 13 months, the central bank said in a report yesterday. Total
outstanding credit rose 1 percent in March to 1.75 trillion
reais ($1.1 trillion) from a revised 1.74 trillion reais in
February, down from a 1.3 percent increase in the previous
month. The average interest rate charged on consumer loans rose
to 45 percent in March, up from 43.8 percent in February, the
bank said.  The monetary policy minutes released today show a greater
preoccupation with increasing prices than the previous report
released on March 30, according to Andres Loes, chief economist
at HSBC Bank Brasil SA, the biggest foreign bank in  Brazil  by
assets.  ‘Tone Was Adequate’  “I think the tone was adequate,” Loes said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “The minutes were hawkish.”  The meeting notes showed less emphasis on so-called
macroprudential measures, such as an increase in compulsory  bank
deposits , and “left the door open” for more interest-rate
increases, said Loes, who predicts two more consecutive 25
basis-point increases this year.  The real declined to 1.5780 per dollar, from 1.5665
yesterday.  Brazil on April 29 may resume offering reverse swap
contracts, which are bets against the real, after staying out of
the futures market for almost a month. Policy makers last
auctioned reverse swaps April 1.  U.S. Policy  The central bank is renewing efforts to contain the real’s
appreciation after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday the U.S. central bank would maintain record monetary
stimulus after ending large-scale bond purchases in June.
Borrowing costs in the U.S. are likely to stay low “for an
extended period,” according to the policy statement released by
the  Federal Open Market Committee  yesterday.  “With the Fed funds even more dovish the dollar weakness
is still a currency theme, and I think they’re just trying to
avoid a faster appreciation,” said Mauricio Junqueira, who
helps oversee $300 million of assets at Squanto Investimentos in
Sao Paulo. The real weakening today is “just temporary,”
Junqueira said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think it will
be any game changer for the appreciation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  