-- 
Brazil Needs State Incentives to Boost Solar Power in Region, MPX Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-04-28T20:27:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/brazil-needs-state-incentives-to-boost-solar-power-in-region-mpx-says.html
MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , which is building
 South America ’s first privately owned solar energy plant in
Brazil, says the country needs more incentives to help the
renewable energy technology take off as it has in neighboring
nations.  MPX’s 1-megawatt pilot project is expected to be attached
to Brazil’s national power grid within two weeks and to begin
producing power by the end of May, Lucio Coelho, business
manager at MPX said in a telephone interview.  MPX has received permission from regulators to expand the
project’s capacity to 5 megawatts. Coelho said that’s not likely
because electricity generated by solar panels cannot compete
with other sources without subsidies.  “Today, photovoltaic technology is expensive,” Coelho
said. “Solar needs an incentive program,” to be economically
viable, he said.  That may include national auctions for power contracts, the
system  Brazil  uses now for power generated from hydroelectric,
wind, biomass and natural gas-fired plants, he said.  There is a state incentive program in Brazil’s northeastern
state of Ceara, where MPX built the plant. Coelho said MPX will
participate in an auction for subsidies from Fundo de Incentivo
a Energia Solar, a Ceara state fund that remunerates developers
for energy produced by photovoltaic projects.  MPX’s 10-million real ($6.4 million) project is in the city
of Taua, 500 kilometers (311 miles) south of the equator where
solar radiation is strong, the company said in an e-mail
yesterday  Solar energy is becoming more common elsewhere in South
America. Peru and  Argentina  have organized renewable energy
auctions in which 10 photovoltaic projects received contracts to
sell a total of 100 megawatts, according to government websites.  Latin America ’s first government-owned solar project went
into operation in March, a 1.2-megawatt facility in Argentina’s
northwestern San Juan province. Comsa Emte SL, a Barcelona,
Spain-based engineering company, built the $12 million plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  