-- 
Dalio Joins Billionaires Taking Buffett’s Charity Pledge

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-04-28T18:43:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bridgewater-founder-dalio-takes-buffett-s-pledge-on-philanthropy.html
Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Associates
LP, ranked among the best-paid U.S. hedge-fund managers last
year, agreed to give the majority of his wealth to philanthropy
under billionaire Warren Buffett’s Giving Pledge program.  Dalio and his wife, Barbara, were among 10 families named
in a statement today from The Giving Pledge, a project started
in June by Buffett and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman Bill Gates. The
organization, which aims to persuade billionaires to donate more
than half of their fortunes to charity, said 69 families in the
U.S. have signed up, with previous pledges including Facebook
Inc. founder Mark Zuckerberg and filmmaker  George Lucas .  Others in the hedge-fund industry who have committed to
pledging include Jim Simons of Renaissance Technologies Corp.,
Tiger Management LLC’s  Julian Robertson , Omega Advisors Inc.’s
Leon Cooperman and BP Capital LLC’s  T. Boone Pickens .  “Having more money, while nice, wasn’t all that
important,” the Dalios said in a pledge letter excerpted in the
statement. “Taking our excesses and providing it to others who
have extreme shortages has been both a good investment and a
great satisfaction.”  Dalio declined to comment, according to Alexei Nabarro, a
spokesman for his firm. The couple said they plan to support
inner-city education, micro-finance and nature conservation,
according to the letter.  Earned $3.1 Billion  Dalio, chief investment officer and founder of Westport,
Connecticut-based Bridgewater, earned an estimated $3.1 billion
last year, making him the second-highest paid hedge-fund
manager, according to an annual ranking published by AR
Magazine. Forbes  ranks  him 162nd on its list of billionaires,
with a net worth of $6 billion as of March. His firm has earned
$22 billion for investors since it was founded in 1975,
according to LCH, a firm overseen by the Edmond de Rothschild
Group, which invests in  hedge funds .  Simons was also among the top 10 most-compensated managers,
receiving $2.5 billion last year, according to AR’s  ranking.
John Paulson, president of New York-based Paulson & Co., was the
top earner at $4.9 billion.  Also named as signing the pledge today were Massachusetts
real estate developer Bill Cummings; John Paul DeJoria, founder
of Beverly Hills, California-based John Paul Mitchell Systems;
Phillip Frost of Miami, chairman of  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ; Harold Hamm, founder of Continental Resources
Inc., an Enid, Oklahoma-based oil and gas exploration company;
Vinod Khosla, a California venture capitalist and co-founder of
Sun Microsystems Inc.; Richard Kinder, chairman of Kinder Morgan
Energy Partners LP in Houston; Edward W. Rose, president of
Cardinal Investment Co. in Dallas and former chairman of Drew
Industries Inc.; Lynn Schusterman, widow of Charles Schusterman,
founder of Samson Investment Co., a Tulsa, Oklahoma oil
exploration firm; and Harold Simmons, chairman of  Kronos
Worldwide Inc. (KRO) , a Dallas-based pigment manufacturer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net 
Rick Green in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 