-- 
Bristol-Myers Profit Tops Estimates as Drug Sales Increase

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-04-28T20:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bristol-myers-profit-growth-of-33-beats-estimates-as-drug-sales-increase.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , whose
top-selling blood thinner Plavix faces generic competition next
year, reported first-quarter profit that was more than analysts’
estimates on higher drug sales.  Net income increased 33 percent to $986 million, or 57
cents a share, from $743 million, or 43 cents, a year earlier
when the company took a $200 million charge to close a plant,
New York-based Bristol-Myers said. Excluding one-time items,
profit rose to 58 cents, beating the 53-cent average estimate of
15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bristol-Myers has been eliminating jobs and divesting
nondrug businesses as it prepares for generic competition to
Plavix, its best-selling drug with $1.76 billion in sales for
the quarter. The company received U.S. approval for its skin-
cancer drug Yervoy in March and is expecting decisions from
regulators for three more medicines by 2012.  Bristol-Myers “remains hands down the best pipeline story
among the U.S. and European pharmaceutical companies we cover,”
said  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
in a note to clients today. “It has jettisoned its various non-
pharma businesses to become the most pure-play pharmaceutical
company among the nine we cover in the U.S. and  Europe .”  Bristol-Myers rose 1 cent to $28.29 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained 16
percent in the past 12 months.  Sales Rise  Sales increased 4.2 percent to $5.01 billion, beating
analyst estimates of $4.94 billion. U.S. sales increased 5
percent to $3.3 billion. International sales rose 3 percent to
$1.8 billion, boosted by favorable exchange rates for medicines
sold outside the U.S. The U.S. health-care overhaul hampered
earnings by about 3 cents a share, the company said.  Bristol-Myers reiterated its 2011 forecast for profit
excluding one-time items of $2.10 a share to $2.20 a share.  Revenue from Plavix, the world’s second-biggest-selling
medicine, rose 6 percent from the same period a year earlier.
Plavix is co-marketed with Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis SA. (SAN)  The
drug faces generic competition in the U.S. in May 2012. New
York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor is the world’s top-selling
drug.  Sales of the Avapro and Avalide medicines for  blood
pressure  fell 8 percent to $290 million. Avalide pills were
recalled after a manufacturing glitch was discovered that may
reduce the drug’s effectiveness. Two of the three dosages that
were recalled were back on the market in February. The third
dosage remains unavailable, according to the company.  Quicker Recovery  Avalide sales recovered from the recall quicker than
expected and contributed to 2 cents per share of the company’s
profits above analyst estimates, said  Marc Goodman , an analyst
with UBS Securities LLC, in a report today. Cost reductions
accounted for the rest of the unexpected gains, he said.  Sales of the antipsychotic drug, Abilify, increased 1
percent to $624 million. Bristol-Myers has said the U.S. health-
law changes will hurt sales of that drug because Medicaid, the
federal and state health program for low-income people, is
cutting rebates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 