-- 
Brown Cancels California’s $356 Million ‘Cadillac’ Death Row Expansion

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-04-28T21:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/brown-cancels-356-million-cadillac-death-row-at-san-quentin-california.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
scuttled plans to build a $356 million new death row at San
Quentin  prison  that some lawmakers derided as a “Cadillac”
because of its cost.  Brown said it would be “unconscionable” to go ahead with
the complex north of  San Francisco , planned since 2003, when the
state is cutting jobs and services to bridge a deficit.  California, which holds the largest number of death-row
prisoners in the U.S., faces a resurgent  budget deficit  equal to
nearly 20 percent of the general fund. Interest on prison
construction bonds would have cost $28.5 million a year.  “At a time when children, the disabled and seniors face
painful cuts to essential programs, the state of  California 
cannot justify a massive expenditure of public dollars for the
worst criminals in our state,” Brown said in a statement.  The project, at 540,000 square feet (50,000 square meters),
was intended to replace cells dating as far back as 1927 that
prison guards said are unsafe. Lawmakers such as Senator Mark Leno and Assemblyman Jared Huffman, both Democrats, opposed the
complex and said it might reach capacity in as little as three
years.  “The proposed Condemned Inmate Complex was going to be a
‘Cadillac death row’ -- hugely expensive and ill-conceived,”
Huffman said in a statement today.  About 700  condemned  men are confined at San Quentin in
facilities built to hold 554, according to the Corrections
Department’s website. (Nineteen women face execution and are
held in  Chowchilla , a prison in the Central Valley.)  On
average, the men are likely to spend 17 years in the  aging cell
blocks , according to the prison system.  Double-Bunking  The project design called for 768 new cells. While  inmates 
now live one to a cell, the prison system had planned to double-
bunk to make room for 1,152 men. Opponents such as Huffman said
that might have violated prisoners’ rights and could be
challenged in court.  Putting two inmates in each cell would provide enough
capacity for death row until 2035, according to the state
 auditor . If the state couldn’t double-up, the complex would be
full by 2014.  Brown opposed capital punishment during his first two terms
as governor, from 1975 to 1983. Before his current term, he was
attorney general from 2007 to 2011 and, in that role, he
defended the death penalty.  Current prisoners include  Scott Peterson , the Modesto
fertilizer salesman convicted of murdering his wife, Laci, and
their unborn child, and serial killer Richard Ramirez, known as
the “Night Stalker” of  Los Angeles .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  