-- 
Murdoch Takeover Target BSkyB Boosts Third-Quarter Profit on Client Growth

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-28T08:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bskyb-third-quarter-profit-increases-on-more-subscribers-1-.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
which rejected a bid by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. for full
ownership in June, said fiscal third-quarter operating profit
rose 5.2 percent as the pay-TV company added more clients.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose to 344 million pounds ($575 million) in the
three months through March, the Isleworth, England-based company
said in a statement today. BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV
operator, added 51,000 net new subscribers in the quarter, ahead
of an estimate for 45,000 additions by Jefferies International.  News Corp. is waiting for full government approval for the
bid from U.K. culture secretary Jeremy Hunt after agreeing to
spin off BSkyB’s 24-hour Sky News channel to address media
concentration concerns and avoid a longer review. BSkyB reached
its target of 10 million subscribers last year, prompting  News
Corp. (NWSA)  to make a 7.8 billion-pound bid for the 61 percent it
doesn’t already own.  “Sky’s ability to throw off the cash is probably the key
thing that the bid price is going to come in on,”  Nick Bell , an
analyst at Jefferies International in  London . The “focus
continues to remain on developments with the News Corp. bid,
rather than financials,” he said.  The company’s shares were little changed at 835 pence at
8:29 a.m. in London trading. BSkyB has gained 13 percent so far
this year, meaning News Corp. may have to raise its offer to win
shareholder approval.  Rejected Bid  BSkyB last year spurned News Corp 700 pence-a-share bid and
said it wanted at least 800 pence.  “We expect a decision from  Jeremy Hunt  imminently and then
expect News Corp. to agree a price of up to 850 pence,” Numis
Securities analysts Lorna Tilbian,  Paul Richards  and Dominic Buch said in a note today.  The average third-quarter Ebitda estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for 344 million pounds. Sales rose 13
percent to 1.65 billion pounds, meeting analyst estimates for
the same figure.  The broadcaster has sought to attract customers to its
high-definition services after signing exclusive content deals.  The deal would be News Corp.’s biggest and also still needs
approval from BSkyB shareholders including  Odey Asset
Management , who want the U.S. company to raise the bid.  “I don’t see any reason at all why Sky News should not go
on and prosper in the future as it does today,” Chief Executive
Officer Jeremy Darroch said today on a conference call.  Rising  Cash Flow   BSkyB had expenses of 12 million pounds related to the News
Corp. bid in the quarter. Free cash flow climbed 60 percent to
615 million pounds, while average revenue per user rose 8
percent to 544 pounds.  “We’re moving into a phase of more broadly-based growth,”
Darroch said. BSkyB is “selling more products into the base.”  BSkyB may help Murdoch make News Corp.’s newspaper business
more profitable by allowing him to bundle newspaper and pay-TV
subscriptions and spread content over several media platforms.  Murdoch is leading industry efforts to get readers to pay
for online content amid losses at the U.K. newspapers. He
introduced online paywalls at the Times and News of The World
newspapers and removed all news content from Google Inc.’s
search engine. He also introduced a paid-for iPad news
publication called The Daily in tandem with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Murdoch’s BSkyB deal has been opposed by a group of U.K.
media companies, including owners of the Guardian, Daily Mail
and Telegraph newspapers, which say the takeover would have
‘serious and far-reaching consequences for media plurality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  