-- 
Buffett Disciples Want ‘Oracle’ to Come Clean: Alice Schroeder

-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 
2011-04-28T13:55:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/buffett-disciples-want-oracle-to-come-clean-commentary-by-alice-schroeder.html
Last month, the news broke that
 David Sokol , who was Warren Buffett’s presumed heir apparent at
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , made $3 million from  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) 
stock purchases while he was pushing Buffett to buy the company.  In the statement announcing Sokol’s resignation, Buffett
downplayed the importance of front-running Lubrizol stock,
excusing Sokol on the grounds that he did nothing “unlawful.”
That, wrote Buffett, was all he planned to say on the subject --
until yesterday.  That’s when Berkshire issued an audit-committee report
condemning Sokol for having misled Buffett and the company. It
also said Berkshire might sue Sokol. The report responds to
weeks of criticism about Berkshire’s seeming indifference to
ethical standards, and comes just before some 40,000 people
descend on Omaha,  Nebraska , for the annual shareholder meeting.  For Buffett, sometimes dubbed the Oracle for his investing
acumen, the meeting is a double-edged sword. The event at which
he and his vice chairman, Charles T. Munger, spend almost six
hours answering questions puts considerable pressure on him to
be more forthcoming. On the other hand, Buffett will be speaking
with a home-field advantage to a receptive audience that wants
to think well of him.  Buffett’s Enemies  He will need their good will. The audit-committee report
answers some questions about what happened with Sokol, but not
the most important ones: Why did Berkshire fail to condemn his
behavior initially, and instead praised his “extraordinary”
contributions to Berkshire? And what will Berkshire do to
improve its corporate governance?  The company lays out a story in which Sokol misled Buffett
and Berkshire’s chief financial officer, Marc Hamburg. These
revelations are damning, and the  audit committee  has concluded
in harsh terms that Sokol violated Berkshire’s code of conduct,
its insider-trading policy and failed his duties as a manager.
But according to the report, the essential elements were known
by the Berkshire board before March 30. This is when Buffett
praised Sokol in a press statement and declared Sokol’s actions
kosher because they were “not unlawful.”  According to a statement by Sokol’s attorney, Barry Levine,
Buffett “was told twice, not once,” about Sokol’s ownership of
Lubrizol shares before Buffett began takeover talks with the
company.  It’s understandable that a continuing investigation might
justify taking a harsher view of the facts, but Berkshire’s
opinion hasn’t just evolved. It has taken a 180-degree turn.
Behavior that was explained away just a month ago is now being
condemned. Obviously, Buffett did need to change his mind and be
clear about the reasons.  Missing Explanation  The problem isn’t the about-face. It is the missing
explanation for why Berkshire went so easy on Sokol in the first
place. Whatever the detailed reasons, ultimately it boils down
to Berkshire’s reliance on Buffett’s personal judgment about his
managers and his ability to delegate to them to the point of
abdication. When this one-man infrastructure makes a mistake,
it’s hard to admit that Buffett is at fault. Changes in the way
the company is managed are personal, not corporate. Under the
circumstances, the temptation is high to blame everything on a
single rogue employee. That doesn’t excuse Sokol’s behavior, but
the failure of oversight needs to be acknowledged and corrected.  Instead, Berkshire is struggling with how to handle this
situation. For years, Buffett’s quirky management style was
hailed as a strength, and he escaped this kind of scrutiny. His
former Teflon status is making the backlash all the harder.  Fat Cats  Buffett has plenty of enemies, though they have stayed
underground until recently. They include fat cats who don’t want
to pay the higher taxes Buffett advocates, chief executive
officers weary of being called greedy parasites by one of the
world’s richest men, and Wall Streeters of all stripes who think
Buffett’s hellfire-and-damnation tirades about their business
are hypocritical.  Now, caught in the painful fall stage of the great American
narrative known as rise, fall and redemption, it’s hard to see
how Buffett can change the narrative’s overall course through
public relations. But he can avoid making it worse for himself
by taking responsibility.  The more explicitly Buffett shoulders some of the blame for
having waffled on ethics, the more future redemption points he
will get. If he dumps on Sokol while trying to avoid all
entanglement in the situation, or reaches for credit for having
turned tough, it won’t be convincing. Based on the audit-
committee report, it looks as though this is where things are
headed, but it’s not too late for Buffett to change direction.  $200 Billion  Governance, rightfully, will be high on the audience’s mind
during the meeting, because Sokol is only a symptom of an
underlying cause. The world acknowledges that a $200 billion
company that employs about 260,000 people can’t be run by a
single man. Buffett should step up on these issues now, before a
public outcry puts him in conflict with his own board.  The No. 1 thing everyone wants to know is who would run
Berkshire if Buffett vanished today. Why not just tell them? If
it is Ajit Jain, who runs Berkshire’s reinsurance operation,
Buffett should say so. He can always hedge and say his choice
doesn’t bind the board and later events might change things.  The Sokol incident has boomeranged to become a referendum
on Buffett’s judgment of people and management style,
Berkshire’s corporate governance, institutional infrastructure,
risk-management and internal controls, and the succession
process for a new CEO. It has also raised questions about the
board’s committee structure, compensation and responsibilities.  These issues weren’t addressed in the audit-committee
report, and it is a tall order to do so. All this is probably
too much to expect from Buffett in a single weekend. But the
more straightforward Buffett is at this meeting, the better off
Berkshire’s shareholders will be -- and so will he.  ( Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball:  Warren Buffett 
and the Business of Life” and a former managing director at
Morgan Stanley, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  