-- 
Bulgarian Wind Power Investors May Stall New Projects on New Law

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-04-28T12:09:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/bulgarian-wind-power-investors-may-stall-new-projects-on-new-law.html
Bulgaria  renewable energy investors
may halt about $4.45 billion in projects because of a new law
that makes it harder for them to project revenue, said Sebastian Noethlichs, the head of the Bulgarian Wind Energy Association.  The law, passed on April 21, requires wind farms and
solar parks to set their price for feeding power to the grid
only after construction is completed, making it harder to
calculate the break-even point during planning stages, as it was
until passage of the bill, said Noethlichs in an interview in
Sofia yesterday.  “We’ve decided to limit or stop further investment in
these projects,” Noethlichs, 28, said. “We’ll keep them alive,
but we won’t risk any more investments and sit this out. Other
members of the association are planning to reduce expenses and
let people go, while others may leave the market entirely.”  Bulgaria is going through a backlash against renewable
energy on concern insufficient regulation may fuel speculative
investment, similar to the real-estate boom that collapsed in
2009, Noethlichs said. His association’s 35 members, including
Enel Green Power SpA, a unit of  Italy ’s biggest utility, AES Geo
Energy, a unit of U.S. power utility AES Corp., and a unit of
German wind turbine maker Enercon GmbH, have invested about 450
million euros ($665 million) in wind power projects in the
Balkan country so far.  Renewable Energy Target  Bulgaria aims to meet its European Union target of raising
the share of renewable energy in final consumption to 16 percent
in 2020, from 11 percent in 2010. The target share of
electricity produced by wind and solar parks, hydro- and
geothermal power plants is 21 percent by 2020 from 15 percent in
2010, according to the Energy and Economy Ministry.  Bulgaria increased output from renewable energy sources by
67 percent last year to 5,509 gigawatt-hours as new hydropower
plants, wind and solar parks went into operation, according to
the Energy and Economy Ministry. Total wind capacity rose 38
percent to 465 megawatts, while solar parks’ total capacity was
21.4 megawatts, the ministry said.  Other international companies operating wind and solar
parks in Bulgaria include Mitsubishi Corp. and  South Korea ’s SDN
Co.  New preliminary contracts for wind park projects with total
capacity of 3,300 megawatts have been signed so far, Noethlichs
said. The new regulations put at stake some 2,000 jobs that
would be created by future energy projects.  Interconnection Ban  The new law would also ban developers from building the
interconnection to the grid and requires a non-refundable down
payment for the interconnection, which provides no guarantees
that the grid operator will build the interconnection in the
contracted timeframe, Noethlichs said.  The association will lobby to give developers an option to
build the interconnection, as the situation was so far, and to
set a bank guarantee in favor of the grid operator instead of a
non-refundable down payment, he said.  There are constitutional grounds for a presidential veto of
the law, though it would be overturned by Parliament, Noethilchs
said. The association plans to take the case to the  European
Commission  in Brussels, the EU’s executive arm, and seek an
infringement procedure, Noethlichs said.  “We have a long tough fight a head of us,” he said. “The
legal uncertainty created by these legal changes will drive
banks and investors away from Bulgaria as an investment
destination in general, as there are no guarantees that
something similar might happen in another sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  