-- 
Business Roundtable Urges EPA to Stop Greenhouse Gas Rules

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-04-28T21:20:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/business-roundtable-urges-epa-to-stop-greenhouse-gas-rules-1-.html
The Business Roundtable, a group of
chief executives officers from companies such as  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , urged the Obama
administration to abandon efforts to regulate greenhouse gases
from industrial polluters.  The Washington-based association wants President Barack Obama’s Environmental Protection Agency to scrap the rules for
power plants and oil refineries, giving Congress time to craft
legislation, according to an e-mailed statement today.  The EPA rules are “an example of damaging regulatory
overreach that threatens to stifle U.S. economic growth and job
creation,” Thomas Fanning, CEO of Atlanta-based  Southern Co. (SO) , a
Roundtable member and the biggest U.S. utility owner by market
value, said in the group’s statement.  The Chamber of Commerce, the biggest U.S. business lobbying
group, Republican lawmakers and some Democrats also have called
for blocking or delaying the EPA rules. White House aides said
in a statement this month that they would recommend that Obama
veto any legislation stripping the EPA of its power to regulate
carbon-dioxide pollution under the  Clean Air Act .  The EPA began regulating  carbon emissions  in January after
Congress failed to pass legislation last year. EPA spokesmen
didn’t immediately response to requests today for comment.  The first phase of the agency’s limits on greenhouse gases
blamed for  climate change  began in January. The rules require
polluters to apply for state permits if they build or expand
operations. Existing facilities aren’t affected.  Legislation Failed  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  passed
legislation this month that would bar the EPA regulations. A
similar measure failed in the Democratic-led Senate in a 50-50
vote.  A February poll commissioned by the American Lung
Association found 60 percent of people questioned said Congress
shouldn’t stop the EPA rules and 35 percent thought lawmakers
should bar the agency from limiting discharges of carbon
dioxide, a primary greenhouse gas.  The survey of 500 probable voters was taken Feb. 7-14 by
Democratic polling firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research and
Republican pollster Ayres, McHenry & Associates, according to
the Washington-based association, a health-advocacy group. The
poll had a margin of error of plus-or-minus 4.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  