-- 
California Voters Favor Taxing the Rich to Fend Off School Cuts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-04-28T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/california-voters-favor-taxing-the-rich-to-fend-off-school-cuts.html
Six in 10 California likely voters
support raising the top rate of the state income tax on the
wealthy to prevent cuts in public-school funding as Governor
 Jerry Brown  battles a resurgent  budget deficit , a poll shows.  The  statewide survey  by the nonpartisan Public Policy
Institute of California found that 61 percent of likely voters
favor Brown’s approach to fixing the deficit with a mix of
spending cuts and temporary tax increases, though they oppose
certain income- and sales-taxes that are part of the plan.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, is in the midst of a
statewide campaign tour to sell his plan after Republicans
blocked his efforts to put the tax extensions on a June ballot
for voters to decide. Brown, governor from 1975 to 1983, took
office in January vowing to fix the fiscal strains that have
left  California  with the biggest state deficit, and the lowest
 credit rating  from  Standard & Poor’s , at A-.  “Californians want to vote on how to fix the budget,”  Gil
Duran , a Brown spokesman, said in an e-mail before the poll’s
release today. “Republicans are denying them the right to vote,
but pressure will continue to build as the full extent of the
cuts becomes clear, and the voice of the people will eventually
be heard.”  The poll also found that Brown’s popularity with likely
voters had risen to 46 percent from 41 percent in March and
February. It was as high as 47 percent in January at the start
of his third term.  Brown proposed an  $84.6 billion budget  that would cut
spending by $12.5 billion and raise $11 billion through voter
approval of a five-year extension of tax and fee increases due
to expire by July 1.  Trimming Deficit  Democratic majorities in the Legislature approved
reductions trimming $14 billion a $26.6 billion deficit.
Republicans, however, blocked the June referendum. The proposal
needed a two-thirds vote that required at least two Republican
votes in both the Assembly and the Senate. That raised the
prospect of further spending reductions, a so-called all-cuts
budget, to fill the rest of the deficit.  “An all-cuts budget would be abhorrent,” Senate President
Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento , said
yesterday in a meeting with reporters. “The people would
rebel.”  Brown has said he still wants to let voters decide whether
to extend the taxes and fees, or to cut more from education and
public safety. He hasn’t said when that vote could occur, or
how.  Union Drive  Unions such as the California Federation of Teachers have
indicated they may gather signatures to put a measure on the
statewide ballot in November raising taxes on the wealthy.
Republicans have countered that they may seek voter initiatives
to cap spending and curtail public pensions.  “Californians’ support for maintaining K-12 spending
remains strong,”  Mark Baldassare , president the San Francisco-
based Public Policy Institute said in a statement. “It is a
significant factor for the state’s leaders to take into account
in any proposals that they put before voters.”  The telephone survey of 2,504 California adults, including
1,209 likely voters, was taken April 5-19. The poll had a margin
for error of plus or minus 3 percentage points for all adults
and 3.5 percentage points for likely voters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  