-- 
Kim Jong Il Is Prepared to Enter Talks Without Preconditions, Carter Says

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-04-28T10:20:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/carter-says-north-korea-wants-guarantee-in-nuclear-talks-1-.html
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  is
ready to meet with South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  “at any
time,” former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter  said.  Carter said he received a message from Kim during a three-
day trip to North Korea. While the North has made multiple
appeals to resume talks with the South, Lee’s administration has
said the regime must first accept responsibility for two attacks
last year that killed 50 South Koreans.  The former U.S. leader made his second trip to North Korea
in less than a year to help push forward stalled multinational
talks on ending Kim’s pursuit of atomic weapons. Carter said he
and three former European leaders were called back while en
route to Pyongyang airport to receive a written message from Kim
that he is willing meet with any of the five nations involved in
the negotiations, especially  South Korea .  “He specifically told us that he is prepared for a summit
meeting directly with President Lee Myung Bak at any time” on
any issues, including denuclearization, Carter told reporters in
 Seoul . Kim said he was willing to negotiate with any of the five
other nations in the six-party talks “on any subject, at any
time and without any preconditions.”  Right Direction  Carter’s trip and by-elections in South Korea yesterday are
among variables that may lead to a resumption of the six-party
negotiations, said Daniel Pinkston, Northeast Asia deputy
project director of the Brussels-based  International Crisis
Group . “When they might happen I don’t know, but at least
everything is pushing in that direction.”  Tensions rose on the Korean peninsula after the two attacks,
including the November shelling of an island near the disputed
western sea border that left four dead.  North Korea  said the
shelling was in retaliation for South Korea violating its waters.
The North has also denied involvement in the sinking of a South
Korean warship a year ago that killed 46 sailors.  Carter said based on discussions with North Korean
political and military officials, he doesn’t believe the regime
will publicly admit responsibility for the sinking.  Carter, 86, was accompanied on his trip to North Korea by
former Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari, 73, ex-Norwegian
Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, 72, and former Irish
President Mary Robinson, 66.  Voter Snub  South Korean opposition parties won two of three
parliamentary seats contested in by-elections yesterday,
striking a blow to Lee’s ruling party. His approval rating has
halved to 33 percent since he came to power in February 2008,
according to an April 18-22 poll by Seoul-based  Realmeter . The
poll had a margin for error of 1.6 percentage point.  The trip also comes after North Korea said it is preparing
to indict a detained U.S. citizen. Jun Young Su has admitted
charges against him since he was arrested in November, KCNA
reported on April 14.  Carter won the release of another imprisoned American
during his last trip to North Korea in August. He traveled to
Pyongyang in 1994 when he met with Kim’s father,  Kim Il Sung ,
and discussed terms to freeze the country’s nuclear program.  North Korea’s negotiations with  China ,  Japan ,  Russia , South
Korea and the U.S. on its weapons programs were last held in
December 2008. Kim’s regime has since detonated a second atomic
device in May 2009 and shown a previously unknown uranium-
enrichment program to visiting U.S. scholars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  