-- 
Century Bond Sale Proves Prescient as Yields Jump: Mexico Credit

-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 1 0 8 2 2 1 ]   Y e   X i e   [ ]   a n d   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 7 4 9 4 8 0 ]   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   [ ]
-- 
2011-04-28T13:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/century-bonds-locked-in-rates-before-selloff-mexico-credit.html
     April 28 (Bloomberg) -- Mexico  is proving the winner over
bondholders who purchased 100-year bonds a week before benchmark
U.S. yields surged from a 20-month low.  The government’s $1 billion of notes due in 2110 have lost
6.1 percent since they were sold in October, the biggest decline
among the country’s dollar bonds during that period, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mexican dollar debt has posted an
average loss of 2 percent since October, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  A strengthening U.S. economy has driven benchmark 10-year
Treasury yields up 93 basis points since Oct. 7, punishing
holders of the longest-maturity dollar securities because their
prices are the most sensitive to interest-rate changes. Mexico
joined U.S. railroad operator Norfolk Southern Corp. and
Rabobank Nederland NV, the world’s largest agricultural lender,
last year in locking in borrowing costs for a century. It was
the only country to sell such debt in 2010.  “Well done to Mexico,” Jeremy Brewin, who helps oversee
about $3 billion of emerging-market assets at Aviva Investors in
 London , said in a telephone interview. “Over time, it’s going
to be one of their best decisions.”  The yield on Mexico’s so-called century bonds has risen 29
basis points, or 0.29 percentage point, since it was sold on
Oct. 5, to 6.39 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on the 30-year Treasury bonds, the closest
U.S. maturity, climbed 71 basis points in the period to 4.56
percent.  Ten-year and 30-year debt of the U.S., the world’s largest
economy, are the benchmarks against which the relative value of
all other bonds in the world are compared.  Global Performance  Globally,  government bonds  maturing in 10 years or more
have lost 5.8 percent since October, compared with a decline of
0.5 percent for bonds due in one to five years, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The selloff in the 100-year bonds is “really a Treasury
effect” rather than a reflection of deterioration in Mexico’s
creditworthiness, said Jeff Williams, an emerging-market debt
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  “In any of these long-dated bonds, you are exposed to the
Treasury risk,” Williams said in a telephone interview. “It’s
bad from investors’ point of view, but from the government’s
point of view, it’s certainly good to lock in low rates for a
long period of time.”  Treasuries’ Impact  A prolonged increase in Treasury yields may deepen the
selloff in the 100-year bonds, Brewin said.  “I am still nervous about owning things that haven’t been
tested in a true  bear market ,” Brewin said. “In a down market,
where U.S. Treasury yields move up and the long end comes under
pressure, will there be enough potential buyers?”  Investors asked at the last sale of dollar debt whether
Mexico would sell more of the century bonds, Alejandro Diaz de Leon, head of public debt at the  Finance Ministry , said in an
interview. The government doesn’t have plans to sell more but
hasn’t ruled it out, he said.  “There is still a lot of appetite from investors,
especially institutional investors who are looking for longer-
term assets to immunize against shocks from other holdings,”
Diaz de Leon said. “This was a great opportunity for Mexico to
be able to sell this and create a profile for debt at this
maturity.”  KBC’s Hedge  KBC Asset Management SA, which owns Mexico’s 100-year bond,
hedged against a jump in Treasury yields in the futures market
to protect the value of its investment, according to Lazlo Belgrado, who helps manage 5 billion euros of emerging-market
bonds in Luxembourg.  The bonds are still attractive and cheaper than Mexican
notes due in 2040, Belgrado said. The 100-year securities yield
57 basis points more than the 2040 bond, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “You have quite a nice yield pickup,” Belgrado said.
“Mexico is one of the top credits in the emerging markets. It’s
a good investment.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexico’s century
bond instead of 30-year U.S. Treasuries has narrowed 18 basis
points since Oct. 6 to 194. The average spread for Mexican
dollar bonds, a measure of the credit risk for the country, has
narrowed 25 basis points to 134 in that time, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  Swap Price  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose one basis point yesterday to 100, according to
CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer
fails to comply with debt agreements.  Yields on the interbank rate futures contract, known as
TIIE, due in September fell one basis point to 5 percent
yesterday, indicating that traders expect a rate increase that
month.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 11.5453 per  U.S. dollar .  Life-insurance companies and pension funds favor 100-year
bonds because they can match their long-term liabilities with
assets of similar maturities, according to Aviva’s Brewin.  China issued $100 million of 100-year bonds in 1996 while
Chile’s Empresa Nacional Electricidad SA and  India ’s Reliance
Industries Ltd. have also sold such bonds.  Mexico doubled the size of the October sale from an initial
$500 million plan, taking advantage of global investor demand
for higher-yielding, emerging-market debt amid the record-low
 interest rates  in Europe and the U.S.  “It was a very wise move,” said  Gunter Heiland , who helps
oversee $2.1 billion of emerging-market assets at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based investment fund Gramercy. “They are able to
lock in borrowing for an extremely long time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  