-- 
Cephalon, Teva Deal on Generics Targeted in EU Antitrust Probe

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-04-28T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/cephalon-teva-face-eu-antitrust-probe-over-generic-delays.html
An agreement by  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  and
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  that may have delayed
generic versions of Cephalon’s biggest product, Provigil, will
be examined in a European Union investigation.  The European Commission in Brussels said it would examine
“as a matter of priority” whether the companies’ 2005
agreement to settle British and U.S. patent litigation “may
have the object or effect of hindering the entry” of the sleep-
disorder drug, known as modafinil.  “As part of the settlement agreement Teva undertook not to
sell its generic modafinil products” in  Europe  before October
2012, the EU said in an e-mailed statement.  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generics producers might harm consumers. Bayer AG
was among drug firms told by EU officials in January to submit
details of patent-settlement deals that may be used to delay the
sale of generic versions of medicines.  The commission has had “an unfortunate tendency to view
patent dispute settlement agreements with skepticism,” said
Simon Hirsbrunner, a lawyer at Heuking Kuehn Lueer Wojtek in
Brussels.  ‘Complex Balance’  “The fact alone that an originator pays money to delay the
market entry by generics is not in itself proof of illegal
conduct,” Hirsbrunner said in an e-mail. “Most patent dispute
settlement agreements usually reflect a very complex balance of
interest and it is delicate if one tries to review the business
objectives after the event.”  Teva “will defend very robustly any allegation of
infringement of regulations,” said Yossi Koren, a spokesman for
the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company. “We believe that we
have acted within the law at all times,” he said in an e-mailed
statement.  “There has been no finding that Cephalon did anything
improper, but rather a decision to investigate,” Natalie de Vane, a spokeswoman for Frazer, Pennsylvania-based Cephalon,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We believe the
settlement agreement and our conduct was entirely proper, and we
intend to cooperate fully with the commission.”  Provigil, which last year generated sales of $1.12 billion,
faces a loss of patent protection in April 2012.  Cephalon rose 24 cents to $76.63 in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading yesterday. Teva’s American depositary
receipts, each representing one ordinary share, rose 15 cents to
$46.13.  EU ‘Vigilant’  Antitrust regulators “need to be vigilant” about the
pharmaceutical industry,  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition
commissioner, said in a  speech  earlier this month.  The commission, the EU’s executive arm, is “investigating
a number of cases involving patent settlements and closely
monitoring settlements on an annual basis,” he said in the
speech. The EU said in January it will use the information it
gleans from companies on generic-drug delays for a report later
this year.  Cephalon last year lost an attempt to dismiss U.S.
antitrust suits, including one by the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission, over patent-infringement settlements it reached
regarding generic versions of Provigil. It also lost a U.K. bid
in November that sought to block Mylan Inc. and  Orchid Chemicals
& Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (OCP)  from selling generic versions of the drug
in Britain before a patent trial.  FTC Case  The Provigil cases brought by FTC, pharmacies and drug
wholesalers were combined in federal court in Philadelphia.  “Cephalon is a big case because it’s such a stark example
of them paying off not just one generic but four,” Steve Shadowen, who represents Rite Aid Corp. in the suit, said in a
phone interview. “There are clearly anticompetitive practices
and to get the views of thoughtful European policy makers and
judges will, in the end, be helpful.”  Lawsuits in the U.S. challenging such settlements haven’t
been successful. Appeals courts are considering the dismissal of
settlements involving AndroGel, a testosterone ointment now made
by Abbott Laboratories and the K-Dur heart medication by
Schering-Plough Corp., now owned by Merck & Co.  The trade group for the generic-drug industry said that
settlements help get low-cost medicines to consumers more
quickly.  “At best, the patent challenge and patent litigation
process is a 50/50 proposition,” David Belian, a spokesman for
the Generic Pharmaceutical Association, said in a statement.
“But settlements that successfully conclude patent litigation
result in the early and predictable introduction of lower cost
generics in mo than 75 percent of the challenges. Without the
settlement, there would be no certainty to the introduction of
generic competition for the brand product being challenged.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net 
CEPH US <Equity> CN
TEVA IT <Equity> CN 