-- 
Champagne Art, Playful Miro, Cool Beethoven: Brussels Weekend

-- B y   J i m   R u a n e
-- 
2011-04-28T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/champagne-art-playful-miro-cool-beethoven-folky-diva-brussels-weekend.html
Join the black-clad horde roaming
the streets tonight as many galleries stay open until 10 p.m. as
part of  Art Brussels , the contemporary fair.  Among uptown galleries,  Xavier Hufkens  is showing a smart,
seductive selection of works by, among others, David Altjmed,
Latifa Echakhch, George Condo and Robert Mapplethorpe.  Almine
Rech ’s vast space hosts sculptures and paintings by Tom Burr and
Johannes Wohnseifer, while  Aeroplastics Contemporary  features
Gavin Turk. Downtown,  Greta Meert  displays photos and sculptures
by Jean-Luc Moulene and photos by Inaki Bonillas.  Galerie
VidalCuglietta  shows Edith Dekyndt’s mysterious, austere photos
and videos.  La Meilleure Jeunesse, an intimate haunt for the uptown
culture crowd, has walls crammed with artworks and a terrace
overlooking the gardens of a medieval abbey. Try the monkfish
roasted in black sesame. Information:
 http://www.lameilleurejeunesse.be .  Resto Henri draws downtown fashionistas with its bustling
ambience and imaginative chef. Specialties include braised lamb
with cauliflower mousseline, broad beans and chorizo crumble.
See  http://www.restohenri.be .  Saturday  About 170 galleries from more than 25 countries are taking
part in  Art Brussels , which features a mix of so-called emerging
artists and established stars. An array of offshoot activities
also takes place around the city -- the Saturday night  party 
hosted by Lady Jane and Catclub sounds intriguing.  Gladstone Gallery  is showing works by Roe Ethridge and
 Anish Kapoor ;  Rodolphe Janssen  has Balthasar Burkhard and Wim
Delvoye;  Yvon Lambert  displays Douglas Gordon and Shilpa Gupta;
 Zeno X  features Michael Borremans and Marlene Dumas;  Galerie
Lelong  has Pierre Alechinsky and Rebecca Horn;  Galerie Thomas
Zander  shows photos by Lothar Baumgarten and Mitch Epstein;
 Lisson Gallery  has Marina Abramovic and Julian Opie.  The fair is at Brussels Expo, Palais/Paleis 1 and 3,
through May 1. Food and drink are available, and the Champagne
bars are meeting points. Information:  http://www.artbrussels.be .
The Art Brussels main partners are  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and  Belgacom SA. (BELG)   Saturday Night  Soothe your art-soaked senses with sublime music by
Schumann, Shostakovich, Beethoven and Grieg performed by the
chic duo of cellist Gautier Capucon and pianist Jean-Yves
Thibaudet. The recital is in the 19th-century Conservatoire’s
concert hall, which has creaky floors but is ideally suited for
chamber music.  The concert is at 8 p.m. Royal Conservatory, 30 Rue de la
Regence/Regentschapsstraat. Information:  http://www.bozar.be .  Orphyse Chaussette, a bistro in a nearby cobblestone
street, serves savory dishes from southwest  France . The wine
list boasts many magical bottles from the Languedoc region.
Information: +322-502-7581.  Sunday  Miro isn’t only being feted at Tate Modern. ING has filled
its exhibition space with a joyous show devoted to the “painter
poet.” Some 150 works -- paintings, drawings, sculptures,
etchings -- illustrate the Spanish artist’s development of his
unique language of signs. Miro’s book illustrations are among
the highlights of this enchanting exhibition, which runs through
June 19. Espace Culturel ING/ING Cultuurcentrum, 6 Place
Royale/Koningsplein. Information:  http://www.ing.be/art .  Sunday Night  Campfire girl  Alela Diane , a star of the flourishing -- and
often quirky -- New Folk scene will perform with her band. Dylan
Leblanc opens, and Norwegian singer-songwriter Moddi gives an
after-concert gig in the small upstairs club room.  The concert is at 8 p.m.  Ancienne Belgique , 110 Boulevard
Anspach/Anspachlaan. Information:  http://www.abconcerts.be .  Across the road, cosy Le Petit Boxeur -- think wood,
candlelight, mirrors and starched white tablecloths -- serves a
rich risotto with scallops and truffles. Information:
 http://www.newsites.resto.com/lepetitboxeur/ .  To contact the writer on the story:
Jim Ruane in Brussels at 
 jruane1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 