-- 
China Economic Growth Faces Risks From Property ‘Shocks,’ World Bank Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-28T09:35:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/china-property-slowdown-poses-growth-risks-world-bank-says.html
     April 28 (Bloomberg) -- China ’s real-estate market is a
“particular source of risk” to growth given the importance of
property construction to the world’s second-biggest economy, the
 World Bank  said.  “Shocks to the property sector that would slow down
construction significantly could have a large impact on the
economy and on bank balance sheets,” the Washington-based
lender said in its  China Quarterly Update  released in Beijing
today. “A property downturn could affect the finances of local
governments which do a lot of the infrastructure investment.”  Regulators told China’s banks last week to conduct more
stress tests on their real-estate lending as the government
steps up efforts to curb surging housing prices. A potential
rise in bad debts on property loans and credit to local
government financing vehicles risks triggering another state-
funded bailout,  Fitch Ratings  said this month.  “With tension between the underlying upward housing price
pressure and the policy objective to contain price rises,
interaction between the market and policy measures could lead to
a more abrupt than planned downturn in the real-estate market,”
according to the report.  The bank today lifted its growth forecast for the world’s
fastest-growing major economy to 9.3 percent this year from a 9
percent forecast made last month due to faster-than-expected
growth in the first quarter. It also raised its inflation
estimate to 5 percent from 4.7 percent.  Commodity-Price Shocks  “It is too early to stop the macro tightening”, the bank
said. While food-price gains appear to have peaked, and its
inflation forecasts “are not particularly worrying, the risks,
including from further global commodity price shocks, call for
vigilance,” according to the report.  Currency appreciation would help the government curb
increases in prices by easing pressure from imported inflation,
World Bank economists said today. Consumer-price inflation has
exceeded government targets every month since July.  Yuan appreciation is a “pretty direct tool” and should be
part of a broader arsenal to combat inflation, Ardo Hansson, the
World Bank’s lead economist for China, said at a briefing in
Beijing today.  Record Yuan  “The theoretical case and empirical evidence of the role
of the  exchange rate  in these kinds of matters is so
overwhelming that it shouldn’t really be an issue of debate,”
said Louis Kuijs, the bank’s Beijing-based senior economist said
at the same briefing.  The yuan rose to the strongest level in 17 years, touching
6.5015 per dollar in  Shanghai  today, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The government should allow interest rates to play a larger
role in macroeconomic policies to cut reliance on quantitative
measures, such as lending quotas and reserve ratio requirements,
the bank said in its report.  Property companies including Poly Real Estate Group Co.,
the nation’s second-largest developer by market value, declined
in Shanghai trading today amid the fifth straight daily drop in
the benchmark index on speculation the government will increase
 interest rates . The Shanghai Composite Index closed 1.3 percent
lower at 2,887.04.  Housing Curbs  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has ordered local governments to cap
gains in new-home prices after curbs on mortgage lending, higher
down payments and limits on purchases failed to stem increases.
The government is studying rules to control developers’ profits
to keep prices at a reasonable level, the China News Service
reported yesterday. China also plans to build 36 million units
of social housing over the next five years.  Growth in the prices of new homes slowed in Beijing and
Shanghai in March, a statistics bureau report showed last week,
as the government intensified property curbs. Of the 70 cities
monitored in the survey, 67 posted gains, down from 68 in the
first two months, the report showed.  Real estate “is not a sector that can be fine-tuned as
easily,” Hansson said. The industry has been subject to many
policy actions and there will be “long, variable lags” for the
effects of government measures to become fully apparent.  The  World Bank  cut its projection for China’s current
account surplus to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product this
year, from its November prediction of 5.3 percent, citing higher
commodity prices that affect the country’s trade pattern
“substantially.”  China’s foreign-currency reserves rose by $197 billion in
the first quarter, the second-highest on record, boosting its
total holdings to more than $3 trillion even as the nation
reported a trade deficit in the Jan. to March period.  The gains “don’t suggest large hot money inflows” because
 capital controls  make it “not easy to bring into China dozens
of billions of dollars”, Kuijs said. The increase is more
likely related to some “ad-hoc”  bank transactions  or increased
offshore settlement of trade in yuan, he said.  ----Victoria Ruan. Editors: Nerys Avery,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Nerys Avery at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;
and Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  