-- 
China Declares Victory Over Rapid Population Rise as Focus Shifts to Aging

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-29T08:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/china-s-urban-population-climbs-to-49-7-of-total-nbs-says.html
China  declared victory over rapid
population growth as the release of its decennial census
signaled the focus will turn to managing the impact of a faster-
than-expected rise in the number of older people.  China had 1.34 billion people as of Nov. 1, the Beijing-
based National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday. While still
the most populous country, the higher birth rate of  India’s  1.2
billion people puts it on course to take the title when the
South Asian nation holds its next census in 2021.  Success in capping the population growth through the three-
decade-old one-child policy presents China’s leaders with
another problem as the swelling ranks of retirees create
pressure to boost social welfare programs and pose a risk to the
economic growth needed to fund them. The over-60s make up 13.3
percent of the population, 1 percentage point more than forecast
and half as much again as in India, United Nations  data  show.  “The working age population is due to start falling within
the next three or four years,” said  Jim Walker , managing
director at Hong Kong-based Asianomics Ltd. and former chief
economist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. “These 9, 10 percent
growth rates people have become accustomed to are not
sustainable for very much longer.”  Investors should put their money in countries where the
prospects for return on equity are highest, such as India,
 Indonesia ,  Thailand ,  Malaysia  and the  Philippines , he said.  Trends Continue  Economic growth will slow “as demographic trends continue,
highlighting the need to rebalance the economy over the next
decade to prepare for such a transition,” RBC Capital Markets
analysts, including Hong Kong-based  Brian Jackson , wrote in a
report published today. Growth would likely slow to 8 percent-10
percent in the coming 5-10 years, from the average 11.2 percent
over the past five years, they said, citing government officials.  India  will overtake China as the world’s fastest-growing
economy by 2013 as it adds six times more workers to its labor
pool, Morgan Stanley said in a report last year. People 14 years
old and under make up 16.6 percent of China’s population, a
decline of 6.3 percentage points from the 2000 census. Almost
one in three Indians are in that group, Bloomberg data show.  China risks having to support retirees at per capita wealth
levels that are only a fraction of aging developed countries and
needs a better pension system to avoid what Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  said  is the danger of growing old “before getting rich.”  Fiscal Pressure  “The aging population is set to add fiscal pressure on the
government in the medium and long term, which makes it
imperative to put in place a well-functioning pension and health
care system as soon as possible,” said Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-
based economist with  Barclays Capital  who previously worked at
the  World Bank  and Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  With more than $3 trillion in foreign exchange reserves,
the government “has deep pockets now” and should be able to
manage the aging of the country as long as economic growth rates
remain high, Chang said.  China’s slowing  population growth  is a product of its
family planning system and the policy of limiting urban
residents to one child per woman,  Ma Jiantang , head of the
National Statistics Bureau, told reporters in Beijing yesterday.
Annual population growth was 0.57 percent between 2000 and 2010,
half a percentage point lower than the 1.07 percent annual
growth between 1990 and 2000, according to the census figures.  “Our national basic policy of family planning has been
well implemented and the overly rapid population growth momentum
is effectively under control,” Ma said. Still, the proportion
of people over 60 years old was 2.9 percentage points higher
than in 2000, and that trend is “gradually accelerating,”
according to the statistics bureau.  UBS, Blackrock  The trillions of dollars China’s hundreds of millions of
workers will need in retirement savings may be a boon for global
lenders and asset managers.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  and  State Street Corp. (STT)  help China’s
 National Social Security Fund  invest assets overseas,  according
to  the  International Monetary Fund . China’s 856.8 billion yuan
($131.8 billion) national pension fund may increase its global
investments and has 18 billion yuan invested with private-equity
funds, Wang Zhongmin, vice chairman of the National Council for
Social Security, said March 30.  As China’s population growth slows, it is also becoming
more urban. City dwellers swelled to 665.6 million last year,
more than twice the population of the U.S. China is close to
having more residents in cities and towns than in villages for
the first time in its history. The urban population makes up
49.7 percent of the total, 13.5 percentage points higher than a
decade ago, the NBS said.  Contradictions, Challenges  The one-child policy, which has resulted in millions of
aborted female fetuses, has led to men making up 51.3 percent of
the population, with 34 million more men than women. Most
countries have more women than men, including the U.S., where
50.3 percent of the population was female in 2010, according to
U.S. census data.  The census figures show that “we still face some
contradictions and challenges in population, economic and social
development,” including an aging population and an “unbalanced
gender ratio,” Ma said.  China will eventually move to a two-child policy, the China
Business News reported yesterday, citing an unidentified person
close to policy makers. Farmers and national minorities can
often have more than one child, and rich people can pay fines
for having a second or third child.  Investors have overlooked the implications of changes in
China’s population profile “because of the extreme focus on
growth,” said  Kirby Daley , a Hong Kong-based senior strategist
with Newedge Group’s prime brokerage business. “The demographic
issues cannot be avoided at this point. They are not
reversible.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  