-- 
China Stocks Drop for Fifth Day, Longest Losing Streak This Year, on Rates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-28T07:39:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/china-s-stocks-rise-after-fed-says-will-it-keep-rates-low.html
China ’s stocks fell for a fifth day,
capping the longest stretch of losses this year, on speculation
the government will increase interest rates by as early as next
week to tame inflation.  China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co., the
nation’s biggest developers, lost more than 1 percent as Credit
Suisse Group AG said the central bank may boost borrowing costs
on May 2 and Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. said the government
may add to property price curbs. Angang Steel Co. slid to the
lowest in two months after net profit tumbled. Hainan Airlines
Co. paced a retreat for B shares on speculation the government
will impose a capital gains tax on trading in these equities.  “With tightening measures likely to be intensified, all
this bad news is weighing on stocks,” said Wu Kan, a  fund
manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.
“Corporate earnings in some sectors didn’t meet expectations
and there’s room for them to be revised downward.”  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 38.37 points, or 1.3
percent, to 2,887.04 at the 3 p.m. close, capping a five-day,
4.6 percent drop and the lowest level since Feb. 25. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  lost 1.5 percent and the Smallcap 500 Index slid 3.2
percent. The Shanghai B Share Index tumbled 2.8 percent, adding
to a four-day, 7.8 percent retreat.  The Shanghai Composite has declined 5.6 percent from a
five-month high on April 18 amid concern the government will add
to 10 increases in lenders’ reserve requirements and four rises
in  interest rates  to cool inflation. The drop has pared the
stocks gauge’s advance this year to 2.8 percent.  China may raise borrowing costs early next month, with the
“most likely” timing being May 2, Dong Tao, an analyst at
Credit Suisse, wrote in a report today. The brokerage also
expects one more reserve ratio increase for banks “towards”
late May after the government releases April inflation and
lending figures, the analyst wrote.  Property ‘Risk’  Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest developer by
market value, retreated 2.8 percent to 12.91 yuan. China Vanke
Co., the biggest, slipped 1.1 percent to 8.31 yuan. Citichamp
Dartong Co., a developer based in the southeast province of
Fujian, dropped 5.9 percent to 8.81 yuan.  The central government may increase measures to cool the
 property market  by extending restrictions on house purchases, or
by requiring local governments to set stricter targets for
controlling  home prices , analysts led by  Li Huiyong  at Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities wrote in a report today.  China’s real-estate market is a “particular source of
risk” to growth given the importance of property construction
to the world’s second-biggest economy, the  World Bank  said today.
“Shocks to the property sector that would slow down
construction significantly could have a large impact on the
economy and on bank balance sheets,” the Washington-based
lender said in its China Quarterly Update.  Economy May ‘Stumble’  Anhui Conch Cement Co., the nation’s biggest maker of the
building material, slumped 6 percent to 37.01 yuan, the biggest
drop since Nov. 17 and trimming its gain this year to 25 percent.
Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co. slid 4.4 percent to 18.88 yuan.
Huaxin Cement Co., the Chinese affiliate of Holcim Ltd., lost
3.4 percent to 48.88 yuan.  Jeremy Grantham  said there is a 25 percent chance that
China will “stumble” by next year over imbalances such as too
much  capital spending , an overheating real estate market or
accelerating inflation.  “You could have a financial stumble, a housing stumble, a
stumble from rebalancing of capital spending, or any combination
thereof,” Grantham, chief investment officer of Grantham Mayo
Van Otterloo & Co., said in an April 26 interview in  Boston .  Angang Steel Co. fell 2.4 percent to 7.77 yuan. Net income
tumbled 94 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter, the
steelmaker said in a statement last night.  Quarterly Profits  Earnings per-share at the 657 companies that have released
first-quarter earnings on the Shanghai Composite trailed
analysts’ estimates by 3.4 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  A gauge of financial stocks rose 0.1 percent on the CSI 300,
the only gainer among the CSI 300’s industry groups.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) , the nation’s fourth
largest by assets, added 2.1 percent to 2.96 yuan. Net income
climbed 36 percent from a year earlier to 34.1 billion yuan
($5.24 billion), the bank said last night. That compared with
the 33.1 billion yuan median estimate of six analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the nation’s
biggest listed lender, gained 1.1 percent to 4.59 yuan. ICBC is
due to release first-quarter profit today. The nation’s four-
biggest banks reported record annual profit last year as higher
interest rates boosted net interest margins.  Tax Speculation  China’s B shares tumbled 5.3 percent yesterday on
“rumors” the government would impose a  capital gains  levy on
the foreign-currency denominated stock under a trial program,
Shanghai Securities News reported. Speculation that the
government would allow greater strengthening of the currency
also dragged down equities, according to China Business News.  “There are lots of rumors about B shares such as a capital
gain tax and yuan appreciation and all these things are weighing
on the market,” said Dazhong Insurance’s Wu. “It’s an opaque
market dominated by retail investors, who tend to believe market
rumors and then sell in panic.”  China is unlikely to start taxing investors on their
capital gains any time soon, Reuters reported today, citing a
tax official it didn’t name. A rumored one-time yuan revaluation
this weekend is unlikely to happen as the adverse impact on
exports would be too great, China Business News reported, citing
unidentified market participants. A news official with the
central bank, who declined to be identified because of the
monetary authorities’ rules, declined to comment.  Smallcaps Drop  Hainan Airlines’ B shares slid 1.9 percent to $1.04, adding
to yesterday’s 7.7 percent plunge.  The Smallcap 500 Index fell for a fifth day. The China
Securities Regulatory Commission denied speculation that the
regulator is “purposely” accelerating the pace of approving
initial public offerings by domestic companies to curb the stock
market, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing an
unidentified official at the commission.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  