-- 
China’s B Shares Tumble to Five-Month Low on Capital Gains Tax Speculation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-28T07:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/china-s-b-shares-tumble-to-four-month-low-on-capital-gains-tax-speculation.html
China’s B shares sank for a fifth
day, driving the benchmark index to a five-month low, amid
speculation the government will impose a  capital gains  tax on
trading of the equities.  The Shanghai SE B Share Index, comprising 53 companies
whose shares are traded in U.S. dollars, slumped 2.8 percent to
294.82 at the 3 p.m. local-time close, capping a five-day, 10
percent plunge that included a 5.3 percent retreat yesterday.
The close was the lowest since Nov. 23. The index of Shenzhen B
shares that are denominated in Hong Kong dollars declined 3.6
percent to 784.9 today.  The stocks tumbled yesterday on “rumors” the government
would impose a capital gains levy on the foreign-currency
denominated stock under a trial program, according to the
Shanghai Securities News, which is affiliated to the official
Xinhua News Agency. Speculation that the government would allow
greater strengthening of the currency also dragged down equities,
according to the  China  Business News.  “There are lots of rumors about B shares such as a capital
gain tax and yuan appreciation and all these things are weighing
on the market,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “It’s an
opaque market dominated by retail investors, who tend to believe
market rumors and then sell in panic.”  China is unlikely to start levying investors on their
capital gains any time soon, Reuters reported today, citing a
tax official it didn’t name. A news official with the central
bank, who declined to be identified because of the monetary
authorities’ rules, declined to comment.  Trading Value  B shares, introduced in the early 1990s as a means for
domestic companies to raise foreign currency, can be bought and
sold by domestic individuals and overseas investors. Domestic
institutional investors are barred from buying the stocks.  Shares worth an average $70.4 million changed hands daily
on  Shanghai ’s B-share market over the past 12 months, compared
with an average of $19.5 billion for the city’s yuan-denominated
A shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The trading value on Shanghai’s B shares jumped to $147.9
million yesterday, the highest since Nov. 16, the data shows.
The Shanghai’s B share index had rallied 26 percent over the
past 12 months through April 21, when it closed at the highest
level since January 2008. That outpaced the A share market,
which lost 0.3 percent during the period.  Hao Hong, China International Capital Corp.’s global equity
strategist, said Aug. 17 that B shares were cheap compared with
their A-share rivals and that the “valuation discrepancy”
would be erased.  Stock Valuations  Shanghai’s B-share gauge is valued at 18 times reported
earnings, compared with the multiple of 16.5 times for the A-
share gauge, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A rumored one-time yuan revaluation this weekend isn’t
likely because the effect on exports would be too great, China
Business News reported, citing unidentified market participants.  The yuan advanced to the strongest level in 17 years today
against the dollar after the central bank set the currency’s
reference rate at the highest level since July 2005. The yuan
has strengthened 0.4 percent since April 15, when official data
showed consumer prices rose the most in 32 months in March,
stoking investors’ expectations that policy makers will tolerate
currency gains to hold down inflation.  The expected introduction of a foreign companies’ stocks
board may also lower the allure of B shares, Tal Haparnas, vice
president of Knight Capital Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said
yesterday. “We hear that an international board in Shanghai is
getting closer to becoming a reality. This makes B shares less
attractive.”  Shanghai Mayor Han Zheng said last month the foreign stocks
board will be introduced soon. China’s regulators may allow 10
foreign and overseas-listed Chinese companies to sell shares in
Shanghai under a trial program after two years of preparation,
the 21st Century Business Herald reported on April 22, citing a
draft plan.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  