-- 
China Cosco Slumps to Loss as Global Overcapacity Hammers Shipping Rates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-28T14:22:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/china-cosco-slumps-to-loss-as-global-overcapacity-hammers-shipping-rates.html
China Cosco Holdings Co.,  Asia ’s
largest shipping line by market value, reported a first-quarter
loss after global overcapacity caused a decline in rates for
carrying commodities and containers.  The net loss was 503 million yuan ($77 million), the
Tianjin, China-based company said in a statement today, citing
domestic accounting standards. It didn’t give a year-earlier
figure. Sales dropped 5.6 percent to 16.4 billion yuan.  Nippon Yusen K.K. and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd.,  Japan ’s two
biggest shipping lines, today forecast declines in annual profit,
as expansion in the global fleet outpaces demand. China Cosco’s
first-quarter container rates dropped from a year earlier and
dry-bulk fees have tumbled 62 percent in a year, according to
the Baltic Dry Index.  “There are too many ships and too much capacity,” said
 Johnson Leung , head of regional transport at Jefferies Group Inc.
in Hong Kong. “The first quarter was tough, but investors need
to be prepared because the second quarter will be even worse.”  The price of 380 Centistoke marine bunker fuel, used by
ships, jumped 29 percent in Singapore trading in the first
quarter to $654 per metric ton, the biggest gain since the
second quarter of 2009. It closed at $685.50 today.  Container Rates  First-quarter sales at China Cosco’s container-shipping
unit, the nation’s largest, rose 3.8 percent to 7.9 billion yuan,
trailing a 12 percent jump in volumes. Its dry-bulk fleet had a
2.2 percent drop in volumes to 65 million tons, according to the
statement. It didn’t give a revenue figure.  China Cosco said last month it expects a 32 percent drop in
dry-bulk traffic this year to 959 billion ton-nautical miles. It
operated 438 commodity vessels and 153  container ships  as of
March 31.  The company dropped 0.7 percent to close at HK$7.70 in  Hong
Kong  trading before the earnings announcement. It has fallen 6.6
percent this year, compared with a 3.3 percent rise for the  Hang
Seng Index .  Spot market container rates on Asia-Europe routes have
fallen below break-even levels because of rising capacity,
according to  Alaphaliner . Global container-ship deliveries will
likely hit a record this month, with shipyards handing over
vessels with a combined capacity of about 226,500 boxes,
according to the shipping-data provider.  Cosco, A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest
container line, and other shipping companies are seeking to
boost rates for Asia-U.S. West Coast shipments by $400 per 40-
foot container as they negotiate annual contracts generally
starting around May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  