-- 
CIBC Will Use Capital on Preferred Shares, McCaughey Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-28T20:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/cibc-will-use-excess-capital-to-redeem-preferred-shares-mccaughey-says.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
plans to spend any extra capital to redeem C$3.16 billion ($3.32
billion) in preferred shares that won’t count as regulatory
capital under new banking rules, Chief Executive Officer Gerald McCaughey said.  “We do have an excess of Tier 1 capital today and in the
future,” McCaughey, 55, said in an interview today. “A first
step in terms of our usage of excess resources will be to reduce
instruments that we have that are ineffective in the new
environment.”  Canada’s fifth-biggest bank had a so-called Tier 1 capital
ratio of 14.3 percent as of Jan. 31, second only to  National
Bank of Canada . The Toronto-based bank sold more than C$2.4
billion in preferred shares and other securities since August
2008 to shore up its balance sheet during the financial crisis.  Regulators globally are toughening rules that govern banks
because preferred shares and hybrid notes didn’t provide a
buffer for losses in the financial meltdown. Under guidelines
adopted in January by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , most of these securities will gradually stop
counting as capital over a decade starting in 2013. CIBC also
has about C$1.6 billion in hybrid notes outstanding.  Canadian banks have in excess of C$70 billion of non-common
capital, all of which will need to be made compliant under the
new rules or be redeemed by 2023, Mark White, assistant
superintendent of the Office of the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions, said in February.  Buybacks  “We will be looking at our non-common Tier 1 instruments
in the near future,” McCaughey said in Winnipeg, Manitoba,
after the bank’s annual meeting. “That allows us to deploy a
certain amount of excess resources in a fashion that does help
earnings per share.”  Share buybacks aren’t a priority for the Toronto-based
bank, McCaughey said.  “We do not expect in the near term to be deploying that
capital in activities such as buybacks,” he said.  Canadian Imperial is also considering ways to use its
capital to bolster banking outside  Canada . The bank is renewing
its commitment to real estate financing in the U.S. while
focusing on business lending for Canadian companies and pension
funds looking to invest outside Canada.  Caribbean Plans  “Those activities are below what we consider to be our
capacity, and therefore increasing those activities to a higher
level is another alternative in terms of usage of capital,”
McCaughey said.  Canadian Imperial is also watching for opportunities
outside Canada and the U.S., such as in the Caribbean, for
potential investments. Last year, the bank made a $150 million
investment for a stake in Bermuda-based Bank of N.T. Butterfield
& Son Ltd.  “The offshore markets continue to be a great interest to
us,” McCaughey said.  CIBC is also looking to bolster its wealth management
operations, McCaughey said.  “We would also continue to look at opportunities within
wealth management outside of Canada,” McCaughey said. “We have
been looking at that consistently and as of yet have not found a
suitable investment, but we do continue to look for wealth
management opportunities.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  