-- 
Coffee Advances to 14-Year High in New York on Supply Concern

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-04-28T19:37:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/coffee-advances-to-14-year-high-in-new-york-on-supply-concern.html
Arabica coffee climbed to a 14-year
high amid concern that adverse weather will crimp output in
 Brazil  and  Colombia , the biggest producers, and as a weaker
dollar boosts demand for commodities as alternative assets.  Rain and lower temperatures will hurt the harvest in
Brazil, forecaster Somar Meteorologia said on April 25.
Torrential storms and flooding in Colombia will boost food
prices as farmers struggle to harvest and transport their
produce, Agriculture Minister Juan Camilo Restrepo said. Coffee
futures have more than doubled in the past year.  “The fundamentals will continue to push prices higher,”
said Sterling Smith, an analyst at Country Hedging in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota . “Also, a declining dollar is providing a tailwind to
the fundamental story.”  Arabica coffee for July delivery advanced 2.8 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $2.992 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York, after touching $3.034, the highest since May
1997.  The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, fell as much as 0.9 percent to the lowest
since July 2008. A weaker dollar makes raw materials priced in
the U.S. currency more attractive to overseas buyers. The index
was headed for a fifth straight weekly drop.  ‘Fully Locked’  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee-shop operator,
said it had “fully locked” coffee costs for this year and part
of next year.  “As we progress through the balance of 2011, we will
progressively take actions to secure our coffee needs and lock
coffee costs for additional months into 2012,” Chief Financial
Officer Troy Alstead said yesterday during an earnings
conference call.  “While we expect that the costs we pay for coffee may be
higher in 2012 than they are in 2011, we remain confident that
we can offset those increased costs and preserve our long-term
earnings growth targets,” Alstead said.  In  London , robusta-coffee futures for July delivery rose
$19, or 0.7 percent, to $2,555 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 