-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. Drops on Finances, Buying Outlook

-- B y  
-- 
2011-04-28T14:10:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-drops-on-finances-buying-outlook.html

Press Release  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index Was Minus 45.1 in the
Period to April 24  New York --  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. fell last week for
the first time in a month rising gasoline prices hurt household
finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index decreased to minus 45.1 in
the period ended April 24, the lowest level since the end of
March, from minus 42.6 the prior week. Measures of personal
finances and buying climate dropped, indicating households may
limit purchases as fuel costs rise.  Faster job and income growth is helping bolster  consumer
spending , which grew more than forecast in the first quarter. To
spur the economy, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled yesterday policy makers will maintain record monetary
stimulus after ending large-scale bond purchases in June.  For full CCI results, see:  http://www.bloomberg.com/cci   “Sentiment among individuals that are likely squeezed due to
rising food and fuel costs, elevated unemployment levels and
bleak prospects for meaningful wage gains this year is clearly
offsetting some of the positive aspects of a modest recovery,”
said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New
York .  The personal finances gauge dropped to minus 9.2 last week, the
lowest since Feb. 13, from minus 0.3, the report showed. Forty-
five percent of those polled held positive views on their
financial situation, down from 50 percent the previous week.  The buying-climate index decreased to minus 51.8 from minus
49.2. Those people saying it was a good time to buy needed items
fell a point to 24 percent.  Consumers’ economic outlook turned more optimistic. A gauge of
Americans’ views of the economy rose to minus 74.3 last week
from minus 78.2 the prior week. The share of households with a
positive view of the economy increased to 13 percent.  Other reports today showed the economy grew at a slower pace in
the first three months of the year, and claims for jobless
benefits unexpectedly jumped last week.  The economy grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate last quarter, down
from a 3.1 percent pace in the fourth quarter, as  government
spending  dropped by the most in 28 years, according to figures
from the Commerce Department.  Jobless claims increased by 25,000 to 429,000 in the week ended
April 23, the most since late January, Labor Department figures
showed. The government anticipates a drop in unadjusted
applications during the Good Friday holiday week, something that
didn’t happen this year, a Labor Department spokesman said.  Among households with incomes greater than $100,000, confidence
rose to 1.3, the highest since the end of February, from minus
3.2 in the prior week. Those will full-time jobs also grew more
confident, as well.  Confidence among single people worsened. Thirty-three percent of
singles said their finances are in good shape, down 14 points
from the previous survey. Among 18- to 34-year-olds, 41 percent
are optimistic about their financial situation, down 13 points.  “Record-breaking gasoline prices are primarily to blame,”  Gary
Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York,
which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.
“Positive ratings of personal finances fell most sharply among
some of the lower-income groups hardest hit by higher gasoline
prices.”  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the
economy, rose at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter
compared with a 4 percent pace in the final three months of
2010, the Commerce Department figures showed today.  The
Bloomberg Comfort Index, with records dating back to December
1985, fell to a record low of minus 54 in November 2008, while
the peak of 38 was reached in January 2000. Readings averaged
minus 45.7 last year, and readings below minus 40 coincide with
a recession.  Consumers are grappling with higher prices for fuel and food as
wages fall after adjusting for inflation. The average price of a
gallon of gasoline was $3.89 on April 27, the highest in more
than two years.  Meanwhile, average hourly earnings in the U.S. adjusted for
inflation shrank 1 percent in the 12 months ended in March.  Huntington Beach , California-based BJ’s Restaurants Inc., which
operates its namesake brewery, pizza and grill chains, will find
maintaining this year’s “solid” sales will be “significantly
more challenging” because of rising prices, Chief Financial
Officer Gregory S. Levin said in an April 20 conference call
with analysts.  “While the environment does appear to be stabilizing, consumers
today are facing higher gas and energy prices as well as higher
food costs,” Levin said. “As a result these inflationary
pressures may temper restaurant sales in general in the future.”  Still, Fed policy makers said yesterday after a two-day meeting
in  Washington  that the economy is recovering at a “moderate
pace” and the pickup in inflation is likely to be temporary, as
they agreed to finish $600 billion of bond purchases on schedule
in June.  Following the meeting, central bank officials boosted their
forecast for inflation, saying that a measure of prices will
rise between 2.1 percent and 2.8 percent this year, compared
with the 1.3 percent to 1.7 percent rate estimated in January.
The Fed said it expects “these effects to be transitory.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses to
telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science Research
Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  Contact for Bloomberg:  Meghan Womack, +1 212-617-8514,  mwomack4@bloomberg.net 
