-- 
Corn Rises as Rains May Cause ‘Severe’ Floods in U.S. Midwest; Wheat Drops

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-04-28T12:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/corn-futures-advance-in-chicago-as-u-s-midwest-may-face-severe-flooding-.html
Corn rose in  Chicago  as rains in
the Midwest, the largest U.S. growing region, threatened to
further delay sowing, while cold temperatures may hurt the crop
that’s already been planted.  The eastern and southern Midwest and Delta regions may have
“severe flooding” in the 10 days from yesterday, Telvent DTN
Inc. said in a forecast on April 27. In  Europe , rains predicted
in the driest areas of western  Germany , northern  France  and
 England  probably won’t be enough to end crop concerns in areas
where winter wheat, corn and rapeseed are grown, it said.  “There is a weather pattern that needs to be watched at
the moment, and there’s dryness in the” European Union, said
Jonathan Bouchet, an analyst at broker OTCex Group in Geneva.
“Corn is still a bull story influencing wheat.”  Corn for July delivery gained 3.5 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$7.6275 a bushel by 1:14 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board
of Trade. The contract climbed the most in three weeks on April
25.  The rally in corn “is a continuation of concerns about the
weather and the ability to get corn planted on time,”  Michael Pitts , a commodity sales director at National Australia Bank
Ltd., said by phone from Sydney today. “It’s really about the
U.S. weather report and the European weather report.”  About 9 percent of the corn crop was planted in the U.S. as
of April 24, compared with 46 percent at the same time last
year, the Department of Agriculture said in an April 25  report .  Risks to Yields  About 85 percent of the crop needs to be sown by May 15, or
farmers face higher risks that yields will fall below the
historical average, Jay O’Neil, an adviser to the U.S. Grains
Council, said in an interview yesterday. The crop harvested last
year in the U.S., the world’s largest grower, represents about
39 percent of global production, according to USDA data.  Temperatures will drop below freezing twice next week in
the upper Great Plains, where soil temperatures in some areas
are below normal at prime planting time, said  Allen Motew , a
meteorologist with QT Information Systems in Chicago.  Corn won’t germinate in soil cooler than 50 degrees
Fahrenheit, according to  Iowa State University ’s agronomy
extension school. Ground temperatures are important because a
late start to planting may affect how much can be harvested.  Wheat for July delivery fell 3.25 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$8.0875 a bushel. Milling wheat for May delivery traded on NYSE
Liffe in Paris slid 2.25 euros, or 0.9 percent, to 243.50 euros
($360.28) a metric ton.  Soybeans for July delivery gained 8.25 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $13.9275 a bushel in Chicago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  