-- 
Denmark’s ATP Fund Profit Slumps 65% After Hedging Losses

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-04-28T11:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/denmark-s-atp-fund-profit-slumps-65-after-hedging-losses-1-.html
ATP, Denmark’s biggest pension
fund, said profit slumped 65 percent last quarter after it lost
money on bets designed to guard against market declines.  Net income fell to 3.8 billion kroner ($756 million) from
10.9 billion kroner in the first quarter of 2010, Hilleroed,
Denmark-based ATP said in an e-mailed statement today. The
fund’s hedging activities resulted in a 1.71 billion-krone loss,
compared with a 2.34 billion-krone profit a year earlier, it
said.  ATP, which oversees $80 billion in investment assets, said
its hedging activities were hit by a narrowing spread between
domestic swap rates and long-dated European  government bonds .
The fund’s investment in inflation-linked securities and rising
oil prices offset the losses, it said.  “During a period of wide fluctuations in financial
markets, our risk diversification strategy has proved to be
appropriate,” ATP Chief Executive Officer Lars Rohde said in an
e-mailed statement.  The fund’s investment in inflation-linked bonds benefited
from higher price expectations in  Europe  as a commodity-price
surge fed through to consumer prices. ATP’s inflation risk
portfolio returned 3.4 percent in the period, it said. Its oil-
related risk portfolio returned 13.4 percent, it said.  Oil, Inflation  Oil traded in  New York  surged 17 percent last quarter while
euro-area average inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in March
from 2.4 percent the month earlier, Luxembourg-based Eurostat
said on April 15.  Though global markets were volatile in the first quarter,
there were “two distinct exceptions as commodity prices,
especially  oil prices  and yields on government bonds in the
eurozone showed substantial increases during the quarter,” ATP
said. The fund’s board expects “uncertainty will persist in the
coming period,” requiring it to maintain “significant risk
diversification in the portfolio,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  