-- 
Deutsche Bank Profit Rises on Record Consumer Bank Earnings

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-04-28T07:33:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/deutsche-bank-profit-beats-estimates-on-consumer-asset-management-units.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, reported a 17 percent increase in first-quarter profit,
exceeding analyst estimates on record earnings at the consumer-
banking and asset-management units.  Deutsche Bank rose as much as 4.4 percent in Frankfurt
trading after saying net income climbed to 2.1 billion euros
($3.1 billion), the second-highest quarterly result ever and
more than the 1.8 billion-euro average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  is counting on
acquisitions such as  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB)  and gains at the
investment bank to boost operating pretax profit to 10 billion
euros this year.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse Group AG,
 Switzerland ’s largest banks, as well as  Barclays Plc (BARC)  of the
U.K., had declines in net income as investment-banking revenue
fell.  “Retail banking and asset management were very good,
helped by the acquisitions,” said Christian Hamann, a Hamburg-
based analyst at Hamburger Sparkasse, with a “hold” rating on
the stock. “Now I can almost imagine that the full-year target
is reachable if the environment remains relatively good.”  Pretax profit at the corporate and investment bank, led by
 Anshu Jain , decreased 12 percent to 2.3 billion euros, a smaller
decline than analysts estimated. Sales and trading revenue slid
3 percent, compared with an average 20 percent drop at U.S.
competitors  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
Citigroup Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Successful Start’  Deutsche Bank gained 1.79 euros to 43.59 euros by 9:31
a.m., giving it a market value of about 40.5 billion euros. The
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index of 48 stocks
rose 0.5 percent today.  Ackermann bought Bonn-based consumer lender Postbank,
private-wealth manager Sal. Oppenheim and ABN Amro Holding NV’s
commercial-banking operations in the Netherlands in the last two
years to reduce dependence on the securities unit. The goal is
to cut earnings from corporate banking and securities to less
than 60 percent of the total by 2013 from 71 percent in 2009.  “Deutsche Bank has made a successful start to the year,”
Ackermann, 63, said in today’s statement. “We will continue to
invest in our franchise and are confident that we will deliver
on our ambitious target.”  Deutsche Bank’s pretax profit from the operating businesses
totaled 3.5 billion euros in the quarter, providing more than a
third of its full-year target, the bank said.  Sales and Trading  At the investment bank, sales and trading revenue from debt
and other products fell 4 percent to 3.6 billion euros, while
equity-trading revenue was unchanged at 943 million euros.  Jain, 48, who took over the corporate and investment bank
in July, has been trying to boost cooperation between the
finance, trading and transaction units and curb costs by
eliminating overlaps. He set up new global and German executive
committees for the division, and is expanding equities and
commodities to cut reliance on fixed-income trading.  Transaction banking pretax profit more than doubled to 257
million euros in the quarter, helped by the acquisition of the
ABN Amro units.  Earnings at the consumer banking unit rose more than
fourfold to a record 788 million euros. The acquisition of
Postbank last year, which doubled customers to about 29 million,
contributed 221 million euros. Deutsche Bank also booked a gain
of 236 million euros related to its stake in Huaxia Bank Co. of
 China .  Rising Revenue  Asset and  wealth management , which was reorganized last
year and bolstered by the purchase of Sal. Oppenheim, returned
to profit, earning 190 million euros in the quarter.  Deutsche Bank’s net revenue climbed about 16 percent to
10.5 billion euros. Net revenue at the six largest U.S. lenders
fell 13.3 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank completed its biggest-ever share sale in October
to buy the rest of Postbank and boost reserves ahead of tougher
regulatory requirements. Deutsche Bank’s core Tier 1 capital
ratio, a measure of financial strength that excludes certain
hybrid instruments, rose to 9.6 percent at the end of March from
8.7 percent at the end of 2010.  Ninety European lenders will be expected to maintain a core
Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the most
adverse scenario in the current round of European Union banking
stress tests. Results are scheduled to be published in June.  Provisions for bad loans rose 42 percent to 373 million
euros in the quarter because of the Postbank acquisition. Non-
interest expenses climbed 19 percent to 7.1 billion euros in the
quarter related to acquisitions and higher compensation costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  