-- 
Deutsche Bank Climbs by Most in Nine Months After Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-04-28T16:36:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/deutsche-bank-climbs-by-most-in-nine-months-after-profit-beats-estimates.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, gained the most in almost a year in Frankfurt trading
after first-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates on record
earnings at the consumer-banking and asset-management units.  Deutsche Bank rose 1.99 euros, or 4.8 percent, to 43.79
euros, the biggest gain since May 10. Net income was 2.1 billion
euros ($3.1 billion), the second-highest quarterly result ever,
and more than the 1.8 billion-euro mean estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  is counting on
acquisitions such as  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB)  and gains at the
investment bank to boost operating pretax profit to 10 billion
euros this year.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse Group AG,
 Switzerland ’s largest banks, as well as  Barclays Plc (BARC)  of the
U.K., had declines in net income in the first quarter as
investment-banking revenue fell.  “Retail banking and asset management were very good,”
said Christian Hamann, a Hamburg-based analyst at Hamburger
Sparkasse with a “hold” rating on the stock. “Now I can
almost imagine that the full-year target is reachable if the
environment remains relatively good.”  Pretax profit at the corporate and investment bank, led by
 Anshu Jain , decreased 12 percent to 2.3 billion euros, a smaller
decline than analysts estimated. Sales and trading revenue slid
3 percent, compared with an average 20 percent drop at U.S.
competitors  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
Citigroup Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Impressive’ Results  “By far the best European investment banking results so
far and one of the best globally,” JPMorgan analysts led by
Kian Abouhossein said in a note to investors today. Consumer
banking and asset and wealth management had “very impressive
results across the board, especially private and business
clients.”  Deutsche Bank has gained 12 percent so far this year,
giving it a market value of about 40.7 billion euros. The
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index of 48 stocks
has risen 3.4 percent in the same period.  Ackermann bought Bonn-based consumer lender Postbank,
private-wealth manager Sal. Oppenheim and ABN Amro Holding NV’s
commercial-banking operations in the Netherlands in the last two
years to reduce dependence on the securities unit.  Earnings Mix  The goal is to cut earnings from corporate banking and
securities to less than 60 percent of the total by 2013 from 71
percent in 2009, Deutsche Bank has said. The goal is to achieve
a 50-50 balance over the long term, Chief Financial Officer
Stefan Krause said today.  “Deutsche Bank has made a successful start to the year,”
Ackermann, 63, said in today’s statement. “We will continue to
invest in our franchise and are confident that we will deliver
on our ambitious target.”  Deutsche Bank’s pretax profit from the operating businesses
totaled 3.5 billion euros in the quarter, providing more than a
third of its full-year goal, the bank said.  At the investment bank, sales and trading revenue from debt
and other products fell 4 percent to 3.6 billion euros, while
equity-trading revenue was unchanged at 943 million euros.  Jain, 48, who took over the corporate and investment bank
in July, has been trying to boost cooperation between the
finance, trading and transaction units and curb costs by
eliminating overlaps. He set up new global and German executive
committees for the division, and is expanding equities and
commodities to cut reliance on fixed-income trading.  Consumer Banking  Transaction banking pretax profit more than doubled to 257
million euros in the quarter, helped by the acquisition of the
ABN Amro units.  Earnings at the consumer banking unit, run by  Rainer Neske ,
46, rose more than fourfold to a record 788 million euros. The
acquisition of Postbank last year, which doubled customers to
about 29 million, contributed 221 million euros. Deutsche Bank
also booked a gain of 236 million euros related to its stake in
Huaxia Bank Co. of  China . Postbank’s contribution to earnings
this year should be “stronger” than originally expected,
Krause said.  Asset and  wealth management , which was reorganized last
year and bolstered by the purchase of Sal. Oppenheim, returned
to profit, earning 190 million euros in the quarter.  Deutsche Bank’s net revenue climbed about 16 percent to
10.5 billion euros. Net revenue at the six largest U.S. lenders
fell 13.3 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Capital Ratio  Provisions for bad loans rose 42 percent to 373 million
euros in the quarter because of the Postbank takeover. Non-
interest expenses climbed 19 percent to 7.1 billion euros in the
quarter related to acquisitions and higher compensation costs.  The bank completed its biggest-ever share sale in October
to buy the rest of Postbank and boost reserves ahead of tougher
regulatory requirements. Deutsche Bank’s core Tier 1 capital
ratio, a measure of financial strength that excludes certain
hybrid instruments, rose to 9.6 percent at the end of March from
8.7 percent at the end of 2010.  Ninety European lenders will be expected to maintain a core
Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the most
adverse scenario in the current round of European Union banking
stress tests. Results are scheduled to be published in June.  Krause reiterated on a conference call that the company
sees no need to raise more capital and would only consider a
share sale to finance future acquisitions. Deutsche Bank’s plan
to reorganize U.S. subsidiaries to meet new American regulations
won’t require additional equity or have a negative tax effect,
Krause told analysts.  Las Vegas   The corporate investments unit booked a pretax loss of 165
million euros in the first quarter. Losses at the unit should
narrow in the future, Krause said today. The bank booked a
quarterly charge of 55 million euros related to its investment
in Icelandic generic drugmaker Actavis Group hf, which should
have “reasonably positive results” this year after
restructuring loans in 2010, Krause said.  The Cosmopolitan Resort & Casino in Las Vegas, which
Deutsche Bank took over in 2008 when developer Ian Bruce Eichner
defaulted on a loan, had start-up losses in the quarter that
were within expected levels, he said.  Deutsche Bank had a pretax loss of 353 million euros in the
first three months in the division for consolidation and
adjustments from charges related to accounting methods and
movements between long-term euro and U.S. dollar interest rates,
the bank said today.  The losses in the two “non-core” units were
“significantly worse than expected,” JPMorgan’s Abouhossein
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  