-- 
Dow Chemical Earnings Top Analyst Estimates as Prices Gain

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-04-28T13:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/dow-chemical-earnings-top-analyst-estimates-as-prices-gain-1-.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker, posted first-quarter profit that exceeded
analysts’ estimates as prices for products such as caustic soda
gained and demand increased in all regions.  Net income rose 29 percent to $710 million, or 54 cents a
share, from $551 million, or 41 cents, a year earlier, Midland,
Michigan-based Dow said today in a statement. Earnings excluding
costs for early debt repayment and an acquisition were 82 cents
a share, topping the 67-cent average estimate of 14 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. Revenue climbed 9.8 percent to $14.7 billion
from $13.4 billion.  Dow, benefiting from low U.S. natural-gas prices relative
to oil, plans to boost output of Gulf Coast ethylene, used in
plastics. Higher product prices outpaced a $700 million increase
in raw-material and energy costs, expanding profit margins, Dow
said. Profit more than doubled in the basic-chemicals unit on
higher prices for caustic soda, used to make paper and alumina.  “The standout performer was chemicals,”  Hassan Ahmed , a
New York-based analyst at Alembic Global Advisers who rates Dow
shares “overweight,” said today in a telephone interview.
“All the geographies had significant volume growth, even in
some of the slower growth areas like  North America .”  Dow rose 48 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $40.40 at 9:21 a.m.
before the start of regular  New York  Stock Exchange trading. The
shares gained 17 percent this year before today.  Prices Rise  Excluding divestitures, Dow increased product prices 12
percent from the year-earlier quarter and sales volumes gained 8
percent. The region that includes  Europe  and the Middle East led
gains with prices rising 15 percent and sales volumes up the
same amount. North American sales volumes rose 3 percent.  “The economic recovery in the  United States , Western
Europe and other developed markets continues to gain solid
footing, despite lingering unemployment concerns in the United
States and ongoing sovereign debt issues in Europe,” Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Liveris said in the statement. “Demand
continues to be robust in emerging geographies, despite rising
inflationary concerns.”  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization jumped 58 percent in the performance-products unit
amid higher sales of epoxies and materials used in
polycarbonate, a hard plastic found in autos and optical media.  Coatings Unit  Ebitda in the coatings and infrastructure unit climbed 36
percent as higher prices and demand for packaging and
construction materials in  Latin America  and  Asia  more than made
up for “soft” demand for paint ingredients in other regions,
Dow said.  Profit in the agriculture unit climbed 5.7 percent to a
record $406 million because of early-season sales of herbicides
in the Europe-Africa-Middle East region and demand growth of
more than 25 percent for crop seeds such as SmartStax corn,
developed with  Monsanto Co. (MON)  to kill insects and tolerate
herbicides with eight genetic modifications.  Dow, founded in 1897 as a bleach maker, is the world’s
biggest producer of chlorine, epoxy resins and polyethylene
plastic. It’s the world’s second-biggest chemical maker behind
 Germany ’s BASF SE.  Chemical profit at Exxon Mobil Corp., the second-biggest
U.S. chemical maker, rose 21 percent to a record $1.52 billion,
the Irving, Texas-based company said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 