-- 
Dubai’s Shares Drop on Concern DvP Extension May Delay MSCI Index Upgrade

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-28T10:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/dubai-s-shares-drop-on-concern-dvp-extension-may-delay-msci-index-upgrade.html
Dubai’s shares dropped the most in
more than a month after United Arab Emirates bourses extended
the date brokerages have to switch to a new settlement system,
stoking concern the country won’t secure an  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  upgrade.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank
complying with Shariah banking rules, lost 2.2 percent. Emirates
NBD, the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets, slumped the most on
record. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 1.9 percent, the most
since March 14, to 1,634.13 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai,
bringing this week’s drop to 2.8 percent. The measure rose 5
percent this month on optimism local markets may be moved to
MSCI’s emerging market indexes in June.  The U.A.E. stock exchanges will give brokerages and
custodians until May 29 to switch to the so-called delivery-
versus-payment system, one of MSCI’s criteria for an upgrade
from frontier markets. The Emirates Securities and Commodities
Authority, the nation’s regulator, said April 11 that DvP would
be introduced at the bourses today.  “This is a negative for those who had a belief that the
upgrade will happen,” said Saad al Chalabi, an institutional
trader at Al Ramz Securities in  Abu Dhabi . “This should begin
to raise their doubts.”  Starting DvP  “We have received a few concerns regarding the readiness
level of the market participants,” the Abu Dhabi Securities
Exchange said in a statement obtained by Bloomberg yesterday.
The bourse requested “custodians and brokers to confirm their
readiness by no later than May 29,” according to the statement.  A spokesman for the Dubai bourse, who declined to be
identified, confirmed the exchange is giving market participants
until May 29 to switch to the new DvP system. Exchanges in Dubai
and Abu Dhabi said they are set up to use the delivery-versus-
payment method.  MSCI is scheduled to announce the results of its review in
June, according to its website. MSCI indexes are tracked by
investors with an estimated $5.2 trillion in assets, according
to a May report by Shinhan Investment Corp.  Dubai Islamic declined the most since April 7 to 2.23
dirhams. Emirates NBD, the company with the third-heaviest
weighting on Dubai’s gauge, fell 6.3 percent, the most since
October 2007, to 4 dirhams. Two trades of one share each before
the market closed yesterday pushed the shares up 11 percent the
same day.  In Abu Dhabi,  Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  declined 4.1 percent
to 1.42 dirhams after first-quarter profit dropped 50 percent to
64.3 million dirhams ($17.5 million) as costs at the emirate’s
second-biggest property developer rose. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  dropped 0.3 percent.  Kuwait’s gauge advanced 0.5 percent, while Bahrain’s BB All
Share Index slipped 0.1 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  rose 0.2
percent and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  gained 0.7 percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s
market is closed for the weekend.  DvP is a securities industry procedure in which payment for
a security must be made when the security is delivered. Usually,
the payment is made to a bank, which in turn pays for the
security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  