-- 
Heat, Thunder Reach Second Round in NBA Playoffs; Spurs Avoid Elimination

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-28T05:25:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/heat-thunder-reach-second-round-in-nba-playoffs-spurs-avoid-elimination.html
The  Miami Heat  eliminated the
Philadelphia 76ers and the Oklahoma City Thunder ousted the
Denver Nuggets to advance to the second round of the National
Basketball Association playoffs.  The  San Antonio Spurs  stayed alive with a 110-103 win in
overtime against the Memphis Grizzlies in last night’s other
playoff game.  The Heat beat the 76ers 97-91 to win the best-of-seven
series by four games to one. Dwyane Wade had 26 points and 11
rebounds, Chris Bosh had 22 points and 11 rebounds, Mario Chalmers scored 20 points and  LeBron James  tallied 16 points and
10 rebounds for the Heat at American Airlines Arena in Miami.  The Heat will face the  Boston Celtics , who swept the  New
York Knicks , for a place in the Eastern Conference finals.  “We understand where we are in this league and where the
Celtics are,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra told reporters. “If we
want to get to anywhere where we want to go, and the goals that
we set for ourselves early in training camp, we have to go
through them. And it wouldn’t be right if we didn’t play them.”  At Oklahoma City Arena,  Kevin Durant  scored 41 points,
including the final nine, for the Thunder as they defeated the
Nuggets 100-97. Russell Westbrook added 14 for the home team as
it won the series four games to one.  The Thunder will next play the Spurs or the Grizzlies, who
lead  San Antonio  3-2 ahead of tomorrow’s Game 6 in Memphis.  Spurs Leave it Late  At AT&T Center in San Antonio, Gary Neal caught an inbounds
pass with 1.7 seconds left and hit a 25-foot 3-pointer as time
expired to force overtime and keep the Spurs’ season alive.  San Antonio, who had the NBA’s best record during the
regular season, then outscored Memphis 13-6 in overtime to avoid
becoming the second No. 1 seed after the 2006-07 Dallas
Mavericks to lose a seven-game playoff series to an eighth-
ranked team.  Manu Ginobili scored 33 points and Tony Parker added 24 for
the Spurs, while Zach Randolph led the Grizzlies with 26 points
and 11 rebounds.  Tonight, the Atlanta Hawks, Los Angeles Lakers and  Dallas
Mavericks  can advance to the second round with wins over the
Orlando Magic, New Orleans Hornets an Portland Trail Blazers,
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  