-- 
EBay’s Sales Forecast Exceeds Estimates as CEO Revamps Site

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-04-28T20:21:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ebay-s-sales-forecast-exceeds-estimates-as-ceo-revamps-site.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s largest
online marketplace, forecast higher sales than analysts had
predicted, bolstered by improvements to its main site in the
U.S. and demand for its PayPal payment service.  Second-quarter revenue will rise to as much as $2.65
billion, the company said yesterday in a statement. Excluding
some costs, profit will be 45 cents to 46 cents a share.
Analysts had projected revenue of $2.52 billion and earnings of
46 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe, two-thirds of the way
through a three-year turnaround plan, has bought at least seven
businesses in the past year to help revive sales growth and
revamp EBay’s main marketplace. The company has pushed deeper
into mobile services with the acquisitions of Red Laser, Milo
and Where.com, positioning itself to benefit from a shift to
shopping on smartphones.  “More people are using PayPal; more people are using
EBay,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in  New
York . He recommends buying EBay shares, which he doesn’t own.
“It’s just what we wanted to see.”  Even so, EBay isn’t keeping pace with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the
biggest Internet retailer. While EBay’s sales climbed 16 percent
last quarter, Seattle-based Amazon posted a 38 percent gain in
the period.  Shares Rise  EBay fell 3 cents to $34 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading at
4 p.m. New York time. Shares of the  San Jose , California-based
company have climbed 22 percent this year.  First-quarter net income rose 20 percent to $475.9 million,
or 36 cents a share, from $397.7 million, or 30 cents, a year
earlier. Sales climbed to $2.55 billion, compared with the $2.48
billion predicted by analysts.  Donahoe has thrown money and engineers at the company’s
main U.S. site to reignite growth. He changed the search engine
to help buyers find items and reduced listing fees for sellers.
Those moves have created a “baseline” that the company can now
build on, Donahoe said.  “I continue to be pleased with the progress our team is
making,” he said on a conference call. “Our U.S. business is
clearly turning the corner.”  PayPal remains a faster source of growth for EBay, with
revenue from the division rising 23 percent to $992 million last
quarter. The unit accounts for 39 percent of EBay’s sales and
will eventually be larger than the company’s e-commerce sites,
Donahoe has said.  GSI Purchase  Donahoe has used acquisitions to expand into location-based
services and strengthen its ties with brick-and-mortar chains.
The company agreed to buy GSI Commerce Inc. last month for $2.4
billion to help woo big retailers and challenge Amazon.  In its earnings report this week, Amazon also posted
better-than-anticipated sales. Revenue in the first quarter rose
to $9.86 billion, beating the $9.54 billion average prediction
of analysts. The sales growth reassured investors concerned
about the company’s soaring spending on new warehouses and data
centers. Amazon’s shares rose 7.9 percent yesterday, their
biggest gain since October 2009.  EBay was founded in 1995 as an online auction site. After
auctions fell out of favor with many  Internet users , Donahoe
began steering the company toward fixed-price listings. EBay
also owns StubHub.com and Shopping.com, as well as stakes in
Skype Technologies SA and Craigslist.  Reviving the main marketplace site remains a challenge,
said Heath Terry, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity.  “While PayPal continues to gain share and has significant
opportunities in mobile, international and local, the trends at
EBay, particularly in the U.S., remain less encouraging,” he
said this week in a note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  