-- 
Economy in U.S. Grows Less-Than-Forecast 1.8% as Government Spending Drops

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-28T20:58:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/economy-in-u-s-grows-less-than-forecast-1-8-as-government-spending-drops.html
The  U.S. economy  slowed more than
forecast in the first quarter as  government spending  declined by
the most since 1983 and household purchases cooled.  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate
from January through March after a 3.1 percent pace in the final
three months of 2010, the Commerce Department said today in
Washington. Economists projected 2 percent growth, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Another report
showed rising gasoline prices depressed  consumer confidence  last
week.  To spur the economy, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the central bank would maintain record
monetary stimulus after ending large-scale bond purchases in
June. Job growth and income gains suggest consumers will keep
spending in the face of higher fuel costs.  “We’ve sputtered a bit here,” said Sam Bullard, a senior
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , who accurately forecast first-quarter growth.
“Consumers are going to continue to spend. Growth should pick
up toward the 3 percent level” later this year, he said.  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the
highest levels since 2008, as better-than-estimated corporate
earnings tempered concern over slowing growth. The  S&P 500 
climbed 0.4 percent to 1,360.48 at 4 p.m. in  New York .  Consumer confidence in the U.S. fell last week for the
first time in a month. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
decreased to minus 45.1 in the period ended April 24, the lowest
level since the end of March, from minus 42.6. Measures of
personal finances and buying climate dropped.  Jobless Claims  New applications for jobless benefits unexpectedly rose
last week to the highest level in three months, a report from
the Labor Department showed. Unemployment insurance claims
jumped by 25,000 to 429,000. The government anticipates a drop
in unadjusted claims during the week leading up to the Easter
holiday, something that didn’t happen this year, a Labor
Department spokesman said.  GDP growth estimates from 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ranged from 0.5 percent to 3.5 percent. The first-
quarter pace was the slowest since April through June of last
year. For all of 2010, the world’s largest economy expanded 2.9
percent, the most in five years, after shrinking 2.6 percent in
2009.  Slower first-quarter growth explains why Fed policy makers
trimmed their 2011 forecasts to a range of 3.1 percent to 3.3
percent, according to its latest so-called central tendency,
released yesterday. In January, central bankers projected 3.4
percent to 3.9 percent expansion.  Slowdown ‘Transitory’  “I would say roughly most of the slowdown in the first
quarter is viewed by most on the committee as transitory,”
Bernanke said at a news conference in Washington following the
central bank’s policy meeting yesterday.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose at a 2.7 percent pace last quarter after a 4
percent gain in the final three months of 2010.  The increase in  consumer spending  from January through
March compared with a 2 percent median forecast in the Bloomberg
survey. Purchases added 1.91 percentage points to growth.  Government purchases fell at a 5.2 percent annual rate
after a 1.7 percent decrease in the fourth quarter. National
defense spending dropped at an 11.7 percent pace, the most since
2005. Federal government spending declined the most in 11 years.  Outlays Frozen  Defense spending in first quarter was held down by
Congress’ failure to pass an annual appropriations bill for the
current fiscal year. Because it was operating under a stopgap
bill, the Defense Department’s outlays were frozen at fiscal
2010 levels. Budget rules also prevented the Pentagon from
starting new procurement programs or in some cases extending or
revising programs.  Orders were affected at Waltham, Massachusetts-based
Raytheon Co., Chief Executive Officer Bill Swanson said on a
conference call today. In the first quarter, Raytheon, the
world’s largest maker of missiles, didn’t get about $500 million
of bookings and about $200 million of sales, he said.  Residential construction fell at a 4.1 percent rate, while
the trade deficit subtracted 0.1 percentage point from GDP,
today’s report showed.  A report from the National Association of Realtors today
showed an increase in the number of Americans signing contracts
to buy previously owned homes. The index of pending home resales
climbed 5.1 percent after a revised 0.7 percent increase the
prior month, the group said.  Forefront of Recovery  Manufacturing industries, which account for 11 percent of
the economy, are likely to remain at the forefront of the
recovery on growing demand from abroad and the need to replenish
stockpiles.  Inventories last quarter were built up at a $43.8 billion
pace, compared with a $16.2 billion rate in the fourth quarter.
Excluding inventories, the economy climbed at a 0.8 percent
annual rate from January through March, the slowest since the
third quarter of 2009.  Spending on equipment and software climbed at an 11.6
percent annual rate last quarter, up from 7.7 percent the
previous three months.  “After a period of widely fluctuating demand in late 2008
through last year, we anticipate that 2011 will be the beginning
of a period of sustained growth in our truck engine markets in
the U.S.,” Thomas Linebarger, chief operating officer of
 Cummins Inc. (CMI) , said on an April 26 teleconference.  Diesel-Engine Maker  The Columbus, Indiana-based maker of  diesel engines 
projects 2011 sales to be up 30 percent from last year, compared
with a previous forecast for a 20 percent gain.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to consumer
spending and strips out food and energy costs, climbed to a 1.5
percent annual pace, today’s GDP report showed. The Fed’s
longer-term projection for inflation is a range of 1.7 percent
to 2 percent. Rising oil and food costs may push up the prices
of other goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  