-- 
Economy in U.S. Grew 1.8% in First Quarter, Less Than Forecast

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-28T13:53:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/economy-in-u-s-grows-less-than-forecast-1-8-as-consumer-purchases-cool.html
The  U.S. economy  grew at a slower
pace than forecast in the first quarter as  government spending 
declined by the most since 1983.  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate
from January through March after a 3.1 percent pace in the last
three months of 2010, the Commerce Department said today in
Washington. Economists projected 2 percent growth, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  To keep spurring the expansion, Federal Reserve policy
makers said yesterday they’ll complete their $600 billion round
of stimulus through June. While slower than the previous three
months, a reflection of higher gasoline prices, consumer
spending climbed more than projected in the first quarter.  “We’ve sputtered a bit here, especially coming off a
relatively strong fourth quarter,” said Sam Bullard, a senior
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , who accurately forecast first-quarter growth. Even
with the higher costs for fuel and food, “consumers are going
to continue to spend. Growth should pick up toward the 3 percent
level” later this year, he said.  GDP estimates from 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
ranged from 0.5 percent to 3.5 percent. The first-quarter pace
was the slowest since April through June of last year. For all
of 2010, the world’s largest economy expanded 2.9 percent, the
most in five years, after shrinking 2.6 percent in 2009.  More Claims  New applications for jobless benefits unexpectedly rose
last week to the highest level in three months. Unemployment
insurance claims jumped by 25,000 to 429,000, the Labor
Department said. The government anticipates a drop in unadjusted
claims during the week leading up to the Easter holiday,
something that didn’t happen this year, a Labor Department
spokesman said.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. fell last week for the
first time in a month as rising gasoline prices hurt household
finances, another report showed. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index decreased to minus 45.1 in the period ended April 24, the
lowest level since the end of March, from minus 42.6 the prior
week. Measures of personal finances and buying climate dropped,
indicating households may limit purchases as fuel costs rise.  Stocks were little changed after the reports and  Treasury
securities  rose. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was at
1,355.22, down less than 0.1 percent, at 9:52 a.m. in  New York .
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves
inversely to prices, fell to 3.32 percent from 3.36 percent late
yesterday.  Fed View  Slower first-quarter growth explains why the Fed trimmed
its 2011 forecast to 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, according to
its latest so-called central tendency, released yesterday. In
January, the central bankers projected 3.4 percent to 3.9
percent expansion.  “I would say roughly most of the slowdown in the first
quarter is viewed by most on the committee as transitory,” Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a news conference in  Washington 
following the central bank’s policy meeting yesterday.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose at a 2.7 percent pace last quarter after a 4
percent gain in the final three months of 2010.  The gain in consumer spending from January through March
compared with a 2 percent median forecast in the Bloomberg
survey. Purchases added 1.91 percentage points to growth.  Government Outlays  Government purchases fell at a 5.2 percent annual rate, the
biggest drop since 1983, after a 1.7 percent decrease in the
fourth quarter. National defense spending dropped at an 11.7
percent pace, the most since 2005. Federal government spending
fell the most in 11 years.  Residential construction fell at a 4.1 percent rate, while
the trade deficit subtracted 0.1 percentage point from GDP,
today’s report showed.  Manufacturing industries, which account for 11 percent of
the economy, are likely to remain at the forefront of the
recovery on growing demand from abroad and the need to replenish
inventories.  Inventories last quarter were stocked at a $43.8 billion
pace, compared with a $16.2 billion rate in the fourth quarter.
Excluding inventories, the economy climbed at a 0.8 percent
annual rate from January through March, the slowest since the
third quarter 2009.  Spending on equipment and software climbed at an 11.6
percent annual last quarter, up from 7.7 percent the previous
three months.  ‘Sustained Growth’  “After a period of widely fluctuating demand in late 2008
through last year, we anticipate that 2011 will be the beginning
of a period of sustained growth in our truck engine markets in
the U.S.,” Thomas Linebarger, chief operating officer of
 Cummins Inc. (CMI) , said on an April 26 teleconference.  The Columbus, Indiana-based maker of  diesel engines 
projects 2011 sales to be up 30 percent from last year, compared
with a previous forecast for a 20 percent gain.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s biggest package-
delivery company, this week bolstered its full-year forecast
after revenue per package climbed in all its sectors during the
first quarter.  The gains reflect “some of the increased velocity in the
core economy with manufacturing and finished goods,” Kurt
Kuehn, chief financial officer of the Atlanta-based firm, said
in an April 26 telephone interview.  UPS and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  handle goods ranging from financial
documents to pharmaceuticals and industrial parts, making them
economic bellwethers.  Inflation  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to  consumer
spending  and strips out food and energy costs, climbed to a 1.5
percent annual pace. The Fed’s longer term projection for
inflation is a range of 1.7 percent to 2 percent. Rising oil and
food costs may push up the prices of other goods and services.  “Increases in the prices of energy and other commodities
have pushed up inflation in recent months,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said yesterday in its statement after a two-day
meeting in Washington. Still, “longer-term inflation
expectations have remained stable and measures of underlying
inflation are still subdued,” the Fed said.  Bernanke has signaled that the Fed will maintain record
stimulus until job growth accelerates and the recovery is robust
enough to withstand tighter credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  