-- 
Egyptian Bank Keeps Rate Unchanged to Spur Economic Growth

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-04-28T17:18:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/egypt-s-central-bank-keeps-interest-rate-unchanged-to-spur-economic-growth.html
Egypt ’s  central bank  kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at the lowest level in more
than four years as the need to boost economic growth outweighed
concerns about inflation.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the overnight deposit
rate at 8.25 percent and the overnight lending rate at 9.75
percent, the central bank said on its website. Five out of six
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News anticipated the decision.  The turmoil that accompanied the ousting of President  Hosni Mubarak  in February may slow economic growth to 1 percent this
year, the  International Monetary Fund  said on April 11, the
lowest annual rate since 1992. At the same time, an increase in
food prices, one of the catalysts that helped drive the anti-
Mubarak revolt, quickened inflation to 11.5 percent in March
from 10.7 percent the month before.  “The growth environment and the political environment are
much more uncertain so the rate hike that we were expecting is
now off the table,” Liz Martins, a senior economist with HSBC
Middle East, said in a phone interview.  The economy is still reeling under the effects of Egypt’s
uprising, which saw tourists flee the country, foreign investors
dump Egyptian Treasury bills and factory output hit by protests
and strikes.  “The current political transformation will continue to
have ramifications on both consumption as well as investment
decisions, adversely weighing on key sectors within the
economy,” the central bank said in a statement on its website.
“If the recent increases in international food prices prove to
be persistent this would pose an upside risk to the inflation
outlook.”  IMF Help  Rising borrowing costs and a  budget deficit  that the
government expects to reach a six-year high this year have
prompted Finance Minister Samir Radwan to turn to the IMF and
the  World Bank  for as much as $6.2 billion of loans.  The central bank in March introduced a seven-day regular
repurchase agreement, or repo, to boost liquidity among banks
that have borne the brunt of buying Treasury bills after foreign
investors stopped purchasing Egyptian securities.  Egypt’s net international reserves fell for a third month
in March to $30.1 billion, the lowest since September 2007, from
$33.3 billion in the previous month.  The government is targeting growth of 4 percent in the next
fiscal year that starts in July, Radwan told reporters in  Kuwait 
on April 26.  The central bank has kept its benchmark interest rate on
hold since September 2009 when it lowered it to the current
rate, the sixth cut in a row to support growth in the face of
the global financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 