-- 
Emerging-Market Equity Funds Post Fifth Week of Inflows, Citigroup Says

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-04-29T17:40:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/emerging-market-equity-funds-post-fifth-week-of-inflows-citigroup-says.html
Emerging-market equity funds
attracted capital for a fifth straight week, the longest streak
since December, according to EPFR Global.  The funds lured $1.83 billion in the week ended April 27,
EPFR said in a statement today. Flows into  Asia  stock funds
excluding  Japan  climbed to almost $3 billion in April, supported
by “renewed faith in the resilience of the region’s economic
growth,” the researcher said.  Latin America  posted inflows for
the first time in 14 weeks, with commodity exporters benefiting
from Asia’s growth, and funds invested in  Europe , the Middle
East and Africa took in money for the sixth week in a row.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is up 2.9 percent this
month, adding to March’s 5.7 percent climb, on speculation
economic growth will sustain earnings.  China ’s economy grew a
faster-than-estimated 9.7 percent in the first quarter.  India  is
aiming for expansion of 9 percent to 9.5 percent in the five
years to March 2017,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of
the nation’s Planning Commission, said on April 21.  “Asia and emerging markets are going to be a better play
in the second half of the year,” Komal Sri-Kumar, the chief
global strategist at TCW Group Inc., said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television from Los Angeles today. “Both China and
India are going to stabilize. At some point, by the middle of
this year, we’ll see the end of monetary tightening by Asian
central banks. That will be very positive.”  Bull Market  China has raised  interest rates  four times since October
and India eight times since early 2010 to curb inflation. The
Reserve Bank of India’s policy announcement is due on May 3.  MSCI’s emerging-markets index climbed 0.3 percent to
1,204.59 as of 1:34 p.m. New York time. The MSCI World Index of
developed nations also rose 0.3 percent.  Emerging funds have attracted $13.8 billion in the past
five weeks, regaining about 50 percent of outflows in the
previous nine weeks, according to a report yesterday by analysts
at Citigroup Inc., citing EPFR data. Inflation in Asia will peak
in the middle of this year, Citigroup’s Kelly Kwok said in a
phone interview from Hong Kong today.  The best places to capitalize on a global  bull market  are
Brazil, Russia, India and China, while “there are lots of
opportunities,” in so-called frontier markets such as Vietnam,
Bangladesh and Pakistan, Templeton Asset Management’s  Mark Mobius  said on April 27. Investors diversifying away from U.S.
Treasuries have helped emerging markets, he said.  Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve,
signaled on April 27 the central bank will maintain its record
monetary stimulus following its decision to leave its benchmark
interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s
been since December 2008.  “Dovish comments from Bernanke suggest that there will be
some time for rate hikes,” Citigroup’s Kwok said. “That will
give some support to risk assets such as the emerging markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 