-- 
Tepco to Start Decontaminating Water at Fukushima Nuclear Plant in June

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-04-28T10:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/tepco-to-start-decontaminating-water-at-fukushima-nuclear-plant-in-june.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. will
receive a “mega float” next month to store radioactive water
from its crippled nuclear power station and expects to start
decontaminating the water used to cool reactors in June.  The floating storage is undergoing maintenance and will
arrive at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station by mid-May, Naoyuki
Matsumoto, a spokesman for the utility known as Tepco, said by
telephone today. A decontamination unit, using technology from
 Areva SA (CEI)  and Kurion Inc., is expected to be operational in June,
the company said yesterday.  Tepco has used fire engines and external pumps to pour
water into reactors and spent-fuel pools after the March 11
earthquake and ensuing tsunami knocked out backup power and
cooling systems at the plant, triggering the worst nuclear
accident since Chernobyl. The water tainted by radiation must be
removed to allow workers to repair the damaged equipment.  “Contaminated fluids will keep building up as Tepco pours
in water,” said Tadashi Narabayashi, a professor of nuclear
engineering at  Hokkaido University . “That’s why the most
important thing now is to create a cooling system that
circulates the water back to the reactors.”  Tepco shares rose 3.1 percent to 425 yen today in Tokyo.
The stock has slumped 80 percent since the quake and tsunami
struck, leaving almost 26,000 people dead or missing.  Independent Probe  An independent committee to investigate the Fukushima
nuclear disaster may be set up by mid-may, Prime Minister  Naoto
Kan  told  Japan ’s parliament today.  The highest radiation readings since March 11 were recorded
at the Fukushima plant by robots this week. Two robots sent into
the reactor No. 1 building on April 26 took readings as high as
1,120 millisierverts an hour, according to Tepco, or more than
four times the annual dose permitted to nuclear workers at the
stricken plant.  Tepco, which has been using iRobot Corp.’s Packbot robots,
said today it plans to deploy Japanese technology to measure
radiation at the power station.  Radiation from the plant, where four of six reactors have
been damaged, has forced the evacuation of tens of thousands of
people and contaminated farmland and drinking water.  The amount of radioactive water lying in basements and
trenches has increased by almost half to 87.5 million liters
(23.1 million gallons) since April 5, Tepco said yesterday. The
company estimates about half a million liters of water is
overflowing daily.  Tepco started moving the contaminated water to a waste
storage facility on April 19. Water level in trenches near No.2
had since fallen by 9 centimeters (3.5 inches) as of 7:00 a.m.
yesterday.  Radioactive Water  About 2.13 million liters of the water was transferred from
trenches near reactor No. 2 as of 7:00 a.m. today, Matsumoto
said. The utility plans to install a second pump after
transferring 2.5 million liters, he said.  Tepco said on April 23 it will have temporary  storage
tanks , with a combined capacity of 31.4 million liters, to store
radioactive water by early June. The company also plans to add
capacity of 20 million liters every month starting June.  “Once the decontamination facility is operational, we
don’t need tanks to store the water as we can re-use it to cool
the reactors,” spokesman Matsumoto said. While Tepco plans to
place the temporary tanks at the site, details haven’t been
decided yet, he said.  Areva and Kurion are supplying a water treatment unit,
which is part of a decontamination facility that includes
storage tanks and desalination systems designed by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) 
and Hitachi-GE Nuclear Energy Ltd.  The treatment unit can process 1.2 million liters of
contaminated water per day, Matsumoto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  