-- 
Merck KGaA First-Quarter Net Rises on Millipore Acquisition

-- B y   E v a   V o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-04-28T16:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/merck-kgaa-first-quarter-net-rises-on-millipore-acquisition-3-.html
Merck KGaA (MRK)  said first-quarter
profit rose 78 percent as last year’s acquisition of U.S.
biotechnology equipment supplier Millipore Corp. boosted sales.  Net income increased to 341.1 million euros ($506 million)
from 191.4 million euros a year earlier, the maker of drugs and
chemicals said today in a statement. Core earnings, excluding
costs such as writedowns and merger expenses, were 2.03 euros a
share, beating the average estimate of 1.78 euros from 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Merck, based in Darmstadt,  Germany , bought Millipore to
diversify as it struggles to win approval for new drugs. The
company has said it’s aiming to make its pharmaceutical unit
leaner and more efficient. Changes may come after new Chief
Financial Officer Matthias Zachert arrives in June,  Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.,
wrote in a report to investors today.  “It will take time before investors regain confidence,”
said Scannell, who has a “market perform” recommendation on
the company’s shares. “Spectacular” sales of the liquid
crystals Merck makes for flat-panel electronics helped drive
today’s results, he said in the note.  Merck rose 2.45 euros, or 3.6 percent, to 71.55 euros in
Frankfurt trading, the biggest increase since Feb. 21. The stock
has gained 22 percent so far this year, beating the 8.1 percent
increase in Germany’s 30-member benchmark  DAX Index. (DAX)   Drug Setbacks  The manufacturer reiterated forecasts that sales will rise
by 10 percent to 15 percent this year, with operating profit, or
revenue and royalties minus operating and research expenses,
increasing by 35 percent to 45 percent.  First-quarter revenue jumped 22 percent to 2.6 billion
euros. Sales at the Merck Serono drug unit rose 1.5 percent to
1.4 billion euros. Revenue from liquid crystals rose 15 percent
to 409 million euros, with a 41.3 percent return on sales.  Merck, the maker of the Erbitux cancer drug, has endured
some regulatory setbacks for its medicines, capped by the
failure of its cladribine multiple-sclerosis pill in March to
win U.S. regulatory approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eva Von Schaper in Munich Bureau at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  