-- 
Erste Goal ‘Challenging’ as Hungary in Doldrums, Growth Weak

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-04-28T15:45:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/erste-first-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-as-margins-fall.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern
 Europe ’s second biggest lender, said bad debt in  Hungary  will
rise for longer than expected, putting profit under pressure
after first quarter results missed analysts estimates.  Net income rose 2 percent to 260.6 million euros ($386
million), the Vienna-based bank said today in a  statement . That
compared with an average estimate of 268 million euros in a
Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts. Hungary, where it reported a
loss on a 40 percent rise in loan loss provisions and tax
charges, will continue to drag on earnings, it said.  “The weak part is Hungary,” Chief Risk Officer Bernhard Spalt told analysts in a telephone conference. Worsening
corporate and real estate loans “will outweigh the
stabilization and improvement on the retail end,” he said,
adding that “Hungary will show an increase in risk costs
compared to 2010, and non-performing loans won’t peak before
2012.”  Erste fell 1.4 percent to 34.825 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in Vienna, making it the fourth-worst performer
in the 48-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index. Erste was the index’s best performer in 2010.  Like other lenders in the region such as  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  and market leader  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Erste is
betting that eastern Europe will become a driver of profit again
as credit growth returns and loan losses decline. Hungary and
Romania are holding back the earnings recovery, which Erste
needs to reach analysts’ expectations.  ‘Challenging Consensus’  The average estimate for net income growth is 29 percent
this year, followed by 32 percent in 2012, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The first quarter was about in-line with rather low
expectations, but net profit consensus for 2011 looks
challenging,” Daniele Brupbacher, a banking analyst at UBS AG
in Zurich, wrote in a note to customers. “We regard full-year
consensus estimates and our forecasts as potentially too
optimistic.”  While the situation in Hungary was “still very serious,”
Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said that the
performance in the  Czech Republic ,  Slovakia  and Austria made him
“confident about our ability to significantly raise
profitability again this year.”  Net interest income, Erste’s biggest revenue source, and
fee and commission income both missed the average estimate in
the Bloomberg survey. The margin between the interest charged
for loans and paid for deposits declined due to low demand for
credit and a higher share of less profitable lending, Erste
said. It expects the margin to rise from July.  Bad Loans  While loan loss provisions fell 13 percent compared with
the first three months of 2010, they rose from the previous
quarter. Erste reiterated it expects this measure to decline by
10 percent to 20 percent everywhere except in Hungary and
 Romania  this year.  Delinquent loans, which had stopped growing in the final
quarter of 2010, expanded again in the first quarter, to 7.7
percent of all customer loans. Bad debt rose mainly in Romania
and Hungary and among small enterprises, Erste said.  Bank Levy  Romania has the second-highest share of bad debt in the
European Union after  Latvia , according to  UniCredit analysts ,
after its economy contracted again last year. In Hungary, Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government pushed lenders including
Erste into losses with a special bank levy last year. The levy
will cost it 35 million euros after tax this year, Erste said.  Erste’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength,
rose to 8 percent, from 7.7 percent at the end of last year,
excluding 1.2 billion euros in so-called participation capital
capital provided by the state in 2009 and 540 million euros from
private investors. Treichl has said he would pay it back,
preferably in a single installment, as soon as uncertainty about
new capital rules for so-called systemically important banks is
removed.  Treichl told analysts in the telephone conference that
Erste will be able to increase the capital ratio through
retained earnings alone. It is “absolutely not necessary” to
talk about any other form of capital raising, Treichl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  