-- 
Messi Goals Help Barcelona Down Real Madrid as Mourinho Rails at ‘Scandal’

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-04-28T01:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/messi-goals-help-barcelona-down-real-madrid-as-mourinho-rails-at-scandal-.html
Lionel Messi  kept his cool to swing
the Champions League semifinal Barcelona’s way.  The World Player of the Year scored both goals as Barcelona
won 2-0 after Real  Madrid  had Pepe red-carded at its Santiago
Bernabeu stadium last night. Real coach  Jose Mourinho  was sent
to the stands for ironically applauding a decision that he later
called a “scandal.”  “Sometimes it disgusts me to live in this world of
soccer,” Mourinho said in a news conference.  Barcelona’s backup goalkeeper Jose Pinto was also ejected
for his part in a halftime fracas. The return match is at the
Camp Nou in Barcelona on May 3 and the winner of the two-game
series advances to play Manchester United or Schalke at Wembley
Stadium in  London  on May 28. United also leads 2-0.  Messi took his goal tally to 52 this season -- 11 of them
in the Champions League -- and became Barcelona’s third-highest
scorer of all time at age 23 with 179 goals. Only Cesar
Rodriguez and Ladislao Kubala, with 235 and 194 respectively,
have scored more times for Barcelona.  “It’s frightening,” Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola told
reporters. “At 23, to be the third-highest goal-scorer of a
club that’s a century old.”  Messi’s double came after Pepe was ejected for a foot-first
challenge on Daniel Alves, Real Madrid’s fourth red card in four
matches against Barcelona this season.  ‘Changed Everything’  “It was a key decision that changed the direction of the
game,” Real midfielder  Xabi Alonso  told reporters. “We are
frustrated. It changed everything.”  There were other flashpoints last night. Barcelona
substitutes rushed off the bench to complain when  Pedro
Rodriguez  was injured in a tussle with Alvaro Arbeloa.  Arbeloa argued with Seydou Keita as they left the field at
halftime, leading to a fracas involving players and officials of
both teams that resulted in Pinto getting red-carded.  Barcelona had 74 percent of the possession, and made 712
passes -- almost four times as many as Real -- although the
Catalan team only scored after Real was reduced to 10 men.  Messi pounced to prod Ibrahim Afellay’s cross into the net
after 76 minutes. He made it 2-0 with three minutes remaining,
finishing past goalkeeper Iker Casillas after slaloming by four
defenders in a 20-yard run.  “We stayed true to our game,” Barcelona goalkeeper Victor Valdes told reporters. “We’re not to blame for anything” to do
with Pepe’s red card, he added.  ‘Mission Impossible’  Mourinho said the game had been heading for a scoreless
draw before Pepe’s ejection and German referee Wolfgang Stark’s
decision had ended Real’s chances of reaching the final. Real
will also be without  Sergio Ramos  in Barcelona after the right
back got a yellow card early in the second half.  “We were already talking about a difficult game, now it is
mission impossible,” Mourinho said.  The Real coach said he didn’t know whether Stark had wanted
to give publicity to UNICEF, the children’s charity whose name
Barcelona wears on its jerseys or to please  UEFA , European
soccer’s ruling body.  Barcelona said on its website it’s considering complaining
about Mourinho’s comments to UEFA’s disciplinary committee.  It was the third game in 12 days between the archrivals.
They drew 1-1 in the Spanish league on April 16 before Real
Madrid won 1-0 to take the Copa del Rey last week.  Barcelona  won
the European Cup for the third time in 2009, seven years after
Real took the last of its record nine European soccer titles.  Guardiola said the semifinal isn’t over yet even if
Mourinho says it is.  “A team with nine European Cups never gives up,”
Guardiola said. “I have seen that many times, as a boy, as a
player and as a coach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium in Madrid at 
   aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  