-- 
Ethiopia Aid Agencies Back Call for Aid for 2 Million People Facing Hunger

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-04-28T10:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ethiopia-aid-agencies-back-call-for-aid-for-2-million-people-facing-hunger.html
A group of aid organizations in
 Ethiopia  backed the government’s request for $75 million to help
feed 2 million people facing hunger in the arid south and
southeast of the country.  The crisis has been caused by a seven-month drought that is
likely to persist until October, the Ethiopia Humanitarian
Country Team, or EHCT, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday
in Addis Ababa, the capital. The lack of rainfall has been
caused by La Nina, a weather phenomenon in which the surface of
the Pacific Ocean cools and reduces moisture in the atmosphere.  In addition to the 2 million people in the Somali, Oromia
and Southern regions of Ethiopia, 1 million people in the rest
of the Horn of Africa nation require urgent help, said the EHCT,
which includes representatives of United Nations agencies,
international and domestic non-governmental organizations and
donors. The figure for the south and south east will be updated
in early May, it said.  “Additional funds will be needed in the second half of the
year,” Kristen Knutson, spokesman for the UN Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, said in a phone interview
from  Addis Ababa . “We will have a better idea of further
requirements once they have the results of the assessment.”  About 3 million of Ethiopia’s 80 million people are in need
of emergency food assistance, the government said on April 12.
Another 7.8 million people receive food or cash under an aid
program,  World Food Programme  spokesman Susannah Nicol said in a
phone interview yesterday from Addis Ababa.  The government issued an appeal on April 12 for funds
needed in April and May. Recent rains in the region raised
government hopes that the problem may be easing, said Akloweg
Nigatu, information officer at the Agriculture Ministry’s
disaster management agency.  “If there is rain there will be a lot of grazing land,”
Akloweg said.  In addition to the drought, farmers have had to contend
with high food and fuel prices exacerbated by a drop in demand
for cattle because of political unrest in the Middle East and
North Africa, ECHT said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 