-- 
Ethiopian Government Starts Agricultural Agency to Double Crop Production

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-04-28T09:42:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ethiopian-government-starts-agricultural-agency-to-double-crop-production.html
Ethiopia  started an agricultural
agency that plans to help double production in the economy’s
biggest industry over the next five years, said Wonderad
Mandefro, minister of state for agriculture.  The Ethiopian Agricultural Transformation Agency, or EATA,
is modelled on economic development organizations in  South Korea 
and  Taiwan  and will be overseen by a council chaired by Prime
Minister  Meles Zenawi , Wonderad said in an interview in Addis
Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, yesterday.  “In the past five years, the country has made significant
progress in sustaining agricultural production,” Wonderad said.
“Compared to the potential, it’s still the tip of the iceberg.”  Ethiopia, Africa’s second-most populous nation, is the
continent’s biggest coffee grower. A five-year government plan
to wean the Horn of  Africa  country off foreign aid aims to boost
agricultural production by 14.9 percent annually. The industry
accounts for 45 percent of economic output and employs about 80
percent of the population, according to Wonderad.  The agency was created after the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation was asked by Meles in 2008 to assess an Ethiopian
program that provides support and equipment for farmers using
so-called extension workers, Wonderad said. In partnership with
international donors and agricultural-research organizations,
the foundation was subsequently asked to assess other aspects of
the industry, including irrigation, soil fertility and
marketing. These will now be key areas of focus for EATA.  The Seattle-based non-profit organization is providing
technical expertise to EATA and may support the agency
financially, said Roy Steiner, deputy director of its
agricultural development program.  ‘Tremendous Potential’  “Ethiopia has tremendous agricultural potential and it’s
doing a lot of the right things,” he said in a phone interview
from  Seattle  yesterday. “It’s investing in agriculture in a way
that other African countries are not.”  A “critical issue” that needs to be addressed in Ethiopia
is better training and support for the 60,000 extension workers,
according to Steiner. Yields may also be boosted by increasing
the number and efficiency of small-scale irrigation works using
groundwater or pumps, he said.  “It’s a small thing, but boy it can make a difference if
your pump lasts 10 years rather than one year,” Steiner said.  Ethiopia has the  potential  to be self-sufficient in grain
production and for export development in livestock, flowers,
oilseeds, sugar, vegetables and fruit, according to the U.S.
State Department’s website.  Staple Food  Crops being targeted by the EATA include the most-widely
grown teff, a cereal used to make Ethiopia’s flatbread staple
known as injera, which is currently grown on about 2.5 million
hectares (6.2 million acres) of land. The government wants to
increase yields to as much as 60 quintals (13,228 pounds) per
hectare from 10 quintals currently, Wonderad said.  A small improvement in the productivity of teff would
“automatically transform” the agriculture industry, he said.  About 3 million of Ethiopia’s 80 million people are in need
of emergency food assistance, the government said on April 12.
Another 7.8 million people receive food or cash under an aid
program,  World Food Programme  spokesman Susannah Nicol said in a
phone interview yesterday from  Addis Ababa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  