-- 
European Stocks Gain for Sixth Day as Deutsche Bank Tops Profit Estimates

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-28T16:17:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/european-stock-index-futures-rise-as-deutsche-bank-beats-profit-estimates.html
European stocks rose for a sixth
day, extending an eight-week high, as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s
earnings beat estimates and the  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep
rates low for an “extended period.”  Deutsche Bank surged the most in almost a year as Germany’s
biggest bank reported a 17 percent increase in first-quarter
profit. Suez Environnement climbed 4 percent after also posting
higher earnings.  SAP AG (SAP)  sank the most in 1 1/2 years after
reporting a smaller-than-expected increase in profit.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.3 percent to
283.04 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the highest since March
3. The gauge has surged 8 percent from this year’s low on March
16 as better-than-estimated company results boosted confidence
the economic recovery is on track.  “Equity markets are supported by powerful and strong
earnings on the one hand and low  interest rates  on the other
hand,” said Philipp Musil, who helps manage about $12 billion
at Semper Constantia Privatbank AG in Vienna. “The market
ignores all other crises around us right now. There’s no
alternative to investing in equities.”  Of the 97 companies in the Stoxx 600 that have reported
earnings since April 11, 60 have beaten analyst estimates for
per-share profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with 77 percent of U.S. companies having beaten
estimates for per-share profit in the period.  Bernanke Conference  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled yesterday in his
first press conference after a rate decision that the U.S.
central bank will maintain its record monetary stimulus,
contrasting with policy makers in  Asia  and  Europe  who are
seeking to calm inflation. The Fed kept its target rate for
overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent, as
forecast by all of the economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  A report today showed the  U.S. economy  grew at a slower
pace than forecast in the first quarter as consumer purchases
cooled,  home construction  fell and  government spending  declined.
Gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate from
January through March after a 3.1 percent pace in the last three
months of 2010, the Commerce Department said. Separate data
showed new applications for  unemployment benefits  unexpectedly
rose last week to the highest level in three months.  In  Germany , a report showed unemployment fell below 3
million for the first time in almost 19 years in April in
adjusted terms, increasing the likelihood that household
spending will boost economic growth.  U.K. Confidence  In the U.K.,  consumer confidence  slumped to its weakest
level since the depth of the recession in February 2009 as the
government’s budget cuts began in earnest, a report by GfK NOP
Ltd. showed.  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX gained 1 percent and  France ’s
CAC 40 advanced 0.9 percent, while the U.K’s FTSE 100 added less
than 0.1 percent.  Deutsche Bank climbed 4.8 percent to 43.79 euros as net
income increased to 2.1 billion euros ($3.1 billion), the
second-best quarterly result ever, from 1.8 billion euros in the
year-earlier period, the Frankfurt-based bank said in a
statement today. Earnings surpassed the 1.8 billion-euro average
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Suez Environnement rose 4 percent to 15.53 euros, the
highest price in almost two months. Europe’s second-largest
water company said first-quarter profit climbed 29 percent
following a Spanish acquisition and as the economic recovery
boosted demand for waste collection.  WPP Climbs  WPP Plc (WPP)  gained 2.9 percent to 781.5 pence. The world’s
largest advertising company said first-quarter revenue increased
7 percent, led by a faster-than-expected recovery in mature
markets such as the U.S. and Germany, and raised its full-year
sales forecast.  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  rallied for a sixth day, the longest
winning streak since September, as Scotland’s biggest insurer
said first-quarter revenue rose 25 percent, beating analysts’
estimates, on higher demand for corporate pension products in
the U.K. The stock climbed 3.2 percent to 226.1 pence.  Safran SA (SAF)  soared 6.2 percent to 25.57 euros, the largest
advance since July. Europe’s second-largest maker of  aircraft
engines  said first-quarter revenue rose 11 percent, boosted by
defense products such as infrared goggles and plane equipment
such as landing gear and engine casings.  Kesko, Stagecoach  Kesko Oyj (KESBV)  surged 8.5 percent to 35.10 euros, the biggest
gain in nine months and the second-best performance in the Stoxx
600 today. Finland’s biggest retailer reported first-quarter net
income of 25 million euros, beating the 24.7 million-euro mean
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC)  advanced 4.4 percent to 246.9 pence,
the highest price in 2 1/2 years. The operator of U.K. business
commuter-rail services said its overall group profitability has
remained “strong” with all divisions showing revenue growth in
the current year.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  rose 3.9 percent to 23.86 Swiss francs as Deutsche
Bank recommended the world’s largest maker of power-transmission
gear. Bank Vontobel AG also recommended the stock, citing an
earlier-than-expected recovery in the power division.  SAP dropped 5.7 percent to 43.09 euros, the biggest decline
since October 2009. The world’s largest maker of business-
management software said first-quarter net income rose 4.1
percent to 403 million euros. Analysts predicted profit of 496
million euros, the average of 13 estimates. Operating profit
based on non-IFRS accounting rules gained 26 percent to 779
million euros, trailing the 833 million-euro estimate.  Unilever, Erste  Unilever slid 2.4 percent to 1,942 pence in London, ending
five days of gains. The world’s second-biggest consumer-goods
company reported first-quarter sales that missed estimates and
said profitability will drop in the first half as increased
commodity costs hit earnings more than it had earlier expected.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  slipped 1.4 percent to 34.83 euros.
Eastern Europe’s second-biggest lender said first-quarter profit
rose 2 percent, less than predicted by analysts, as lending
margins declined due to low demand for credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  