-- 
European High-Sulfur Fuel Oil’s Discount Narrows on Asia Demand

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-04-28T15:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/european-high-sulfur-fuel-oil-s-discount-narrows-on-asia-demand.html
European high-sulfur  fuel oil ’s
discount to its less polluting equivalent narrowed to the least
in a month as falling freight rates spur shipments to  Asia .  High-sulfur fuel oil, used to power ships, traded at a
discount of $51 a metric ton to low-sulfur yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the least since March 30.  “There’s good demand for high-sulfur fuel oil on the
arbitrage to Singapore, which is caused by lower freight
rates,” said Filip Petersson, a commodity strategist at SEB AB
in  Stockholm .  The difference between the two grades widened this year
after a slump in output of Libyan crude, a light low-sulfur
variety, amid an armed rebellion. The crude yields more low-
sulfur fuel oil than heavier grades such as  Saudi Arabia ’s Arab
Medium. The conflict also closed the Ras Lanuf refinery, which
exported 70,000 barrels a day of mainly low-sulfur fuel prior to
the crisis, according to Credit Agricole CIB.  Reduced supply of low-sulfur fuel oil pushed the premium to
$80 a ton on March 14 from $3 at the beginning of the year. That
premium is also being reduced by increased exports of the oil
from  Latin America , Petersson said.  Tanker rates for so-called very large crude carriers, or
VLCCs, dropped 11 percent since the middle of February,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of shipping
the product from  Europe  to Singapore fell to $15.70 a ton
yesterday, compared with $17.66 on Feb. 17.  High-sulfur fuel oil, which has a sulfur content of 3.5
percent, traded at $644 a ton yesterday. Low-sulfur fuel oil,
which is used also in shipping and in power generation and
contains 1 percent of sulfur, traded at $695 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  