-- 
Ex-SAC Manager Donald Longueuil Pleads Guilty to Securities, Wire Fraud

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-28T18:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ex-sac-capital-s-longueuil-pleads-guilty-to-conspiracy-securities-fraud.html
Donald Longueuil, a former junior
portfolio manager at SAC Capital Advisors LP, pleaded guilty to
conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud and to  securities
fraud  as the U.S. cracks down on insider trading at hedge funds.  Longueuil, 35, entered the plea today before U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan . Rakoff said that there was a plea
agreement between the U.S. and the defendant and that Longueuil
could face a prison sentence of 46 months to 57 months.  “I am sorry for my actions and the pain that I have caused
my family and loved ones,” Longueuil told Rakoff, his voice
choking with emotion. “I have learned a lot from my experience
and I look forward to applying these lessons as I move forward
with my life.”  Rakoff set sentencing for July 29. Longueuil remains free
on bond. Longueil and his lawyer, Craig Carpenito, declined
comment after court.  Charges were first filed against Longueuil in February by
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in a case that also included another
former SAC Capital portfolio manager, Noah Freeman, and Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management, and Jason Pflaum,
who worked for Barai. Freeman and Pflaum have pleaded guilty and
are cooperating with the U.S. Barai hasn’t entered a plea.  SAC Capital, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , has said it
cooperated with the U.S. investigation.  Technology Research  Longueuil told Rakoff that from 2004 to 2010, he was
employed at two separate hedge funds as a managing director and
portfolio manager, researching companies in the technology
industry. He said that from 2006 to 2010, he conspired to obtain
inside information to benefit the funds.  “In May 2008, I obtained material, non-public information
from a co-conspirator relating to the upcoming May earnings call
for  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) , a publicly traded company
listed on  Nasdaq ,” Longueuil said, reading from a prepared
statement. “I obtained revenues and gross margins for the
quarter before that information was publicly announced.”  “Who was that?” Rakoff asked. Longueuil didn’t answer.
When Carpenito stood up, Rakoff shouted at him to sit down.  “Who was that?” the judge again asked Longueuil.  “Sam Barai,” Longueuil said.  Longueuil said he caused a hedge fund he was working for to
buy about 400,000 shares of Marvell on May 28, 2008, based on
the tip.  ‘I Acted Willfully’  “In doing so, I acted willfully and with the intent to
cause that fund to profit on the trade,” he said.  The U.S. has said in court papers that Barai has had
“proffer sessions” about the probe of expert networking firms
and hedge funds. Proffer sessions are pre-indictment
negotiations with prosecutors in which a defendant, accompanied
by a lawyer, agrees to answer questions truthfully and
prosecutors promise not to introduce the remarks as evidence.
The government may only use such statements on cross-examination
to undercut testimony if a defendant takes the stand at trial.  Evan Barr, a lawyer for Barai, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message today seeking comment.  Prosecutors said that after Longueuil read a newspaper
article on Nov. 19 about a federal probe of the  insider-trading 
scheme, he went to his office at about 2 a.m. and took pliers to
two external drives on his computer, destroying them. He walked
20 blocks, dumping the parts in four separate garbage trucks,
prosecutors said.  ‘Chopped Up Everything’  “Chopped it up, chopped up everything,” Longueuil wrote
in a text to Freeman, according to the complaint filed by the
U.S. in February. Prosecutors agreed to drop the obstruction
charge stemming from those actions.  “I disposed of a flash drive and hard drives relevant to
the conspiracy,” Longueuil told the court.  He agreed to forfeit more $1.25 million, which Rakoff said
were profits of the scheme.  Longueuil and Winifred Jiau, a former consultant for
Primary Global Research LLC, were charged with conspiracy in an
indictment in March. Prosecutors said Jiau passed inside
information to an unnamed hedge-fund portfolio manager and to
Freeman, a Boston hedge-fund manager.  Primary Global Research, based in  Mountain View ,
 California , is an expert networking firm, linking investors with
industry experts who work for public companies.  CR Intrinsic  Longueuil, who worked in SAC Capital’s CR Intrinsic unit in
New York from July 2008 to July 2010, was accused of giving
information to Freeman, who, in exchange, passed material non-
public information to Longueuil that he had obtained from
sources, including Jiau, according to prosecutors.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, said
Freeman and Longueuil were both dismissed from SAC in 2010
because of poor performance.  Jiau, who has pleaded not guilty to the charges, is
awaiting trial before Rakoff on June 1. Her lawyers have asked
the court to suppress e-mails and instant messages as well as
recordings made by Barai and Pflaum of Jiau allegedly passing
inside information to him. Jiau has also sought to dismiss the
charges. Both requests are still pending.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  