-- 
Texas Refineries Won’t Have Backup Power During Utility Work

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-04-28T20:30:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/texas-refineries-won-t-have-backup-power-during-utility-work.html
Texas  refineries that receive power
from Texas New Mexico Power Co. won’t have access to backup
electricity supplies for about a one- to two-day period each
during several weeks of maintenance on transmission lines.  Workers will clean insulators of dust and residue and coat
them with a sealant during two to three weeks of work, Cathy
Garber, a spokeswoman, for TNMP said in a telephone interview.
Three refineries with about 800,000 barrels a day of crude-
processing capacity were knocked offline or had units shut after
power failures in Texas City late April 25 and early April 26,
sending gasoline futures to a 33-month high in New York.  “We will have redundancy restored by this weekend for
facilities that have experienced issues,” said Garber. One of
TNMP’s two transmission lines that serve industrial customers in
the area, Amoco-Comanche, isn’t operating, Dottie Roark, a
spokeswoman for the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, said
in an e-mail.  BP Plc (BP/)  is waiting to restart its 475,000-barrel-a-day Texas
City refinery until the transmission line is returned to service
and the plant is comfortable with stability of supply, said a
person with knowledge of the plant’s operations who wasn’t named
because the information isn’t public.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  is returning its 245,000-barrel-a-day
plant, Bill Day a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. “A
reliable supply of electricity is necessary before our refinery,
or any refinery, can fully restart,” he said yesterday.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ’s Texas City refinery returned to normal
operations yesterday after restarting units following the power
outage, according to Shane Pochard, a company spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  