-- 
Exelon Is Said to Be Near $7.7 Billion Stock Deal for Constellation Energy

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-04-28T09:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/exelon-is-said-to-be-near-7-7-billion-stock-deal-for-constellation-energy.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the largest operator
of U.S. nuclear power plants, is near an agreement to buy
 Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  for about $7.7 billion, adding
stakes in five reactors in Maryland and  New York , according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  In the transaction under discussion, Constellation
shareholders would get 0.93 Exelon share for each of their
shares, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. Based on Exelon’s closing stock price of
$41.49 yesterday, that would value Constellation at $38.59 a
share, a 12.5 percent premium to its closing price.  Exelon, based in  Chicago , may announce a deal as soon as
today, said three people with knowledge of the matter. If
completed, it would be Exelon’s largest transaction. The company
was formed by the merger of Peco Energy and Unicom in 2000, with
the combined company then valued at $7.14 billion.  Constellation operates three nuclear plants in  Maryland  and
New York. Exelon has specialized in buying reactors at a
fraction of the cost to build them and selling the power on
competitive markets.  “Constellation has a substantial retail marketing business
and Exelon has a whole lot of wholesale power to sell,” said
Paul Patterson, a New York-based utility analyst at Glenrock
Associates LLC.  Nuclear Setbacks  Exelon’s latest planned purchase comes after setbacks to
nuclear reactor construction projects in the competitive U.S.
markets of Maryland and Texas, and amid concerns about the
safety of atomic power in the wake of the crisis at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in  Japan .  “The deal makes a lot of sense in terms of nuclear
concentration, because of the economies of scale,” said  Daniele
Seitz , a New York-based utility consultant. “Expanding their
nuclear generation is a positive, especially considering that
future construction will be at a very slow pace.”  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , the largest U.S. independent power
producer, this month canceled its plans to build two new
reactors at a Texas nuclear plant, citing diminished prospects
after a partial meltdown at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Dai-Ichi
plant spread radiation across parts of Northern Japan.  Constellation in October withdrew from a joint venture to
build a new reactor with Electricite de France SA, citing
excessive costs and a dim economic outlook for power prices.
 Southern Co. (SO)  and  Scana Corp. (SCG) , regulated utilities that don’t
have to compete on price, are continuing plans to build new
reactors in Georgia and South Carolina with financing backed by
state-imposed rates.  The Right Price  Constellation owns Baltimore Gas & Electric, which delivers
power at regulated rates. Its service territory extends within a
few miles of Exelon’s Peco utility in Philadelphia.  “We’d like more regulated assets, if the price is right,”
Exelon Chief Executive Officer John W. Rowe, 65, said yesterday
on an earnings call with investors. “We’d like more generation
assets, especially nuclear and gas, if the price is right. We
like more renewable, if the price is right and we get enough
contracts. We like safer channels to market and we won’t say
anything about any specifics.”  Exelon has tried unsuccessfully three times to buy other
power companies since 2003, and Constellation has been the
target of two failed bids.  Paul Elsberg, a spokesman for Chicago-based Exelon, and
 Lawrence McDonnell , a Constellation spokesman, declined to
comment.  EDF Partnership  EDF, seeking a foothold in the U.S. to build reactors
designed by Paris-based  Areva SA (CEI) , defeated a $9.5 billion offer
in 2008 for all of Constellation from Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. The next year, EDF bought a minority stake in
Constellation’s nuclear plants for $4.5 billion in cash.  The French utility still has a 7.3 percent holding in
Constellation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Paris-
based EDF spokeswoman Carole Trivi declined to comment on a
possible offer from Exelon.  Constellation used the money to shore up its energy-
marketing business and avert bankruptcy after the 2008 financial
collapse. The company’s shares have risen 19 percent since it
rejected the Buffett offer.  In the plan now being discussed with Exelon, Constellation
CEO Mayo Shattuck, 56, would become chairman of the combined
company, and Chris Crane, now the president of Exelon, would
become CEO, succeeding Rowe, one of the people familiar with the
matter said. The talks started last year, the person said.  Failed Acquisitions  Rowe built Exelon into the largest U.S. generator of
nuclear power. He failed in attempts to buy NRG Energy Inc. for
$14.3 billion in 2008,  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG)  for
$25.9 billion in 2004 and Illinois Power Co. for $2.2 billion in
2003.  Shattuck, a former banker, expanded Constellation by
selling power to corporations and other large customers in
states that allow competition with utility monopolies. He
reached a $14.8 billion deal to sell Constellation to  NextEra
Energy Inc. (NEE) , the largest U.S. wind-power generator and owner of
Florida’s largest utility. The deal collapsed in 2005, with
NextEra citing interference by officials in Maryland.  U.S. utility transactions accelerated this year, as
companies sought to cut overhead and borrowing costs to finance
new plants, new power lines and pollution controls. About 30
power company deals valued at $43 billion have been announced
this year, compared with $37.6 billion for all of 2010.  Revenue Generators  With 2010 sales of $10.9 billion, Constellation’s
competitive marketing and power-generation businesses accounted
for 76 percent of revenue, according to data from filings
compiled by Bloomberg.  Constellation shares closed at $34.30 and rose as much as
11 percent in after-hours trading. Exelon rose 32 cents to
$41.49 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Platts reported earlier yesterday that the companies may
announce a combination.  In January,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  announced plans to acquire
 Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  for $13.7 billion in stock, creating the
largest U.S. utility. On April 20,  AES Corp. (AES) , the U.S. power
producer with operations in 28 countries, said it agreed to buy
 DPL Inc. (DPL) , based in Dayton, Ohio, for $3.5 billion in cash.  “The industry has been consolidating for a long time, and
it will probably continue for quite a while,” Patterson, the
Glenrock analyst, said.  Exelon owns the largest group of U.S. nuclear power plants
with 17 reactors at 10 stations in Illinois, Pennsylvania and
 New Jersey .  -With assistance from Mark Chediak in San Francisco and  Mike Lee 
in
Dallas. Editors: Jennifer Sondag, Charles Siler  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  