-- 
Exelon to Buy Constellation for $7.9 Billion, Adding Nuclear

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-04-28T14:09:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/exelon-agrees-to-purchase-constellation-energy-for-7-9-billion.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the largest operator
of U.S. nuclear power plants, agreed to buy  Constellation Energy
Group Inc. (CEG)  for about $7.9 billion in stock, adding stakes in
five reactors and becoming the largest U.S. electricity
marketer.  Constellation shareholders will get 0.93 Exelon shares for
each of their shares, the companies said today in a joint
statement. Based on yesterday’s closing stock prices, that
values Baltimore-based Constellation at $38.59 a share, a 12.5
percent premium, according to Bloomberg data.  If completed, it will be Chicago-based Exelon’s largest
transaction. Exelon has tried unsuccessfully three times to buy
other power companies since 2003, and Constellation has been the
target of two failed bids. A $14.8 billion sale of Constellation
to  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) , the largest U.S. wind-power generator
and owner of  Florida ’s largest utility, collapsed in 2005, with
NextEra citing interference by officials in Maryland.  “Exelon has taken the position for most of the past decade
that we believed in further consolidation,” Exelon Chief
Executive Officer John W. Rowe said today in a telephone
interview. A deal had to add to earnings and  cash flow , maintain
investment grade ratings and include green investments, he said.
“This merger meets all of those tests. This is a
straightforward winner for both companies.”  Rowe, 65, will step aside as chairman to Constellation
Chief Executive Officer Mayo Shattuck III, 56. Christopher
Crane, 52, now Exelon’s president, will become CEO of the
combined company.  Unsuccessful Bids  The deal needs approval by state utility regulators in
 Maryland , New York and  Texas , in addition to shareholders of
both companies and federal regulators, Exelon said today.  Exelon promised each customer of Constellation’s Baltimore
Gas & Electric utility a $100 rate credit within 90 days of
closing. It promised no job cuts at the utility for at least two
years and said the “growth engine” of competitive power sales
and generation from renewable sources including wind will be
based in Baltimore.  Exelon also promised to sell three Maryland power plants to
reduce the combined company’s market share in PJM
Interconnection LLC, the largest U.S. wholesale power market.
Exelon’s $25.9 billion bid for Public Service Enterprise Group
Inc. foundered in 2004 over market-power concerns by New Jersey
utility regulators.  “State regulators are likely to be a key hurdle,”
Christine Tezak, a Washington-based energy policy analyst for
Robert W. Baird & Co. wrote today in a note to clients. Federal
regulators also have changed merger requirements since Exelon
won U.S. approval for the Public Service deal, she wrote.  Deal Premium  Exelon is paying a 16 percent premium based on the average
closing price of both stocks over the past 20 days, below the 19
percent average of 456 U.S. power company deals over the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Exelon is
paying 6.9 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, compared with an average 7.2 times.  Constellation operates three nuclear plants in Maryland and
 New York . With 2010 sales of $10.9 billion, Constellation’s
competitive marketing and power-generation businesses accounted
for 76 percent of revenue, according to data from filings
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Constellation has a substantial retail marketing business
and Exelon has a whole lot of wholesale power to sell,”  Paul Patterson , a New York-based utility analyst at Glenrock
Associates LLC, said in an interview yesterday.  Exelon’s latest planned purchase comes after setbacks to
nuclear reactor construction projects in the competitive U.S.
markets of Maryland and Texas, and amid concerns about the
safety of atomic power in the wake of the crisis at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in  Japan .  Diminished Prospects  “The deal makes a lot of sense in terms of nuclear
concentration, because of the economies of scale,” said  Daniele Seitz , a New York-based utility consultant. “Expanding their
nuclear generation is a positive, especially considering that
future construction will be at a very slow pace.”  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , the largest U.S. independent power
producer, this month canceled its plans to build two new
reactors at a Texas nuclear plant, citing diminished prospects
after a partial meltdown at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Dai-Ichi
plant spread radiation across parts of northern Japan. Exelon
itself suspended plans for a new Texas nuclear plant in 2009.  Constellation in October withdrew from a joint venture to
build a new reactor with Electricite de France SA, citing
excessive costs and a dim economic outlook for power prices.
 Southern Co. (SO)  and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  are continuing plans to build new
reactors in  Georgia  and  South Carolina  with financing backed by
state-regulated rates.  U.S. Foothold  EDF, seeking a foothold in the U.S. to build reactors
designed by Paris-based  Areva SA (CEI) , defeated a $9.5 billion offer
in 2008 for all of Constellation from  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc . The next year, EDF bought a minority stake in
Constellation’s nuclear plants for $4.5 billion in cash.  The French utility still has a 7.3 percent holding in
Constellation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. EDF, the
second-largest shareholder in Constellation, said in a statement
that it’s studying the terms of Exelon’s offer.  Constellation used the money to shore up its energy-
marketing business and avert bankruptcy after the 2008 financial
collapse. The company’s shares have risen 19 percent since it
rejected the Buffett offer.  Exelon rose 9 cents to $41.58 at 9:41 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Constellation rose $1.52, or
4.4 percent to $35.82.  Barclays Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Evercore Partners Inc.
and Loop Capital Markets are serving as financial advisers to
Exelon. Morgan Stanley & Co., Goldman Sachs & Co. and Credit
Suisse Securities LLC advised Constellation.  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is serving as
legal adviser to Exelon and Kirkland & Ellis LLP is serving as
legal counsel to Constellation. The deal is expected to close
early in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  