-- 
Exelon Offers Maryland Customers $100 Each for Constellation Bid Approval

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-04-28T18:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/exelon-offers-maryland-customers-100-each-for-constellation-bid.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC) , which has had two
multibillion-dollar takeovers blocked by state officials, is
offering Maryland utility customers $100 each to ease regulatory
approval for its $7.9 billion purchase of  Constellation Energy
Group Inc. (CEG)   Exelon has tried unsuccessfully three times to buy other
power companies and Constellation has been the target of three
failed bids. Maryland officials have twice blocked takeovers of
Baltimore-based Constellation, in one instance halting a 2006
bid by NextEra Energy Inc. amid rising power prices. The Exelon
bid also requires approval from federal regulators and an
antitrust review.  “Maryland is going to be the biggest challenge here and
they all know that,” said Greg Phelps, who manages about $4
billion at Manulife Asset Management U.S. LLC in  Boston ,
including Constellation preferred stock.  This time is different, Constellation Chief Executive
Officer Mayo Shattuck III said today in an interview. The deal
would transform power marketing, Constellation’s biggest
business, and sale of electricity from Exelon’s nuclear power
plants, Exelon President Chris Crane said in the interview.  “This is a long-term strategic move that will make a lot
of sense if it goes through without too many pounds of flesh
being demanded by the regulators,” said Phelps.  Approval is needed from the Maryland Public Service
Commission, as well as utility regulators in New York and  Texas ,
and shareholders, the companies said today in a statement. The
deal is expected to close early next year.  $100 Credit  Exelon, based in  Chicago , is offering a $100 credit to
every customer of Constellation’s Baltimore Electric & Gas unit.
It’s promising not to cut jobs for at least two years at the
utility and expects its power-generation and marketing unit to
expand in Baltimore once the merger is complete, Shattuck said.  “Those are very smart moves that will defang some of the
antagonistic Maryland Public Service Commission positions,”
Phelps said.  The companies are prepared for seven months of negotiations
in Maryland, Shattuck said.  “You just have to assume lessons learned, they’re going to
approach this carefully and thoughtfully,” said Nora Mead Brownell, a former member of the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission , and founding partner at Alexandria, Virginia-based
ESPY Energy Solutions LLC.  The combined company will spend $10 million for electric
vehicle infrastructure and $50 million on renewable energy,
probably wind, in  Maryland .  ‘Additional Wind’  “Some of this you have to work out as you go,” Exelon CEO
John Rowe said today in an interview. “The governor has made it
clear that more generation and clean generation is important to
him, so we put some additional wind into this proposal.”  The commission has new members since state officials,
facing customer anger over a 72 percent power-rate increase,
blocked the $14.8 billion NextEra deal, Shattuck said. The state
this year approved a settlement clearing the way for FirstEnergy
Corp.’s $8.4 billion acquisition of Allegheny Energy Inc.  The commission declined to comment because the utilities
haven’t submitted their application, agency executive secretary
Terry Romine said.  Exelon also promised to sell three Maryland power plants
that burn coal or oil to reduce the combined company’s share of
the  electricity market . The plants will be sold by early next
year.  Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley  said today in a statement
his office will “participate actively” in regulatory
proceedings, adding “this announcement follows yesterday’s news
that BG&E rates will be falling even further in June.”  ‘Positive Conversation’  Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said in a
statement she had a “positive conversation” with Shattuck
yesterday and job gains and new construction are “important
components” of the transaction.  Exelon estimated annual benefits of the consolidation at
$260 million, enough to raise yearly profit by at least 5
percent.  Included in the estimate are higher power prices for
Exelon’s nuclear power, which is currently sold at discounts to
spot-market prices for terms of several years. Constellation’s
trading unit would reduce collateral costs, because sales would
be backed by contracts with plants, rather than cash, Shattuck
said.  “It’s a smart strategy to mop up some of that excess
supply Exelon has,” Phelps said. “It would improve
Constellation’s profitability.”  Deal Premium  Exelon’s $25.9 billion bid for Public Service Enterprise
Group Inc. foundered in 2004 over market-power concerns by New
Jersey utility regulators.  Maryland regulators prevented the NextEra bid for
Constellation and a $3.04 billion offer from Pepco Holdings Inc.
in 1997.  Exelon is paying a 16 percent premium based on the average
closing price of both stocks over the past 20 days, below the 19
percent average of 456 U.S. power company deals over the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Exelon is
paying 6.9 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, compared with an average 7.2 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  