-- 
Exxon Profit Surges as Consumers and Lawmakers Fume Over Gasoline Prices

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-04-28T16:19:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/exxon-profit-surges-as-consumers-and-lawmakers-fume-over-gas-prices.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
largest company by market value, posted its largest profit in
almost three years as soaring gasoline prices fueled discontent
among consumers and policymakers.  With U.S. motorists paying the most for gasoline since
prices reached a record $4.11 a gallon in the summer of 2008,
Exxon said today that its first-quarter net income jumped 69
percent to $10.7 billion. The Irving, Texas-based company is
sitting on a cash pile of $13.2 billion, even after distributing
more than $7 billion to shareholders in buybacks and dividends.  President  Barack Obama  has called for an end to decades-old
tax breaks for domestic oil and natural-gas drilling, and urged
Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, to help rein
in surging world crude prices by boosting output. Exxon said
inflicting higher taxes would drain funds the company needs to
find new oil and gas fields.  “Over the past five years, we incurred a total U.S. tax
expense of almost $59 billion, which is $18 billion more than we
earned in the  United States  during the same period,” Kenneth
Cohen, Exxon’s vice president of public and government affairs,
said yesterday in a blog post on the company’s website.
“Critics often try to ignore these facts by saying the oil and
gas industry receives ‘subsidies.’ But what they really mean is
that they want to increase our taxes by taking away long-
standing deductions for our industry while leaving these same
deductions in place for other sectors of the economy.”  Exxon’s expenditures for new wells and production platforms
rose 24 percent during the first three months of this year to
$6.9 billion, the company said today in a statement. New
projects such as West Qurna 1 in Iraq contributed to a 10
percent increase in oil and gas production.  Shell, Occidental  Exxon was the latest  oil company  to report expanding first-
quarter profits. Earlier today,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the
world’s second-largest gasoline producer after Exxon, said net
income rose 30 percent to $6.3 billion.  Occidental Petroleum
Corp. (OXY) , the largest onshore oil producer in the continental U.S.,
said first-quarter profit increased 46 percent to $1.56 billion.  ConocoPhillips, the third-largest U.S. oil company,
yesterday reported a 44 percent profit gain.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the
No. 2 U.S. energy producer, is expected to report a 31 percent
increase in net income when results are announced tomorrow,
according to the average estimate of four analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  The average U.S. price for regular gasoline touched $3.886
a gallon yesterday, the highest since August 2008, according to
AAA. Prices have escalated 26 percent this year. The all-time
high of $4.11 was reached on July 15, 2008, which helped drive
Exxon’s record $14.8 billion quarterly profit that summer.  ‘Windfall Profits’  “The government should tax the windfall profits of the oil
giants and invest the money in renewable energy programs so that
we reduce our dependence on oil and dirty energy,” said Robert Weissman, president of  Public Citizen , a Washington-based
consumer advocacy group.  Exxon fell 70 cents to $87.08 at 12:14 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has 10 buy ratings
from analysts, 12 holds and one sell.  Exxon plans to spend $34 billion this year on capital
projects such as new  oil wells , pipeline repairs and refinery
upgrades. Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  told analysts
last month that he is targeting a 4 percent increase in oil and
natural gas production this year.  “Increased  capital expenditures  are necessary to continue
adding reserves,” said Eliecer Palacios, energy sector
specialist at Maxim Group, a boutique investment bank.  Subsidies Examined  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told
ABC News in an interview broadcast on April 25 that subsidies
for oil and gas companies are “certainly something that we
ought to be looking at.”  “Everybody wants to, to go after the  oil companies ,”
Boehner said. “And, frankly, they’ve got some part of this to
blame.”  Obama’s fiscal 2012 budget plan, unveiled Feb. 14, proposes
eliminating oil and gas tax breaks estimated at $46.2 billion
over 10 years. They include $11.2 billion from the so-called
percentage depletion deduction for oil and natural gas wells,
which benefits small producers.  Taking resources from highly taxed companies that use
profits “predominantly” to reinvest in creating future
supplies of energy is “the wrong thing” to do for an energy
policy,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  Chief Financial Officer Jeff Sheets said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  “We disagree that we’re under taxed currently when we’re
paying taxes at rates that are higher than what most other
industries are paying,” Sheets said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 