-- 
Exxon Mobil First-Quarter Profit Rises as Oil Demand Fuels Price Increases

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-04-28T13:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/exxon-mobil-s-first-quarter-profit-rises-amid-oil-price-surge.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
largest company by market value, posted its biggest first-
quarter profit increase in eight years as surging energy demand
and supply concerns pushed crude prices to a 30-month high.  First-quarter net income rose 69 percent to $10.7 billion,
or $2.14 a share, from $6.3 billion, or $1.33, a year earlier,
Irving, Texas-based Exxon said today in a statement. Per-share
profit was 10 cents higher than the average of five analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Exxon’s profit from selling oil and natural-gas rose 49
percent to $8.7 billion as Brent oil futures, the benchmark
price for two-thirds of the world’s crude, averaged more than
$105 a barrel. Soaring demand for fuels to run trains, trucks,
cars and airplanes coincided with civil unrest that disrupted
exports from  Libya , home to Africa’s largest reserves.  Sales rose 26 percent to $114 billion. Three-fourths of
Exxon’s sales come from outside the U.S.  In  China , the world’s second-largest consumer of oil and
gas after the U.S., demand for oil-based fuels such as diesel
rose 11 percent during the first three months of this year,
almost seven times the U.S.’s 1.6 percent growth rate, according
to the  International Energy Agency . Brazilian and Indian demand
expanded by 5 percent and 3.8 percent, respectively.  Refining Improves  Exxon fell 80 cents to 86.98 at 9:30 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has 10 buy ratings from
analysts, 12 holds and one sell.  The company’s refining business earned $1.1 billion. In
Exxon’s chemicals division, net income rose 21 percent to $1.52
billion, according to the statement.  Exxon raised oil and gas production 10 percent to the
equivalent of 4.82 million barrels a day during the quarter as
new projects such as the West Qurna 1 field in  Iraq  came online.  Exxon plans to spend $34 billion this year on capital
projects such as new  oil wells , pipeline repairs and refinery
upgrades. Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  told analysts
last month that he is targeting a 4 percent increase in oil and
natural gas production this year.  “For Exxon and many of the integrateds, the growth is
international,” said Eliecer Palacios, energy sector specialist
at Maxim Group, a boutique investment bank. “Increased  capital
expenditures  are necessary to continue adding reserves.”  Replacing Production  The company’s discoveries and acquisitions last year were
enough to replace 209 percent of the crude and gas pumped from
wells, boosting proved reserves to the equivalent of 24.8
billion barrels, which exceeded the crude reserves of nations
such as Algeria or  Mexico .  Exxon, which traces its roots to the 1880s and John D. Rockefeller’s Standard Oil Trust, has exploration prospects from
Greenland to Madagascar to Vietnam.  Oil production in Libya dwindled to 390,000 barrels a day
in March, a 75 percent drop from the end of 2010, according to
Bloomberg estimates, as a rebellion against  Muammar Qaddafi 
prompted foreign energy companies to evacuate staff and the
country’s cities were put under siege.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 