-- 
Falcao Ties Klinsmann Record as Porto, Benfica Europa League Semi Openers

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-28T23:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/falcao-ties-klinsmann-record-as-porto-benfica-europa-league-semi-openers.html
Porto and Benfica won at home to
take the first steps to an all-Portuguese final in soccer’s
Europa League.  Radamel Falcao scored four times to lift his competition
tally to a record-tying  15 goals  as Porto beat Villarreal 5-1
last night in the first game of their two-match semifinal.
Jardel and Oscar Cardozo scored in Benfica’s 2-1 win over Braga.  “I will never forget these four goals,” Colombian striker
Falcao said in comments on  UEFA ’s website. “It’s a dream
because I’ve never scored four goals in a game before.”  Villarreal and Braga will host the return matches on May 5.
The final of  Europe ’s second-tier club competition is scheduled
for May 18 in Dublin.  Porto, the bookmakers’ favorite to lift the trophy, scored
all of its goals in the second half after Ruben Cani had given
 Spain ’s Villarreal the lead just before the break at the Estadio
do Dragao.  “It was a good first step towards the final,” said Porto
coach Andre Villas-Boas. “Falcao is fabulous.”  Falcao tied the score with a penalty kick in the 49th
minute and Fredy Guarin gave 2003 champion Porto the lead by
heading in the rebound of his own shot in the 61st minute.  Falcao scored six minutes later to make it 3-1, completed
his hat trick in the 75th minute by heading in a free kick and
added another header in the 90th minute. His tournament-leading
15 goals put him level with the record set by  Bayern Munich ’s
Jurgen Klinsmann in the 1995-96 season.  Cardozo’s goal in the 59th minute gave Benfica the win over
Braga at the Estadio da Luz in the first all-Portuguese matchup
in European competition.  Jardel put Benfica ahead with a header five minutes into
the second half and Vandinho tied it for Braga three minutes
later. Cardozo then sent a free kick into the top corner of the
net for the winning goal.  “We deserved more, at least to end with a two-goal
advantage,” said Benfica coach Jorge Jesus. “Their goal was
from a set-piece situation and they didn’t create many
difficulties for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 