-- 
Flying Eyeballs, Fetishes Titillate in Redon Exhibit: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-04-28T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/flying-eyeballs-fetishes-titillate-in-redon-exhibit-review.html
Severed heads, grinning spiders, an
eyeball soaring through the air like a balloon -- Odilon Redon
had a penchant for strange subjects.  While his contemporaries, the Impressionists, left their
studios to paint outdoors, directly from nature, Redon stayed
home and peered into the unplumbed depths of his soul. No wonder
the Surrealists admired him as a forerunner.  Oddly enough, French museums have neglected him for more
than half a century. The show at the  Grand Palais  is the first
in Paris since 1956.  To make up for such a long absence, the organizers have
amassed some 300 works. It’s the most comprehensive exhibition
ever devoted to the visionary artist.  Until well into his fifties, Redon (1840-1916) worked
almost exclusively in black and white, producing lithographs and
charcoal drawings.  Having failed to get into the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, he
trained with the engraver Rodolphe Bresdin, an eccentric who
called himself Chien-Caillou (after Chingachgook, the father of
U.S. author James Fenimore Cooper’s last Mohican) and eventually
moved to the U.S. Redon inherited from Bresdin a taste for the
fantastic and the grotesque.  In 1882, Redon’s illustrations of Edgar Allan Poe’s macabre
stories catapulted the artist to fame. Two years later, Jean Des
Esseintes, the decadent hero of Joris-Karl Huysmans’s novel “A
Rebours,” or Against the Grain, was depicted as an enthusiastic
collector of Redon’s “noirs.”  Erotic Prince  Redon became a figurehead of the Decadent movement, which
celebrated fetishism, violence, incest and all sorts of erotic
obsessions. The art critic Thadee Natanson called him in the
Revue Blanche a “Prince of Dreams.”  It was only natural that Redon subsequently illustrated
“The Flowers of Evil,” Baudelaire’s scabrous and sacrilegious
collection of poems, and Flaubert’s hybrid philosophical drama
“The Temptation of St. Anthony.”  Then everything changed. It’s hard to tell when the
decisive moment occurred. Was it Redon’s religious crisis in the
early 1890s? Or his serious illness in 1895? Was it his first
trip to  Italy  in 1900? Or the commission from his travel
companion Robert de Domecy to paint a mural in the dining room
of his chateau in Burgundy? (The mural is on view in its
original layout at the Grand Palais.)  Whatever it was, in 1900 Redon turned to painting, and in
1902 he completely abandoned his “noirs.”  Dull Flowers  The second part of the show is a letdown. Although Matisse
loved Redon’s flowers, they’re tame compared with the nightmares
he had so masterfully conjured up before.  Instead of the black-and-white monsters, there are divine
apparitions and mythological scenes in radiant colors. Redon
doubtless knew how to handle oils and pastels, yet his earlier
work is incomparably more interesting.  It seems that he was a happy man in his last years while
his earlier life often had been overshadowed by depression.
Could it be that, with his depression, he also lost the better
part of his talent?  “Odilon Redon,” which is supported by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , runs
through June 20 and then travels to Montpellier,  France , where
it will be on view from July 7 to Oct. 16. During that period,
the library of the former abbey of Fontfroide, which Redon
decorated, will exceptionally be open to the public.
Information:  http://www.rmn.fr  or +33-1-4413-1717.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 