-- 
U.S. Said to Probe Alleged Leak of For-Profit College Rules

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-28T20:39:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/for-profit-college-aid-rules-are-said-to-be-under-inquiry-1-.html
The U.S. Education Department will
investigate whether Wall Street investors had advance knowledge
of proposed for-profit college rules that the agency released
last year, according to a person briefed on the matter.  The probe by the department’s  Office of the Inspector
General  will focus on whether short-sellers, who look to profit
when stock prices fall, found out about the draft regulations
before they were publicly announced, said the person, who
declined to be identified. The rulemaking process itself won’t
be investigated, the person said.  Senators Richard Burr of  North Carolina  and  Tom Coburn  of
 Oklahoma , both Republicans, sent a letter to Inspector General
 Kathleen Tighe  in November requesting an inquiry of the proposed
rules, called “gainful employment.” The regulations would tie
for-profit colleges’ access to federal grants and loans to their
former students’ incomes and loan-repayment rates.  The Inspector General’s office doesn’t confirm or deny the
existence of investigations, said Sara Gast, an Education
Department spokeswoman.  Coburn and Hall asked Tighe to look into e-mails between
department officials and outside nonprofit educational
organizations that gave a preview of proposed rules. Members of
those organizations may have shared such information with short-
sellers, the letter said. Short-sellers seek to profit by
selling borrowed shares with the expectation of replacing them
later at a cheaper price.  Enzi’s Letter  For-profit colleges have criticized Education Department
officials for meeting with short-sellers such as Steve Eisman,
managing director of FrontPoint Partners LLC in  New York , as the
regulations were developed. The rulemaking process was “heavily
influenced” by the investors, according to the website of the
Coalition for Educational Success, a Chicago-based for-profit
college industry group.  Senator Mike Enzi of  Wyoming , the senior Republican on the
Senate education committee, wrote Education Secretary Arne Duncan today to request all rulemaking documents on the gainful
employment regulations. For-profit colleges have fought the
rules package, saying it will hurt education companies and their
students.  Iowa Senator  Tom Harkin , chairman of the Senate education
committee, has been investigating for-profit colleges’ use of
government funds and federal loan default rates, which are twice
those at nonprofit public universities. Harkin has said he is
planning to file legislation to further regulate for-profit
colleges.  ‘Bottom Line’  Senator Richard Durbin and Representative  Danny Davis , both
Illinois Democrats, co-chaired a hearing in  Chicago  today on how
for-profit colleges can reduce student debt and defaults. If the
industry doesn’t begin policing itself, then regulatory action
will be taken, Davis said.  “If you don’t self-regulate, then we’re going to find a
way to regulate you,” Davis told reporters after the hearing.
“That’s kind of the bottom line.”  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , operator of the University of Phoenix
and the biggest U.S. for-profit college, fell 31 cents, or less
than 1 percent, to $40.28 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. The Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit College
Index of 13 education companies dropped 1.2 percent.  “The U.S. Department of Education needs to pay close
attention to the bright red stoplight now facing its proposed
gainful employment regulation,” Penny Lee, managing director of
the Coalition for Educational Success, said in a  statement 
today. “The inspector general must complete her investigation
into the role of short-sellers in the regulatory process before
any more action is taken.”  Lobbying Efforts  The Education Department has already delayed the
publication of the final rules package, originally scheduled for
last year. Duncan said in September that the regulations would
come out in early 2011. Earlier this month, he said they would
be published in the next month or two, the  Chronicle of Higher
Education  reported April 5.  For-profit colleges more than doubled their spending last
year on  Washington  lobbying to $6.6 million to defeat the rules.
Republican Representative  John Kline  of  Minnesota  and Democratic
Representative Alcee Hastings of  Florida  led an effort to block
the regulations with a measure that was left out of a final
budget bill after it passed in the House. Hastings got more than
100 lawmakers to sign a letter yesterday calling for President
 Barack Obama  to “jettison” the package.  “The untested gainful employment proposal will close good
programs and allow not-so-good programs to prosper,” said  Harris Miller , president of the Association of Private Sector Colleges
& Universities, a Washington-based for-profit college industry
group, in an e-mailed statement today.  Dow Jones Newswires reported on the probe earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  