-- 
Ford, Russian Partner Sollers Plan to Export Cars to Europe

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-04-28T15:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ford-russian-partner-sollers-plan-to-export-cars-to-europe.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  and OAO Sollers aim
to export cars and engines to  Europe  from their Russian venture
in addition to domestic distribution, said Sollers Chief
Executive Officer Vadim Shvetsov  “We have plans to produce engines in  Russia , but it
doesn’t make sense if the production is focused only on the
Russian market,” Shvetsov told reporters today in Moscow.  Ford agreed to set up a 50-50 venture with Moscow-based
Sollers to assemble and distribute vehicles in Russia, under a
memorandum signed Feb. 18. The venture will manufacture Ford
models at plants near St. Petersburg and in the Tatarstan
region, east of Moscow. Sollers’s plant in Tatarstan can build
200,000 cars a year, while Ford’s near  St. Petersburg  can
assemble 125,000 vehicles.  The venture will export even if the Russian market doubles
to 4 million cars or $100 billion of sales by 2020, from about
$50 billion this year, Shvetsov said. Ford and Sollers plan to
set up the project by the end of the third quarter, he said.  Russia’s market for sales of new car and light commercial
vehicles gained 30 percent last year to 1.9 million, according
to the Association of European Businesses. The group said April
8 that it’s likely to raise its 2011 forecast of 2.24 million
vehicles after meeting with members.  Second Biggest  Sollers, which surpassed billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s GAZ
last year to become the second biggest Russian carmaker, dropped
a planned partnership with Fiat to set up the venture with Ford.  “It was important for us to get not only an industrial
alliance, but distribution as well,” Shvetsov said. “Ford
offered such an opportunity.”  VEB, Russia’s state development bank, agreed to lend Ford
and Sollers $1.4 billion for the project, Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said April 22.  “The primary objective” of the venture with Sollers is to
help “build the Ford brand in Russia” and to provide customers
with more products and improved services, John Gardiner, a Ford
spokesman in Europe, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  