-- 
Ford Motor Credit Sells $1.25 Billion of Seven-Year Securities

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-04-28T19:31:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ford-motor-credit-plans-7-year-bonds-amid-effort-to-reach-investment-grade.html
Ford Motor Credit Co., the finance
arm of the second-largest U.S. automaker, sold $1.25 billion of
seven-year senior unsecured notes as its parent company works to
achieve an investment-grade  credit rating .  The unit of  Ford Motor Co. (F)  issued the debt at a 5 percent
yield, or 2.29 basis points more than comparably dated U.S.
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That coupon
was the second-lowest on a junk bond this year, trailing a
three-year note from Ally Financial Inc., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ford Motor Credit, the second-biggest issuer of
speculative-grade bonds last year after Ally Financial, tapped
the junk-debt market after selling $1.25 billion of 5.75
percent, 10-year notes in February, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Dearborn, Michigan-based company plans to
issue $7 billion to $9 billion of unsecured debt this year, and
it had previously sold $2 billion in 2011, according to  a
presentation  on April 26.  “In the minds of investors, we’re well on our way” to an
investment-grade rating, Assistant Treasurer David Brandi said
in an April 26 earnings call. “Our borrowing spreads have
decreased, reflecting improved credit profiles of Ford and Ford
Credit, strong investor demand and supportive capital markets.”  The notes issued today may be rated Ba2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BB- by  Standard & Poor’s , both with
positive outlooks, said a person familiar with the sale, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  The company’s 5.75 percent notes traded April 26 at 102.75
cents on the dollar to yield 5.38 percent, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  High-yield, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- by S&P. General Motors Co., the former parent
of  Ally Financial , is the largest U.S. automaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  