-- 
GE’s Immelt Quits New York Fed Board of Directors Citing Demands on Time

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-28T22:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ge-s-immelt-quits-new-york-fed-board-of-directors-citing-demands-on-time.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  resigned from the Federal
 Reserve Bank  of New York’s board of directors, citing
“increased demands” on his time.  Immelt, 55, stepped down effective March 9, the New York
Fed said in a statement today. He noted in his resignation
letter to New York Fed President William C. Dudley that his
other commitments include the President’s Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness, which he has led since January. Immelt had
served as a regional bank director since January 2006.  “I was very surprised that he even accepted the job on
Obama’s council because being CEO of a diversified conglomerate
like GE is more than a full time job,” said Sung Won Sohn, an
economics professor at California State University-Channel
Islands and former chief economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . “He is
probably stretched too thin.”  Immelt’s decision is unrelated to plans by the Fed later
this year to begin supervising  GE Capital , the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company’s finance unit, GE spokesman Gary Sheffer said.  “Jeff enjoyed his five years on the board of the New York
Fed and learned a great deal,” GE said in a statement. “He
decided to step down to allow the opportunity for others to
serve and to free up time to focus on other responsibilities.”  ‘Too Big to Fail’  The Fed is poised to gain responsibility for non-bank
financial firms deemed “too big to fail,” including GE
Capital. The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President  Barack Obama  in July, gave the central bank expanded authority over
systemically important financial firms.  Immelt was a Class B director at the New York Fed,
representing “the public,” and selected by member banks,
according to the New York Fed statement. Class A directors at
the Reserve Bank represent the member banks.  “Clearly now the Fed is going to be regulating a financial
services company like GE Capital and I don’t think he should be
sitting on the New York Fed board” as a Class B director, said
Sohn, who is also vice chairman of retailer Forever 21 Inc. “If
GE Capital were to get into any kind of trouble, it would be the
 New York  Fed that would have to deal with it so I don’t think
it’s appropriate for him.”  The New York Fed in December revised rules for its board of
directors to avert conflicts of interest. Under Dodd-Frank, the
three Class A directors are prohibited from appointing the
president and first vice presidents of regional banks.  The New York Fed also restricted banker board members from
“playing any role in bank supervision matters,” or naming the
“senior leadership” for the bank supervision group, leaving
those matters to board members representing the public,
according to a Dec. 22 statement.  The New York Fed has since renamed its bank oversight
division the Financial Institution Supervision Group, in a nod
to its expanded authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  