-- 
Geithner Says Tax System Must Be Overhauled to Curb Debt, Spur Growth

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-04-28T22:04:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/geithner-says-broken-tax-system-is-cause-of-deficit-woes.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. needs to overhaul its  tax code  in order
to rein in the national debt and preserve economic growth.  “Americans have to understand that deficits matter, that
deficits are not just the result of spending choices, but also
of an unfair and broken tax system,” Geithner said in a speech
in  Detroit  today.  The Treasury Department chief said the U.S. needs to make
its budget more sustainable so that the country will have enough
spending room “to do the essential things.” Economic growth
and national security require the budget to be on a firmer
footing, he said.  “Our deficits are too high,” Geithner said. “They will
not be solved by future economic growth, and left unaddressed
they will hurt future economic growth.”  President  Barack Obama  has offered the outlines of a plan
to reduce the debt by $4 trillion over 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases. House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, has
proposed cutting spending by $6 trillion over a decade in part
by privatizing Medicare and capping Medicaid spending.
Republicans reject Obama’s push for tax increases on the
wealthiest Americans.  Geithner predicted that Congress will raise the $14.29
trillion debt limit before the country gets too close to
default. He has said that Congress needs to act in June, before
the Treasury exhausts its techniques for maintaining borrowing
room.  “If you listen carefully to the leadership of Congress, on
both sides, they recognize and they’ve made it clear to the
president, they are not going to play around with this for
political reasons and they are not going to take this too close
to the edge,” Geithner said. “If you get to the point where
people start to act on the possibility, however remote, that the
U.S. might default, that itself would be terribly damaging to
the recovery.”  Today’s speech coincides with Chrysler Group LLC’s
announcement today that it plans to repay $7.53 billion in loans
from U.S. and Canadian governments this quarter as it moves
toward an initial public offering and a merger with its Italian
partner  Fiat SpA. (F)   “We are looking forward to the full repayment of our loan
to the company,” Geithner said.  The U.S. expects to lose money on its rescue of the  auto
industry , though the losses will be “dramatically better” than
expected, Geithner said. “We did this for the jobs we’re going
to save,” he said, adding that the administration’s policy now
is to exit the rescues as fast as possible while recovering as
much money as it can of the government assistance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  