-- 
Gen-Probe Said to Seek Buyer, Hire Morgan Stanley

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-04-29T20:34:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/gen-probe-is-said-to-seek-a-buyer-as-aids-test-maker-hires-morgan-stanley.html
(Corrects identification of Gen-Probe spokesman in sixth
paragraph in story published April 28.)  Gen-Probe Inc. (GPRO) , a maker of tests
for AIDS and the West Nile virus, hired Morgan Stanley to seek a
buyer for the company, according to three people with knowledge
of the sale. The shares rose the most in almost seven years.  Initial bids for Gen-Probe, with a market value of $3.9
billion, are due in the next couple of weeks, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the process is
confidential. The San Diego-based company today reported a 3.8
percent decline in first-quarter net income, beating analyst
estimates by two cents.  Possible bidders for the test-maker include  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
which markets Gen-Probe products worldwide,  Thermo Fisher
Scientific Inc. (TMO) ,  Danaher Corp. (DHR)  and  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , one
of the people said.  “Because they’re a high-quality company, it opens the
field up” to other potential acquirers including  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s second-largest seller of health-care
products,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) , said
Peter Lawson, a Mizuho Securities analyst in New York, in a
phone interview. “It fits in with this whole interest in
personalized medicine.”  Gen-Probe gained $9.45, or 13 percent, to $79.61 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the
biggest single-day advance since November 2004. The shares have
increased 69 percent in the past 12 months.  Company Spokesman  Michael Watts, a spokesman for Gen-Probe, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation. Pen Pendleton, a
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  spokesman, declined to comment. Eric Althoff, a
spokesman for Novartis, Ron O’Brien of Thermo Fisher and Life
Technologies’ Jaime Rupert also declined to comment. Danaher’s
Matt McGrew didn’t immediately return a call.  Gen-Pro sells diagnostics used to identify diseases, tests
to screen donated blood for viruses such as HIV and hepatitis C,
and products to ensure transplant compatibility, according to
its  website . The company reported 2010 sales of $543 million.  Gen-Pro’s first-quarter net income was $23.3 million on
revenue of $143 million, the company said in a statement today.
Earnings excluding certain items of 54 cents beat the 52 cents
average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company reaffirmed revenue projections for 2011,
previously issued March 16, of $570 million to $595 million.  $100 a Share  Diagnostic companies have recently been purchased for
three to six times sales, Lawson said, citing  Thermo Fisher ’s
2009 acquisition of Brahms AG. Gen-Probe could get more than
$100 a share, a 20 percent premium from current levels, if sold
to a strategic party, Jon Wood, an analyst with Jefferies & Co.
in New York, said in a note.  There have been 76 announced or completed acquisitions in
the U.S. diagnostic equipment market in the past three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The deals had an
average disclosed size of $30 million and an average premium of
50 percent.  The largest deal was GE’s purchase of  Aliso Viejo ,
California-based Clarient Inc. for $447 million in October.  Gen-Probe has more than 100 marketed diagnostic tests and
products and continues to introduce new products, Watts said. A
test for  trichomonas , the most common curable sexually
transmitted disease, was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration on April 20 and tests for human papilloma virus
and a gene implicated in some prostate cancer cases are pending
before the agency, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in  New York  at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  