-- 
German Bonds Jump as U.S. Growth Slows; Greek Note Yields Fall From Record

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-04-28T15:03:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/german-government-bonds-rise-after-federal-reserve-interest-rates-pledge.html
German 10-year bonds rose as a
report showed the  U.S. economy  grew at a slower pace than
forecast in the first quarter, stoking demand for the safest
assets.  Greek two-year note yields fell from a record after a
report showed the nation’s lenders’ reliance on European Central
Bank funding declined in February. Portugal’s two-year note
yield rose to a euro-era record of 12.05 percent as the nation
said it plans to sell up to 1 billion euros ($1.5 billion) of
three-month bills next week. U.S. gross domestic product grew at
a 1.8 percent annual rate from January through March after a 3.1
percent pace in the final quarter of 2010. Economists projected
2 percent growth.  “The U.S. GDP figures came in weaker than expected and
that propelled bunds higher,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-
income strategist at RIA Capital in Edinburgh. “The renewed
weakness in the U.S. economy has given a lift to Treasuries and
in turn bunds are higher as well.”  The yield on the 10-year bund, the euro region’s benchmark
government security, fell seven basis points to 3.26 percent as
of 4:02 p.m. in London. The 3.25 percent security maturing in
July 2021 climbed 0.613, or 6.13 euros per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 99.93. Ten-year Treasury yields declined six basis
points to 3.30 percent.  U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday cut the range
of estimates for domestic growth this year to between 3.1
percent and 3.3 percent, from a previous forecast of 3.4 percent
to 3.9 percent in January.  ‘Due to the Fed’  “We saw a pull-back in German yields right from the
beginning of the trading session and it is due to the Fed and
the positive Treasury market reaction to that,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich.  The Portuguese debt agency said it will sell 750 million
euros to 1 billion euros of Treasury bills maturing on Aug. 19
in a May 4 auction.  Earlier this month, Portugal became the third euro-region
country to seek an international bailout after Greece sparked a
sovereign-debt crisis that threatened to splinter the currency
bloc a year ago and then engulfed Ireland.  Greek bank reliance on ECB liquidity fell to 90.4 billion
euros in February from 94.4 billion euros in January, according
to the Athens-based central bank’s website.  Greek two-year note yields climbed as much as 87 basis
points to 26.27 percent, a euro-era high, before dropping 49
basis points to 24.91 percent, the first decline in 12 days.  Italian Auction  Greece’s two-year note yields have added more than 900
basis points, or 9 percentage points, since the start of the
month, even as its Athens-based  finance ministry  said it isn’t
considering debt restructuring.  Portugal ’s two-year note yields have gained more than 300
basis points in the period, while Ireland’s have risen more than
200 basis points.  Italian bonds rose as the nation sold securities maturing
in 2014, 2018 and 2021, including 3.35 billion euros of bonds
maturing in September 2021 at an average yield of 4.84 percent,
compared with 4.80 percent at a previous sale on March 30.
Investors bid for 1.4 times the number of securities on offer,
compared with a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 1.5 times
previously.  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds fell three basis points
to 4.78 percent, the first decline in four days.  ‘Not An Option’  “The Italian auction going OK should lend a little bit of
support to the periphery, given the scale of the moves we’ve
seen of late,” said Eric Wand, a rates strategist at Lloyds
Bank Corporate Markets in  London , referring to bonds from the
euro region’s heavily indebted nations. “I don’t see any need
for Greek restructuring to happen soon, but the market isn’t
giving up its view that it will happen sooner rather than
later.”  Debt restructuring is “not an option” for European policy
makers, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told
reporters in Paris today. “It would lead to numerous problems,
some of which we can’t yet identify,” he said.  German import-price inflation slowed to 11.3 percent in
March, down from 11.9 percent a month earlier, a report showed
today. Consumer-price inflation in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest
economy, accelerated in April, data showed yesterday, adding to
pressure on the ECB to lift interest rates.  Credit-Default Swaps  Surging  oil prices  have pushed euro-region inflation above
the ECB’s 2 percent limit since December, prompting policy
makers to raise the benchmark interest rate this month to 1.25
percent from a record low of 1 percent. While ECB officials have
signaled they will keep increasing borrowing costs to tackle
inflation as the region’s economy strengthens,  Greece , Portugal
and Ireland remain mired in a sovereign-debt crisis.  The cost to insure Greek, Portuguese and Irish bonds rose
to records yesterday. Credit-default swaps on the governments’
bonds pared the advance today, with contracts on Greece falling
49 basis points to 1,303, while Portugal was 13 lower at 653 and
Ireland fell nine to 663, according to CMA.  Bank of Portugal Governor and ECB council member Carlos Costa said the nation needs to increase its potential growth
rate. “The Portuguese problem is one of low potential growth,”
Costa said at a conference in Luxembourg today. “The problem is
the mismatch between the debt and deficit and potential
growth.”  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 2
percent this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, while
U.S. Treasuries have returned 0.8 percent. Italian debt has
earned 0.8 percent, while Greek debt has lost 13.3 percent, the
indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  