-- 
German Unemployment Declines to 19-Year Low as Export Boom Drives Demand

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-04-28T09:44:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/german-unemployment-falls-below-3-million-mark-correct-.html
German unemployment fell below 3
million for the first time in almost 19 years in April in
adjusted terms, increasing the likelihood that household
spending will boost economic growth.  The number of people out of work dropped a seasonally
adjusted 37,000 to 2.97 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal
Labor Agency said today, the lowest level since June 1992. The
decline matched the median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. The jobless rate was unchanged at 7.1
percent.  German companies are hiring as they increase production to
meet booming export orders, fueling domestic demand. The
government expects the economy,  Europe ’s largest, to expand 2.6
percent this year after last year’s record 3.6 percent growth.
The decline in unemployment has yet to deliver a political
dividend for  Chancellor Angela Merkel , with polls showing
opposition parties would have enough combined support to oust
her from office.  “The German labor market has been improving rapidly during
the past 18 months” and latest data point to “ongoing robust
employment growth and further declines in unemployment,”  Aline Schuiling , an economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam, said in a note
to investors. “Wage growth should pick up this year and next.”  Creating Jobs  German factory orders and industrial production rose more
than economists predicted in February. The Bundesbank said on
April 18 the country’s “positive economic fundamental trend
should continue” in the three months through June.  More than a third of  Germany ’s medium-sized companies plan
to take on staff in the second quarter, Impulse magazine  said  on
April 25, citing an ASU family-owned businesses association
survey of 385 companies. Almost two-thirds want to keep payrolls
unchanged while 4 percent seek to reduce staff.  Closely held automotive supplier ZF Friedrichshafen AG
plans to create 5,000 jobs by the end of this year, including
2,000 in Germany, on expectations of “significant sales and
profit growth,” Chief Executive Officer Hans-Georg Haerter  said 
on April 21 on the company’s website.  German automakers continued to have “strong” sales in
Russia, India and China in March, the VDA automakers’ lobby said
on April 19. German carmakers’ first-quarter unit sales in  China 
rose 30 percent to about 637,800 vehicles, VDA said on April 15.  Comparable Data  The  latest  comparable data from the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development show Germany’s jobless rate
was 6.3 percent in February while the average for the 17 euro
nations was 9.9 percent.  France , the second-largest euro-area
economy, had 9.6 percent unemployment, the U.S. had 8.9 percent
and  Spain  had 20.5 percent.  In non-adjusted terms, the number of jobseekers in Germany
declined by 132,000 to 3.08 million in April and should drop
below 3 million in May, Labor Agency head Frank-Juergen Weise
told reporters in Nuremberg.  Still, with political turmoil in the Middle East and
uncertainty over the duration of  Japan ’s nuclear crisis damping
the global economic outlook, hiring in Germany may soon pause.
The Labor Agency’s BA-X indicator of labor demand,  published 
yesterday, rose 2 points to 167, which it described as a “less
dynamic” gain than in previous months.  Confidence Slips  German  consumer confidence  will decline for a second month
in May as households grapple with higher food and energy prices,
Nuremberg-based market research company GfK AG said yesterday.
Business confidence fell for a second month in April after  oil
prices  rose to the highest in 2 1/2 years, the Ifo institute in
Munich said on April 21.  German inflation, calculated using a harmonized European
method, accelerated to 2.6 percent in April from 2.3 percent in
March, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said
yesterday. Consumer-price developments are casting a “slight
shadow” on an otherwise “positive” outlook for the economy,
the  Economy Ministry  said on April 19 in its monthly report.  The opposition Greens and  Social Democratic Party 
maintained support to form a government for the fourth straight
week, according to a poll for Stern magazine published
yesterday. The parties’ combined lead over Merkel’s coalition
narrowed 3 percentage points, to 14 points.  For now, “companies are showing a high inclination to
hire, with some of them reporting difficulties to find qualified
staff,” the Labor Agency said yesterday. While temporary work
companies are hiring the most, retailers, builders, restaurants
and health-care companies are also taking on “numerous”
workers, it said.  ECB Concern  “The buoyancy of the German labor-market data will be
reinforcing concerns at the  European Central Bank  over capacity
constraints and the potential for a spill-over to wage
dynamics,”  Ken Wattret , chief euro-region market economist at
BNP Paribas SA in  London , said in a note to investors.  The ECB on April 7 raised its benchmark rate for the first
time in almost three years, by a quarter percentage point to
1.25 percent. President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy makers
must ensure the oil-driven jump in inflation doesn’t fuel wage
and price expectations.  The full opening of the German labor market on May 1 to
workers from eight eastern European Union countries is “a great
chance” for Germany to avoid a skilled-worker squeeze, Labor
Minister Ursula von der Leyen said in an e-mailed statement
today in Berlin. The Labor Agency expects around 100,000 workers
per year to take advantage of the new rules, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  