-- 
Giant Klitschko Brothers Promised Mom Not to Fight Each Other

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-28T02:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/giant-klitschko-brothers-promised-mom-not-to-fight-each-other-interview.html
Wladimir Klitschko vividly
remembers the day his older brother Vitali introduced him to
boxing.  “He hit me so hard I saw stars,” Wladimir recalled. “I
thought, ‘This is not for me.’”  He was wrong. Wladimir followed Vitali into the sport and
both Ukrainian giants became champions. They’re the first
siblings to hold heavyweight titles at the same time. They’re
also the first boxing champions with doctorates in sports
science and fluency in four languages.  Their improbable story is told in “Klitschko,” a
documentary playing this week at New York’s  Tribeca Film
Festival . The film will be released this fall in the U.S.  Sons of a Soviet air force officer who helped clean up
Chernobyl after the 1986 nuclear-plant disaster, the Klitschkos
have dominated the heavyweight division for the past decade.  Wladimir, 35, is currently recognized as champion by four
boxing authorities -- the IBF, WBO, IBO and The Ring magazine.
Vitali, 39, holds the WBC title belt. The brothers have turned
down lucrative offers to fight each other, fulfilling a promise
they made to their mother.  “I wouldn’t do it, even for $1 billion,” Wladimir said,
stretching out his 6-foot-6 frame (one inch shorter than his
brother) on a sofa in the lobby of a plush Manhattan hotel.
“You can’t put a price on your mother’s heart.”  Coming Back  Some boxing experts accused Wladimir of having no heart --
and no chin -- after he was pummeled by Corrie Sanders and Lamon
Brewster over a 13-month span in 2003-04. But he’s won 13
straight bouts since then, including a rematch against Brewster.  “I was very motivated to prove that my critics were
wrong,” Wladimir said. “I always believed in myself, even when
others didn’t. I think that’s the message of the film: When you
get knocked down in life, you need to get up and keep going.”  He and his brother learned that lesson from their father,
who was stricken with cancer after being exposed to radiation at
Chernobyl. (The senior Klitschko survived, but still has related
health problems.) The recent nuclear crisis in  Japan  reminded
Wladimir of the Chernobyl tragedy a quarter-century ago.  “This is a problem all over the world,” said Wladimir,
who speaks Ukrainian, Russian, German and English. “These
nuclear plants are more dangerous than people realize.”  Charity Work  Unlike many star athletes, the Klitschko brothers are
deeply involved in social and political issues. Vitali has twice
run for mayor of Kiev (losing both times) and has pushed for
democratic reforms in Ukraine. Both brothers also do charity
work for  UNESCO  and the  Laureus Sports for Good Foundation .  “We’ve been very fortunate and we want to give something
back,” said Wladimir, who is dating actress Hayden Panettiere
from the TV series “Heroes.” “We have an obligation because
we’re in the public eye.”  Both brothers will be in the spotlight when they defend
their titles later this year. Wladimir is scheduled to fight WBA
champion David Haye on July 2 in Hamburg, while Vitali is set to
meet Tomasz Adamek on Sept. 10 in Wroclaw,  Poland .  When one brother fights, the other is always there to lend
support.  “From a psychological view, the opponent is fighting both
of us,” Wladimir said. “When he looks in the corner, he sees
two faces and four eyes.”  Chess Players  Though they won’t fight each other, the brothers are fierce
competitors in other activities, including chess.  “No matter what we’re doing, we both want to win,”
Wladimir said. “It can get very intense when we are
competing.”  The Klitschkos have a combined record of 97 wins and five
losses and hold all but one of the major heavyweight titles.
Still, they haven’t received universal acclaim. Some boxing
observers say they have dominated a weak era in the
heavyweight ranks, one that lacks great rivalries like Ali-
Frazier.  “A fan came up to me in Montenegro and said, “‘Listen
Wladimir, there is a recession in the heavyweight division and
it’s called the Klitschko brothers,’” he said. “I agree with
him, and I hope the recession lasts a long time.”  Bloomberg LP, which owns Bloomberg News, is a sponsor of
the Tribeca Film Festival.  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 