-- 
GM Says Tentative Accord Reached on Antonov Saab Investment

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-28T16:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/gm-says-tentative-accord-reached-on-antonov-saab-investment-1-.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said it reached
a tentative agreement to let Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov 
invest in  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR) ’s Saab Automobile unit.  Any accord hinges on “certain specific actions to be taken
by Saab,” as well as some other clearances, Jim Cain, a
spokesman at Detroit-based GM, said today in an e-mail.  Antonov, who is also a former chairman of and shareholder
in Spyker, was forced to exit the Zeewolde, Netherlands-based
company as a condition for GM to sell Saab to the Dutch supercar
maker in February 2010. Saab ran short of cash after sales last
year missed its forecast, and the Swedish manufacturer’s plant
in Trollhaettan has been idle all but a few days since March 29
after some suppliers halted shipments and demanded payment.  The Swedish National Debt Office, which is providing loan
guarantees to Saab, said today that it approved Antonov’s
investment in the carmaker. In addition to final clearance from
GM, Antonov still needs approval from the full Swedish
government and the  European Investment Bank , the lending arm of
the European Union that has provided model-development financing
to Saab.  Spyker was up 50 cents, or 13 percent, to 4.35 euros at the
5:30 p.m. close in Amsterdam, the biggest one-day jump since
Jan. 25. The stock has gained 26 percent this year.  Suppliers Owed  Saab owes at least 300 million kronor ($49.7 million) to
suppliers, according to FKG, a trade group representing Swedish
auto suppliers.  Antonov reached an agreement to buy the Dutch company’s
sports-car operations in February. Saab and Spyker first asked
the Swedish government to approve him as a shareholder on March
29. The banker has agreed to invest as much as 30 million euros
($44.5 million) for a 29.9 percent stake in Spyker and may be
able to finance Saab in other ways in the future such as through
loans, Debt Office head Bo Lundgren said at a Stockholm news
conference.  Antonov is ready to invest at least 50 million euros in
Saab, Lars Carlstrom, his spokesman, has said.  “The past months of speculation around me, as an
individual investor and my businesses, have been exhausting,”
Antonov said in an e-mailed statement. “Finally we have managed
to obtain a clean bill of health and we need to move fast
forward to secure the cash flow of Saab Automobile.”  Lundgren said the debt office has done a background check
on Antonov “without finding anything that we think warrants
preventing him” from becoming a Spyker shareholder.  The
investigation included investigating if Antonov or his financial
holding company Conversgroup, which owns several banks, had been
involved in  money laundering .  Saab and Spyker are also pursuing financing from other
investors, including Chinese carmakers, the Dutch company said
on April 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  