-- 
Gold Rises to Record for Second Day as Fed Maintains Rate, Dollar Slumps

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-04-28T18:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/gold-rises-to-record-for-second-day-as-fed-maintains-rate-dollar-slumps.html
Gold futures surged to a record for
the second straight day after the U.S. Federal Reserve pledged
to keep borrowing costs low, eroding prospects for the dollar
and boosting demand for the metal as an alternative investment.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled yesterday that the
central bank will maintain monetary stimulus. The Fed kept its
target rate for overnight lending between banks at zero percent
to 0.25 percent, while saying it will end $600 billion of bond
purchases on schedule in June. The dollar fell to the lowest in
more than two years against a basket of currencies.  The gold market is “not a bubble,” and prices will
continue to climb in the long term because global monetary
policy is “out of sync” with the real economy, John Hathaway,
the senior managing director of Tocqueville Asset Management LP,
said today at the Bloomberg Link Precious Metals Conference in
New York.  Gold futures for June delivery rose $14.10, or 0.9 percent,
to $1,531.20 an ounce at 1:49 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
Earlier, the metal reached a record $1,538.80. The price has
climbed 31 percent in the past 12 months.  Gold for immediate delivery gained as much as 0.7 percent
to an all-time high of $1,538.47.  The  U.S. economy  slowed more than forecast in the first
quarter as  government spending  declined by the most since 1983
and household purchases cooled.  Bernanke said yesterday that the central bank would
maintain record monetary stimulus after ending large-scale bond
purchases in June to bolster the economy.  ‘Dovish’ Fed  “The tone from the Fed remains dovish with a continued
focus on maintaining growth in the economy and conviction to
complete QE2,” said  Daniel Brebner , a London-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG. “This is resulting in further weakness in the
dollar. Also, inflationary threats may be seen to be building as
the Fed continues to sit on the sidelines.”  Silver futures for July delivery rose $1.554, or 3.4
percent, to $47.541 an ounce, the highest settlement price since
1980. This year, the metal has surged 54 percent, the most among
19 raw materials in the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index.  The rally shows no sign of ending amid tight supplies and
robust demand, according to Coeur d’Alene Mines Corp., the
largest U.S. producer.  “We’re in a legitimate market driven by financial interest
in silver and strong industrial demand,” Chief Executive
Officer Dennis Wheeler said today at the Bloomberg conference.
“Supplies are relatively inelastic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in  New York  at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  