-- 
Golf Channel Denies Prior Knowledge of Alleged Ponzi Scheme With Stanford

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-04-28T16:32:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/golf-channel-denies-prior-knowledge-of-stanford-s-alleged-ponzi-scheme.html
The Golf Channel said $5.9 million
received from companies run by indicted financier R. Allen
Stanford was for media services and not proceeds from an alleged
 Ponzi scheme  as the receiver for Stanford’s businesses claims.  TGC LLC, known as the  Golf Channel , said in response to the
receiver’s lawsuit that it had no knowledge of what the
government charges was a $7 billion fraud scheme. Golf Channel
officials also threatened to counter-sue the receiver for $14.3
million for breach of contract if the judge presiding over
Stanford’s civil fraud trial grants permission.  “The payments at the center of this case have nothing to
do with a Ponzi scheme,’’ Theodore Daniel, the Golf Channel’s
lawyer, said in papers filed yesterday in federal court in
Dallas. Payments received from the  Stanford Financial Group  in
2007 and 2008 “were entirely legal’’ and the result of “arm’s-
length, market-based, written contracts,’’ he said.  Stanford’s court-appointed receiver, Ralph Janvey, sued the
the  Orlando , Florida-based Golf Channel in February to recover
what he claimed were fraudulent transfers from allegedly bogus
certificates of deposit the financier’s Antiguan bank sold
investors. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission seized
Stanford’s businesses in February 2009 on suspicion of fraud.  The television channel primarily broadcasts golf
tournaments, several of which were sponsored by Stanford’s
company in the years before his financial empire collapsed.  Stanford, who denies any wrongdoing, is in jail awaiting
trial on criminal fraud charges mirroring the allegations by
securities regulators.  Unjustly Enriched  Others sued by Janvey and a committee of Stanford investors
have also rebutted the receiver’s allegations that they were
unjustly enriched by funds “taken from unwitting CD
investors,’’ as Janvey claims. The individuals and companies say
in court papers they earned the money in the course of normal
business and are entitled to keep it.  Former Houston Mayor Lee Brown, who received $275,000 as a
member of a Stanford advisory board from 2006 to 2008, accused
the receiver and investors’ committee of “desperately casting
their nets far and wide seeking to ensnare innocent victims’’
who did ordinary business with Stanford’s companies.  Brown said his case is “a simple but obvious attempt to
impose strict liability upon all persons formerly associated
with Stanford International Bank Ltd. without regard to the
niceties of establishing guilty knowledge,’’ according to court
papers he filed last month.  Children’s Hospital  St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital Inc., which received
about $7.4 million in charitable donations from Stanford
entities, filed court papers last week fighting a lawsuit by the
investors’ committee that seeks return of the contributions.  “It is difficult to envision how plaintiffs can invoke
equity to assert that funds the St. Jude defendants received to
treat, prevent and cure catastrophic childhood diseases should
instead be given to plaintiffs for their own personal gain,’’
the hospital’s lawyers said in a filing in  Dallas  federal court.  The cases are Janvey v. Golf Channel, 3:11-cv-0294; Janvey
v. Brown, 3:11-cv-0301; and The Official Stanford Investors’
Committee v. American Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities Inc.,
3:11-cv-0303; all U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Texas  (Dallas).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at laurel@calkins.us.com.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 