-- 
Grantham Sees 25% Chance That China May ‘Stumble’ by Next Year

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-04-28T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/grantham-sees-25-chance-that-china-may-stumble-by-next-year.html
Jeremy Grantham  said there is a 25
percent chance that China, the world’s second-largest economy,
will “stumble” by next year over imbalances such as too much
 capital spending , an overheating real estate market or
accelerating inflation.  “You could have a financial stumble, a housing stumble, a
stumble from rebalancing of capital spending, or any combination
thereof,” Grantham, chief investment officer of Grantham Mayo
Van Otterloo & Co., said in an April 26 interview in  Boston .  China’s economic growth may “slow to considerably less”
than the 9.7 percent pace reported for the first quarter,
Grantham said. Inflation accelerated to 5.4 percent in March,
the fastest pace since July 2008, adding more pressure on
officials to tighten monetary policy.  Grantham, 72, is best known for his bearish outlook and for
spotting asset bubbles early. He correctly forecast in 2000 that
U.S. stocks would decline in the coming decade, and as early as
July 2007 predicted that a large global bank would go bust amid
credit market declines. He recommended buying U.S. stocks for a
five-month period starting in early 2009 in what he called “my
very short life as a bull.”  “I find it intellectually convincing,” Grantham said,
referring to the idea that  China ’s economy will slow. Still,
“they have the ability to get everybody to change the game on a
dime.”  ‘Incredibly Suspicious’  China is seeking to slow the growth of credit after a $2.7
trillion, two-year lending boom. China’s regulators on April 20
ordered lenders to strengthen credit controls for local-
government financing vehicles, including halting loans or
demanding early repayment in the most serious cases. The cost of
insuring Chinese bank bonds against default rose more than that
for lenders in Russia and  India  this month.  “If the housing market takes a break, you have a lot of
banking losses,” Grantham said in the interview. “They’ve made
a lot of loans that look incredibly suspicious.”  Grantham says his views on  China’s economy  are less grim
than those of his colleague Edward Chancellor, who since last
year has said that the nation has displayed symptoms of a
“great speculative mania.” Hedge-fund manager  Jim Chanos , who
was among the first investors to predict Enron Corp.’s collapse,
said last month that the property bubble in China is “as big or
bigger than what we saw in the West” when compared with the
size of the economy.  ‘Break the Markets’  In an April 25 letter to investors, Grantham said that a
decline in China’s economy would hurt the commodity markets. If
a Chinese decline were accompanied by better-than-expected
weather globally, then “it will very probably break the
commodity markets en masse,” he wrote in the letter.  “If the weather and China syndromes strike together, it
will surely produce the second ‘once in a lifetime’ event in
three years,” Grantham wrote.  Despite some short-term shocks, global demand for energy,
metals and crops is outpacing supply, Grantham said, creating
“brilliant long-term prospects” for commodities.  Grantham said in January that the U.S. stock market rally
is living on “borrowed time,” driven by low  interest rates  and
the  Federal Reserve ’s unprecedented stimulus. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500  is worth about 920, Grantham said in the interview,
about 32 percent below where it is now. When the Fed eventually
“runs out of money,” the U.S. stock market will fall, Grantham
said.  “I’m not good at timing,” he said. “Sooner or later, it
will happen,” he said.  Boston-based Grantham Mayo managed more than $107 billion
as of Dec. 31, according to its  web site.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  