-- 
Green Toys Expands into Housewares, Will Keep Sourcing Locally

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-04-28T20:12:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/green-toys-expands-into-housewares-will-keep-sourcing-locally.html
In 2006, Robert von Goeben, a venture capitalist turned
electronic toy designer in  San Francisco , contemplated shifting course again. Instead of
making more gizmos that required electricity and intricate parts, he’d listen to his wife
and create a simpler line that would appeal to parents who identified with the green
movement. “An Inconvenient Truth,” former Vice-President  Al Gore ’s Oscar-winning
documentary on global warming, was attracting mainstream attention. Organic foods
and household items billed as environmentally friendly were flying off shelves in
supermarkets. “Children’s products were the next domino to fall,” he says.  As questions about toy safety made headlines the following year with the recall of more
than 17 million Chinese-made toys, von Goeben partnered with former marketing
executive Laurie Hyman, a business acquaintance from his days at Redleaf Venture
Management, a venture capital firm in Saratoga, Calif. Together they invested $200,000
of their own money to launch  Green Toys  in 2007 to make playthings from recycled
plastic milk jugs. The  Mill Valley  (Calif.) company was profitable from its first year on,
with revenue from online sales and retailers growing 70 percent annually to $5 million
last year, von Goeben says. He expects it to continue expanding at that pace through
2015.  Unlike its half-dozen eco-friendly competitors that manufacture or buy raw materials for
their toys overseas, Green Toys, which has just six employees, contracts only with
California companies. Monica Becker, a sustainability consultant in Rochester, N.Y.,
says sourcing locally means burning less fossil fuel and creating or maintaining more
U.S. jobs. Green Toys can also track the chemical content of toys better than its
counterparts. “In that sense, they are quite unique,” Becker says.  Green Toys’ products are about 30 percent more expensive than similar toys from major
players. Von Goeben says he can narrow that price difference by at least two-thirds as
the company grows, though it’s unclear how popular its market segment will become.
Last year, eco-friendly toys generated just $21 million in sales at U.S. retailers, a
miniscule fraction of the $22 billion for the toy industry as a whole, according to
research firm NPD Group.  Von Goeben, 48, spoke recently to Bloomberg.com contributor Antone Gonsalves
about his plans to make green affordable while keeping it profitable. Edited excerpts of
their conversation follow.  Antone Gonsalves: How will you keep manufacturing in the U.S. and compete with
competitors such as Mattel and Hasbro, which make their toys in countries where labor
costs are less?  Robert von Goeben: I foresee within the next two years or so we’ll be within 5 percent or
10 percent of the price of other products, mainly due to an increase in manufacturing
capacity. Our products are very simple. As a result, labor is a very small part. We don’t
have sophisticated electronics that have to be assembled and have to be tested. We
don’t do anything with electricity in it. We don’t do anything with batteries in it. So,
without putting a lot of labor into your assembly, a lot of it is the cost of the capital
equipment -- bigger machines to make more parts, bigger molds so you can make more
parts at a time. That’s what’s really going to drive our business. It’s really more capital
equipment than anything else.  I will say that the recent tax stimulus bills that provided incentives for capital equipment
has been a godsend for us. I never actually thought I would be touting the benefits of
 tax policy , but I have to tell you that as a small manufacturer in the U.S., we’ve found
the Obama economic stimulus for capital equipment to be a huge driver for increasing
our capacity, so it actually worked.  Q: Your toys are sold in 5,000 U.S. stores, including Pottery Barn, Barnes & Noble,
Whole Foods, and Buy Buy Baby. Green Toys also has distributors in 35 countries. Do
you plan to keep all manufacturing in the U.S. as you grow?  A: Our goal is never to move [manufacturing] out of the U.S., unless we are doing that
specifically to serve that market. As an example, I could see us manufacturing in
 Europe  from locally sourced materials back to that local market, so we would be a local
supplier.  Q: Assuming the market for eco-friendly toys continues to grow, do you expect to see
consolidation, with bigger toymakers buying small businesses like yours?  A: I do see consolidation happening in the next two years. Larger companies that get
into this business, they will make a make-vs.-buy decision, and they will decide either to
acquire a company or to build a brand within themselves.  Q: Are you ready to sell to Mattel or some other major toymaker, if it comes calling?  A: I can’t comment on whether I would sell Green Toys to Mattel because I don’t know
enough about Mattel. We are not for sale. We’re a happy private company. Do I see us
someday being part of a larger organization and having the support and the marketing
behind that? I could see that happening.  Q: You introduced tableware for children this year. Are you going to keep expanding
beyond toys?  A: This year, 2011, is a turning point for our company -- we’ve gone from being a toy
company to a children’s products company. When you look at children’s housewares
and tableware, there’s a huge amount of opportunity there. Again, it’s food contact; it’s
all the things parents care about.  Q: What are your target customers looking for?  A: What’s happening is a shift not just in toys, but in consumer products. The organic
food market started as a niche market 15 years ago and really emerged because
people started to think, “What am I eating; what’s in this food?” People are looking at
consumer products -- specifically, children’s products -- the same way. People are
waking up and saying, “No longer do I want to give my kids this anonymous, yellow
plastic thing that I don’t know where it’s made.” People really want to know what the
plastic is, what the components are, how it’s made.  Q: Did the 2008 Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, which gives government
regulators more authority over toy sales, affect your business?  A: It was not really a big issue for us. Compliance was very routine for us with that
program. Because of the tightness of our supply chain, the way we monitor our raw
materials, the way we track our products, most of what’s in the CPSIA we were doing
anyway. There were additional reporting requirements with certifications and things like
that, but for a business like ours, it really was no problem at all to come into compliance.  Q: How important is your online marketing?  A: Some of our biggest [retailers] sell online. The whole world of bloggers, specifically
parents who are blogging about products and trends for their children, is huge. Our
customer segment is parents between the ages of 25 and 40, and they’re predominantly
female. Our consumer is what we call the Whole Foods mom, and they are online. I
would say 99 percent of our marketing budget is spent online, easily.  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antonegonsalves@gmail.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  