-- 
Greeks Say Economic Situation Has Worsened, Poll Indicates

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-04-28T09:58:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/greeks-say-economic-situation-has-worsened-poll-indicates.html
Most Greeks say their personal
economic situation has got “much” worse in the past year and
are unhappy with the government’s handling of the country’s
economic crisis, an opinion poll found.  Eighty percent of those questioned said their economic
situation had worsened in the past year, while 2 percent said it
had improved, according a VPRC poll of 1,005 people published in
 Epikaira  magazine. Fifty-three percent said their situation was
much worse, with 27 percent saying it was slightly worse,
according to the poll conducted between April 19 and April 21.  Prime Minister George Papandreou’s Pasok party maintained a
slim lead over the opposition  New Democracy  party, with 31.5
percent saying they would vote for Pasok and 30.5 percent saying
they would vote for New Democracy, according to the poll.  Eighty-nine percent of poll respondents said they were
unhappy with the government’s handling of the economic crisis,
with 80 percent saying the country was moving in the wrong
direction. Sixty-three percent saw alternative economic
solutions to the austerity measures, introduced under the terms
of the country’s 110 billion-euro ($163.4 billion) bailout from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund ,
according to the poll.  Fifty-four percent supported renegotiating part of the
country’s debt as a way to get out of the crisis, and 81 percent
said clamping down on  tax evasion  would help.  Sixty-six percent said none of  Greece ’s political parties
had good policies for dealing with the crisis.  The margin of error was given as 3.15 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 