-- 
Li Ka-shing’s $1.6 Billion Yuan IPO Debuts in Hong Kong Today

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-04-28T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/li-ka-shing-s-1-6-billion-yuan-ipo-debuts-in-hong-kong-today.html
Hong Kong  billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s
Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust, the city’s first stock
sale denominated in yuan, will begin trading today after selling
units at the low end of a price range.  The trust raised 10.5 billion yuan ($1.6 billion) selling
units at 5.24 yuan each, according to a statement to the Hong
Kong stock exchange yesterday. Hui Xian will have a forecast
yield of 4.26 percent, based on pricing assumptions presented in
the company’s share sale document. That is the lowest among Hong
Kong-traded REITs, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The 82-year-old billionaire, Hong Kong’s richest man, is
seeking to take advantage of  China ’s efforts to promote
international use of its currency and swelling yuan deposits in
Hong Kong. Individuals applied for about 2.2 times the stock
reserved for them, according to its statement yesterday. The
three other REITs backed by Li that sold stock in initial public
offerings since 2003 raised the maximum targeted amount, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There’ll be selling pressure from institutional
investors,” said Kevin Gin, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Yuanta
Securities Co. Given the trust’s yield and balance sheet,
“there’s just better and more attractive investment
opportunities out there,” Gin said.  Hui Xian marked the first time in at least eight years that
Li had to settle for the lowest amount sought in an IPO of a
property trust. Li’s  Prosperity REIT (808) , his last IPO of a REIT in
Hong Kong, which started trading in December 2005, drew retail
orders of 300 times the stock on offer.  Li’s REITs  Underwriters BOC International Holdings Ltd., Citic
Securities and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  set aside 20 percent of the
total offering in Hui Xian for individuals, double the typical
retail allotment in Hong Kong IPOs. The decision was driven by
expectations that Hui Xian would be popular among retail
investors, people familiar with the process said.  “It looks like it won’t be as successful as people thought
it would be,” said  Alex Au , managing director of Richland
Capital Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, which oversees $300
million of assets. “Very strong response for the IPO was
expected from the retail market, but it turns out it was barely
oversubscribed.”  Prosperity REIT now has an indicated yield of 5.91 percent,
according to Bloomberg data. Suntec Real Estate Investment Trust
and Fortune Real Estate Investment, the REITs Li took public in
 Singapore  in 2003 and 2004, have yields of 6.07 percent and 6.51
percent, respectively, according to Bloomberg data.  Hui Xian traded as low as 5.15 yuan yesterday in the gray
market, according to data compiled by PhillipMart, a unit of 
Phillip Securities Group in Hong Kong.  Yuan Deposits  There are about 200 billion yuan of “idle” Chinese-
currency deposits in Hong Kong that could flow into the IPO,
according to a sales document sent by one of the underwriters
before marketing for the stock sale.  “Originally, people thought that if this is successful,
there will be more yuan-denominated IPOs in Hong Kong, but if
this stock goes below water, then the interest for future yuan-
denominated IPOs will be lower,” Au said.  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong may rise to 870 billion yuan by
the end of this year, Zhang Guangping, deputy director general
of the China Banking Regulatory Commission’s Shanghai branch,
said today. The city’s yuan-denominated deposits reached a
record $52 billion in February.  Oriental Plaza  Hui Xian, controlled by Li’s Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd.
and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , is backed by the  Oriental Plaza  in
Central Beijing. Covering 100,000 square meters (1.1 million
square feet), Oriental Plaza consists of eight premium office
towers, a shopping mall, a Grand Hyatt Hotel and serviced
apartments, according to its website.  “The properties are of good quality in a prime location,
but that may not make up for other risk factors,” said  Katie Chan , Hong Kong-based analyst at Haitong International
Securities Group Ltd. “For example, some investors may think
there may be potential exchange rate gain, but the IPO
prospectus actually made it clear that dividends may not be paid
in yuan.”  Hui Xian’s ownership claim to the assets backing the trust
expires in 2049, according to the IPO prospectus.  Li was ranked 11th in Forbes magazine’s annual global rich
list last month with an estimated wealth of $26 billion.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  