-- 
Libyan Rebels Fight to Keep Control of Key Border Crossing

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-04-29T06:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/libyan-rebels-qaddafi-forces-fight-to-keep-control-of-key-border-crossing.html
Libya ’s army and rebel forces
fought for control of a key western border crossing into
Tunisia, near an area where a government offensive against the
Berber minority has gone on with little foreign attention.  Competing claims of success at the Wazin border crossing
highlighted the fighting yesterday in Libya’s western mountains
and nearby areas, where U.S. officials say government forces
have been attacking Berbers, also called Amazigh, an indigenous
ethnic group that joined the rebellion after suffering
discrimination under  Muammar Qaddafi ’s rule.  Libyan rebels are struggling to sustain an insurrection
aimed at toppling Qaddafi’s 42-year rule, a conflict that has
helped push  oil prices  up more than 30 percent since it started
in mid-February. Government forces kept up their shelling of the
besieged port city of Misrata yesterday as NATO directed
airstrikes against them. Rebel fighters in the city said they
are preparing an attack on Qaddafi’s artillery positions outside
it, the  Associated Press  said.  Wazin, across the border from the Tunisian town of Dehiba,
is on the rebel supply route for the mountain towns of Nalut and
Zintan, southwest of Tripoli. Qaddafi’s forces took control of
the border crossing after hours of fighting that involved
artillery and GRAD rockets, according to TAP, the Tunisian  news
agency .  Al Jazeera  said today that the insurgents recaptured the
crossing late yesterday, and showed footage of their so-called
independence flag flying there.  Escape Route  The rebels had taken control of Wazin a week ago, providing
an escape route for refugees who otherwise had to take long and
difficult roads to seek shelter or medical help in Tunisia,
according to a report on al-Jazeera’s website. Thousands of
Libyans had crossed into Tunisia in anticipation of a counter
attack,  Agence France-Presse  reported.  Tunisia’s foreign ministry has protested shelling by
Qaddafi’s forces across the border, and the Tunisian army there
is on high alert, Al Jazeera said.  Gene Cretz , the U.S. ambassador to Libya, told reporters at
the State Department April 27 that Qaddafi’s forces “have been
especially brutal” in the Western mountains “ where there has
always been a suspicion on the part of Qaddafi toward the Berber
groups.”  Elsewhere, regime forces shelling the coastal city of
Misrata on Thursday killed 10 people, the Associated Press
reported. Earlier, NATO said its warplanes attacked government
combat vehicles near the besieged Libyan port city on April 27,
and rebels said NATO mistakenly hit one of their positions,
killing as many as 12.  Military Stalemate  NATO is stepping up a six-week-old air campaign over Libya,
selecting targets closer to Qaddafi in a bid to break a military
stalemate between the opposition and loyalist forces.  The military alliance has boosted its firepower in the last
week with addition of Italian ground-attack warplanes and armed
U.S. Predator drones. U.K. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said April
27 that this week’s strike that flattened part of Qaddafi’s main
compound in Tripoli was meant to “increase the psychological
pressure” on the Libyan dictator.  Crude for June delivery fell 0.4 percent to $112.44 a
barrel at 7:45 a.m. in  London , after hitting a 2 1/2-year high
yesterday. Libya has Africa’s biggest proven oil reserves, and
its output is down 75 percent as the fighting forced producers
such as  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  to evacuate workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  