-- 
ICBC Leads China’s Biggest Banks in Posting Higher-Than-Expected Profits

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-28T10:29:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/icbc-leads-china-s-biggest-banks-in-posting-higher-than-expected-profits.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (1398)  Ltd. led rivals including  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  in posting
better-than-expected profit growth in the first quarter as
lending margins expanded and fee income surged.  Net income at ICBC, the world’s most profitable lender,
climbed 29 percent from a year earlier to 53.8 billion yuan
($8.3 billion). Bank of China, the nation’s third largest,
reported a 28 percent increase while Bank of Communications Co.,
the fifth largest, said earnings rose 27 percent. The results
exceeded analysts’ estimates by an average 5.4 percent.  Chinese banks are countering a slowdown in credit growth by
charging more for corporate and home loans after the central
bank raised  interest rates  four times since October and reduced
the money available for lending to curb inflation. The banks are
likely to post 20 percent growth in profits in 2011 and 2012,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Another strong quarter has reaffirmed our view that
earlier concerns about the banks’ asset quality deterioration
are too pessimistic,” said Tang Yayun, a Shanghai-based analyst
Northeast Securities Co. “Banking shares may rally by an
average 10-15 percent even after the recent increase.”  Shares of the eight largest Hong Kong-traded Chinese banks
have outperformed the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  this year. ICBC
advanced 13.6 percent, after dropping 8.4 percent in 2010 as
investors became concerned that asset quality and the bank’s
capital strength may deteriorate.  Trumps JPMorgan  ICBC’s first-quarter profit is 49 percent more than that of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the most profitable  U.S. bank . The New
York-based lender said earnings in the period climbed to a
record after it reduced reserves set aside to cover bad loans,
even as net revenue dropped 8.9 percent. At  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. bank by assets, profit fell 36 percent.  Beijing-based  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288) , the nation’s
fourth-largest lender, yesterday said first-quarter profit rose
36 percent to the highest in more than a year.  The Asian nation’s economy grew a more-than-estimated 9.7
percent in the first quarter even as the government stepped up
tightening measures, bolstering demand for loans and fee-based
services. Still, inflation accelerated in March to 5.4 percent,
the fastest pace since 2008, raising concerns that policy makers
may further tighten monetary policy.  China ’s central bank has raised the one-year lending rate
by 100 basis points since October as it seeks to stem inflation,
while boosting the  demand deposit  rate by 14 basis points.
That’s helped bolster the profitability of lending at the banks,
which are required to link their rates to those set by the
regulator. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Prolonged Phenomenon’  Bank of China’s net interest margin, a measure of its
lending profitability, expanded to 2.11 percent in the first
quarter from 2.04 percent a year ago, the Beijing-based lender
said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange. At
Shanghai-based BoCom, the margin widened 10 basis points to 2.51
percent.  “Inflation will be a prolonged phenomenon in China,
ensuring banks’ net interest margin expansion will last beyond
2Q11 and throughout 2011,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led by
Dorris Chen wrote in a note on April 21.  Chinese banks doled out 2.26 trillion yuan of new loans in
the first quarter, 13 percent less than the same period a year
ago, according to central bank data.  ICBC, based in Beijing, advanced 273 billion yuan of new
loans in the first quarter, taking the outstanding amount to
7.06 trillion yuan. The bank plans to increase loans at between
13.2 percent to 14.2 percent this year, the slowest pace in
three years, as it heeds a government call to restrain credit.
At  Bank of China , total loans amounted to 5.96 trillion yuan, an
increase of 296 billion yuan from December.  Capital Targets  The credit growth led to a drop in capital levels at the
biggest banks. ICBC’s capital adequacy ratio dropped to 11.77
percent by the end of March from 12.27 percent three months ago.
The ratio dropped 20 basis points at Bank of China and 31 basis
points at BoCom.  The regulator last month set 2011 capital targets for the
nation’s five biggest banks above the minimum 11.5 percent
ratio, three people with knowledge of the matter said this week.  Net interest income, which reflects the difference in
revenue from lending and the cost of deposits, rose an average
26 percent in the first quarter at ICBC, Bank of China,
Agricultural Bank and BoCom. Their net fee and commission income
from products and services such as credit cards, wealth
management and insurance sales rose an average 42 percent in the
year, according to their statements to the exchange.  Shenzhen-based China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s
sixth-largest lender, said first-quarter net income rose 49
percent to 8.8 billion yuan. That compared with a median
estimate of 8.74 billion yuan in a survey of analysts.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  