-- 
ICBC Leads Chinese Banks in Curbing Bad Loans as Profits Exceed Estimates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-28T22:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/icbc-leads-chinese-banks-in-curbing-bad-loans-as-profits-exceed-estimates.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (1398)  Ltd. led the nation’s biggest banks in curbing defaults in
the first quarter, helping alleviate concern that their asset
quality may deteriorate following a two-year credit boom.  Bad loans at Beijing-based ICBC, the world’s most
profitable bank, dropped almost 4 percent from the end of 2010
as earnings for the three-month period climbed 29 percent from a
year earlier, according to an exchange filing yesterday.  China 
Construction Bank Ltd., the world’s second-largest lender by
market value, said bad loans fell by 157 million yuan to 64.6
billion yuan as net income increased 34 percent.  Bank of China
Ltd. (3988) , the nation’s third-largest by assets, said such debt fell
1.8 percent as profit climbed 28 percent.  The results show concerns that credit to local governments
and developers would lead to a surge in arrears may be
overblown. Chinese banks this month were ordered to conduct new
stress tests on real estate loans, demand faster repayment on
government borrowings and increase deposits set aside as
reserves to the highest level in at least two decades.  “The credit outlook for Chinese banks is more optimistic
than the market had expected,” said Wilson Li, a Shenzhen-based
analyst at Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd. “Based on
the first-quarter non-performing loan ratios, Chinese banks
aren’t under pressure to increase provision charges.”  ICBC said its net income climbed to 53.8 billion yuan ($8.3
billion) in the quarter, while bad debt fell to 70.8 billion
yuan as of March 31, bringing its non-performing loan ratio to 1
percent.  Bank of China  reported a non-performing debt ratio of
1.04 percent yesterday, while Bank of Communications Co., the
nation’s fifth largest, said such debt was 1.05 percent of total
advances.  Stocks Outperform  Shares of the eight largest Hong Kong-traded Chinese banks
have outperformed the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  this year. ICBC
advanced 14 percent, after dropping 8.4 percent in 2010 as
investors became concerned that asset quality and the bank’s
capital strength may deteriorate.  Still, China’s real estate market is a “particular source
of risk” to the world’s second-biggest economy, the  World Bank 
warned yesterday. Earlier this month, Fitch Ratings said there
was a “high likelihood of a significant deterioration” in
banks’ asset quality, and that it was “not inconceivable” that
the banks’ total bad-debt ratio may climb to 30 percent.  The nation’s policy makers have stepped up measures to
limit systemic risks since last year, including requiring banks
to move off-balance-sheet assets onto books, set aside more
provisions against potential loan losses, raise down-payments on
mortgages and increase their capital levels.  Capital Levels Fall  The nation’s banking regulator last month set 2011 targets
for capital adequacy ratios at the nation’s five biggest banks
above the minimum 11.5 percent ratio, three people with
knowledge of the matter said this week.  ICBC’s capital adequacy ratio dropped to 11.77 percent by
the end of March, from 12.27 percent three months earlier, as
lending climbed even as the government sought to stem credit
expansion and inflation. The ratio dropped 20 basis points at
Beijing-based Bank of China and 31 basis points at Shanghai-
based BoCom. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Demand for loans and fee-based services rose as the Asian
nation’s economy grew a more-than-estimated 9.7 percent in the
first quarter, helping earnings at ICBC, Bank of China and BoCom
exceed analysts’ estimates by an average 5.4 percent in the
first quarter.  ICBC’s first-quarter profit is 49 percent more than that of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the most profitable  U.S. bank . The New
York-based lender said earnings in the period climbed to a
record after it reduced reserves set aside to cover bad loans,
even as net revenue dropped 8.9 percent. At  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. bank by assets, profit fell 36 percent.  ‘Too Pessimistic’  Chinese banks are countering a slowdown in credit growth by
charging more for corporate and home loans after the central
bank raised  interest rates  four times since October and reduced
the money available for lending to curb inflation. The banks are
likely to post a 20 percent growth in profits in 2011 and 2012,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Another strong quarter has reaffirmed our view that
earlier concerns about the banks’ asset quality deterioration
are too pessimistic,” said Tang Yayun, a Shanghai-based analyst
Northeast Securities Co. “Banking shares may rally by an
average 10-15 percent even after the recent increase.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  