-- 
ICICI Bank’s Fourth-Quarter Profit Jumps to Record on Rising Company Loans

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-28T10:51:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/icici-bank-s-fourth-quarter-profit-climbs-44-as-lending-fee-income-rise.html
ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s second-
largest lender, said fourth-quarter profit jumped 44 percent to
a record as lending to domestic companies climbed and the bank
set aside less money to cover bad debts.  Net income rose to 14.5 billion rupees ($327 million), or
12.55 rupees a share, in the three months ended March 31, from
10.1 billion rupees, or 8.98 rupees, a year earlier, the Mumbai-
based bank said today in an e-mailed statement. That compares
with the 14.8 billion rupee average of 27 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares climbed 0.5 percent to
1,112.15 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai.  “These are good results overall,” said Deepak Ramineedi,
an analyst at Credit Suisse AG in Mumbai. The bank’s margins
were better than what analysts had estimated and the
provisioning was in line with forecasts, Ramineedi said.  Chief Executive Officer  Chanda Kochhar  reiterated a target
of expanding credit by 20 percent this year, even as funding
costs rise after the  Reserve Bank of India  raised rates for the
eighth time in a year to curb inflation. Wholesale prices last
month climbed 8.98 percent in an economy forecast by the
government to expand as much as 9.25 percent this year.  “I am building in the fact that  interest rates  are on an
upward bias,” Kochhar told reporters today.  The bank’s board recommended a dividend of 14 rupees a
share in today’s results, from 12 rupees last year.  Bad Loans  Money set aside for bad loans will continue to decline this
year, Kochhar said. Provisions fell to 3.83 billion rupees from
9.9 billion rupees in the same quarter last year, according to
the statement. The coverage ratio climbed to 76 percent as of
March 31, from 71.8 percent on Dec. 31. The  Reserve Bank  this
month relaxed provisioning rules.  Shares of ICICI Bank dropped 2.5 percent last quarter,
making it the third-worst performer among 14 lenders tracked by
the Bankex index.  Profit at the lender’s U.K. unit was $37 million, deputy
chief financial officer Rakesh Jha told reporters today. ICICI
Bank reported the same numbers for March 2010. At its Canadian
subsidiary, profit was C$33 million, compared with C$35.4
million in the same period last year.  Curb Credit  The lender may curb credit to Indian companies from its
U.K. and Canadian units as regulators seek to curtail risks tied
to funds collected in those nations, Chief Financial Officer
N.S. Kannan said in an interview on April 16.  A tightening of the rules may make it tougher for ICICI
Bank to tap demand from Indian clients for overseas loans and
curtail Kochhar’s ability to expand foreign operations.  ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company’s profit fell to
720 million rupees, from 1.28 billion rupees a year earlier.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company reported a loss of 800
million rupees after providing 2.72 billion rupees to meet
regulatory guidelines.  ICICI Bank’s total outstanding loans increased for the
third consecutive quarter to 2.2 trillion rupees at the end of
March from 1.81 trillion rupees a year earlier. The lender’s
non-performing asset ratio narrowed to 0.94 percent from 1.87
percent, according to the statement.  ICICI Bank has resumed growth in retail lending but the
numbers are still small, Kochhar said today. Loans to domestic
companies rose by over 35 percent in the quarter, she said.  Growth in  India ’s bank loans, excluding advances made to
state agencies for food procurement, climbed 22 percent as of
April 8 from a year earlier, the central bank said April 22.  ICICI Bank’s income from fees for distribution of mutual
funds and investments fell to 16.4 billion rupees from 18.9
billion rupees a year ago, according to the statement. Treasury
income, or income from trading in bonds and currencies, saw a
loss of 1.96 billion rupees from a profit of 1.96 billion rupees
in the same quarter last year.  “I don’t expect ICICI Bank to grow at higher rates than
the sector,” said Vijay Sarathi, an analyst at BNP Paribas in
Mumbai. The key factors this year are what industries ICICI Bank
will lend to and their overseas business growth, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  