-- 
Microsoft Windows Misses Estimates as Consumers Pick IPad

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-04-28T22:43:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/microsoft-meets-analysts-estimates-as-consumers-shift-to-ipad-tablet-pcs.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s top
software maker, reported third-quarter sales in the Windows
division that missed analysts’ predictions as consumers shunned
its products in favor of tablets such as Apple Inc.’s iPad.  Revenue in the unit that includes Windows fell to $4.45
billion, Microsoft said in a statement today. That was shy of
the $4.6 billion average prediction of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Shares slipped in late trading.  Personal computer shipments unexpectedly fell 3.2 percent
in the quarter as consumers held off purchases and shifted to
tablet computers, IDC said. Multiyear contracts with
corporations and robust demand for Office business software
couldn’t make up for consumers who are choosing iPads over a new
laptop with Windows.  “PCs aren’t being bought and if you are going to buy a
laptop you’ll look at an iPad,” said Kim Caughey Forrest, an
analyst at Pittsburgh-based Fort Pitt Capital Group Inc. which
manages $1.1 billion, including Microsoft shares. “That’s where
some of those Windows sales went.”  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , declined as much
as 74 cents to $25.97 in extended trading, after gaining 33
cents to $26.71 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The shares dropped 9 percent last quarter, while the
Standard and Poor’s 500 Index rose 5.4 percent.  Overtaken By Apple  The results underscore the ascendance of Apple, which
surpassed Microsoft as the world’s most valuable technology
company in May. Apple’s profit in the period that ended in March
almost doubled to $5.99 billion, compared with $5.23 billion for
Microsoft in the same period. That was the first time Apple’s
profit topped Microsoft’s in two decades.  Industrywide shipments of consumer PCs dropped 8 percent in
the quarter while shipments to corporate customers rose 9
percent, Chief Financial Officer Peter Klein said in an
interview. Netbooks dropped 40 percent.  “It’s fair to say tablet is some of that,” he said.  Revenue in the Windows division fell 4.4 percent, the
second quarter in a row that sales in that unit fell short of
projections. Microsoft said in a  slide presentation  on its
website that overall PC sales declined 2 percent last quarter.  “They are growing slower than PCs now,” said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities who rates
Microsoft “sector perform.” “That’s suggesting some market
share loss, some real deterioration.”  Office, Servers Gain  Net income rose to 61 cents a share, from $4.01 billion, or
45 cents, Microsoft said today. Excluding a 5-cent per-share tax
benefit, earnings matched the 56-cent average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales rose to $16.4 billion, compared with the $16.2
billion average projection. That reflects demand for such
products as Office business-productivity software and the
programs that run servers, computers that run networks.  “For a long time, I’ve been looking at Microsoft as an
enterprise play, rather than consumer, and in that area they
didn’t disappoint,” Caughey Forrest said. “Office was good.
Servers weren’t bad.”  Sales in the business division, which sells Office software
and is the company’s biggest, rose to $5.25 billion, compared
with the $4.9 billion average estimate of analysts. Server and
Tools unit sales were $4.1 billion, compared with the $4 billion
analysts expected.  Yahoo Integration Stumbles  “We are seeing businesses invest in technology,” Klein
said. “They are buying hardware and they are buying Microsoft
software.” Microsoft expects corporate PC shipments to outpace
those for consumers for the rest of the year.  The company is also getting less revenue than expected on a
per-search basis from its partnership with Yahoo! Inc.,
Microsoft’s Klein said. The companies still face integration
complications and expect to fix them by year end, he said.  Microsoft said operating expenses in the year that starts
July 1 will rise to $28 billion to $28.6 billion. In the current
fiscal year they will be $26.9 billion to $27.3 billion, the
company said, reiterating a previous forecast.  Unearned revenue, a measure of future sales, was $13
billion, above the average analysts’ estimate of $12.8 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  Apple’s iPad is luring customers from Windows-based PCs as
Microsoft tarries in furnishing computer makers with a  Windows
operating system  that’s capable of challenging the iPad.
Microsoft won’t release a viable competitor to the Apple and
Google Inc. tablet operating systems until the second half of
2012, people with knowledge of the plans said in March.  “Everyone is worried about the Windows numbers,” said
 Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in  San Francisco . “That’s the
cash cow and everyone is worried the cow is running out of
milk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at   dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 