-- 
Imperial Assessing Costs of Equipment Delayed on Montana Roads

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-04-28T19:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/imperial-assessing-costs-of-equipment-delayed-on-montana-roads.html
Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  is looking for
alternate routes to transport equipment destined for its Alberta
oil sands plant after legal challenges stranded the boilers and
pipes at a port in Idaho.  The shipment was suspended after residents in Montana and
Idaho filed lawsuits to stop it, protesting that Imperial would
set a precedent for using the states’ scenic mountain roadways
to transport heavy equipment across the region, potentially
doing ecological damage.  Chief Executive Officer Bruce March said he’s still
evaluating how much the legal and construction delays will add
to the expense of shipping the trailer truck-sized boilers and
pipes from their manufacturer in  South Korea  to  Canada .  “We don’t have that nailed down yet, but it’s not going to
lower costs,” he said during a press briefing today in Calgary.  Imperial, the Canadian division of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
purchased about 200 modules to be used in the construction of a
new bitumen mining and refinery plant at its Kearl oil sands
project in northern Alberta. The first 33 modules, each of which
is as tall as 30 feet (9 meters) and 100 feet long, arrived from
 Asia  at the port of Vancouver,  Washington , in October, where
they were to begin the final leg of their journey along Highway
12 through Idaho and Montana to Alberta.  The company, which had won approval from both states’
transportation departments, is awaiting decisions from courts in
Idaho and Montana.  Downsizing  An initial court ruling is expected in mid-May, March said
today. The equipment now is being broken down into smaller sizes
at the port of Lewiston,  Idaho , on the Columbia River as the
company looks for alternative routes to Highway 12, he said.  Imperial today said first-quarter net income rose 64
percent to C$781 million ($821 million), helped by increased
production of bitumen and higher margins on its refining
operations.  The shares fell 32 cents to C$49.95 as of 2:47 p.m. on the
Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  