-- 
Power Grid Bids for Nigeria, Kenya Orders to Expand Transmission Business

-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-04-28T10:28:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/india-s-power-grid-bids-projects-in-nigeria-kenya-to-expand-its-business.html
Power Grid  Corp. of India, the
nation’s largest electricity transmission company, is bidding
for contracts in African nations including  Nigeria  and  Kenya  to
expand its business, the chairman said.  “We are trying to spread our wings in other continents,”
chairman S.K. Chaturvedi said in an interview today at his
office in Gurgaon near New Delhi. “The domestic market is all
regulated so we are seeking other corners of the world where we
can increase our revenue.”  Kenya plans to more than double the number of people who
have access to the national grid and Nigeria in August approved
the construction of a $3.5 billion electricity grid. Power Grid,
which carries 51 percent of the electricity generated across
 India , is seeking overseas contracts as local rivals target
expanded operations, according to the company’s secondary share
sale document of Oct. 21.  State-owned Power Grid will be considered for projects
under a $61 million line of credit offered by India to improve
Kenya’s grid system as part of an agreement to train Kenya
Electric Transmission’s engineers, Chaturvedi said. The grid
operator was named the lowest bidder for a $400 million contract
to manage Nigeria’s electricity grid, he said.  Ireland’s ESB International, Manitoba Hydro Electric Board
of Canada and Power Grid were shortlisted in 2007 before the
government suspended plans to sell the state power monopoly.
Nigeria sought fresh bids in September.  “We are waiting for elections in Nigeria to be completed
and are expecting to receive at least a portion of the $400
million contract thereafter,” Chaturvedi said.  Dubai,  Sri Lanka   Power Grid is also expanding networks in Dubai, Sri Lanka
and Bangladesh and completed an Indian government-funded 200-
kilometer (124-mile) transmission project in  Afghanistan  in May
2009, he said.  The company is in talks with the Afghanistan government to
build a second project, which will also be funded by India, he
said.  Power Grid plans to spend 133 billion rupees ($3 billion)
in the five years to 2017 to expand and will raise 70 percent of
the requirement through debt, Chaturvedi said. The operator is
in talks with the  World Bank  for $1 billion dollars in loans and
will issue rupee bonds of as much as 8 billion rupees by May 10,
he said.  The company and the government together raised the maximum
74.4 billion rupees in a secondary issue in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   snagarajan@bloomberg.net . 