-- 
India’s Rusty Wind Farms Help Gamesa, Vestas Build Foothold

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-28T09:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/india-s-rusting-wind-farms-help-gamesa-vestas-expand-foothold.html
Four new windmills made by Gamesa
Corp. Tecnologica SA whirl beside a banana grove in  India ’s
southern village of Kammalapatti, driven by a breeze that’s too
soft to spin a group of older turbines standing idle nearby.  The Spanish manufacturer replaced 10 older machines for the
wind farm’s owner, gaining a toehold in a nation with about
4,600  wind turbines  more than a decade old, many of them rusty
or too small for today’s power market, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance analyst Shantanu Jaiswal in  New Delhi .  Europe ’s wind-turbine makers are stepping up sales in
India’s clean-energy rust belt, anticipating a boom in one of
the bigger “repowering” plays that Gamesa says may be worth
$3.8 billion in sales. The challenge is in taking work from
 Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the dominant local supplier, and in getting
funds in a market still depressed by the financial crisis.  “Many good-quality wind sites are currently populated with
relatively old and inefficient turbines,” said Amit Kansal,
vice president of sales for the Indian unit of  Denmark ’s Vestas
Wind Systems A/S, the world’s largest wind-turbine maker. “The
opportunity for repowering is obvious.”  The 4,600 turbines have a capacity of 1.3 gigawatts, or
about 9 percent of the installed base in India, which rocketed
to become the fifth-biggest wind market by offering tax credits
to operators regardless of productivity, Jaiswal said.  India’s Lure  “Some of them didn´t use turbines of the best quality,”
Jaiswal said. India also has the smallest average turbine size
of the world’s top 10 markets, according to  Kenersys GmbH , a
German manufacturer.  Gamesa’s estimate of a 168 billion-rupee ($3.8 billion)
sales potential assumes 3,000 megawatts of installed capacity in
need of replacement.  All three turbine makers have lost money for shareholders
over the last 12 months and are looking for new markets. Suzlon
has dropped about 21 percent in the period, Gamesa has lost 28
percent, and Vestas is down 47 percent.  India isn’t alone in wooing companies to refurbish wind
power plants. In the U.S., about 1,500 megawatts of windmills
were installed in the 1980s and may need to be replaced with
new, higher-output ones, said Liz Salerno, director of industry
analysis at the  American Wind Energy Association . About 85
percent of wind turbines were installed in the last five years,
and most should produce power for another 20, she said.  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) , the largest U.S. wind producer, plans
to replace about 5 percent of its oldest turbines in the next
four years, Chief Executive Lew Hay said in January. In Denmark,
where Vestas is based, most turbines are 10 to 15 years old,
said Anders Hasselager, a Danish Energy Agency policy adviser.  Cheaper Than New  In India, repowering a site costs 20 percent less than
setting up a new project and avoids the difficulties of
obtaining new land permits, said J. Balakrishnan, a Gamesa sales
manager working on a repowering project there.  The smaller turbines installed in India are less efficient,
require higher wind speeds and generate less power than newer
models. The Indian government also is prodding the industry
toward modernization.  Many existing wind farms in India were built to take
advantage of a tax break that allowed companies to write off
expenses of installing turbines more quickly than elsewhere. The
measure encouraged companies to erect turbines but not to
maintain them or see that they produced power, according to
Renewable Energy Minister Farooq Abdullah.  “The time has come for India to think of repowering,”
Abdullah told a conference in February, where he complained
about the number of facilities with broken blades and rusting
equipment.  Tax Credits  He wants the  finance ministry  to scrap the tax credit next
year and replace it with an alternative subsidy that rewards
projects for the amount of clean energy they generate. The so-
called generation-based incentive pays wind farms 500 rupees
($11) a megawatt-hour of electricity they feed to the grid.  Still, many operators won’t want to junk equipment that has
more than half its useful life left.  Gamesa, which completed India’s first repowering project
last month, thinks installations in  Spain  and other European
countries can be revamped too, Chief Executive Officer Jorge Calvet said in an interview last month in Mumbai.  Kenersys , the German manufacturer, and Orient Green Power
Ltd., an Indian developer of renewable-energy projects, say
they’re looking for ways to tap into the budding repowering
market.  The Gamesa project at Kammalapatti in Tamil Nadu state is
owned by a unit of  Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd. (LMW) , a Coimbatore-
based maker of textile machinery.  Bigger and Better  The newer machines -- with hub heights and rotor diameters
more than double that of the older ones -- are better able to
harvest energy from the wind. Controls inside their towers
measure the wind speed, air pressure and tilt the fiberglass
blades to best catch the breezes.  The new machines may double the farm’s electricity output
by the end of the monsoon season in October, helping the project
pay off in five years, Gamesa estimates.  Older machines can use more power than they produce during
low-wind seasons. Owners turn them off, sometimes for up to half
the year, said N. Sudhakar, site manager for Lakshmi Machine’s
unit  Super Sales India Ltd. (SSAI)  Once a windmill stops, it needs
power from the grid to start turning again.  “It doesn’t make sense to use them,” Sudhakar said.
“They don’t produce enough power.”  Maintenance Costs  Other benefits include lower maintenance costs and easier
access to replacement, the Global Wind Energy Council said.
Lakshmi Machine Works’ dismantled turbines were originally made
by Denmark’s Nordtank Energy Group A/S and installed in 1993.
Nordtank merged with Micon A/S in 1997 to form NEG Micon A/S,
which Vestas agreed to buy in December 2003.  Obstacles to repower old sites include getting up to a
dozen owners of each facility to agree and ensuring the plant
can earn the same subsidized rate for energy.  “Even if you get better efficiency, if you lose your old
power purchase agreement and replace it with a newer one with a
lower tariff, what’s the point?,” Kenersys’ Chief Executive
Officer Paulo Fernando Soares said in an interview in Chennai.  The waste generated by tearing down old windmills is
another barrier. The eight 0.3-megawatt and two 0.55-megawatt
Nordtank turbines dismantled by Gamesa sit at the site in a
rusting heap, their rotor blades stacked atop one another.
Lakshmi Machine Works hasn’t figured out how to dispose of them.  “It’s an important question. What happens to old blades?”
said Andrew Garrad, president of GL Garrad Hassan, a wind
consultant. “We produce blades which are difficult to recycle
and reuse. It should be on our conscience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Tokyo at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  