-- 
South Korea’s Slower Output Growth May Fail to Deter Rate Increase in May

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-04-29T00:44:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/industrial-output-expands-at-slower-pace-may-not-deter-the-bok-on-rates.html
South Korea ’s industrial production
expanded at the slowest pace in six months in March, a
moderation that may fail to deter the central bank from raising
interest rates next month.  Output climbed 8.7 percent from a year earlier after
gaining a revised 9.2 percent in February, Statistics Korea said
today. The median estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for an 11 percent advance. Production rose 1.4
percent from February, when it fell a revised 2.5 percent.  Economic growth accelerated in the first quarter and higher
energy and food costs are stoking inflation pressures, with
consumer-price gains exceeding the central bank’s 4 percent
ceiling each month so far this year. The Bank of  Korea  will
decide May 13 whether to boost borrowing costs for the third
time this year.  “The numbers are a bit disappointing but not bad enough for
the central bank to hold off from a rate increase next month as
prices are still rising,” said Jun Min Kyoo, an economist at
Korea Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. Signs of slowing
growth may deter subsequent moves, he said.  The won fell 0.2 percent to 1,073.30 per dollar as of 9:06
a.m. in Seoul, while the Kospi stock index advanced 0.3 percent.
The Korean currency was at a 32-month high yesterday.  Japan ’s Disaster  Inflation is damping domestic demand and Japan’s disaster
has the potential to hurt chipmakers and carmakers by limiting
the supply of parts, Jung Gyu Don, director general at
Statistics Korea, told reporters in Gwacheon today.  Economic growth accelerated to 1.4 percent in the three
months through March from the previous quarter, from the
previous 0.5 percent gain. Manufacturers’ confidence has
advanced to the highest level in eight months as rising global
demand aids exporters.  The won’s gains have had a limited impact on exporters, Kim Young Bae, director general at the  Bank of Korea , said yesterday.
Overseas shipments account for about half the economy and
boosted earnings last year at companies including Samsung
Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest manufacturer of
mobile phones.  Consumer prices rose 4.6 percent in April from a year
earlier, according to the median estimate of 11 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The Bank of Korea, which aims to keep
inflation within a range of 2 percent to 4 percent, has already
raised the key interest rate to 3 percent.  A leading index of economic indicators rose 1.6 percent in
March from a year earlier, compared with a 2.4 percent gain in
February, today’s report showed.  Sales of  consumer goods  advanced 2.9 percent last month
from February and gained 4.9 percent from a year earlier.
Investment in factories increased 0.3 percent from a year
earlier, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  