-- 
Intercell, Merck S. Aureus Shot Effective in Renal Disease

-- B y   E v a   V o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-04-28T15:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/intercell-merck-s-aureus-shot-safe-effective-in-renal-disease.html
Intercell AG (ICLL)  and Merck & Co.’s
experimental vaccine against a deadly hospital infection
provoked an immune response in a trial of patients with end-
stage renal disease.  The study, from the second of three phases of human testing
generally required for regulatory approval, found no serious
adverse events, according to an  abstract  posted on the website
of the  National Kidney Foundation , which is holding a scientific
meeting this week in  Las Vegas .  The vaccine, known as V710, aims to prevent infection
caused by Staphylococcus aureus bacteria. Intercell, based in
Vienna, suffered a setback with the product this month when an
independent data monitoring committee recommended halting
patient enrollment in a trial of patients scheduled to undergo
heart surgery.  “V710 was immunogenic and generally well tolerated among
ESRD patients receiving hemodialysis,” a blood-cleansing
treatment for people with poor kidney function, the researchers
said in the abstract.  The study followed more than 200 people who received either
one or two doses of V710 28 days apart or a dummy shot, followed
by a single vaccine dose after 180 days.  All three groups receiving two doses of V710 had
significant increases in the concentration of an antibody, a
substance produced by the immune system to fight infection. The
antibody concentration rose 15.1-fold to 18.9-fold compared with
the level at the start of the study. After 180 days, the
concentration was 5.7-fold to 8.5-fold higher than the initial
level.  Common Infection  Staphylococcus aureus is the most common cause of hospital-
acquired infections and accounts for about 40 percent of all
such cases, according to Intercell’s  website . In the U.S. and
 Europe , about 6 million people get hospital-acquired infections
each year, resulting in 140,000 deaths, the company said.  Intercell shares fell 0.1 percent to 6.18 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Vienna.  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , is
responsible for the clinical development, marketing and
manufacturing of the vaccine. Intercell is eligible for payments
tied to development goals and royalties on sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva Von Schaper in Munich Bureau at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  