-- 
InterMune Drops After Company Says Not in Talks on Sale

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-04-28T15:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/intermune-drops-after-company-says-not-in-talks-on-sale-2-.html
InterMune Inc. (ITMN) , the maker of a drug
for a rare  lung disease , fell in Nasdaq trading after the
company said it isn’t in talks about selling itself.  The shares dropped $2.72, or 5.6 percent, to $45.76 at
11:33 a.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading. Shares of the Brisbane, California-based company had
risen 33 percent this year before today, including a 5 percent
gain yesterday after reports InterMune was exploring a sale.  Today’s decline “is a function of some of the near-term
M&A money leaving the stock based on the comments this
morning,” Stephen Willey, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
said in a telephone interview today. “Longer term, this makes a
ton of sense from an M&A perspective.”  The shares have more than tripled since December, when a
European regulatory committee recommended approval of the
medicine Esbriet to treat idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. The
disease, which mostly affects people ages 50 to 75, causes
scarring and inflammation in the lungs and is usually fatal
within five years.  The drug was cleared in Europe March 3, making it the first
in the European Union for the lung disease. Esbriet may draw
annual sales in the EU of $1 billion in 2015, Avik Roy, an
analyst with Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. in New York, estimated.  “The management and board are very enthusiastic about the
company’s business plans and the company is not currently in
discussions regarding a sale of the company,” InterMune said
today in a statement.  Bloomberg News reported yesterday that InterMune is
weighing a sale and is working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to
find a buyer, according to three people with knowledge of the
matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 