-- 
IPIC Says It Seeks ‘Quick’ Settlement With MAN Over Ferrostaal

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-04-28T11:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ipic-says-it-seeks-quick-settlement-with-man-over-ferrostaal.html
International Petroleum Investment
Co. said it’s seeking a “quick and amicable solution” with  MAN
SE (MAN)  to settle a dispute over corruption-related costs at
Ferrostaal AG, in which IPIC brought a stake from MAN.  MAN, as the former Ferrostaal parent, needs to take
responsibility for the bribery costs, IPIC said in an e-mailed
statement today. The Abu Dhabi-based investment company, which
has started arbitration proceedings in Germany to unwind the
deal because of the unsolved bribery dispute, said it submitted
a new proposal to continue talks. It didn’t provide details.  “IPIC is confronted with the consequences of a compliance
scandal that refers back to the time when IPIC was not at all
involved,” the company said.  MAN sold a 70 percent stake in Ferrostaal to IPIC in 2008
to focus on trucks,  diesel engines  and turbo machinery. MAN has
been unable to reach an accord since then on selling the
remaining 30 percent to IPIC while the bribery probe threatens
to leave Ferrostaal with fines and other costs.  MAN spokesman Stefan Straub declined to comment.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest carmaker, which controls
29.9 percent of MAN and 71 percent of  Scania AB (SCVB) ’s voting rights,
has said it won’t proceed with plans to merge the two
truckmakers as long as bribery investigations aren’t resolved.  Munich prosecutors have been probing Essen, Germany-based
Ferrostaal since 2009 to determine whether it bribed officials
for contracts. Talks with Ferrostaal to settle the matter failed
earlier this months and two former Ferrostaal managers were
charged with paying bribes to obtain submarine orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 