-- 
Israeli Unemployment Rate Declines for Third Month on Growth

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-04-28T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/israeli-unemployment-rate-declines-for-third-month-on-growth.html
Israel ’s unemployment rate in
February declined for a third consecutive month as an expanding
economy helped create jobs.  The rate fell to 6.0 percent from 6.1 percent in January,
the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said today on
its website. A year earlier, unemployment was 6.9 percent.  “The economy keeps growing,” Arie Tal, chief strategist
at Alumot-Sprint Investment House Ltd. in Herzliya, Israel, said
by telephone before the report. “Demand for employees is
increasing. Businesses are hiring because they need to increase
production to meet growing demand from consumers in Israel and
demand for our products abroad.”  Israel recovered from the global recession faster than many
developed economies, with growth accelerating to 7.8 percent in
the last quarter of 2010, the fastest pace in four years. The
rapid expansion continued in the first quarter, the  Bank of
Israel  said on April 24. The economy is expected to grow 4.5
percent this year, according to a central bank forecast.  Israel’s index of leading economic indicators increased a
preliminary 0.5 percent in March, led by exports of services and
manufacturing, the Bank of Israel reported on April 17. Job
openings rose 21 percent in the first quarter from the previous
period, the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor said April 12.  The benchmark TA-25 stock index has gained about 12 percent
in the past year, led by Avner Oil Exploration LP, a partner in
gas fields off the country’s coast. During the same period, the
shekel strengthened 10 percent against the dollar and traded at
3.4070 at 12:52 p.m. in  Tel Aviv .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  