-- 
Lithuanian Economy Probably Grew at Fastest Pace in 11 Quarters

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-04-28T03:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/lithuanian-economy-probably-grew-at-fastest-pace-in-11-quarters.html
Lithuania ’s economy expanded at the
fastest annual pace in 11 quarters in the first quarter, led by
industrial output and recovering domestic demand, a survey of
economist shows.  Gross domestic product grew 5.1 percent from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since the second quarter of 2008,
according to the median estimate of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The economy expanded 4.8 percent in the fourth
quarter. The  statistics office  will release the report at 11
a.m. today in Vilnius.  Lithuania, part of the Baltic region along with Estonia and
 Latvia  that suffered the world’s deepest recession in 2009, is
benefiting from rising demand for its exports that account for
about two-thirds of output. Recovering domestic demand is also
supporting economic growth.  "Exports still remain the main driver," Rimantas Rudzkis,
chief economist at DnB Nord Bank in Vilnius, said by phone.
"What’s new is recovering domestic demand. People show more
optimism about their future and consume with more confidence."  The  Finance Ministry  on March 16 raised its economic-growth
forecast for this year to 5.8 percent from a September estimate
of 2.8 percent. The government is betting on an export-driven
expansion as growth in the rest of  Europe  propels shipments of
Lithuanian products to record highs.  Exports, which rose to a record 5.4 billion litai ($2.29
billion) in December, will probably grow at least 22 percent
this year, the ministry said.  Retail, Industry  Retail trade expanded an annual 20 percent in the first
three months of the year as consumers spent more on food and
clothing. Apranga AB, the Baltic region’s biggest garment
retailer, said sales in Lithuania increased 4.7 percent in the
first quarter.  Industrial production, which represents about 22 percent of
the economy, rose an annual 15.1 percent in the first quarter.
The Orlen Lietuva refinery, the nation’s biggest exporter, said
crude processing grew 27 percent in the period from last year.  "It’s not too difficult to achieve an impressive growth
rate after such a painful downturn," Vilija Tauraite, a Vilnius-
based economist with SEB Bank AB, said by phone. "The blow was
so strong that it may take more than 3 years to regain what’s
been lost within just one year of 2009."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 