-- 
Mitsubishi to Invest 1 Billion Reais to Boost Brazil Production

-- B y   R o b i n   S t r i n g e r   a n d   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 
2011-04-28T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/mitsubishi-to-invest-1-billion-reais-to-boost-brazil-production.html
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  will invest
about 1 billion reais ($638 million) to increase production at
its Brazil factory over five years as carmakers seek to boost
sales in  Latin America ’s largest economy.  The Tokyo-based company aims to increase capacity at the
Goiania, Brazil, facility to 300 cars a day and reach 100,000 a
year, more than double current levels, the carmaker said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. The work will create more than
1,000 jobs.  Mitsubishi is among automakers including Turin, Italy-based
 Fiat SpA (F)  and Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM)  that are boosting
investment to take advantage of Brazil’s heated economy, which
grew at 7.5 percent last year, the fastest pace in two decades.  Fiat will invest 3 billion reais as it seeks to sell more
than 1 million cars in Brazil by 2014, Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said in December. GM’s Brazilian unit aims to
increase production at its Sao Caetano do Sul plant to 280,000
vehicles a year by 2012, Jaime Ardila, president of the
company’s Latin American operations, said in March. Ardila
previously said the company will invest 2 billion reais this
year in Brazil.  Mitsubishi aims to grow its share of the Brazilian auto
market to 2 percent in the next four years. Last year, it sold
46,000 vehicles to capture 1.3 percent of the market.  Banco BTG Pactual SA, the Brazilian investment bank led by
billionaire  Andre Esteves , agreed to buy a minority stake in
Mitsubishi Motors do Brasil last year, without disclosing the
size of the investment or financial details.  Brazilian carmakers produced a record 3.6 million vehicles
last year, a 14 percent increase over 2009, according to
 Brazil ’s automakers association. Production growth may slow to
1.1 percent this year, Cledorvino Belini, president of the group
known as Anfavea and also head of Fiat in the country, told
reporters Jan. 9.  Mitsubishi aims to start making sedans, in addition to the
four-wheel-drive sports utility vehicles and crossovers it
currently produces, the company said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Robin Stringer at 
 rstringer@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  