-- 
Mitsui Fudosan’s Profit Falls 17%, Forecasts Further Drop After Earthquake

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-04-28T07:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/mitsui-fudosan-s-profit-falls-17-forecasts-further-drop-after-earthquake.html
Mitsui Fudosan Co.,  Japan ’s biggest
developer, said full-year net income fell 17 percent as earnings
from leasing dropped, and forecast a further decline in profit
after the country was struck by a record earthquake.  Net income fell to 49.9 billion yen ($611 million) in the
12 months ended March 31 from 60 billion yen a year earlier, the
company said in a statement distributed through the Tokyo Stock
Exchange today. Sales gained 1.5 percent to 1.4 trillion yen
from 1.38 trillion yen a year ago.  Mitsui Fudosan, which earns about 80 percent from leasing
and property sales, is facing a slowdown in demand for  office
space  and new homes after the March 11 magnitude-9 temblor and
ensuing tsunami may have damped economic growth. The developer
forecast net income to drop for a fourth year, citing a high
vacancy rate and closure of some of its outlets after the quake.  “Our hotel and resort businesses are suffering after the
earthquake,” Hiroshi Asai, the company’s executive managing
officer, said at a press conference in  Tokyo  today. “Our
shopping malls and outlets were also affected by shortening of
business hours because of rolling blackouts.”  Forecast Drop  Mitsui Fudosan today forecast its net income to drop 5.8
percent to 47 billion yen in the current fiscal year through
March 2012. It expects sales to be unchanged at 1.4 trillion yen.  The tsunami that followed the temblor crippled the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, prompting operator Tokyo
Electric Power Co. to conduct rolling blackouts while struggling
to contain radiation leaks.  An increase in profit from the home sales business wasn’t
enough to offset the decline in profit at its leasing business,
according to the statement.  Operating profit from leasing, the company’s biggest
division, dropped 6.9 percent to 88.9 billion yen as the vacancy
rate for office and commercial buildings in Mitsui Fudosan’s
portfolio rose 3.5 percent in March from 3.1 percent a year
earlier, the company said today.  Operating profit from the company’s second-biggest division
comprising of housing, office buildings and land sales rose 30
percent to 16 billion yen.  Mitsui Fudosan  sold 6,380
condominiums and single houses to individuals in the business
year, more than the 5,480 units it sold in the previous year.
Inventory of condominiums and houses fell to 684 units at the
end of March from 809 units three months earlier.  Mitsui Fudosan’s shares, which dropped 14 percent since the
March 11 quake, declined 0.3 percent to 1,385 yen at the 3 p.m.
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The earnings results were
released after the close of trading.  Office vacancy rates rose to a record high in both Tokyo
and  Osaka  last month, according to Miki Shoji Co., a closely
held office brokerage company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  