-- 
Ivory Coast Banks Begin to Pay Wage Arrears of State Employees

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-04-28T11:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ivory-coast-banks-reopen-begin-to-pay-wage-arrears-of-government-workers.html
At least two international banks in
 Ivory Coast  reopened their branches in the commercial capital,
Abidjan, today to pay the wages of state employees, a step
toward reviving the economy of the world’s biggest cocoa grower.  “This morning we began paying the salaries of civil
servants,” Souleymanne Diarrassouba, managing director of Lome-
based Banque Atlantique, said by phone. “We haven’t opened all
branches yet for security reasons, so for the moment we are
doing it from our main office.”  Ivory Coast is emerging from a civil war triggered by
disputed elections on Nov. 28 that closed down the banking
system and halted cocoa exports. The government has released 177
billion CFA francs ($399 million) to pay two months of salary
arrears, the Abidjan-based newspaper Le Nouveau Reveil reported
today, citing Finance Minister Charles Diby Koffi.  Koffi returned to Abidjan yesterday for his first working
session since he was appointed finance minister by President-
elect  Alassane Ouattara  in December, government spokesman
Patrick Achi said by phone.  Most banks closed their offices in February after the
government of former president  Laurent Gbagbo  seized the four
branches of the  Central Bank  of West African States. The Dakar-
based central bank had cut off access to the country’s account
to officials appointed by Gbagbo.  The Abidjan branch of SGBCI, a subsidiary of the French
bank  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, also reopened today, teacher Jacques
Kouassi said by phone as he waited for the payment of his salary
inside the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Amsterdam via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan at 
 bmieu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 