-- 
Japan Quake Takes Bigger-Than-Estimated Economic Toll as BOJ Cuts Forecast

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-04-28T06:28:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/japan-s-industrial-output-plunges-15-3-as-record-quake-disrupts-supplies.html
Japan ’s economy had a greater hit
from last month’s disaster than anticipated, with factory output
declining the most since at least the end of the U.S. occupation
and the central bank slashing its growth forecast.  Factory output fell 15.3 percent from February, the biggest
drop since data began in 1953, and household spending slid 8.5
percent from a year earlier, the government said today. The  Bank
of Japan  cut its growth estimate for the year ending March 2012
to 0.6 percent from a January prediction of 1.6 percent.  The deterioration makes harder Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
task of sustaining confidence in Japan’s government debt after
Standard & Poor’s yesterday downgraded its outlook for the
nation’s rating. Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura’s proposal
to expand the BOJ’s asset-purchase fund was rejected by the
policy board, who voted to keep policy unchanged.  “Plunges in output and exports will weaken  consumer
spending  and that may prompt discussions for more stimulus,”
said Masayuki Kichikawa, chief economist at Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch in  Tokyo . “The Bank of Japan will be compelled to
consider adding more stimulus around the middle of the year as
we get a clearer picture of how weak demand is.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.6 percent to 9,811.66
at 1:02 p.m. in Tokyo after the U.S. Federal Reserve renewed its
pledge to stimulate growth. The yen traded at 81.82 per dollar.  All Nippon Airways Co., Panasonic Corp. and Mazda Motor
Corp. today announced plans to postpone releasing profit
forecasts to give them more time to assess damage from the
earthquake.  Higher Inflation  The central bank raised its inflation forecast for fiscal
2011 to 0.7 percent from an earlier estimate of 0.3 percent, a
report released after the policy decision showed. Growth will
accelerate to 2.9 percent next year, while consumer prices will
expand by the same amount projected for this year, the bank said.  “I’m confident supply chains will recover earlier than we
all expected” even though today’s output number was
“devastating,” Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  told reporters in Tokyo today. He said it was too early
to consider economic stimulus measures and that the state of the
economy needs to be observed for now.  The Bank of Japan today kept its asset-purchase program at
10 trillion yen ($122 billion), the benchmark interest rate at a
range of zero to 0.1 percent and a bank-credit facility at 30
trillion yen. Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura voted to boost
the asset fund by 5 trillion yen, matching the expansion that
the central bank implemented after the March 11 earthquake.  Policy makers also detailed an emergency-lending program
for banks in devastated northeastern areas, saying they will
accept BBB rated securities as collateral.  More Purchases  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has repeatedly signaled
opposition to more-aggressive stimulus, such as direct financing
of government debt, citing the risk of stoking inflation. A
group of lawmakers and former Cabinet ministers yesterday
pressed for more purchases of  government bonds .  Household spending, output and retail sales all slid by
more than the median estimates in Bloomberg News surveys of
economists.  Core consumer prices, which exclude fresh food and are the
central bank’s preferred measure, fell 0.1 percent in March from
a year earlier, the statistics bureau said today, the smallest
drop in two years.  The nation’s unemployment rate was unchanged at 4.6 percent,
beating economists’ forecasts for a 4.8 percent reading. Payroll
data may have been skewed by the fact that the government
couldn’t collect responses from Miyagi, Fukushima and Iwate
prefectures, areas in northern Japan most devastated by last
month’s temblor.  Disaster Relief  Kan last week proposed a 4-trillion yen extra budget likely
to be the first of several packages to rebuild. Since the
disaster, the central bank has doubled the size of its asset-
purchase fund, injected record amounts of cash into money
markets and unveiled the one-year lending program.  A cross-party group of senior Japanese lawmakers said the
government shouldn’t raise taxes to pay for rebuilding and
called on the central bank to buy more government debt instead.
The central bank currently purchases 1.8 trillion yen in bonds
every month and has rejected the idea of underwriting debt
because the move could spur inflation.  Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co.,
Japan’s three biggest carmakers, say domestic output plunged in
March. Japan’s exports dropped in March for the first time since
November 2009 and  consumer confidence  fell the most on record,
reports showed last week. Toyota said April 22 it would be able
to “normalize” its production in Japan from July.  Production Slides  Japan’s domestic vehicle production fell 57.3 percent to
404,039 units in March, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers
Association said in a statement today. Exports dropped 26
percent to 312,478 units.  “There’s high chance that the BOJ will lean toward to an
additional easing” this quarter, said Yuichi Kodama, an
economist at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co.  Radiation readings at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant rose this week to the highest since the earthquake and
tsunami knocked out cooling systems and triggered the worst
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  “Instability in the power supply has a direct impact on
corporate production plans, potentially shrinking production by
more than might be expected merely as a result of a series of
power cuts,” said Takehiro Sato, chief Japan economist at
Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Output Plunges  Toyota Motor’s output in Japan plunged 63 percent to
129,491 vehicles in March from a year earlier and the company
has estimated it may lose production of 300,000 autos in Japan
and 100,000 abroad through the end of April because of quake-
related shutdowns.  Companies said they plan to increase output 3.9 percent
this month and 2.7 percent in May, according to today’s report,
an indication that factory production will resume as supply
constraints ease.  S&P cutting the outlook on Japan’s AA- local-currency
credit rating to “negative” from “stable” highlights the
challenge for the government of financing rebuilding and
supporting a recovery without adding to the world’s biggest
public debt burden.  Rating companies are concerned that politicians may fail to
forge a consensus for tackling a debt equivalent to about 200
percent of gross domestic product. The  Finance Ministry  projects
a 997.7 trillion yen total for the year started April 1.  Increasing taxes, as advocated by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, may damp demand just when
the economy is at its weakest. The OECD says a  sales tax  should
be at least doubled to 10 percent.  The government last month estimated that damage from the
disaster, which left some 26,000 people dead or missing, at as
high as 25 trillion yen ($306 billion). The economy may contract
3 percent in April-to-June, according to the median of 18
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  