-- 
U.S. Reactor Review Finds No Need for Quick Action, NRC Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-04-28T15:06:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/japan-s-nuclear-crisis-definitely-improved-nrc-reports-1-.html
A review of U.S. nuclear power
plants hasn’t found a need for quick changes in response to
 Japan ’s reactor crisis, a U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
official said.  “To date, we have not identified anything that requires
immediate action,” Bill Borchardt, the executive director for
NRC operations, said today at a meeting at the agency’s
headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland .  U.S. regulators and lawmakers are examining the safety of
the nation’s 104 commercial nuclear reactors after a March 11
earthquake and tsunami triggered a partial meltdown at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant.  The situation in Japan “has definitely improved,”
although the plant isn’t yet “quite stable,” Borchardt said.
“The Japanese are making progress.”  Destroyed  power lines , flooded emergency diesel generators
and depleted backup batteries knocked out the cooling systems at
 Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. Fuel rods
in four of the plant’s six reactor buildings overheated, causing
fires, explosions and radiation leaks in the world’s worst
nuclear incident since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  The utility, known as Tepco, has doused the damaged
reactors with water for almost seven weeks to keep them cool.  Radiation levels at reactor No. 1 rose to their highest
level since the earthquake and tsunami struck, Tepco said
yesterday, citing readings from two robots sent into the
building. The peak levels recorded at the plant, about 135 miles
(220 kilometers) north of Tokyo, were more than four times the
annual dose allowed for Japanese nuclear workers.  Cold Shutdown  It may take may take three to six months to complete a cold
shutdown, where reactor core temperatures fall below 100 degrees
Celsius (212 degrees Fahrenheit), Tepco said April 17.  In March, the NRC began a 90-day safety review of U.S.
reactors in light of Japan’s crisis. The agency’s officials will
provide an update on May 12, according to the NRC.  The agency approved regulations in 1988 that require
nuclear plants to be able to restore electricity to cooling
systems if there’s a “station blackout.” In the U.S., 44
reactors rely on batteries for backup power. The remaining 60
reactors can use “alternate” power sources, such as diesel
generators or natural-gas turbines, according to the NRC.  Since the 2001 terrorist attacks on the U.S., the NRC has
also required nuclear plants to make changes so they can
withstand disasters that cause “the complete loss of offsite
power and all onsite emergency power sources,” according to an
agency fact sheet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  