-- 
Japan Tourists Shun Hawaii as Golden Week Travel Falls on Quake

-- B y   A l l i s o n   S c h a e f e r s   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-04-28T00:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/japan-tourists-shun-hawaii-as-golden-week-travel-falls-on-quake.html
Machiko Takemura, a housewife in
Kawasaki City, near  Tokyo , booked a Golden Week holiday to
Hawaii on March 11, hours before an earthquake rocked Japan.  “When we saw the full effects of the disaster, we canceled
it,” said Takemura, 30, who planned to visit the U.S. state
with her husband and baby son during Golden Week, a run of four
Japanese holidays in a week, beginning tomorrow. “The future
seemed very uncertain.”  Japanese tourists, who account for about 20 percent of
Hawaii’s visitors, have pared overseas trips since the
magnitude-9 quake hitting bookings for Hilton Worldwide Inc. and
Starwood Hotels & Resorts World Inc. and forcing Japan Airlines
Co. and All Nippon Airways Co. to cut flights.  Hawaii ’s visitor
numbers from Japan have slumped 28 percent this month, according
to the state tourism agency.  “The pace of overall bookings slowed dramatically
immediately after the earthquake,” said Dave Erdman, chief
executive officer of  PacRim Marketing Group Inc. , which runs
Japanese-language websites for Hawaii hotels. “We basically
lost a full month of bookings.”  The temblor and a subsequent tsunami left about 26,000
people dead or missing, according to the  National Police Agency 
of Japan. The quake also crippled a nuclear power station, about
220 kilometers (140 miles) north of Tokyo, causing radiation
leaks and power shortages in the Japanese capital.  Hilton, Starwood  The  Hilton Hawaiian Village Beach Resort & Spa , the state’s
largest hotel, has had a decline in Golden Week bookings of as
much as 30 percent from last year, said Jerry Gibson, area vice
president of Hilton Hawaii. A pick-up in domestic bookings has
offset some of this decline, ensuring that the hotel doesn’t
need to shed staff, he said.  Starwood’s hotels in Waikiki, Hawaii’s main tourist hub,
have seen a 5 percent drop in bookings from Japan, said Keith
Vieira, the chain’s senior vice president and director of
operations for Hawaii and French Polynesia. The hotels get about
40 percent of business from the Asian nation, he said.  “Golden Week has definitely slowed the overall rebound
that we had expected,” he said.  Japan Air, ANA  Japan Air, the nation’s flag carrier, pared flights to
Hawaii following the quake as part of wider cuts that also
included reductions in services to  China  and  South Korea . The
carrier reported a 33 percent decline in international Golden
Week bookings, the biggest drop in at least six years.  “Golden Week travel to Hawaii will definitely be down from
last year,” said Winston Lee, the carrier’s director of sales
and public relations for the Hawaii region. The airline’s
holiday bookings have also fallen as it slashed capacity across
its network during a reorganization in  bankruptcy protection .  ANA, Japan’s largest listed carrier, said yesterday that
the quake had caused a 19 billion yen drop in sales. The airline
has posted a 9 percent increase in international bookings during
Golden Week as it won travelers from JAL. The carrier also said
that Japanese holidaymakers and business travelers are beginning
to resume plans for overseas trips.  “Demand for international flights is starting to
rebound,” said President Shinichiro Ito. “We’re working hard
to encourage people to break out of the self-restraint mode and
go on holiday.”  JAL Restores Flights  Japan Air is also restoring some of the flights cut after
the quake, as  travel demand  begins to rebound. That will include
adding back a daily service from Tokyo’s Narita Airport to
Hawaii from April 25 to May 9, Lee said. The carrier is also
flying nine additional Hawaii flights for Golden Week, he said.  Hawaii’s decline in Golden Week visitors from Japan isn’t
as bad as initially expected following the quake and tsunami,
said Mike McCartney, the head of the Hawaii Tourism Authority.
Tour groups are also making bookings for later in the year and
business travel is picking up, he said.  Takemura, who canceled her Golden Week trip to Hawaii, last
weekend booked a trip for late June because she is now less
concerned about aftershocks following the March 11 earthquake.  “The situation is getting better and better,” she said.  A pick-up in confidence and cheaper hotel rooms are
spurring last-minute bookings for Golden Week trips overseas,
including to Hawaii, said Tatsuki Miura, a spokesman for
H.I.S. Co.,  Japan ’s largest listed travel agency.  “There has been a rush this week,” he said. “One of the
reasons is probably lower prices.”  Summer Recovery  PacRim Marketing has seen an increase in activity on its
hotel websites in the run-up to Golden Week and is expecting a
recovery in demand into the summer, said Erdman.  The demand rebound may be quicker than after the Kobe
earthquake in 1995, which caused a six-month slowdown for
Starwood’s Hawaii properties, said Vieira. The company is now
anticipating a pick-up from as early as July, he said.  Power shortages in Tokyo, and reductions in air-
conditioning, may also prompt Japanese travelers to head
overseas as the weather gets hotter during the summer, said
Hilton Hawaii’s Gibson.  Aston Hotels & Resorts LLC, the operator of more than 20
hotels and condominium resorts in Hawaii, has also seen the
start of a rebound, said Senior Vice President Shari Chang.  “Japan business is not to where we want, but if it
continues to see gains we should be in a good situation by
summer,” said Chang.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Schaefers through the New York newsroom
t ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  