-- 
Jeb Bush Says Politicians Can Find ’Common Ground’ on Education

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J a n e   W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-28T20:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/jeb-bush-says-politicians-can-find-common-ground-on-education.html
Democrats and Republicans can find
“common ground” on the need to overhaul education in the U.S.,
Jeb Bush, the former governor of  Florida , said today.  President  Barack Obama  and U.S. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  deserve credit for challenging a “core constituency” --
the adults who work in education and traditionally support
national Democratic causes -- Bush, a Republican, said in an
interview for Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg EDU with Jane Williams” program.  Bush, the brother of former President  George W. Bush ,
served as head of Flordia’s government from 1999 to 2007, where
he was known as the “Education Governor” for his support of
school improvements. As the state’s secretary of commerce from
1987 to 1988, he saw the direct connection between the quality
of education and the state’s business climate, he said.  “Increasingly, even in the 1980s, people were saying that
a quality education is probably the best economic inducement for
us to invest in your community,” Bush said.  Spending on education is key to making systemic changes,
with a focus on funding priorities, Bush said. He cited the
cutback of early literacy programs in many states, saying there
are some “really good” efforts aimed at preschool through third
grade that would help narrow the achievement gap.  “If you do believe in reform and systemic reform then you
need the money to fund those reforms,” Bush said. “There
should be no failing schools in America. There is no reason why
there are, other than the fact that we haven’t tried something
different or haven’t allocated resources properly.”  Bush, 58, last month accompanied Obama and Duncan to a
speech at Florida’s Miami Central Senior High School. Obama said
the future of the  U.S. economy  depends on investing in education
to produce “highly skilled” workers.  The former governor is now a senior adviser at London-based
 Barclays Plc. (BARC)   (The interview with Bush will air on April 29 at 10 p.m.
 New York  time, on April 30 at 11 a.m. and 8 p.m., and on May 1
at 12 a.m. and 7 p.m.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jane Williams in New York at  jwilliams202@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  