-- 
Jimmy Choo Considers 650 Million Pound Hong Kong IPO

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-04-28T02:08:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/jimmy-choo-considers-650-million-pound-hong-kong-ipo-ft-reports.html
Jimmy Choo Ltd., whose luxury shoes
are worn by actress  Jennifer Lopez , may seek a Hong Kong initial
public offering that may value the company at 650 million pounds
($1.1 billion), the Financial Times reported.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  proposed the IPO to Jimmy Choo’s owner
 TowerBrook Capital Partners LP  and the plan is being taken
“seriously” by the buyout firm, the FT reported without saying
where it got the information.  Jimmy Choo, whose Niagra suede Sandals sell for 1,295 euros
($1,922), may join other luxury product-makers including Prada
SpA and  L’Occitane International SA (973)  in seeking a Hong Kong
listing to take advantage of rising incomes in  China . TowerBrook
hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley in September
to advise on “ strategic alternatives ” for the business,
including new sources of financing.  Calls to the London office of Brunswick Group LLP,
TowerBrook’s external media adviser, outside of normal office
hours weren’t returned. Calls to Brunswick’s New York office
were directed to  London .  Jimmy Choo was founded in 1996 by the shoemaker of the same
name and Tamara Mellon. Choo sold out in 2001 while Mellon still
holds a stake and is the company’s chief creative officer.  TowerBrook, which was spun out of Soros Fund Management
LLC, teamed up with Mellon and other Jimmy Choo management to
buy control of the company from Lion Capital LLC in 2007. The
offer valued the shoemaker at 185 million pounds at the time and
marked the third time the fashion brand was acquired by a
private-equity investor.  Luxury Shoes  The buyout firm has increased the company’s store network
and added new products such as perfume since taking control.
 Jimmy Choo  now has 119 outlets in 31 countries, according to its
website, compared with about 60 shops at the time of the 2007
buyout.  Sales of luxury shoes will rise 20 percent a year through
2013, research firm Euromonitor International said last year.  Labelux Group, owner of  Switzerland ’s Bally International
AG, teamed up with private-equity firm Investcorp Bank BSC to
bid for the maker of $995 Zen booties, two people with knowledge
of the talks said this month. Jimmy Choo may fetch more than 500
million pounds, one of the people said at the time.  TPG Capital, the American buyout firm, may make a bid, the
Wall Street Journal reported March 6, citing sources with
knowledge of the matter.  Jones Group Inc. (JNY) , along with TPG and the Labelux-led group,
are vying for control of Jimmy Choo, the Financial Times said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  