-- 
Johnson & Johnson Prostate Cancer Drug Approved by U.S. FDA

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-28T20:28:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/johnson-johnson-s-prostate-cancer-drug-approved-by-u-s-fda.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s abiraterone
acetate, a pill to be marketed as Zytiga, was approved by U.S.
regulators for use in patients with late-stage prostate cancer
who had previously received chemotherapy.  The drug targets a protein to reduce levels of
testosterone, a male hormone that fuels prostate cancer growth,
the Food and Drug Administration said today in a  statement  on
its website announcing the approval.  The drug may generate sales of $800 million by 2015,  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said today in a note
to clients. Along with treatments being developed for hepatitis
C, strokes and AIDS, J&J may launch four drugs this year that
may boost profits above the company’s estimates, he said. J&J
predicted earnings of $4.90 a share to $5 a share on April 19.  Insurers’ payments for abiraterone “will be fairly broad
given the limited available treatment options and the reasonable
pricing, which could lead to upside to J&J’s conservative 2011
guidance,” Biegelsen said.  J&J is likely to sell the drug for an average wholesale
price of $5,000 a month, with typical treatments lasting eight
months, he said.  An FDA advisory panel today also voted to recommend
marketing clearance for telaprevir, the hepatitis drug whose
rights are shared by J&J and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  of
Cambridge, Massachusetts. The medicine works sufficiently to
outweigh risks of skin rash and anemia, the advisers said at a
hearing in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland .  Cougar Purchase  J&J fell 19 cents to $65.38 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 1.2 percent
in the past 12 months.  The prostate treatment, approved two months ahead of its
scheduled FDA decision date, was acquired in J&J’s $878 million
purchase of Cougar Biotechnology in July 2009.  It will compete with  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ’s Provenge, an immune
therapy for late-stage prostate cancer that may have annual
sales of $2 billion in 2014, according to the average estimate
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Zytiga prolonged the lives of men with late-stage
prostate cancer who had received prior treatments and had few
available therapeutic options,” Richard Pazdur, director of the
Office of Oncology Drug Products in the FDA’s Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, said in the statement.  In a study, 1,195 patients with advanced prostate cancer
patients who received abiraterone, along with the steroid
prednisone, lived a median of 3.9 months longer than those
treated with prednisone alone, according to company-sponsored
findings presented Oct. 11 at the European Society for Medical
Oncology meeting in Milan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 