-- 
Jordan Seeks Alternative Fuel After Halt of Egyptian Supplies

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-28T15:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/jordan-seeks-alternative-fuel-after-halt-of-egyptian-supplies.html
Jordan imposed restrictions on the
use of lights and air conditioners and decided to start talks
with fuel suppliers after an explosion in Sinai yesterday halted
deliveries of Egyptian natural-gas.  The  Council of Ministers  decided “to contact brotherly and
friendly countries to help supply the kingdom with the required
levels” of fuel, it said in a statement published by the state-
run news agency Petra. It didn’t name the countries or the kind
of fuels it is seeking.  The cut in gas supplies from  Egypt , the second this year,
incurs heavy costs on Jordan after the government switched  power
plants  to alternative fuels amid high  oil prices , it said.
Jordan imports almost all of its energy supplies.  Egypt suspended gas exports to Jordan and  Israel  for the
second time this year after saboteurs blew up a monitoring room
in the pipeline network, Egyptian Oil Ministry spokesman Hamdi
Abdel Aziz said. Gunmen had attacked the link on Feb. 5 during
protests that led to the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak ,
cutting shipments for more than a month.  The switch to fuel oil and diesel is costing Jordan 3
million dinars ($4.2 million) a day, Energy Ministry spokesman
Mahmoud al-Ees said yesterday.  The government issued new regulations for its institutions,
including putting out the lights at night and stopping the use
of air-conditioners and heaters, the statement on Petra said.
Lighting will be rationed inside cities and turned off on
highways after 10 p.m., it said.  Before yesterday’s explosion, the kingdom bought about 150
million cubic meters of Egyptian gas a day as fuel for its power
stations, al-Ees said. Imports were cut by half by Egypt after
the first attack on the Egyptian network and Jordan had been in
talks to increase them, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  