-- 
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for April (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-28T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-april-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity moderated
somewhat in April, but remained solid.  Most producers
continued to report healthy expectations. Raw materials prices
continued to rise, and more producers raised selling
prices.  The month-over-month composite index was 14 in April, down
from 27 in March and 19 in February.  The composite index is
an average of the production, new orders, employment, supplier
delivery time, and raw materials inventory indexes.  Growth in
factory activity eased at both durable and non-durable goods
producing plants.  Most other month-over-month indicators also
fell slightly in April but remained solid.  The production
index decreased from 39 to 17, and the shipments, new orders,
and order backlog indexes also moved
lower.  The employment index dropped from 25 to 17, and the
new orders for exports index eased for the second straight
month.  The raw materials inventory index fell from 20 to 7,
while the finished goods inventory index was unchanged.  Growth in most year-over-year factory indexes increased from
the previous survey.  The composite year-over-year index
inched higher from 30 to 31, and the production, new orders,
shipments, and order backlog indexes also rose in April.  The
employment index eased from 28 to 25, but still remains at its
second-highest level since early 2007.  The new orders for
exports index edged higher, while the capital expenditures
index dropped from 14 to 4.  Both inventory indexes declined
only slightly.  Future factory indexes were mixed, but continued to show solid
readings.  The future composite index edged down from 23 to 20,
and the future production and capital spending indexes also
fell marginally.  In contrast, the future
shipments, new orders, and order backlog indexes increased
after falling the previous month.  The future employment index
moved higher from 19 to 21, while the future new orders for
exports index eased a bit.  The future raw materials inventory
index decreased from 15 to 3, and the future finished goods
index also fell.  Price indexes were varied in April, with more firms raising
selling prices and materials prices continuing to rise.  The
month-over-month raw materials price index eased slightly,
while the finished goods price index increased from 21 to 28.
The year-over-year finished goods price index edged lower, but
the raw materials price index was unchanged.  The future raw
materials price index dropped somewhat from a record high
level, but the future finished goods price index rose for the
third straight month, indicating more firms plan to pass
recent cost increases through to customers. 