-- 
Kenya Must Implement Constitution, Cooperate With ICC, U.S.’s Gration Says

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-04-28T05:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/kenya-must-implement-new-constitution-cooperate-with-icc-gration-says.html
Kenya  must implement its new
constitution and “fully” cooperate with the International
Criminal Court to ensure elections next year are credible and
transparent, incoming U.S. Ambassador  Scott Gration  said.  The East African nation has begun an “ambitious program of
reform” since ethnic violence erupted in December 2007 over a
disputed presidential vote, Gration said in a statement
published in the Nairobi-based  Business Daily  newspaper today.  As the reform process continues, Gration said he is
committed to “working both privately and publicly to protect
human rights, to fight corruption, and to promote democratic
values, development, accountability and national
reconciliation.”  The post-election violence that left 1,500 people dead is
the subject of an ICC investigation in which six Kenyans,
including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , face accusations of
crimes against humanity. All six have denied the charges. The
two months of clashes ended after President Mwai Kibaki signed a
peace accord with his rival, Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , that
included a commitment to enact a new constitution, which came
into force in August.  The country is scheduled to hold its next presidential
election in 2012.  Gration, a retired U.S. Air Force general, previously
served as President Barack Obama’s special envoy to Sudan. His
appointment as ambassador to Kenya was opposed by 33 human
rights groups who  criticized  his handling of the crisis in
Darfur.  The  U.S. Senate  has  confirmed  the appointment, outgoing
U.S. Ambassador Michael Ranneberger told reporters on April 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 