-- 
KPMG Auditor Cleared of Taking Bribe for Work on Hontex’s Hong Kong IPO

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-04-28T09:21:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/kpmg-auditor-cleared-of-taking-bribe-for-work-on-hontex-s-hong-kong-ipo.html
A KPMG senior manager was cleared
by a  Hong Kong  judge of accepting a HK$300,000 ($38,601) bribe
for his work on the listing prospectus of Chinese fabric maker
Hontex International Holdings Co.  The prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt
that Leung Sze-chit, 33, intended to accept envelopes containing
cash as a reward from Chan Chau-wan, a consultant hired by
Hontex for its listing, in February 2010, District Court Judge
Stephen Geiser said today.  KPMG resigned as Hontex’s audit firm in May amid an
investigation by Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission
into alleged false statements made by the company in its listing
prospectus. The regulator has obtained a court order freezing
almost HK$1 billion in funds raised from the company’s 2009 IPO.
Shares have been suspended from trading since March 2010.  Jonathan Li, spokesman for the regulator known as SFC, said
today the commission is preparing to file additional court
documents in an effort to restore the IPO funds to investors.  ‘Rogues’  The government didn’t present evidence at trial about the
specific activities the payments were intended to reward.
Justice department lawyer Isaac Tam declined to say whether
prosecutors will appeal the verdict.  Geiser said Chan, the Hontex listing consultant, is the
“major villain” and cautioned KPMG to beware of “such
rogues” who might damage their reputation. Chan didn’t testify
at the trial.  KPMG China said in a statement that the firm “has
cooperated fully with the authorities throughout their
investigations.”  Leung declined to say what problems may have existed in the
Hontex prospectus after today’s hearing. He testified on April 1
that Chan “never explained” why she wanted him to keep the
illegal payments and that he didn’t report the incident because
he “needed to find out what might’ve been missed in the Hontex
project.”  The accountant’s lawyer Gary Plowman earlier argued that
Leung sought direction from a superior about receiving the money
and intended to return it to Chan.  The case is Hong Kong SAR v. Leung Sze Chit, DCCC615/2010
in the Hong Kong District Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  