-- 
NYSE Shareholders Tell Niederauer at Meeting to Get Better Takeover Price

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-04-28T20:27:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/nasdaq-invades-nyse-as-ceo-niederauer-champions-deutsche-boerse.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s shareholders told
Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  that they’re not
getting enough compensation from his agreement to sell the
company to  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   Owners re-elected all NYSE Euronext directors with “well
over 80 percent” support at the exchange operator’s annual
meeting today. Niederauer and Chairman Jan-Michiel Hessels told
shareholders that they haven’t met with  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) 
and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  because their unsolicited
joint bid isn’t legitimate.  “Their request for a meeting is a tactic principally
designed to be disruptive,” Hessels said. The Deutsche Boerse
“offer has real value and is executable. Nasdaq OMX-ICE is an
empty vessel. It looks nice, but there is nothing in there.”  NYSE Euronext shareholders will vote on the  Deutsche Boerse 
deal on July 7. Owners controlling at least half of NYSE
Euronext must back the transaction, compared with 75 percent at
Deutsche Boerse. The 80 percent approval level for the board
members is “rather low,” a signal that the Deutsche Boerse
deal may not have full shareholder support, according to Ted
Allen, head of publications and governance counsel at ISS Proxy
Advisory Services.  Director Approvals  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies have approved
directors with an average 96 percent support level in 2011,
according to ISS, the shareholder advisory unit of New York-
based MSCI Inc. Last year, NYSE Euronext owners re-elected all
but one director with 96 percent approval. The other director
received 91 percent of the votes, Allen said.  “It’s hard to know exactly what motivated them to withhold
support from NYX’s directors, but it appears that some
shareholders were not happy by the board’s rejection of the
Nasdaq/ICE offer,” he wrote in an e-mail to Bloomberg News.  Speaking to a room of about 250 people at the New York
Stock Exchange in downtown  Manhattan , Niederauer told holders
they should vote in July for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse’s
$38.66-a-share agreement to purchase the company. The offer from
Nasdaq OMX and ICE is valued at $42.58, or 10 percent more, as
of 4:10 p.m. New York time today.  Robert Greifeld  and Jeffrey Sprecher, the CEOs of  New York- 
based Nasdaq OMX and ICE of Atlanta, have met with NYSE Euronext
shareholders since announcing their bid on April 1, which NYSE
Euronext’s board has twice rejected.  Bill Miller , the chief
investment officer of Legg Mason Capital Management Inc. in
Baltimore, said yesterday that the refusal to meet is
inconsistent with Niederauer’s obligations.  ‘Maximize Value’  “It is in the shareholders’ interest that the board work
to maximize value for owners,” Miller, whose mutual-fund
company is the fifth-biggest NYSE Euronext holder with 7.48
million shares, said in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News
yesterday. “We don’t see how being unwilling to meet with
Nasdaq furthers that goal.”  When rejecting the Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer, NYSE Euronext’s
board said the combination would face too many hurdles to win
approval from antitrust regulators and would lead to the company
having too much debt. Kenneth Steiner, who owns about 1,000 NYSE
Euronext shares, said at today’s meeting that the rival bid is
too valuable to ignore.  “We have our shares now being sold or converted at a very
low and cheap price, and a complete lack of any kind of
meaningful premium,” Steiner told Niederauer and Hessels. “I
believe that there is a lack of consideration and/or the
ignoring of alternative bids and transaction possibilities,
which we didn’t even have the opportunity to consider as
shareholders.”  ‘Protecting Their Deal’  Directors “appear as if they are protecting their deal
rather than acting in the best interest of their shareholders,”
Greifeld said in an April 21 statement.  NYSE Euronext’s five biggest owners as of Dec. 31 -- T.
Rowe Price Group Inc.,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,  State Street Corp. (STT) ,
Vanguard Group Inc. and  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  -- controlled 22 percent
of the company’s stock, according to data compiled by ISS. At
today’s meeting, shareholders also approved a proposal giving
two or more owners with stakes totaling 10 percent the right to
call special meetings.  Paying Attention  “Neither of these deals is without risk,” Ian McDonald, a
Baltimore-based U.S. exchanges analyst at T. Rowe Price, said on
April 10. The “spread between the offers seems quite large even
if it was obvious that one deal was riskier than the other.
Shareholders can’t and hopefully won’t ignore that.”  Heather McDonold, a spokeswoman for T. Rowe Price in
Baltimore, Alicia Curran of Boston-based State Street, and Jim
Marren of New York-based BlackRock declined to comment
yesterday. John Woerth of Vanguard in  Valley Forge ,
 Pennsylvania , didn’t respond to an e-mail message.  “If I were competing with us, I’d want to disrupt this,
too,” Niederauer said today of Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s attempt to
snatch NYSE Euronext away from Deutsche Boerse.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext plan to combine into a
Dutch holding company, with each Deutsche Boerse share swapped
for one share of the new corporation. NYSE Euronext owners would
get 0.47 share for each of their shares. Niederauer warned that
raising the ratio might result in Deutsche Boerse shareholders
rejecting the deal.  “Let’s not be penny-wise and pound-foolish,” Niederauer
said today. “We would hate to miss out on the accelerating
opportunity because we just got a touch too greedy on the
ratio.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  