-- 
NATO Jets Strike Qaddafi Forces Near Misrata Amid Reports of Rebel Deaths

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-28T14:54:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/nato-jets-strike-qaddafi-forces-near-misrata-amid-reports-of-rebel-deaths.html
NATO said its warplanes attacked
combat vehicles near the besieged Libyan port city of Misrata
yesterday, following reports that one of its strikes killed
rebel fighters battling Muammar Qaddafi’s forces in the area.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization can’t confirm the
strike yesterday 10 miles (16 kilometers) southeast of the port
hit rebels, an alliance official said. Twelve rebels were killed
in a strike carried out as part of the alliance’s air campaign,
the  Associated Press  reported, citing a doctor in the city.  NATO “deeply regrets” any loss of life, said the official
by telephone from Brussels who declined to be identified in
accordance with alliance policy. A deadly strike on rebel forces
would be the third of its kind since the campaign began.  The attack occurred during intensified fighting around the
port city,  Libya ’s third-largest, as Qaddafi forces continue to
lay siege to the only city in country’s west held by rebels.
NATO is stepping up a six-week-old air campaign over Libya and
selecting targets closer to Qaddafi in a bid to break a military
stalemate between the opposition and loyalist forces.  Libyan rebels are struggling to sustain an insurrection
aimed at toppling Qaddafi’s 42-year rule after more than two
months of fighting.  Gene Cretz , the U.S. ambassador to Libya now
based in  Washington , said yesterday that officials had seen
estimates of as many as 30,000 people killed in the conflict.  Misrata Evacuation  The Geneva-based  International Organization of Migration 
said a chartered vessel, the Red Star One, left Misrata with 935
foreign nationals and Libyans yesterday after “heavy shelling”
by Qaddafi forces this week delayed its rescue operation. Most
of those taken on the ship were migrant workers from Niger as
well as 30 Libyans in need of medical attention, the IOM said
today in a statement posted on its website.  The NATO official said the vehicles struck yesterday had
been targeting an area where alliance jets had “broken up” a
group of loyalist forces the day before. The official said none
of its attacks were carried out on buildings in or near Misrata.
The AP cited the doctor, identified as Hassan Malitan, as saying
the rebels were struck at a position where they had been
sheltering in a building three miles east of the port.  The military alliance has boosted its firepower in the last
week with 12 additional Italian ground-attack warplanes and
armed U.S. Predator drones. U.K. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said
yesterday that this week’s strike that flattened part of
Qaddafi’s main compound in Tripoli was meant to “increase the
psychological pressure” on the Libyan dictator.  Oil Rises  Crude for June delivery gained 25 cents to $113.01 a barrel
at 9:38 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Earlier, oil
climbed by as much as 94 cents to $113.70, the highest price
since Sept. 22, 2008. Prices have risen 36 percent in the past
year.  Libya has  Africa ’s biggest proven oil reserves. The country
accounted for 8.8 percent of global light, low-sulfur crude
supply in 2010, according to JBC Energy GmbH, a Vienna-based
consultant. Libyan oil output is down 75 percent as fighting
between rebels and government troops forced producers such as
Marathon Oil Corp. to evacuate workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  