-- 
NCAA Says It Won’t Allow New Football Bowl Games for 3 Years

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-04-28T15:25:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ncaa-says-it-won-t-allow-new-football-bowl-games-for-3-years.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  won’t accept new applications for football bowl
games for three years while it reviews its licensing process,
President Mark Emmert said.  The moratorium on applications comes after a special
investigative committee found that  Fiesta Bowl  employees were
being encouraged to make political contributions for which they
were later reimbursed and then executives tried to hide it.  Fiesta Bowl President and Chief Executive Officer John
Junker wouldn’t cooperate with the investigation and was fired
in March after the special committee found unauthorized and
excessive compensation, non-business and inappropriate
expenditures and inappropriate gifts.  The NCAA formed a task force to ensure bowls “have
established conflict-of-interests policies, address issues of
advertising and title-sponsorship standards and oversight of
financial management is understood and explained,” Emmert said
today on a media conference call.  The  task force  will be headed by Nebraska Chancellor Harvey Perlman and will include university presidents and other
executives from the non-profit sector. It will report to Emmert
by October.  The NCAA doesn’t run bowl games, as it operates the men’s
and women’s basketball tournaments and other championships.  Licensing Body  Its only function has been to license bowls, and that was
largely dependent on the bowl’s ability to financially support
the game.  Emmert said the NCAA has no plans to take over the football
postseason from the individual bowls.  “Our job is to license them,” he said.  In April 2010, the NCAA reviewed 37 applications and
licensed 35 bowl games for the 2010-11 through 2013-14 cycle,
including two new bowls: the  Dallas  Football Classic in Dallas
and the Pinstripe Bowl in  New York .  Atlantic Coast Conference Commissioner John Swofford said
he supported the effort.  “We want the bowls to operate with the highest standards,
and although I think most do, I believe stronger NCAA oversight
is a good idea,” Swofford said in a statement.  Emmert said he recommended the review in January, when the
NCAA was looking at its role in the licensing process.  “I want to make sure the licensing process is robust
enough that we have great confidence that when we license a bowl
we know how it’s being governed,” Emmert said.  The Fiesta Bowl, founded in 1971, is a non-profit
organization that annually hosts college football’s Fiesta Bowl
game, as well as the Insight Bowl. The Fiesta Bowl game is part
of the Bowl Championship Series that crowns a national champion.  New Safeguards  The Fiesta Bowl’s 22-member board, which voted unanimously
to fire Junker, also adopted measures to ensure additional
levels of transparency, including more reviews of compensation
and expense reimbursement, as well as a comprehensive
whistleblower policy.  Stephen Dichter, an attorney for Junker, responded to the
special committee’s report in an e-mail to Bloomberg last month.  “We are in the process of reviewing the report and may
have additional comments at a later date,” he said at the time.
Dichter didn’t immediately return calls left before his offices
opened this morning.  The probe by the special committee is separate from an
Arizona attorney general’s investigation into possible criminal
wrongdoing involving political contributions by Fiesta Bowl
employees.  This season’s BCS title game is scheduled for Jan. 9, 2012,
in the Louisiana Superdome in  New Orleans .  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in  Washington  at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 