-- 
New Jersey Voters Pass Two of 14 Town Tax Increases Exceeding Christie Cap

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-04-28T14:14:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/new-jersey-voters-pass-two-of-12-town-tax-increases-exceeding-christie-cap.html
New Jersey voters approved two
municipal property-tax increases that tried to go beyond
Governor  Chris Christie ’s 2 percent cap in the initial test of
the stricter limits.  For the first time, cities and towns had to win voter
approval to boost taxes by more than 2 percent. Fourteen of 566
communities put the issue on the ballot yesterday, and 12 were
rejected, according to election officials and local authorities.  Christie, a first-term Republican, has made the cap the
centerpiece of his plan to control growth in New Jersey’s
property taxes, the nation’s highest, averaging $7,576 last
year. Towns and schools have been slashing staff and services
amid cuts in state aid and shrinking real-estate valuations.  “It’s a heavy lift for us; we’re down to just seven full-
time employees,” said Plumsted Mayor Ronald Dancer, whose town
of about 8,000 refused to lift taxes beyond the limit. Dancer, a
Republican, also serves in the state Assembly, where he voted to
implement the cap.  Unofficial returns showed the measures also failed in
Bordentown, Carneys Point, Hardwick, Jackson, Lumberton,
Mansfield, Medford, Mount Holly, Northvale, Oxford and
Shrewsbury. Voters in Brick and Lambertville approved increases.  “Chris Christie is going to have one more feather in his
cap,” Ben Dworkin, director of the  Rebovich Institute of New
Jersey Politics  at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville, said today
in a telephone interview. “Voters want to see change and fiscal
restraint. That’s what became clear.”  Small Amount  Of 538 school districts that put spending plans before
voters, 11 sought permission to exceed the cap. County clerks
said voters approved increases in at least seven districts,
according to early returns.  “A very small amount of municipalities want to exceed the
cap; that’s really good news for property taxes,” Christie, 48,
said April 26 at a town-hall meeting in Hamilton. “It shows the
beginning of the cap starting to work.”  In Brick, Chief Financial Officer Scott Pezarras said the
move to exceed the limit came after Christie cut $5.6 million in
state aid. He and Mayor Stephen Acropolis had warned residents
that they risked the loss of curbside trash pickups or a 23
percent cut in police.  “There’s no real bad story here,” Acropolis said in a
telephone interview. “The story here is allowing voters to
actually vote for the way they want their town to be.”  Voters’ Hands  Peter Woolley , a political scientist at Fairleigh Dickinson
University in Madison, said few governments sought to exceed the
cap because politicians feared a voter backlash.  Plumsted’s cap question was rejected by 65 percent of
voters, according to election results posted on Ocean County’s
 website . Brick, which is also in Ocean County, had its
referendum approved by 51 percent to 49 percent, with a margin
of 478 votes. Lambertville’s referendum passed with 59  percent .  Communities where voters rejected the referendums have
until May 20 to design a budget that stays under the cap, Dancer
said. Cuts in his town’s 11-member police department and
administrative offices are among potential remedies, he said.  “This isn’t a surprise when you ask people to vote for a
tax increase,” said Wayne Pelura, mayor of Carneys Point.
“With this referendum failing, we’re going to have to make some
cuts, and that’s definitely going to end up affecting services
somehow.”  More Approval  Last year, a record 59 percent of school budgets were
rejected after Christie urged voters to turn down the plans in
districts where teachers refused to take wage freezes to offset
lost state aid.  This year, school budgets were approved in greater numbers,
according to tallies by the Star-Ledger,  New Jersey ’s largest
newspaper. Voters passed 301 of 373 plans for which results were
available early this morning, the paper said.  The districts that had second ballot questions asking
voters to spend beyond the caps were Franklin Township in
Hunterdon County, Franklin Township in Somerset County, Garwood,
Greenwich Township, Kingsway Regional, Kittatinny Regional,
Monroe Township, South Hunterdon Regional, Sparta Township,
Springfield Township and Wall Township.  Kingsway’s question was approved, according to results
posted on the Gloucester County  website . Wall Township’s
referendum also passed, according to results on the Monmouth
County  website , as did Garwood’s, according to Union County’s
 website . In  Hunterdon County , Franklin’s second question failed
while South Hunterdon’s passed. Franklin’s referendum in
Somerset County was approved, according to the Star-Ledger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in New York at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stacie Servetah at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  