-- 
New York City Facing Severe Thunderstorms, High Winds Today

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-28T16:28:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/new-york-city-area-thunderstorms-high-winds-may-disrupt-air-traffic-today.html
Powerful thunderstorms, soaking
rain and high winds are possible in  New York City ,  New Jersey 
and parts of  Connecticut  until about 4 p.m., according to the
National Weather Service.  Storms have delayed air traffic across the U.S. Northeast.  A severe thunderstorm watch and flash flood watch has been
issued for the city as well as parts of Long Island, New Jersey
and Connecticut, according to the weather service in  Upton, New
York.  Wind gusts as intense as 60 miles per hour (97 kilometers
per hour) are possible, said  Joe Pollina , an agency
meteorologist.  “The primary threat is damaging winds,” Pollina said.
“There is also a flash flood watch out because some of these
storms can produce some heavy rainfall. There could be an
isolated tornado.”  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  activated the state emergency
operations center to monitor the weather.  A tornado warning, meaning one of the storms may have
formed, was issued until 12:15 p.m. for Passaic, Essex and
northern Bergen counties in New Jersey and for Rockland and
Orange counties in  New York . Pollina said the weather service is
investigating.  Flights to New York, Baltimore, Washington, Philadelphia
and Newark were being delayed until storms have passed,
according to the Federal Aviation Administration website. Almost
800 flights were canceled, according to the FlightAware tracking
service.  An outbreak of tornados across the U.S. yesterday killed
more than 200 people, mostly in Alabama, and left a trail of
damage across at least 21 states. Tornado watches, meaning the
storms may develop, stretch today from  Maryland  to  Georgia  and
include  Washington  and Baltimore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  