-- 
NFL Draft, the Biggest Offseason Show, Opens With Real Games in Question

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-04-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/nfl-draft-the-biggest-offseason-show-opens-with-real-games-in-question.html
The  National Football League  is
ready for its biggest offseason television moment and Frank Hawkins, a former executive of the most popular U.S. sport, said
an event designed as a showcase may turn into one weird night.  Hawkins, a founder of New York-based consulting group
 Scalar Media Partners LLC , said the labor dispute threatening
the 2011 season has left uncertainty surrounding the draft, a
coming-out party for new players that last year drew a record
audience to its first prime-time telecast.  Tension on draft night usually revolves around where a
strong-armed quarterback or a 300-pound lineman will be picked.
Tonight on the stage at Radio City Music Hall in  New York ,
Commissioner Roger Goodell may shake hands with Texas A&M
linebacker Von Miller, who’s suing the league.  “It’s going to be bizarre,” said Hawkins, the league’s
former vice president for business affairs. “It’s pretty
quickly going to sink in that they can’t sign these guys.”  Miller and Heisman Trophy winning quarterback Cam Newton of
 Auburn University  are among the players featured in the draft,
which last year brought ESPN the most viewers in its 31 years
broadcasting the event. The Walt Disney Co. unit said ratings
rose 27 percent for its 14 1/2 hours of coverage on ESPN and
ESPN2 after the league expanded the event to three days and
aired the first three rounds in prime time.  This year, there’s a different element.  Antitrust Suit  Miller, who told ESPN last month that it was “a dream of
mine” to shake Goodell’s hand on draft night, is a projected
top-five pick and a named plaintiff in a class-action lawsuit by
players against the NFL alleging antitrust violations and wage
fixing.  Players filed the lawsuit after owners locked them out on
March 12 because the sides couldn’t agree on how to divide $9
billion in revenue, the most of any sports league.  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  Minnesota  four
days ago blocked the lockout during the dispute, a decision the
league is appealing. The sides are scheduled to return May 16 to
mediation before a federal magistrate judge in  Minneapolis , as
ordered by Nelson.  Miller is scheduled to join a record 25 incoming players at
the draft after a “rookie debut” hosted by the decertified NFL
Players Association at a hotel eight blocks away.  NBA Playoffs  Ratings tonight may depend on the quality of National
Basketball Association playoff games airing simultaneously, said
 David Carter , executive director of the Sports Business
Institute at the  University of Southern California ’s Marshall
School of Business.  “It’s become the initial celebration of all things
football, and it may be overshadowed,” Carter said.  The NFL moved the early rounds into prime time after the
2009 draft attracted a record 39 million combined viewers for
ESPN and the NFL Network. Goodell said the league changed the
format to help teams, sponsors and fans.  “We made it a very important offseason event not just for
the clubs and not just for the players but also for our business
partners,” Goodell said in  a transcript  of an interview with
 USA Today  circulated by the NFL. “We have record participation
of sponsors, licensees and media this year.”  The draft comes after the NFL attracted an all-time-high
207.7 million viewers for its games last season, producing the
190 top-rated fall programs. The Green Bay Packers’ win over the
Pittsburgh Steelers in the Super Bowl in February attracted an
average of 111 million viewers, the biggest audience in U.S.
television history.  Who’s the Top Pick?  The audience may increase because the  Carolina Panthers 
haven’t said who they’re taking as the No. 1 pick, said Eric Weinberger, executive producer for the NFL Network.  “The uncertainty over the top pick is of huge interest for
a TV producer and it’s of huge interest to the fans,”
Weinberger said in a telephone interview.  While some fans may skip the telecast because they’re tired
of the labor dispute, others may tune in because of the suspense
over which players get selected first, said Brian Billick, who
coached the  Baltimore Ravens  to a  Super Bowl  title in 2001.  “The numbers may not be as strong as they have been,”
Billick, an analyst for the NFL Network, said in an interview.
“But they will still be very good.”  The first round will be shown on ESPN and the NFL Network
starting at 8 p.m. New York time. Rounds 2 and 3 will be held
tomorrow beginning at 6 p.m., with Rounds 4-7 the following
afternoon.  Hawkins said he may even watch.  “This may be the first draft where I tune in, because I
want to see what it looks like,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 