-- 
NFL Says Players Can Hold Workouts, Meet Coaches as Labor Dispute Goes On

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-28T20:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/nfl-says-players-can-resume-workouts-meet-coaches-tomorrow.html
The  National Football League  said
players will have full access to team practice facilities
starting tomorrow morning, when they’ll be permitted to work
out, get medical treatment and meet with coaches.  The decision comes after a federal judge ordered that the
league lift its lockout of players and rejected an appeal by
owners. While the NFL has asked a federal appeals court to delay
enforcement of the ruling, the league said in a statement today
that it’s appropriate for clubs to take initial steps in
response to the preliminary injunction.  “Football is back,”  DeMaurice Smith , the executive
director of the NFL Players Association, said in an interview
today in  New York . “Not only do our fans deserve to have the
game they love, it’s important to know that something as
inextricably intertwined with American culture is back.”  The announcement came hours before the NFL is set to start
its annual draft of college players. The league statement didn’t
specifically mention any effect on the draft, which runs through
April 30. The NFL said it will distribute procedures to its 32
teams tomorrow on how to deal with player transactions,
including trades, signings, tryouts and cuts. Included will be
timing for the start of the 2011 league year.  While the sport’s labor dispute continues, NFL players will
be permitted to use team training complexes for physical
examinations, rehabilitation and medical treatment -- as
scheduled by the clubs -- starting at 8 a.m. tomorrow.  ‘Back to Football’  “I’m ready to get back to football,”  Cleveland Browns 
running back Peyton Hillis said in an interview today in New
York’s Times Square, where he was photographed for the cover of
Electronic Arts Inc.’s new Madden NFL video game. “I’ve been
out of it for a few months and I’m ready to get back.”  Teams can distribute playbooks and game film, while players
are allowed to meet with coaches.  Players also will be able to begin voluntary workout
programs and classroom instruction that count toward
requirements of any offseason workout bonus in the player’s
contract.  New York Jets offensive tackle D’Brickashaw Ferguson has a
$750,000 bonus in his contract that’s tied to offseason
workouts. He was among players unable to work out when he
reported to the team complex in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , two
days ago after Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , ordered that the lockout be lifted.  The league previously instructed teams to allow players
access to training facilities, while restricting football
activities.  $9 Billion  The NFL, based in New York, instituted the lockout on March
12 after negotiations with players over a collective bargaining
agreement collapsed, with the two sides unable to reach a deal
on how to divide about $9 billion in annual revenue.  The NFL Players Association said on March 11 that it would
no longer act as a union. Also that day, 10 NFL players led by
Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and
 Drew Brees  filed a lawsuit alleging that league policies and the
lockout violate antitrust law.  Nelson ruled on April 25 as part of the antitrust lawsuit
that owners must end the lockout and yesterday refused to delay
implementing the decision while the league appeals.  “I do think it’s a sad day when players are suing to play,
and owners are suing to stop,” said the NFLPA’s Smith, adding
that he doesn’t know what the NFL’s rules regarding transactions
will constitute.  NFL training camps usually open in July and August. The
season is scheduled to begin Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  