-- 
NFL Players Ready to Work After Judge Blocks Lockout, DeMaurice Smith Says

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-04-28T04:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/nfl-players-ready-to-work-after-judge-blocks-lockout-demaurice-smith-says.html
National Football League players
should be able to go back to work now that a judge has blocked
the month-old lockout and refused a league request to put the
decision on hold,  DeMaurice Smith  said.  “The lockout is lifted,” Smith, the executive director of
the  NFL Players Association , said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “We expect the NFL to issue
a set of rules governing how players engage in the business of
football from this point forward.”  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson this week ended
the lockout of players, granting an injunction in a class-action
lawsuit that accuses the NFL of antitrust violations and wage
fixing. The judge yesterday refused to delay implementing the
decision while the league lodges an appeal.  The NFL said last night it applied to the Eighth Circuit
Court of Appeals for a stay of the injunction.  “We have asked the Court of Appeals to consider on an
expedited basis both our request for a stay and the appeal
itself,” the league said in a statement e-mailed by spokesman
 Greg Aiello . “There are strong legal and practical reasons that
support a stay.”  Players asked Nelson to order the league to post a $1
billion bond to indemnify players for any salary lost if 2011
season games are canceled and the lockout is ultimately ruled
illegal.  The most-watched and richest sport in the U.S. shut down on
March 12 after owners and players failed to reach a deal on how
to divide about $9 billion in annual revenue, the most of any
sports league.  Decertification, Lawsuit  The NFLPA said it no longer would act as a union in
collective bargaining and filed the lawsuit behind Super Bowl-
winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees .  Lawyers for the owners and players, at Nelson’s urging,
have engaged in four days of talks mediated by U.S. Magistrate
Judge Arthur Boylan in  Minneapolis . That process is scheduled to
resume May 16. Smith said he’s not allowed to discuss the status
of mediation.  Smith, who made his comments before Nelson refused the
stay, is in  New York City  to welcome rookies selected in the
draft, which begins today at Radio City Music Hall. The fanfare
surrounding the event won’t be diminished by the uncertainty
created by the labor dispute, Smith said.  “The draft has become a celebration of our young men and
their families coming into the business of football,” he said.  Smith will welcome rookies at a series of events, beginning
today with a reception at a Times Square hotel.  He then expects to return to talks with owners over
subjects including expanding the regular season by two games to
18, a rookie salary cap and health care for players.  Return to Business  Judge Nelson’s decision means teams should be allowed to
trade players and sign free agents as they make their picks,
Smith said.  “Now that the lockout has been lifted, there is absolutely
nothing that prevents free agents from being signed, from
players being signed, from trades occurring,” Smith said. “My
hope is that business does get back to normal.”  The league is awaiting clarification from the court on
those issues, Aiello said in an e-mail yesterday.  New York  Jets offensive tackle D’Brickashaw Ferguson, who
has a $750,000 bonus in his contract that’s tied to offseason
workouts, was among players who reported to the team’s practice
facility in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , following Nelson’s
injunction, the Star-Ledger of  Newark  reported.  NFL training camps usually open in July and August. The
regular season is scheduled to begin Sept. 8.  “A judge found that the owners’ lockout violated the law
and lifted it,” Smith said. “While we’re happy about the
current state of things, I have to come to a conclusion that the
world of players suing to keep football and owners suing to stop
football is less than our fans and our players deserve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 