-- 
NFL Owners Seek Emergency Motion to Delay Lockout Ruling During Appeal

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-04-28T20:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/nfl-loses-bid-to-delay-enforcement-of-court-order-to-end-player-lockout.html
National Football League  team
owners asked a federal appellate court to delay enforcement of
an order to end their labor lockout of the league’s players.  The NFL told a  U.S. Court of Appeals  that Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul , Minnesota, “brushed aside” legal
obstacles in her April 25 ruling ending the lockout. Nelson
yesterday denied the league owners’ request to put on hold her
decision in the antitrust lawsuit filed by 10 players, led by
New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady .  The players asked the appeals court today to hold “in
abeyance” the NFL’s request for a delay in enforcement of the
lockout ban “until we have an opportunity” to file a response.
The players intend to file opposition to the league’s motion by
noon tomorrow, said their lawyer, Theodore B. Olson, in a letter
to the court, which is based in  St. Louis .  The appellate court issued an order setting the players’
response deadline at the time proposed by Olson and directed the
owners to submit their reply by 9 a.m. on May 2.  The league, based in  New York , ordered the lockout on March
12 after negotiations over a collective bargaining agreement
collapsed. The NFL Players Association on March 11 said it would
no longer act as a union. The Brady case, alleging league
policies and the lockout violate antitrust law, was filed that
day.  The league also asked for an expedited schedule for its
appeal of the order, with briefs filed by the end of May and a
hearing “as soon as possible.”  ‘Preserve Status Quo’  The appeals court should “preserve the status quo,” while
it considers the owners’ request to continue the lockout until
their appeal is decided, said Paul D. Clement, a lawyer for the
NFL, in a letter to the appeals court today.  Holding the NFL’s request for a temporary delay in
enforcement in abeyance while waiting for the players to file
their opposition would be “equivalent to denying it,” Clement,
said, responding to an earlier proposal by Olson, the players’
appellate lawyer.  A temporary stay “is unlikely to last for any significant
interval,” Clement wrote. As a result, the players “can make
no possible claim of irreparable harm if the lockout that has
already been in place for a month and a half continues,” he
said.  Current Rules  “We believe there are strong legal and practical reasons
that support a stay and that the Court of Appeals should have an
opportunity to address the important legal issues that will be
presented,” NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said yesterday.  “Our clubs were notified last night they should continue
to follow the current rules and practices until otherwise
advised by our office today,” Aiello said in an e-mailed
statement this morning.  The league said later today that players will have full
access to team practice facilities starting tomorrow morning,
when they’ll be permitted to work out, get medical treatment and
meet with coaches. The league said in a statement that it’s
appropriate for clubs to take initial steps in response to
Nelson’s order.  “The players want to play,” James W. Quinn, one of the
players’ lawyers, said in a telephone interview today, adding
that they expect the NFL “will comply with the court order.”  The league has stalled complying with Nelson’s order
“without any basis,” Quinn said in a letter to an NFL attorney
today. Quinn asked the league to confirm that it would begin
2011 operations “with immediate effect, including the opening
of the free agent signing period.” Failure to do so would be
considered “grounds for contempt,” Quinn said.  The league has argued in court filings that ending the
lockout during an expedited appeal “would cause irreparable
harm to the league but not the players.”  NFL Draft   In a second letter today to the appeals court, Olson said,
“There is no reason to allow the NFL defendants to continue to
avoid the consequences of the injunction, particularly given
that the NFL draft is scheduled to begin tonight and
reinstatement of the lockout will immediately inflict
irreparable harm on the players.”  Nelson’s decision denying a stay on enforcement of the
lockout ban was based “in part on factual findings from
unrebutted evidence submitted by the players showing the
irreparable harm they would sustain given even a brief stay and
reimposition of the lockout,” Olson said in his earlier letter
today. The district court found “the NFL offered little legal
support for its positions,” Olson said.  Splitting Revenue  The two sides disagree on how the 32-team league and the
players should split $9 billion in annual revenue, on extending
the regular season from 16 to 18 games, on a salary cap for
first-year players and on health care for the athletes.  With a lockout, the athletes don’t get paid and can’t
practice. The NFL’s teams can’t sign or trade them.  “The NFL is only in the position of any defendant who has
been accused of illegal action, but not (yet) found liable,”
Nelson said in yesterday’s decision denying the league’s request
for a stay. “The league can choose either to continue its
allegedly illegal behavior until judgment, or to modify its
behavior.”  The owners had argued that Nelson didn’t have jurisdiction
over the labor dispute. In issuing her 89-page preliminary order
on April 25, Nelson said the players had a reasonable chance of
success in their case.  “The court’s order is consistent with the decisions of
every other court that has ruled on the issues,” the players
had said in a filing opposing the league’s request for a stay.  League owners hadn’t demonstrated they were in any danger
of irreparable harm, a requirement for the relief they sought,
Nelson said.  ‘World of Chaos’  “The NFL has shown no such injury resulting from or in any
way related to this court’s order, which importantly only
enjoins the lockout,” she said.  “The world of ‘chaos’ the NFL claims it has been thrust
into -- essentially the ‘free-market’ system this nation
otherwise willfully operates under -- is not compelled by this
court’s order,” Nelson wrote.  Court-assisted mediation of the dispute is scheduled to
resume on May 16.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of  Minnesota  (St. Paul). The appeal is Brady v.
National Football League, 11-1898, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  