-- 
Nigeria’s Ruling PDP Party Takes More Than Half of Governor Races Declared

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 
2011-04-28T15:43:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/nigeria-s-ruling-pdp-party-takes-more-than-half-of-governor-races-declared.html
Nigeria ’s ruling  People’s
Democratic Party  won more than half of the April 26 elections
for state governors declared so far, while the states of Bauchi
and Kaduna started voting today after delays caused by sectarian
violence.  The PDP took 15 of the 22 states declared and is leading in
the central Taraba state, according to the electoral commission
in  Africa ’s top oil producer. The Action Congress of Nigeria
captured Lagos, which includes the commercial capital, as well
as Ogun and Oyo in the southwest, the party’s stronghold.  Under the federal system in Africa’s most populous nation,
state governments control a significant share of national
revenue, more than 80 percent of which comes from oil exports,
and make their own laws. The state vote is the last stage in an
election process that local and international observers said has
been the fairest since military rule ended in Nigeria in 1999.  While there were cases of irregularities including ballot
snatching, said Jibrin Ibrahim, director of the Abuja-based
 Center for Democracy and Development , “the results show a
substantial progress in the integrity of the elections.”  Election monitors said voter turnout in the April 26 state
elections in northern states was low compared with presidential
vote held 10 days before due to fear of violence and
disappointment that former military leader  Muhammadu Buhari , a
Muslim from the north, lost to President Goodluck Jonathan.  Election Violence  Jonathan’s victory triggered riots across the mainly Muslim
north that killed more than 600 people and led to the burning of
churches, mosques and homes, the Kaduna-based  Civil Rights
Congress  said April 25.  At least 75,000 people were forced to flee their homes as a
result of the violence, Mohammed Sani-Sidi, director general of
the National Emergency Management Agency, said today in an e-
mailed statement from Abuja, the capital. About 55,000 of them
are in camps for the displaced, while the remaining 20,000 have
been taken in by family members or friends, he said.  Nigeria, with about 150 million people, is roughly split
between a mainly Christian south and a north dominated by
Muslims. While Buhari won all 12 northern states, Jonathan, a
Christian, took 23 of 24 central and southern states.  Opposition  The opposition All Nigeria People’s Party won in the
northeastern Borno and Yobe states and is leading in Zamfara
state, in the northwest. Buhari’s Congress for Progressive
Change, which was supposed to challenge the ruling party’s
dominance in the north, won only the central Nassarawa state. It
lost to the PDP in Kano and Katsina, where the party expected to
win.  The election in the southeastern Imo state was declared
“inconclusive” after the collation of results was marred by
irregularities, the electoral agency said. Results from four
states will be declared later today, according to the
Independent National Electoral Commission.  The remaining 10 states will hold their elections when the
tenures of the current governors run out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 