-- 
Nippon Yusen, Mitsui O.S.K. Predict Lower Profits as Shipping Rates Fall

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-04-28T07:47:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/nippon-yusen-mitsui-o-s-k-predict-lower-profits-as-shipping-rates-fall.html
Nippon Yusen K.K., Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd. and  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) ,  Japan ’s largest
shipping lines, forecast lower net income this fiscal year after
last month’s earthquake cut demand and rates declined.  Nippon Yusen expects profit of 34 billion yen ($417 million)
for the year ending March 31, compared with 78.5 billion yen
last year, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today.
Mitsui O.S.K. forecast a profit of 30 billion yen, compared with
58.3 billion yen, and said the quake will cut current profit by
as much as 10 billion yen.  All three lines fell in Tokyo trading after the companies
said they expect lower profit and that the earthquake would damp
demand for goods shipments. Dry-bulk and container rates have
fallen this year as expansion in the global fleet outpaces
rising world trade.  “Japanese shipping lines are really getting hit on two
fronts,” said Janet Lewis, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Macquarie Capital Securities Ltd. “We’re continuing to see
weakness on the dry-bulk side of things and it’s been quite
tough to make money in containers. I think that will continue.”  Nippon Yusen dropped 1 percent to 298 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trade in  Tokyo , reversing gains of as much as 2 percent.
Mitsui O.S.K. fell 0.4 percent to 450 yen, while Kawasaki Kisen
declined 2.5 percent to 270 yen.  Japan’s worst earthquake and tsunami on record last month
forced some ports to suspend operations and led to shortages of
electrical power and auto parts. The decline in output of cars
and other goods has dented demand for shipping, Nippon Yusen and
Mitsui O.S.K. said today in press briefings to discuss their
earnings.  Nippon Yusen said the quake would knock about 20 billion
yen off its annual current profit, or pretax profit from
operations. The company forecast current profit at 50 billion
yen this fiscal year, compared with 114 billion last year.  Kawasaki Kisen said net income will likely plunge to 2
billion yen this year from 30.6 billion yen.  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity-shipping prices,
has declined 29 percent this year to 1,259 points, as of
yesterday in  London .  Container lines are due to receive a record amount a new
ships this month with yards handing over 32 vessels with a
combined capacity of 226,500 boxes, according to Alphaliner.
Full-year deliveries will likely have a total capacity of 1.35
million containers, with about a third of handovers taking place
in April and May, according to the shipping-data provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  