-- 
Nobel Biocare Says Profit Dips, Submits AstraTech Bid

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-05-02T07:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/nobel-biocare-says-profit-slumps-offers-to-buy-astrazeneca-s-dental-unit.html
(Corrects number of CEOs in fifth paragraph of story
published April 28.)  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , the
second-biggest dental-implant maker by sales, said first-quarter
profit fell 67 percent and that it wants to buy  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN) ’s dental implant business.  Net income dropped to 12.9 million euros ($19.2 million)
from 38.7 million euros a year earlier, the Glattbrugg,
Switzerland-based company said today in a statement. Profit fell
short of the average estimate of 15.2 million euros from eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company had a currency gain
of 30.1 million euros in last year’s first quarter.  Chief Financial Officer Dirk Kirsten said Nobel submitted a
non-binding bid for AstraZeneca’s Astra Tech dental implant
business. Astra Tech has attracted interest from strategic
buyers and private equity and the process is still early,
Kirsten told reporters on a conference call.  AstraZeneca is seeking about $2 billion for the Swedish
unit, people with knowledge of the matter said in November.
Nobel has not yet decided whether to pursue a binding offer and
there are likely several rounds of bidding ahead, according to
Kirsten.  Nobel, which has lost market share and has had three CEOs
since 2007, had been considered a takeover target in the last
year due to its sinking stock price and restructuring. The
company is now growing again, Kirsten said.  “The market is catching up,” he said. “We’re very
confident we can hold the momentum in the U.S.”  Japan  Impact  Nobel’s sales last quarter rose to 143.5 million euros from
136.7 million euros a year earlier. Analysts had estimated
revenue of 142.2 million euros.  Nobel’s Japanese business, which accounts for two-thirds of
the company’s Asia-Pacific sales, declined 12 percent as
production at the plant in Chiba was temporarily halted after
last month’s earthquake and orders shifted to  Stockholm , the
company said. The plant is back online now, and it’s too early
to say what the impact on sales will be this year, Kirsten said.  Nobel still expects earnings before interest and taxes
margin at 18 percent of sales for 2011, compared with a margin
of 14.7 percent in 2010, barring any negative currency effects.
It expects to return to market growth by mid-year. The forecast
excludes events in Japan, Kirsten said.  Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , the world’s largest dental implant
maker by sales, reported yesterday that the strong franc reduced
revenue by 9 percent. Nobel’s Basel-based rival said it expects
to grow ahead of the market in 2011 assuming a mid-single-digit
growth rate. It also forecast an operating margin of 20 percent,
about the same as last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 