-- 
Novo Profit Beats Estimates as Victoza Treatment Lifts Sales

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-04-28T15:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/novo-nordisk-profit-beats-estimates-as-victoza-drug-lifts-sales.html
Novo Nordisk A/S, the world’s
biggest maker of insulin, said first-quarter profit rose 23
percent, beating estimates, as demand for its newest treatment,
Victoza, helped offset government price cuts.  Net income climbed to 4.07 billion kroner ($810 million)
from 3.32 billion kroner, as Victoza sales grew threefold, the
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based drugmaker said. That beat the average
estimate of 3.91 billion kroner in a Bloomberg survey of 14
analysts. Sales rose 15 percent to 15.7 billion kroner.  Novo Nordisk began selling Victoza in 2009 and planned this
year to market the treatment in several emerging markets. Sales
of the drug, which mimics a hormone called GLP-1 and stimulates
natural insulin production, climbed to 1.1 billion kroner,
beating an average estimate of 1.01 billion kroner in a
Bloomberg survey.  Victoza likely will be a blockbuster, with sales of at
least $1 billion, “at the turn of this year,” Chief Financial
Officer Jesper Brandgaard said today. The treatment helped boost
Novo Nordisk’s share of the total global diabetes market, by
value, to 24 percent from 23 percent, he said.  Novo Nordisk dipped 0.50 krone, or 0.1 percent, to 634.50
kroner in Copenhagen. The stock has gained 0.9 percent this
year, compared with a 0.3 percent increase in the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Amputations  Last year Novo Nordisk was the biggest gainer among
European drugmakers, propelled partly by the global spread of
diabetes. A rise in obesity, a leading cause of diabetes, will
help the company outgrow its bigger rivals, Datamonitor Group
said in February. Diabetics don’t produce enough insulin to
process the sugar that collects in their blood after eating and
puts them at risk of heart and kidney problems, blindness and
amputations.  More than 60 percent of patients taking GLP-1 treatments
for the first time now choose Victoza over  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s and
 Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) ’s Byetta, Brandgaard said by phone.
Novo Nordisk will have more than half the market by year-end, he
said.  Victoza is a once-daily injection which stimulates natural
insulin production, while Byetta must be injected twice a day.
First-quarter sales of Byetta dropped 12 percent to $165
million, Indianapolis-based Lilly reported April 18.  Victoza may soon face competition from Lilly and Amylin’s
experimental once-weekly version, Bydureon. European health
regulators on April 15 recommended its use in adults who develop
diabetes; final approval is needed from the European Commission.  Blood Sugar  “Near term, I don’t see it as a major concern,”
Brandgaard said, citing Victoza’s simpler method of
administration and an Amylin study which showed Bydureon was
less effective at lowering blood sugar levels. “I think we’re
in a strong competitive situation.”  Novo Nordisk today cut its full-year forecast as reported
in kroner after the Danish currency strengthened. Krone sales
growth will be as much as 6 percent, Novo Nordisk said. It
previously had forecast growth of as much as 8.5 percent. The
drugmaker maintained its growth forecast in local currencies of
as much as 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  