-- 
Obama Meets Longoria, Dawson to Discuss Immigration Overhaul

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-04-28T21:02:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/obama-enlists-longoria-dawson-to-aid-immigration-overhaul-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  enlisted
Hispanic celebrities, including actresses Eva Longoria, America Ferrera and Rosario Dawson, today to help push plans to overhaul
U.S. immigration laws.  The president listed a revamp of the immigration system as
one of the top issues on his agenda in speaking to supporters
last night at fundraisers in  New York . “We’ve still got to get
comprehensive immigration reform passed, because we can be a
nation of law and a nation of immigrants,” he told Democratic
donors.  Obama followed up on his remarks today during a meeting
with “influential Hispanics,” as the White House described
those in attendance, in the media and entertainment industries.
Afterward, Longoria told reporters that the president asked what
concerns they were hearing from the Hispanic community and what
they expect his administration to do in the next two years.  She said that an overhaul of U.S. immigration law is such a
“hot-button” topic because “there’s fear.” If Americans knew
that agriculture was supported by a predominantly Hispanic
workforce and that Hispanics pay more taxes than some major U.S.
corporations, the fear would dissipate, she said.  Longoria said Hispanics need to focus on electing advocates
for revising immigration laws to Congress. “We like to blame
Obama for the inaction, but he can’t just disobey the law that’s
written,” she said.  Dream Act  Longoria said much of the discussion concerned
reintroducing the Dream Act, a measure that would provide
permanent U.S. residency to college graduates and military
veterans who were brought to the U.S. illegally as children. The
legislation passed the House last year and was blocked in the
Senate.  Hispanics make up 16.3 percent of the  U.S. population ,
according to the Census Bureau, and they are a key constituency
being targeted by Obama in his 2012 re-election campaign. In
2008, Hispanics voted for Obama by a ratio of more than 2 to 1,
according to the nonpartisan  Pew Hispanic Center  in Washington.  Emilio Estefan, the husband of singer Gloria Estefan; Jose
Diaz-Balart, a journalist at the Spanish-language Telemundo
network; and Eddie “Piolin” Sotelo, host of a popular Spanish-
language radio show in  Los Angeles , were among those invited to
the White House meeting.  Stalled Since Bush  The effort to overhaul the nation’s immigration laws has
been stalled since Obama’s White House predecessor,  George W. Bush , was unable to get Congress to agree on a plan to create a
temporary worker program and provide a path for undocumented
workers to gain legal status.  Obama “believes Democrats and Republicans should come
together to tackle an issue that is critical not only to our
national security but also to the economy and our global
competitiveness,” according to a White House statement released
before the meeting.  Diaz-Balart told reporters after the meeting that English-
language media often ignore Hispanics. “It’s almost like there
are 11 million people under the radar screen here, and that
radar screen was lifted today at the White House,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  