-- 
Obama Says U.S.-Panama Trade Pact Will Benefit Both Nations

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-04-28T22:52:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/obama-says-u-s-panama-trade-agreement-will-benefit-both-nations.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said a
U.S.- Panama  free trade agreement would benefit both countries
and he expects it will be approved by Congress.  “We are confident now that a free trade agreement would be
good for our country” by opening new markets and creating jobs,
Obama told reporters in the Oval Office after a meeting with
Panamanian President Ricardo Martinelli.  Martinelli said the agreement would “bring growth for the
 United States  and Panama.”  Obama said that Martinelli has put in place “significant
reforms in banking and taxation in Panama” and that the accord
“would create jobs here in the United States, open up new
markets with the potential for billions of dollars of cross
border trade.”  Earlier this month, U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk
announced that the trade agreement is ready for consideration by
Congress.  A trade agreement with  South Korea  is also awaiting
congressional approval, while a separate deal with Colombia is
awaiting changes sought by the U.S. to boost union protections.  Trade benefits for U.S. exporters from the Panama trade
agreement will be the most modest among the three, according to
the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Trade Balances  The pending deal with South Korea may boost U.S. exports by
as much as $10.9 billion, and one with Colombia may add as much
as $1.1 billion to exports once the agreements are fully
implemented, the agency said. For Panama, it said, the accord
would have a “small positive impact on the  U.S. economy ” and
would “increase U.S. exports.”  Panama’s exports to the U.S. totaled $379 million last
year, while the U.S. sent $6.1 billion in goods to Panama,
compared with $12 billion to  Colombia  and $38.8 billion to South
Korea.  Senate Republicans have called for all three trade
agreements to be submitted for congressional approval at the
same time.  Francisco Sanchez , undersecretary for international
trade at the Commerce Department, said in an interview today in
Rio de Janeiro that he expects lawmakers to act on the accords
with Panama and Colombia this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  