-- 
Obama Says New National Security Team Will Maintain Focus

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-28T20:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/obama-says-new-national-security-team-will-maintain-focus-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said his
nominations of CIA Director Leon Panetta to take over the
Pentagon and General David Petraeus to lead the spy agency will
maintain a focused national security mission.  Obama also named veteran diplomat Ryan Crocker as the next
U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan and Lieutenant General John Allen
to replace Petraeus as commander of U.S. and allied forces
there.  “I cannot think of a group of individuals better suited to
lead our national security team during this difficult time,”
Obama said today at the White House. “They are leaders of
enormous integrity and talent who have devoted their lives to
keeping our nation strong and secure.”  The realigned national security team, if confirmed by the
Senate, would assume leadership of the changing U.S. role in
Iraq and  Afghanistan  and addressing the violence and unrest in
Northern Africa and the Middle East. They also will be in
position to follow through on security priorities they helped
form as Obama heads into an election year.  “The big message here is no change in policy, and that
means a careful and centrist approach on national security
issues,” said John Ullyot, who worked on the Republican staff
of the Senate Armed Services Committee and is now a senior vice
president at Hill & Knowlton in Washington.  Troop Reductions  Troop reductions are planned to begin in Afghanistan in
July, with the withdrawal of an unspecified number this year.
The military is also winding down in  Iraq . The U.S. is taking a
measured role in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
mission in  Libya . At the same time, and with possible threats
remaining from  Iran  and  North Korea , Obama has ordered new cuts
in national security spending.  “We confront urgent challenges,” the president said.  Panetta, replaces  Robert Gates , who previously announced he
intended to leave this year. Obama said Gates, the lone holdover
in Obama’s Cabinet from the George W. Bush administration, is
“one of the finest” defense secretaries in U.S. history.  Gates’s resignation will be effective June 30 and Panetta
is expected to take over July 1, pending Senate confirmation.  Panetta, 72, a California Democrat who served in the U.S.
House of Representatives from 1977 to 1993 and then as budget
director and White House chief of staff in the Clinton
administration, has been CIA director since February 2009.  Central Command  Before taking his position as top U.S. commander in
Afghanistan last summer, Petraeus, 58, was the head of  U.S.
Central Command  with responsibility for the Middle East and
Central Asia. He will retire from the military before taking the
CIA post in September.  Panetta and Petraeus “will provide important continuity of
leadership, policy and philosophy,” said Senator  John Kerry ,
the Massachusetts Democrat who leads the Foreign Relations
Committee.  The timing for Crocker’s nomination hasn’t been set.
Crocker, 61, served as ambassador in Iraq from 2007 to 2009 and
was the top U.S. diplomat in  Pakistan  before that. He is dean of
the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M
University.  Allen’s Role  Allen is the deputy commander of the U.S. Central Command,
based in  Florida . He filled in as acting commander last year
when Obama put Petraeus in charge of the war in Afghanistan.  Allen will serve as special assistant to Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in the interim to
prepare for assuming the post in Afghanistan on Sept. 1.  The president’s choices are likely to get bipartisan
support in the Senate during the confirmation process.
Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , a member of
the Armed Services Committee, said in a statement that all four
appointees are “experienced people with unique capabilities,”
and that he “could not be more pleased with these selections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  