-- 
Mobius Sees Extended Global Equities Bull Market After Fed Move

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-28T05:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/mobius-sees-extended-global-equities-bull-market-after-fed-easing-decision.html
The global equities  bull market 
will weather any halt in bond purchases by the  Federal Reserve 
amid rising U.S. consumption and investment in emerging markets,
according to Templeton Asset Management’s  Mark Mobius .  U.S. stocks rose, sending benchmark indexes to almost
three-year highs, after the central bank yesterday renewed its
pledge to keep  interest rates  near zero to stimulate the economy.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  agreed to finish $600 billion
of Treasury purchases in June. Another round of buying isn’t
needed to sustain the rally and there won’t be an economic slump
in the second half, Mobius said in a phone interview from
Bucharest yesterday before the Fed statement.  “We are in a bull market and it will continue,” said
Mobius, 74, who oversees more than $50 billion as the Singapore-
based executive chairman of Templeton’s emerging markets group.
“There will be corrections along the way but these will be very
temporary. The consumer in Europe and America is back. They’re
not spending like crazy but they are spending.”  InterContinentalExchange’s Dollar Index sank 0.5 percent to
the lowest since 2008 as of 2:05 p.m. in  Tokyo . The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index jumped 1.1 percent to an eight-week high after the
central bank statement. Silver, copper and oil surged and gold
rose to a record.  “Things are humming along at the moment,” Mobius said.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has more than doubled since
Mobius said in a  Bloomberg Television interview on March 23,
2009, that a “bull-market” rally had begun and that there were
bargains in every developing-nation market following the slump
triggered by the global financial crisis.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday said the central
bank would initially hold its balance sheet steady after
completing the current program of bond purchases, the second
phase of so-called quantitative easing since the global
financial crisis.  Dollar, QE3  More bond purchases by the U.S. central bank would cause
instability for the  U.S. dollar  that would “weigh” on markets,
causing “a great deal of uncertainty globally,” Mobius said.  Confidence among U.S. consumers increased more than
forecast in April, signaling the improving labor market is
helping Americans weather rising fuel costs, an index compiled
by the New York-based Conference Board showed April 26. Six
straight months of job growth are helping sustain consumer
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy.  Balance Sheets  “A lot” of the funds from previous Fed bond purchases are
still held by banks that will, with repaired balance sheets,
increase lending amid the economic recovery, Mobius said. New
drivers of growth also are emerging from Africa to  Russia , with
Eastern  Europe  likely to add impetus within one to two years,
Mobius said.  “If you consider Russia alone and the African continent,
these areas have hardly been exploited for mineral wealth,” he
said. “There’s an incredible amount of infrastructure that has
to be put in for these countries not only to get at the mines
but also to serve the growing population. It’s endless.”  Standard & Poor’s April 18 decision to cut its outlook for
the U.S.’s top AAA credit rating to “negative” from “stable”
and risks of fiscal crises in some developed economies has
changed investor behavior, benefitting emerging markets, Mobius
said.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has advanced 20 percent in
the past 12 months, compared with a 16 percent climb by the  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index of developed nations. Companies in the developing
nations’ index trade for 11.7 times estimated earnings, less
than developed countries’ 13.1 times.  The dollar index has dropped even after the Japanese
earthquake and turmoil in the Middle East, whereas investors
retreated to the safe haven of the dollar and Treasuries during
the global financial crisis, Mobius said.  “That means investors are diversifying out of U.S.
Treasuries and going into global markets,” he said. “That’s
been a big change, which has been beneficial for emerging
markets generally.”  Global markets are gradually adjusting to the day when the
dollar will not be the main currency, Mobius said. “More
instability caused by a big QE3 event will not be good.”  The best places to capitalize on the global bull market are
 Brazil , Russia,  India  and  China , while in “frontier” markets
including  Africa , Vietnam, Bangladesh and  Pakistan  “there are
lots of opportunities,” Mobius said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  