-- 
Locke in South Korea Says U.S. Must ‘Fight’ for Access to China’s Markets

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-28T05:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/locke-in-south-korea-says-u-s-must-fight-for-access-to-china-s-markets.html
U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke,
President  Barack Obama ’s choice to be the next ambassador to
 China , said the U.S. “cannot ever let off our guard” in pressing
China to ensure its industrial policy doesn’t unfairly limit
access to American companies.  “We need to continue to fight for market access,” Locke
said in an interview in Gimpo,  South Korea . “We just need to
make sure that American companies have an opportunity to compete
fairly against the Chinese and other companies from around the
world.”  The Beijing-based American Chamber of Commerce in China
released a report this week saying Chinese industrial policies
are “favoring domestic companies at the expense of their foreign
counterparts.” Departing Ambassador  Jon Huntsman  brought
together business groups and diplomats to push against proposed
rules that threatened to restrict U.S. companies such as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  in China’s $1 trillion
public procurement market.  If confirmed by the U.S. Senate, Locke will become a
central figure in managing the relationship between the world’s
two biggest economies, which are at odds over the value of
China’s yuan, a persistent U.S. trade deficit with China that
reached a record $273.1 billion last year, human rights,
Internet freedom and U.S. arms sales to Taiwan.  “I think we have to look at the relationship over the long
term,” Locke said.  Human Rights Critique  In his final months as ambassador, Huntsman was critical of
China’s human rights record. He attended a Feb. 20 rally in
downtown Beijing inspired by the popular revolts sweeping Arab
countries. Huntsman, in an April 6 speech in  Shanghai , said
future U.S. ambassadors will continue to defend and speak out
for social activists like jailed Nobel laureate  Liu Xiaobo  and
artist Ai Weiwei, who was detained earlier this month in Beijing.  Locke, 61, a former Democratic governor of Washington State
who is of Chinese descent, said the ambassadorship will be “a
very challenging assignment but also a great adventure.” He
said his Chinese heritage could help broaden the relationship.  “I think the Chinese leadership knows that I am American,
that I am a representative of the American government and I am a
representative of President Obama and the American people,”
Locke said.  --Stephen Engle, Bomi Lim, Michael Forsythe. Editor: Patrick
Harrington, John Brinsley  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Seoul at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  