-- 
Logitech Profit Drops; CEO Says Priority Is ‘to Fix’ Europe

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-04-28T13:26:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/logitech-fourth-quarter-net-drops-89-on-lower-regional-sales.html
Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the
world’s biggest maker of computer mice, said fourth-quarter
profit fell 89 percent on lower sales in the Europe, Middle East
and Africa region.  Net income in the quarter ended March 31 declined to $2.78
million from $24.5 million a year earlier, the Romanel-sur-
Morges, Switzerland-based company said in a statement. Revenue
increased 4.2 percent to $548 million. Net income had been
predicted at $6.5 million on sales of $548 million, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “In the fourth quarter demand was weaker than expected and
execution to try and address this was poor and ineffective in
all western European markets,” Chief Executive Officer Gerald Quindlen said in an interview today. “That led us to end the
year in a very disappointing way.”  Logitech lowered its full-year sales and profit forecasts
on March 31 because of “projected shortfalls,” mainly caused
by “weakness” in the  Europe , Middle East and Africa sales
region, or EMEA. The company cited lower-than-expected demand
for retail products in the region, which accounts for about 45
percent of total sales, from both distribution partners and
consumers.  EMEA Priority  “Our priority is to have the business in EMEA back on
track,” the CEO said, adding that will take “a couple of
quarters.” The appointment of a new head for EMEA sales and
marketing, Marcel Stolk, should help the transition, he said.
”I’m more optimistic about the second half.”  Logitech, which also produces home-entertainment control,
gaming and wireless devices, forecast revenue will increase 10
percent to about $2.6 billion in the fiscal year through March
2012 and operating profit by about 30 percent to $185 million.  The outlook “will trigger concern, and credibility with
investors will depend on whether management can reassure
investors that the problems in the fourth quarter were temporary
in nature,” Credit Suisse analyst Christoph Gretler said in a
note today.  LifeSize Communications Inc. , the videoconferencing
business that Logitech bought in 2009 for $405 million, and
emerging markets such as  China ,  Brazil ,  Russia  and  India  will
help boost revenue, the CEO said.  ‘Healthy Growth Rates’  “We’ll continue to see very healthy growth rates for some
time to come in these markets,” Quindlen said. He said “major
acquisitions are unlikely” because the priority is “to fix
Europe,” after sales in the EMEA region fell 17 percent in the
fourth quarter. Logitech may make “smaller, technology-
building” acquisitions worth about $15 million to $30 million,
he said.  Logitech, which has no long-term debt, will also use its
$478 million in cash to buy back shares, Quindlen said. He ruled
out paying a dividend as the company reinvests its funds.  Some analysts including Jonathan Tseng at BofA Merrill
Lynch Global Research argue that the proliferation of tablet
computers may erode Logitech’s traditional desktop and notebook
business.  “Tablets are both a threat and an opportunity for us,”
the CEO said. “We’ve been slow on tablets with a wait-and-see
approach, but we definitely see an incremental opportunity
there.”  Logitech sells a  keyboard case  as an accessory for Apple
Inc.’s iPad2.  In the last quarter of 2010, the company started Logitech
Revue, a set-top box to provide access to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s TV,
which it offers in the U.S. The company said at the time it was
“confident” about the long-term potential of the  Google TV
platform , which combines  Internet access  with on-demand TV.  Logitech shares fell 0.2 percent to 12.28 francs as of
3:25 p.m. in Zurich, giving the company a market value of
2.35 billion francs ($2.69 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  