-- 
Oil Drops From 31-Month High on Speculation of Slower U.S. Economic Growth

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-28T12:48:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/oil-rises-to-31-month-high-as-fed-keeps-stimulus-u-s-fuel-reserves-drop.html
Oil traded lower in  New York  after
the U.S. said economic growth in the first quarter rose 1.8
percent, slower than economists had forecast.  Crude futures earlier climbed to a new 31-month high after
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that it will keep
record low  interest rates  in place and stop buying bonds in
June. The gains were trimmed after the U.S. said its economy
grew at a slower pace than the last quarter of 2010.  “Since the start of the second quantitative easing, every
bad economic data was taken positively as it means the Fed will
continue to pump money into the system,” said  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director of Geneva-based consultant Petromatrix. “Now
the QE should be over. You need to look at economic data in a
different perspective.”  Crude for June delivery was down 13 cents at $112.63 at
13:44 p.m. London time in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Earlier the contract rose by as much as 94
cents to $113.70 a barrel the highest price since Sept. 22,
2008. Brent for June settlement was at $125.01 a barrel, down
0.1 percent, on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Futures in New York are poised for an eighth monthly gain,
buoyed by concern that political unrest in the Middle East and
North Africa could spread to other producers including  Saudi
Arabia . Unrest in the region has toppled leaders in Egypt and
Tunisia and spread to  Libya , Bahrain, Syria and Yemen.  U.S. Economic Growth  U.S. Gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent annual
rate from January through March after a 3.1 percent pace in the
last three months of 2010, the Commerce Department said today in
 Washington . Economists projected 2 percent growth, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Higher  gas
prices  prompted Americans to limit spending after they ramped up
purchases in the prior three months.  Oil climbed as much as 1.1 percent yesterday after the
 Federal Reserve  renewed its pledge to stimulate growth with low
interest rates and said a pickup in inflation is likely to be
temporary. The Fed announcement bolstered equities and sent the
dollar lower.  U.S. stockpiles of gasoline dropped for a 10th week in the
seven days to April 22, the longest losing streak in four years,
according to data from the Department of Energy. Inventories
fell 2.51 million barrels to 205.6 million that week, the data
showed. The U.S. driving season, when demand usually peaks,
begins on Memorial Day, the last weekend of May and ends on
Labor Day in the first weekend of September.  Declines in crude futures may be limited as the dollar
remained weak against other currencies. The Dollar Index, which
tracks the U.S. currency against six trading partners, fell to
the lowest level since 2008, boosting the appeal of commodities
priced in the U.S. currency.  “While the Fed plans to keep rates near zero there is no
opportunity cost to holding commodity assets, so everyone is
buying into crude as they are not missing out on interest
elsewhere,” said Alexander Ridgers, head of commodities of CMC
Markets in  London .  North Sea Brent crude’s premium to U.S. benchmark West
Texas Intermediate narrowed. The spread between the two front-
month contracts was at 12.45 a barrel compared with $12.37
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  