-- 
Olympic Medalist Lewis Loses Bid to Keep Name on New Jersey Senate Ballot

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-04-29T04:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/olympic-medalist-lewis-loses-bid-to-keep-name-on-new-jersey-senate-ballot.html
Carl Lewis, the Olympic gold
medalist seeking a  New Jersey  state senate seat, failed to
persuade a federal judge to block the printing of primary
election ballots without his name.  Secretary of State Kim Guadagno had ruled April 26 that
Lewis, a 49-year-old Democrat, was ineligible because he didn’t
meet the state’s four-year residency requirement. Lewis asked
U.S. District Judge Noel Hillman to order three counties to stop
printing ballots that don’t list him for the 8th District seat.  Lewis sued after the ruling by Guadagno, a Republican who
is also lieutenant governor. He claimed Guadagno got the facts
wrong about his residency. He also asked Hillman to rule that
the residency requirement violates his rights under the 14th
Amendment of the U.S. constitution.  “It is not my intention to address state law issues,
interpret the state constitution or second guess the reasoned
decision of the secretary of state in this matter,” Hillman
said during a hearing yesterday in federal court in Camden, New
Jersey. “Respect for the state constitution is of paramount
concern.”  Lewis will make an emergency request to the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Philadelphia to block Hillman’s order from being
enforced, said his lawyer, William Tambussi. He also appealed
April 27 in state court, and his case could be heard as early as
tomorrow, Tambussi said.  Tambussi had argued that the state failed to give a
compelling reason why general assembly members needed only two
years’ residency while senators need four.  “Carl Lewis grew up here,” Tambussi said. “Mr. Lewis is
the  Bruce Springsteen  of track. He’s in the New Jersey Hall of
Fame.”  ‘Power to Change’  Hillman said the voters in the state “have long had the
power to change” the residency provision and at least twice
have passed on the opportunity.  “A majority of the people in the state of New Jersey want
a four-year restriction,” he said. “This provision treats
everyone outside of the state the same.”  Lewis, who grew up in Willingboro, New Jersey, claims he is
now a state resident after living in California and  Texas . He
competed for the U.S. in four Olympics as a sprinter and long
jumper, winning nine gold medals.  Lewis argued that temporarily barring election officials
from removing him from the ballot would do no harm to the
electoral process as the ballots haven’t yet been printed. The
primary is scheduled for June 7.  County officials told Hillman that they are ready to get
ballots in the mail by May 6.  ‘Marching Orders’  “We don’t have a horse in this race,” said James T.
Dugan, assistant county counsel for Atlantic County. “We just
want our marching orders so we can get these ballots out so that
people can vote.”  Guadagno rejected an earlier ruling by an administrative
law judge allowing Lewis on the ballot. In her decision,
Guadagno said Lewis failed to prove he lived in New Jersey for
four years prior to the Nov. 8 general election.  Lewis moved to  California  in 1997 and owned three homes
there as of Nov. 8, 2007, Guadagno said in a 15-page opinion. He
sold one home in 2007 and another in July. He still owns a
rental property there, according to Guadagno’s opinion.  California Resident  Lewis also certified he was a California resident each time
he voted there in three elections in 2008 and one in 2009,
Guadagno said. He also paid California income taxes from 2002
through at least 2008 and possibly 2009, she said. He didn’t
register to vote in New Jersey until April 11, the day he filed
his candidacy, Guadagno said.  Lewis attended the  University of Houston  on a full track
scholarship, and trained in Houston for the  Olympic Games  in
1984, 1988, 1992 and 1996, according to his lawsuit. He moved to
California in 1999, his lawyers said in the complaint.  He said he moved from California to  Mount Laurel , New
Jersey, purchasing a condominium for himself in 2005 and another
for his mother a month later, according to the complaint. He got
a New Jersey driver’s license in 2006 and bought a home in
Medford, New Jersey, on Nov. 17, 2007, where he resides and pays
property taxes, according to the complaint.  Lewis became a volunteer assistant track coach at
Willingboro High School, his alma mater, in May 2007 and has
attended church in Camden since 2009, his attorneys said in
court papers.  Traditionally Elected Republicans  New Jersey’s 8th district, in the southern part of the
state outside Philadelphia, has traditionally elected
Republicans. Its boundaries were redrawn this year. Republican
Dawn Marie Addiego was appointed to fill the seat of Phil Haines, who was tapped for a judgeship by Republican Governor
 Chris Christie .  Lewis said in an interview with the  Philadelphia Inquirer 
that Christie tried to talk him out of running in the June 7
primary a day before he entered the race.  Michael Drewniak , a
spokesman for Christie, said by e-mail April 27 that Lewis had
misrepresented the tone and content of his phone call with the
governor.  The case is Lewis v. Guadagno, 11-cv-2381, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Camden, New Jersey, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 