-- 
OMV First-Quarter Production Declines 5% on Standstills in Libya, Yemen

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-04-28T07:03:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/omv-quarterly-production-declines-5-on-libya-standstill-1-.html
OMV AG (OMV)  said production declined 5
percent to 304,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the first
quarter from the previous three months after its output from
 Libya  was halted in February.  The refining margin at central  Europe ’s biggest oil company
fell to $2.30 a barrel from $3.48 in the previous quarter,
Vienna-based OMV said in a  statement  on its website today.  Production in Libya was at normal levels until Feb. 20 and
production from the country averaged 18,700 barrels a day in the
first quarter, OMV said. Libya contributed about 33,000 barrels,
or about 10 percent, to OMV’s total production last year. The
company has evacuated all non-local staff from Libya and halted
production at the Shateira field, which it operates.  Oil output from Libya has dropped by about 1.3 million
barrels a day to a “trickle” of its normal level since
fighting between government troops and rebel forces forced
companies to suspend operations and evacuate staff, the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency  said last month.  Production in Yemen has been halted since March 14 after an
attack on an export pipeline from the country, OMV said in the
statement. Yemen contributed about 6,600 barrels to total
production last year.  Negative Effect  OMV told investors earlier this month that the crisis in
Libya will have a “negative effect” of 20 percent on the
company’s earnings before interest and tax, according to Philipp Chladek, an analyst at Raiffeisen Centrobank AG. Due to Libya’s
90 percent  tax rate , “net profit is affected only by 10
percent,” Chladek said.  The lower production in Libya will lead to a “significant
reduction” of the overall tax rate in the first quarter, OMV
said today.  OMV said earlier this month that it was preparing to adapt
its refinery in Burghausen,  Germany , to process non-Libyan
crude. OMV’s Schwechat refinery near Vienna also is increasingly
processing crude from other regions, according to the company.  The company has been buying crude from  Saudi Arabia ,
Kazakhstan and the  Black Sea region  to compensate for Libyan
oil, which last year made up 20 percent of crude processed at
OMV refineries. Saudi Aramco, the world’s biggest oil company,
sold cargoes of a new blend last month to OMV and BP Plc, a
company official said March 29.  OMV also said today that it expects net special charges
within first-quarter Ebit of approximately 20 million euros ($30
million), “mainly relating to the expected demolishing costs in
relation with the closure of the Arpechim refinery” in  Romania .  Oil price swaps will be “adversely impacting” Ebit by an
addition 24 million euros, OMV said  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  