-- 
Hyundai Motor Takes Lead Over Quake-Stricken Honda as Profit, Sales Surge

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-04-28T20:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/honda-fourth-quarter-profit-plunges-38-on-earthquake-lower-world-demand.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s
largest carmaker, boosted quarterly profit 46 percent as it won
sales from Japanese rivals, outpacing Honda Motor Co., whose
production was cut by last month’s record earthquake in Japan.  Hyundai increased net income to 1.88 trillion won ($1.75
billion) in the three months ended March 31 from a revised 1.28
trillion won a year earlier, the Seoul-based company said in a
regulatory filing today. The stock jumped 7.3 percent to the
highest closing price since it began trading in 1975.  “Chaos brings disorder, and that’s when you see changes in
ranks among leaders,” said Lim Jeong Seok, head of equity at
KDB Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $2
billion in Seoul. “The past financial crisis and the recent
earthquake may be an opportunity for Hyundai to pass bigger
rivals.”  Hyundai increased global vehicle sales about 9 percent last
quarter from a year earlier after adding new models including
the Grandeur premium sedan in South Korea and the Accent small
car in China. The carmaker may extend sales gains as  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , Nissan Motor Co. and Honda curtail production
following the March 11 earthquake.  Honda, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, reported fourth-
quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates. The Tokyo-based
automaker’s net income plunged 38 percent to 44.5 billion yen
($545 million) for the three months ended March 31, lower than
the 93.8 billion yen average of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue fell 2.9 percent, while Hyundai’s gained 21
percent in the same period.  Honda Shares  Honda’s American depositary receipts, each representing one
ordinary share, rose 21 cents to $38.12 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The company’s shares rose 90
yen, or 2.9 percent, to close at 3,190 yen in Tokyo before the
earnings announcement.  Hyundai boosted vehicle sales in the January-March period
to 919,000, outselling Honda, whose global deliveries fell 1.6
percent to 860,000, according to the companies. A year earlier,
Honda outsold Hyundai 874,000 to 842,000.  Japanese carmakers are working to restore full operations
after the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami damaged parts
factories and power plants, causing shortages of components and
electricity. Honda said this week it expects its global output
to return to normal levels by the end of the year.  Sales Outlook  “Even if production comes back, sales may not” in  Japan ,
said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital Management Inc.
in Tokyo. “May sales, June sales may be close to zero as the
companies won’t have much to sell.”  Honda’s sales drop in the fourth quarter was led by a 22
percent decline in Japan from a year earlier, when a government
subsidy program for car purchases helped boost domestic sales.
Deliveries rose 7.9 percent in  North America  to 356,000 vehicles
and 0.4 percent in  Asia , excluding Japan, to 238,000.  Hyundai and affiliate Kia Motors Corp. have “been on a
meteoric rise in the past couple of years and could get an added
boost from the Japanese automakers’ woes,” Michelle Krebs,
analyst for  Santa Monica , California-based Edmunds.com, said in
an e-mail. “Production by the two South Korean brands has been
left relatively unscathed because they have few parts sourced
out of Japan.”  Hyundai Surges  Hyundai rose 7.3 percent to 250,500 won at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Seoul, extending a 44 percent gain this year. That
compares with the benchmark Kospi index’s 7.7 percent year-to-
date increase.  Honda’s output in Japan plunged 63 percent from a year
earlier to 34,754 vehicles in March, the carmaker said earlier
this week. The company’s output of cars and parts in Japan will
remain at 50 percent of regular capacity until the end of June.  “We are in a situation where our supply is short when
demand for cars is increasing globally,” Managing Director
Fumihiko Ike told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  Honda declined to provide a full-year earnings forecast,
citing the impact of the natural disaster on production. The
earthquake cost Honda 45.7 billion yen in the year ended March
31, the carmaker said.  The company’s cash position may become “strained” over
the next six months, given depressed production levels, Ike
said. Honda obtained board approval today to issue as much as
200 billion yen in commercial paper “just in case” the need
arises, and has no immediate plans to do so, he said.  For the fiscal year ended March 31, net income almost
doubled to 534 billion yen, while sales gained 4.2 percent to
8.94 trillion yen, Honda said.  Toyota Production  Toyota, the world’s biggest automaker, also estimates
production will remain below normal levels until November or
December. The Toyota City, Japan-based company may lose output
of 300,000 vehicles in Japan and 100,000 overseas through the
end of April due to quake-related shutdowns, Executive Vice
President Atsushi Niimi said last week.  Toyota is unlikely to meet its full-year global production
target of 7.7 million vehicles, he said. About 150 parts, mostly
materials such as rubber and plastics, are still in critically
short supply, President  Akio Toyoda  said April 22.  Toyota is to report fourth-quarter earnings on May 11.  Japan’s automakers also face possible blackouts after the
natural disaster reduced the nation’s power-generating capacity
by 8 percent. The carmakers are considering electricity-saving
options such as shutting plants and offices for two days a week
and shifting work to weekends to conserve power. Honda expects a
25 percent power-supply reduction this summer, Ike said.  Honda in  China   The natural disaster has had little impact on Honda’s
operations in China, the world’s biggest auto market, where no
production halts are planned until the end of May at the
earliest, Seiji Kuraishi, the company’s president for China,
said at the Shanghai auto show last week.  Honda hasn’t revised its full-year China sales forecast of
730,000 vehicles, Kuraishi said. Even if parts shortages reduce
the supply of vehicles, it can be made up for in the second half
of the year, he said. The carmaker boosted output in China 12
percent last month to 73,032 vehicles.  Separately,  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  said it posted a net loss of
62.8 billion yen in the three months ended March 31, on sales of
607.8 billion yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  