-- 
London Chefs Raise Money for Victims in Japan, Australia, N.Z.

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-04-28T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/london-chefs-raising-money-for-disaster-victims-in-japan-australia-n-z-.html
London  chefs and restaurateurs are
seeking to raise money for the victims of natural disasters,
including last month’s tsunami in  Japan , floods and fires in
 Australia  and the earthquake in New Zealand.  Arjun Waney and Rainer Becker, the founders of Roka and
Zuma, have raised 150,000 pounds ($249,000) for the
International Red Cross Japan Earthquake Fund. In part this has
come from the proceeds from sales of edamame, a dish ordered by
more than 95 percent of customers each day.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan left almost
26,000 people dead or missing. The Japanese authorities are
rebuilding roads, bridges, ports and other infrastructure in the
northeast of the country.  “My Japanese colleagues and I had a lot of discussions
about how we could help,” said Satomi Okubo, the sake sommelier
at Zuma. “I have relatives in Sendai City who lost everything
and I have just heard that the wife of one of my cousins passed
away. We are a Japanese restaurant and we should help.”  Okubo and her colleagues have also made 1,000 origami
cranes to send to children whose families are victims.  Chefs  Shane Osborn  (Pied a Terre),  Brett Graham  (the
Ledbury) and Bruno Loubet (Bistrot Bruno Loubet) will cook
dinner in a Fire & Floods Gala Dinner at Australia House on May
3, with a musical set from  John Helliwell  of the rock band
Supertramp. Tickets are 150 pounds from
 http://www.fireandfloodsappeal.org/ .  Disaster Help  “In the last few months looking at the news from
Australia, it’s been one disaster after another and you want to
know how to help,” said Catherine Loubet, who is organizing the
event. French-born Loubet and her husband hold Australian
passports after they lived in the country for eight years.  Chefs who took part in a similar event on April 4 for
victims of the earthquake in Christchurch,  New Zealand , have so
far helped raise more than 60,000 pounds. Contributions are
still being collected at  http://kaiwecare.weebly.com/index.html .  The organizers, Mat Follas and Dave Ahern, were this week
invited to meet John Key, New Zealand’s Prime Minister.  Among future events, Claude Bosi of Hibiscus is discussing
organizing a dinner for Japan with fellow chefs including Sat
Bains (Restaurant Sat Bains), Simon Rogan (L’Enclume), Simon
Hulstone (The Elephant) and Daniel Clifford (Midsummer House).  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 