-- 
OPEC Crude Exports Drop as Slump Nears End, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-04-28T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/opec-crude-exports-drop-as-slump-nears-end-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will cut exports by 1.2 percent in the four
weeks to May 14 because of a seasonal decline in demand,
according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  OPEC, responsible for 40 percent of global supplies, will
ship 22.75 million barrels a day in the four weeks to May 14,
down from 23.03 million barrels a day in the period to April 16,
the consultant said today in a report. The data exclude  Ecuador 
and Angola.  While the amount of cargoes has dropped in the second
quarter as refineries undergo annual maintenance, the decline in
shipments may now reverse as fuel demand in the northern
hemisphere accelerates, Roy Mason, Oil Movements’ founder, said
today by phone from Halifax,  England .  “There’s a good chance it’s bottomed out as it should
have,” Mason said. “We are now looking at May arrivals and
refinery runs are starting to pick up beginning in May.”  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers will increase to
17.49 million barrels a day in the four weeks to May 14, the
report showed. That’s up from 17.39 million barrels in the
previous period.  An average of 468.72 million barrels of crude will be on
board tankers in the month to May 14, down 2.4 percent from
480.33 million barrels in the four weeks to April 16, Oil
Movements said.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships used as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq,
Kuwait,  Libya ,  Nigeria , Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.
The organization is next due to meet on June 8 in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  