-- 
Tornado Slams Jefferson County Contemplating Bankruptcy

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   T o m   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-28T23:25:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/tornado-strains-jefferson-county-as-officials-weigh-bankruptcy.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , already
on the brink of bankruptcy, faces another emergency after a
tornado ripped through the state’s most populous county,
destroying 1,000 homes and killing at least 30 people.  The county of 660,000 people, which may run out of cash in
July, was devastated yesterday when a tornado with winds of more
than 100 miles an hour (161 kilometers an hour) tore through the
west side and then slammed into Birmingham’s northern
neighborhoods. More than 100 people were injured.  Police, firefighters and public-works crews from the
county’s more than 40 municipalities have started search-and-
rescue operations, and the death toll and injuries will probably
climb, said  Mark Kelly , a spokesman for  Jefferson County’s
Emergency Management Agency.  At least 1,000 homes in Jefferson
County were “flattened and unliveable,” said Allen Kniphfer,
the agency’s executive director.  “You sometimes say nothing else can happen,” David Carrington, president of the county commission, said at a
meeting in Birmingham to discuss the emergency. “I’m not going
to say that anymore.”  At least 280 people died in six states, including 194 in
Alabama, as dozens of storms tore apart homes and businesses,
the  Associated Press  reported. As many as 1 million residents
were left without power, Governor Robert Bentley said.  Deadliest Day  It was the deadliest single day for tornadoes in the U.S.
since April 3, 1974, when 310 people died, according to
AccuWeather Inc.  Jefferson County won’t bear much of the cost of the clean-
up because President Barack Obama yesterday issued a disaster
declaration and the federal government will reimburse the county
for expenses, Kelly said. Assistance from towns will also help
the county, he said.  “We have to do what we have to do to address the loss of
life and damage to property, and to try to, as quickly as we
can, get life back to normal,” Kelly said.  Encompassing Birmingham, Alabama’s biggest city, the county
has sought since 2008 to avoid the biggest-ever U.S. municipal
bankruptcy after interest costs on more than $3 billion of sewer
debt soared during the financial crisis. The financing process
was riddled with corruption.  Last month the state  Supreme Court  struck down a wage and
business-license tax enacted in 2009, amplifying the county’s
fiscal crisis. The ruling slashed general-fund revenue by about
25 percent, or $73 million a year. The county may have to cut
1,200 of its 3,500 employees to cope with the drop.  ‘Major Catastrophic Event’  The governors of Mississippi, Virginia and  Tennessee 
declared emergencies while in Alabama, Bentley activated units
of the National Guard to deal with damage in 18 counties,
according to state websites.  In the Birmingham neighborhood of  Pratt City , about five
miles northwest of downtown, processions of people carrying
belongings from wrecked apartments and houses moved past piles
of rubble, roofless buildings and fallen trees.  Barbara Wells, a trucking company recruiter, said the storm
blew off the back of her house.  “I actually saw the walls go in and I told my daughter, I
said, ‘Come out of your room, now,’” Wells said. “I told her
to hold onto me and don’t let go. And by that time, it blew the
door that was fastened open and you could see the light. It took
the roof off.”  In God’s Hands  “It sounded like an airplane that was right above us,”
Wells’s daughter said.  Asked what she was going to do now, Wells said, “It’s all
in God’s hands.”  A tornado entered the western part of Jefferson County
after passing through Tuscaloosa, the home of the University of
Alabama’s main campus. Most of the fatalities in Jefferson
County occurred in Pleasant Grove, a lower-income community,
Kelly said. The tornado then moved through Pratt City, which was
once a coal-mining community.  At the 100-unit Southampton Apartments complex, shards of
wood and glass, twisted ribbons of corrugated metal, clothing,
dolls and parked cars with blown-out windows sat in front of
two-story apartments that the storm had remodeled to one story.
Atop one stack of debris lay a wet T-shirt bearing the words,
“Jesus can lift you up.”  Governor Bentley, at a news conference this afternoon in
Tuscaloosa, where he’s from, said tornadoes killed 194 across
the state.  Path of Destruction  The Tuscaloosa tornado left a 6-mile-long, half-mile-wide
path in the city, where more than 30 died and 600 were injured.  “It is hard for me, having Tuscaloosa as my hometown,”
Bentley said. “It makes it hard being governor, to see people’s
lives turned upside down.”  Bentley was joined at the press conference by U.S. Senators
Richard Shelby and  Jeff Sessions  and U.S. Representative Spencer Bachus.  Public-works crews have started getting streets cleared and
debris moved, Kelly said.  “This isn’t going to be done quickly,” said Joe Knight, a
commissioner who oversees the emergency management agency.  The county is seeking U.S. aid today, Knight said, adding
he didn’t know how much the  Federal Emergency Management Agency 
will reimburse the county for disaster recovery costs.  Often the federal government pays 75 percent of such
expenses, with the state picking up 10 percent and the county 15
percent, he said.  The county’s finances aren’t the first thing on his mind.  “Our priority is taking care of people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 