-- 
Morocco Stocks Slide Most in Month After Deadly Marrakesh Blast

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 
2011-04-28T15:57:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/morocco-stocks-slide-most-in-month-after-deadly-marrakesh-blast.html
Morocco ’s benchmark stock index
tumbled the most in a month after 14 people were killed in an
explosion in Marrakesh.  The  MADEX Free Float Index (MOSEMDX)  dropped 1.6 percent, the most
since April 1, to 9,694.51 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Casablanca.
The measure slid as much as 3.5 percent earlier. Attijariwafa
Bank, the North African nation’s biggest publicly traded lender,
retreated 2.6 percent.  Banque Marocaine du Commerce Exterieur (BCE) ,
the nation’s third-biggest publicly traded bank, fell to the
lowest since July. The yield on Morocco’s 4.5 percent euro-
denominated notes was little changed at 5.9 percent at 4:02 p.m.
The rate reached a 2011 high of 6.1 percent on Feb. 23.  “Foreigners are getting out,” Amine Larhrib, head of the
international desk at CDG Capital Bourse said in a telephone
interview from Casablanca. “They’re afraid of getting stuck
like they did in  Egypt . This is just a normal reaction to the
news, but I think this is an isolated incident.”  The blast that ripped through a cafe in Jamaa Lafna square
in Marrakesh also wounded 20 people of different nationalities,
state-run  news agency  reported, citing the Interior Ministry. Al
Arabiya television station reported 11 foreigners were among
those killed and the government termed it a terrorist act.  Trading in Egypt was suspended for almost two months
earlier this year as a popular revolt, inspired by the ouster of
Tunisia’s president, toppled the Egyptian leader. The uprisings
spread to countries such as Bahrain, Yemen, Libya, Syria and
Morocco, where activists held protests demanding greater
liberties, freer elections and less corruption.  “There are constant demonstrations in Morocco and whilst
the king is moving as fast as he can, saying the right things,
one just doesn’t know if it is fast enough,” Oliver Bell,
London-based senior investment manager, who helps oversee about
$10 billion of emerging market assets at Pictet Asset Management
Ltd., said in an e-mailed response to questions. He hasn’t held
any shares in the country since the protests in Egypt began, he
said.  Attijariwafa Bank (ATW)  slid to 379.9 dirhams, the lowest since
April 15. Banque Marocaine lost 1.6 percent to 219.5 dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  