-- 
Morocco Cafe Blast Kills 17 in Tourist Area; U.S. Condemns ‘Terrorist Act’

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-04-29T06:37:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/morocco-blast-kills-11-including-foreigners-state-tv-says-1-.html
A blast ripped through a restaurant
in downtown Marrakech,  Morocco , killing at least 17 people, al
Arabiya television reported, citing an unidentified security
official who said it was caused by a suicide bomber.  The attack yesterday, which injured about 20 people
according to Karim Taj, chief of staff for the North African
nation’s communications minister, hit the  Argana Restaurant  in
the Djemma el-Fna square, a popular  tourist destination . Six
French nationals were among the dead,  Al Arabiya  television
said, without saying where it got the information.  “Killing innocent people in this way could be nothing but
an act of terror,” Taj said in an interview yesterday.  The attack was the deadliest in Morocco since 2003, when
suicide bombers simultaneously struck five sites in Casablanca,
killing more than 40 people and wounding at least 100. It struck
at the heart of Morocco’s tourism industry, which accounts for
almost 10 percent of gross domestic product. Revenue from
tourism was the biggest foreign-currency earner last year,
drawing 56.6 billion dirhams ($7 billion).  “Acts of terrorism must not be tolerated wherever and
whenever they occur,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said in a statement released in  Washington  last night. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  also condemned the act of terrorism,
and United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon expressed his
“firm rejection of the use of indiscriminate violence against
innocent civilians.”  Stocks Fall  Morocco’s  MADEX Free Float Index (MOSEMDX)  fell as much as 3.5
percent and declined 1.6 percent, the most since April 1, to
9,694.51 at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading in Casablanca
yesterday.  “Foreigners are getting out,” Amine Larhrib, head of the
international desk at CDG Capital Bourse, said in a telephone
interview yesterday from Casablanca. “They’re afraid of getting
stuck like they did in  Egypt . This is just a normal reaction to
the news, but I think this is an isolated incident.”  A series of bombings occurred in 2007 in Casablanca,
including two that were detonated simultaneously outside the
U.S. Consulate General and the American Language Center,
according to the U.S. State Department  website . It notes that
“the potential for terrorist violence against U.S. citizens and
interests remains high in Morocco.”  No U.S. Casualties  No U.S. casualties from the explosion have been reported,
Liz Gracon, a U.S. public affairs officer, said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Casablanca.  The popular protests that ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  have spread
to Morocco, though they have been smaller and more peaceful.
Morocco’s King Mohammed VI pledged on March 9 to create a
commission to review the country’s constitution by June and for
a referendum to be held after that. He promised to allow
religious freedom and more transparent justice.  Morocco “will confront this hideous criminal act” and is
“determined to press ahead with its democratic project,” Taj
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  