-- 
Total to Buy 60% of SunPower for $1.38 Billion in Solar Bet

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-04-29T14:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/total-to-begin-friendly-tender-for-up-to-60-of-sunpower-shares.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest
oil producer, agreed to buy as much as 60 percent of  SunPower
Corp. (SPWRA)  for $1.38 billion, taking advantage of increased global
interest in renewable energy.  SunPower, the second-largest U.S. solar panel maker,
described the acquisition price of $23.25 a share as a
“friendly tender offer” in a statement yesterday after the
close of regular trading. SunPower surged $6.08, or 38 percent,
to $22.20 at 9:32 a.m. on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The deal for San Jose, California-based SunPower may lead
to more solar industry acquisitions as U.S. and European
suppliers seek help competing against rival suppliers in Asia,
said Kevin Landis, portfolio manager at Sivest Group Inc.  “This is exactly what SunPower needed to compete with the
Chinese manufacturers that are getting so much support from
their government,” Landis said in an interview. “It also
allows SunPower to double down on the technology improvements
they’ll need to compete in the long run.”  Sivest, also based in  San Jose , held about 17,000 shares of
SunPower at the start of the year. The stock has gained 72
percent this year.  The takeover may trigger similar acquisitions by  oil
companies  that consider renewable-energy manufacturers a way to
improve their clean-energy credentials and may profit when
surging crude prices reduce demand for fossil fuels,  John Hardy ,
an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in New York, said in a phone
interview.  Cheaper Borrowing Costs  “This makes a lot of sense for Total, given the global
shift to renewable energy, increasing concerns about nuclear
power and high natural-gas prices in Europe,” Hardy, who has a
“buy” rating on SunPower, said in an interview. “It’s a
natural hedge against high  oil prices  and depleting reserves.”  SunPower’s solar power plants become more profitable too
because Total has cheaper borrowing costs, Hardy said.  Total will also provide SunPower with as much as $1 billion
of credit support over the next five years.  “The fact that a global oil and gas giant like Total has
made such a significant investment in a solar company is
extremely encouraging for the entire solar industry,” said
Shawn Qu, chief executive officer and founder of China-based
 Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ)  “Total’s investment demonstrates that solar
is really coming into its own as a viable energy market, and
traditional energy conglomerates want to be part of that
burgeoning growth.”  Shares of Total, which reported first-quarter earnings
today that climbed 35 percent to 3.1 billion euros from a year
earlier, rose 0.4 percent to 43.17 euros at 4:15 p.m. Paris
time.  Solar Rally  Jesse Pichel, an analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. in New
York, said in an interview that other solar companies may also
be acquisition targets. “This group is undervalued and at least
some people recognize the value.”  Solar firms increased after the announcement, which came
six weeks after the nuclear-power accident in  Japan .  China ’s Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s largest
solar panel manufacturer, rose 2.5 percent to $9.29 and MEMC
Electronic Materials gained 6.4 percent to $11.84. Canadian
Solar increased 4.7 percent and Tempe, Arizona-based  First Solar
Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest thin-film solar panel maker, climbed
3.4 percent.  Total is buying a solar-power company that’s less
profitable than most of its peers even after improving margins
in the fourth quarter. The company’s operating margin over the
last four quarters was 6.3 percent, below the 8.1 percent
average and 14.1 percent market-capitalization weighted average
of the 37-member Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index.  46% Premium  The offer includes both SunPower’s Class A and Class B
shares. It represents a 46 percent premium over the April 27
closing price for SunPower’s Class A common stock and a 49
percent premium for its Class B common stock, and values
SunPower’s total equity at $2.3 billion.  The transaction is subject to approval from the boards of
both companies, and must receive approval from both U.S. and
European Union antitrust authorities. SunPower said its current
management team will remain intact.  Closing is also conditional on Total’s final offer
including at least 50 percent of SunPower’s shares, the
companies said. Deutsche Bank AG is advising SunPower on the
transaction and Credit Suisse Group AG and Messier Maris et
Associes are advising Total.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  