-- 
Motorola Mobility Beats Estimates on Rising Demand for Atrix Smartphones

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-04-28T21:24:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/motorola-mobility-beats-estimates-on-rising-demand-for-atrix-smartphones.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
spun off in January from parent Motorola Inc., reported a
narrower loss than analysts projected as it sold more Droid and
Atrix phones.  The loss excluding some charges was 8 cents a share, the
Libertyville, Illinois-based company said in a statement today,
compared with an average estimate for a loss of 12 cents in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts. Sales climbed 22 percent to $3.03
billion. Analysts forecast $2.84 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha has capitalized on the
rising popularity of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system that
underpins its phones to return Motorola to bring Motorola closer
to profitability. At the same time, he has to develop phones
that stand out from other Android handsets made by competitors
Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC Corp.  “It was a solid quarter,” said Michael Walkley, an
analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd., who rates RIM a “hold.”
“Jha made great headway last year. The question now is can he
continue to do so this year as Android becomes more competitive
with HTC becoming stronger.”  While Motorola’s Droid X and Atrix are the third and fifth
 most popular smartphones  at Web retailer  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , HTC
phones including the Thunderbolt rank first, second and fourth
on that list.  Android powered half of all smartphones bought in the U.S.
in the past six months, double that for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone,
according to a March survey by Nielsen Inc. Rising sales will
help Android to account for half of the total market in 2012 as
Motorola, Samsung and others push into emerging markets with
customers looking for cheaper alternatives to the iPhone,
Gartner Inc. said this month.  Smartphone Sales  Motorola Mobility said it sold 4.1 million smartphones last
quarter, compared with an average analyst estimate of about 3.8
million phones.  Revenue and smartphone shipments will both climb
sequentially in the second quarter from the first, Jha said in a
telephone interview. Motorola sold more than 250,000 of its Xoom
tablets last quarter, a figure Jha said he was “pleased” with
given the device only went on sale in February. Sales in the
second-quarter should “meaningfully” improve from the first
three months of the year, he said.  While he declined to give a second-quarter outlook for the
profitability of the handset business, the unit will be
profitable over the full year, he said.  The company said in its statement that it will be break
even in the second quarter or earn a profit of 12 cents,
excluding some items. Analysts forecast a profit of 11 cents a
share. The company lost $81 million, or 27 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $212 million a year earlier.  Motorola Mobility rose as much as 3 percent to $24.70 in
late trading, after climbing 37 cents to $23.99 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has dropped 18
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  