-- 
Toyota Judge Says Automaker Will Have to Face Claims Over Economic Losses

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-04-30T01:48:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/toyota-judge-tentatively-rules-that-automaker-must-face-claims-over-losses.html
A federal judge overseeing lawsuits
against  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  said the automaker will have to face
economic loss claims over unintended acceleration allegations.  Toyota owners claimed the company failed to disclose or fix
defects related to sudden acceleration, driving down the value
of their vehicles. U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in  Santa
Ana ,  California , said the claims could go forward because
vehicle owners met court standards on pleading loss or injury.  “Taking these allegations as true, as the court must at
the pleading stage, they establish an economic loss,” Selna
wrote in his tentative decision yesterday. “A vehicle with a
defect is worth less than one without a defect.”  In court today, Selna told lawyers he wanted to review some
aspects of his tentative ruling before making it final. He
added, “The tentative, in essence, will be the ruling of the
court.”  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles, starting in 2009, after claims of defects and
incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration. The recalls
set off a wave of litigation, including hundreds of economic
loss suits and claims by individuals or their families for
injuries and deaths caused by such incidents.  Most of the federal lawsuits were combined before Selna,
who is overseeing pre-trial evidence-gathering, or discovery.
Selna issued a similar ruling in November rejecting Toyota’s
motion to dismiss an earlier complaint by the vehicle owners.  Appeal Suggested  Yesterday’s tentative finding followed an amended complaint
by the plaintiffs and a subsequent renewed motion to dismiss.
Selna told lawyers at today’s hearing to consider asking the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit to review his ruling
on whether the plaintiffs have presented enough evidence to
allow their cases to go forward.  “Toyota is pleased that Judge Selna today invited the
parties to seek consideration from the ninth circuit on key
rulings that could have a significant impact on the case,”
 Celeste Migliore , a spokeswoman for the Toyota City, Japan-based
company, said in an e-mailed statement. “The rulings at issue
relate to which plaintiffs have properly presented claims under
the U.S. Constitution and California statutes.”  Selna also said in the tentative ruling he wouldn’t dismiss
claims that Toyota violated consumer laws by not disclosing
sudden acceleration problems to the  National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration  or to car buyers.  ‘Litany of Failures’  “Toyota failed consumers through a litany of failures and
missteps, including choosing not to warn the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration of sudden acceleration issues they
knew existed,”  Steve Berman , an attorney for the plaintiffs,
said in an e-mailed statement before today’s hearing. “We
believe this specific failure was a violation of  consumer
protection laws  and are pleased that Judge Selna’s preliminary
ruling will allow us to address that in our case.”  Toyota’s series of recalls began in September 2009 with an
announcement that 3.8 million vehicles were being recalled
because of a defect that may cause floor mats to jam down the
accelerator pedal. In January 2010, the company recalled
2.3 million vehicles to fix sticking gas pedals.  The carmaker said in February that it was recalling another
2.17 million vehicles in the U.S. for carpet and floor-mat flaws
that could jam gas pedals.  Throttle Control  Many of the lawsuits claim that loose floor mats and sticky
pedals don’t explain all episodes of sudden acceleration and
that the electronic throttle system in  Toyota vehicles  is to
blame. Toyota has disputed any flaws in its electronic throttle
control system.  “Plaintiffs’ counsel is still chasing a phantom theory of
a defect in Toyota’s electronic throttle control system that
they remain wholly unable to identify,” Migliore said in the
company’s statement. “We look forward to the time when the
science and engineering behind Toyota’s electronic throttle
control system are given a full and fair evaluation by the
court.”  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Callahan in  San Diego  at 
 callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  