-- 
Pacific Crest Securities Plans to Hire More Bankers in China as IPOs Surge

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-28T01:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/pacific-crest-securities-plans-to-hire-more-bankers-in-china-as-ipos-surge.html
Pacific Crest Securities, a U.S.
investment bank focused on technology, said it plans to hire
more bankers and analysts in  China  as fund-raising from initial
share sales by local Internet firms may set a record this year.  “Our focus is on research and banking,” Brewer Stone,
head of Asian  investment banking  at Pacific Crest, said in an
interview in Beijing yesterday. The bank now employs 5 people in
China and expects to increase that “very significantly in the
near term,” Stone said, without disclosing details.  Stone said at least 20 Chinese Internet and technology
companies are planning initial public offerings this year and
the combined proceeds raised will exceed all previous annual
totals. Pacific Crest is co-managing the proposed listing by
Renren Inc., a Chinese provider of a social networking service
similar to that of Facebook Inc., after winning a role in last
year’s IPO of  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU)   “You have very high growth rates that are fundamentally
driving a lot of the businesses,” Stone said as he attended the
Global Mobile Internet conference in Beijing. “There is just an
enormous hunger for these types of investments from leading
institutional investors in the U.S. and elsewhere.”  Renren’s proposed IPO may raise as much as $584 million,
according to a filing this month to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission by the Beijing-based company. Youku.com,
owner of China’s biggest online video site, has more than
quadrupled in U.S. trading since its IPO in December.  Pacific Crest will manage the IPOs of at least five Chinese
companies this year, more than its three deals in 2010, Stone
said. Last year, the Portland, Oregon-based bank also helped
manage the London listing of Russia’s Mail.ru Group Ltd.  China had 457 million  Internet users  at the end of last
year, according to the  China Internet Network Information
Center , a government-affiliated group that compiles industry
statistics. That’s more than the combined populations of the
U.S. and  Japan .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  