-- 
Paulson-Calpers File Lehman Plan to Boost Bond Payout

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-28T18:25:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/paulson-calpers-files-plan-with-increased-payout-for-lehman-bondholders.html
Paulson & Co. and other Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. senior bondholders filed a new
liquidation plan for the defunct firm that would pay
25.4 cents on the dollar to all holders of the bonds, an
increase from 24.5 cents under a plan filed in December.  The group, which includes the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , is fighting to control Lehman’s $61 billion
liquidation with a payout plan that competes with Lehman’s own
proposal and a third by a group including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley.  The fight to wring profit from the biggest bankruptcy in
U.S. history goes to court on June 28, when at least two of the
rival plans, Lehman’s and Paulson-Calpers’s, are due to be
presented to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan .
Depending on the outcome, the Paulson-Calpers group said it’s
willing to launch a lawsuit to battle for its proposal.  The other two plans “are unconfirmable, provide inferior
recoveries and are subject to numerous legal and equitable
defects,” the group said in yesterday’s filing. It might use
“a separate contested matter or adversary proceeding” if its
plan doesn’t prevail, it said.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, said the company
was reviewing the group’s plan. Lehman has said it aims to
confirm a liquidation proposal by November.  Cents on Dollar  Senior bondholders are being offered 21.4 cents on the
dollar in Lehman’s plan, and 16 cents in the Goldman Sachs-
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  proposal, which would pay derivatives creditors
as much as 40 cents. The Paulson-Calpers plan would pay Goldman
Sachs 27.2 cents for derivatives claims against its special
financing unit, while Lehman would pay 34.3 cents, according to
the filing.  Hedge fund Paulson paid as little as 9 cents on the dollar
for some of its bonds, while Calpers spent more than $1 for part
of its bondholding, according to a court filing. The group holds
about $16 billion in senior bonds, out of more than $80 billion
outstanding, according to Lehman.  Lehman and its affiliates today reported total assets of
$250.7 billion against liabilities of $310.8 billion. The
figures, as of Dec. 31, come from an unaudited balance sheet in
a regulatory filing. Real estate assets were valued at $5.6
billion, mostly commercial properties.  Asset Value  Cash held by Lehman and its affiliates was $23.2 billion on
March 31. Lehman Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal has said
that he aims to raise a total of $61 billion to pay claims of
$322 billion. The Paulson-Calpers plan was amended partly to
reflect that valuation of Lehman’s assets, according to
yesterday’s court filing.  Bankrupt Lehman has spent more than $1.2 billion on
managers and advisers during its bankruptcy, including $31.9
million in March, according to a regulatory filing today.  The restructuring firm Marsal co-founded, Alvarez & Marsal
LLC, made $422.9 million in “interim management” fees for 30
1/2 months of work, including $10.2 million last month,
according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  