-- 
Pending Sales of Existing Homes in U.S. Increase 5.1%, More Than Estimated

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-28T16:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/pending-sales-of-existing-homes-in-u-s-increase-5-1-more-than-estimated.html
The number of Americans signing
contracts to buy previously owned homes rose more than forecast
in March, a sign the industry that triggered the recession may
begin to stabilize.  The index of pending home resales climbed 5.1 percent after
a revised 0.7 percent increase the prior month, the National
Association of Realtors said today in Washington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 1.5 percent
rise.  An improving job market, falling  home prices  and low
borrowing costs may help to attract more buyers in coming
months. At the same time, foreclosures are worsening the glut of
unsold properties, one reason a sustained housing recovery is
yet to develop almost two years after the end of the recession.  “Positive news on the housing market is welcomed with open
arms,” said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto. “The sector should receive support from job
growth and lending rates, which are expected to stay fairly
low.”  Sales were projected to rise after an originally reported
gain of 2.1 percent in February, according to the median of 32
forecasts in the Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from no
change to a gain of 3.2 percent. From a year earlier, pending
home sales fell 11.5 percent.  Three of four regions saw increases from the prior month,
today’s report showed. That included gains of 10.3 percent in
the South, 3.1  percent in the West and 3 percent in the
Midwest. Pending purchases dropped 3.2 percent in the Northeast.  Economic Growth Slows  Other reports today showed gross domestic product growth
slowed more than forecast in the first quarter and initial
claims for  unemployment benefits  unexpectedly increased last
week.  Stocks were little changed as better-than-forecast
corporate earnings and takeovers offset concern over slower
growth. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 15.82 points, or
0.1 percent, to 12,706.78 at 11:57 a.m. in  New York .  Fed officials, at the end of their two-day meeting in
Washington yesterday, voted to complete $600 billion in Treasury
purchases in June to spur growth.  “The housing sector continues to be depressed,” policy
makers said yesterday in a statement, while “the economic
recovery is proceeding at a moderate pace.”  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Purchases of existing
homes are tabulated when a contract closes, typically a month or
two later.  Existing Home Sales  Sales of previously-owned homes, which make up about 95
percent of the housing market so far this year, climbed 3.7
percent to a 5.1 million annual rate in March as a mounting
supply of properties in or near foreclosure lured investors, the
Realtors group reported on April 20.  All-cash deals made up 35 percent of the transactions, the
most on record, while distressed properties including
foreclosures and short sales accounted for 40 percent of all
deals, the Realtors report showed last week.  New-home purchases, which are considered a more timely
barometer than existing-house sales, climbed 11.1 percent last
month from a record low in February, Commerce Department figures
showed April 25.  Potlatch Corp. (PCH) , a timber producer, projects home
construction will take longer to rebound. At the beginning of
the year, the Spokane, Washington-based company expected housing
starts would begin a recovery in the second half, reaching about
1 million starts on an annualized basis late in 2012, according
to Chief Executive Officer Michael Covey.  High Unemployment  That forecast “will get pushed out six to 12 months as the
recovery in housing languishes due to high unemployment and an
oversupply of existing homes for sale,” Covey said on a
conference call with analysts on April 26.  Prices remain under pressure. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
home values in 20 cities, reported this week, fell 3.3 percent
in the 12 months to February, the most in more than a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  