-- 
PepsiCo First-Quarter Sales Rise 27%; Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-04-28T20:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/pepsico-sales-climb-27-beating-estimates-on-food-revenue-outside-u-s-.html
PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest
snack-food maker, reported a 27 percent gain in first-quarter
sales, bolstered by purchases in international markets.  PepsiCo’s sales rose to $11.9 billion, compared with the
$11.8 billion average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Excluding items such as integration costs and hedges, profit was
74 cents, compared with the 73-cent analyst average.  PepsiCo, led by Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi , has
developed new flavors to appeal to markets internationally,
relying on chip sales overseas to make up for slower beverage
sales volumes in  North America . Volume in the Latin American
foods business climbed 2 percent.  “Pepsi is an emerging-markets play, and its investments in
 Asia ,  Latin America  and  Europe  appeared to pay off in the first
quarter,” Philip Gorham, a senior equity analyst for
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said in a report today.  PepsiCo, also the world’s second-largest soft drink maker,
rose $1.79, or 2.6 percent, to $69.72 at 4:02 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. PepsiCo has advanced 6.7
percent this year, compared with a 2.5 percent gain for Coca-
Cola Co.  PepsiCo reiterated its forecast for 2011 earnings per share
growth of 7 percent to 8 percent, excluding some costs and
foreign-currency effects. That amounts to profit of as much as
$4.46 a share, compared with the $4.48 average of analyst
estimates.  Net Income  Net income fell to $1.14 billion, or 71 cents a share, from
$1.43 billion, or 89 cents, a year earlier, Purchase,  New York- 
based PepsiCo said today in a statement. The company had an
accounting gain of $958 million in the year-earlier period.  PepsiCo generates about two-thirds of its sales from food
and snacks, including Frito-Lay chips and Quaker cereals. Sales
split almost evenly last year between U.S. and international
markets.  Volume sales of PepsiCo beverages in North America grew 2
percent. Last year, Nooyi acquired PepsiCo’s two largest
bottlers to squeeze more profit from its distribution system.  PepsiCo will raise prices on food and beverages to help
make up for increasing costs for corn, packaging plastic and
other commodities, Chief Financial Officer Hugh Johnston said
today in an interview. He reiterated during a conference call
that commodity costs will rise by $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion
this year, from a base of $18 billion.  Rival  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  said this week that it’s increasing
prices as materials costs surged more than expected. Costs for
the world’s largest soft drink maker will rise by as much as
$700 million this year, according to estimates from Chief
Financial Officer Gary Fayard.  Atlanta-based Coca-Cola said this week that profit advanced
18 percent to $1.9 billion, or 82 cents a share. Excluding some
items, profit was 86 cents, compared with the 87 cents analysts
estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  