-- 
Petroceltic Shares Climb on Sale of Isarene Stake to Enel

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-04-28T16:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/petroceltic-shares-climb-on-sale-of-isarene-stake-to-enel-1-.html
Petroceltic International Plc (PCI) , an
Irish oil explorer, jumped in  London  trading after saying it
will sell an 18.4% percent stake in an Algerian production
sharing contract to  Enel SpA. (ENEL)   Petroceltic climbed 2 pence, or 20 percent, to 12 pence in
London. The stock has fallen 7.7 percent this year, valuing the
Dublin-based company at 241.7 million pounds ($402.2 million).  Enel agreed to pay a “contingent cash consideration” of
as much as $75 million, determined by the level of recoverable
hydrocarbon reserves, Petroceltic said in a statement today. The
Italian utility has also committed to funding 49 percent of the
costs of the first six appraisal wells of the Isarene project,
which includes the Ain Tsila gas condensate discovery.  “Enel has a finger on the choke points of European gas
demand,” Chief Executive Officer Brian O’Cathain said in a
telephone interview today. “They’re Sonatrach’s second largest
customer and a great partner.”  When the sale is completed, Enel will control about 18
percent of the Isarene contract, Algerian National oil company
Sonatrach will control 25 percent and the remainder will be held
by Petroceltic. Enel is Sonatrach’s main end-user customer of
Algerian gas, the explorer said.  The partnership means Petroceltic will be able to complete
six versus four appraisal wells. Ultimate recovery factors range
from 30 percent to 70 percent, according to a company
presentation. Petroceltic plans to submit a drilling plan by
early next year, O’Cathain said.  Protests and violence elsewhere in the Middle East and
North Africa have not affected Petroceltic operations in
 Algeria , the executive said.  “Anyone who works in Algiers knows it’s a very different
place from  Libya ,” he said. “We monitor the situation closely,
but there has been no signs of the unrest you’ve seen
elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  