-- 
TPG Capital Is Said to Be Bidder for Innkeepers USA in Bankruptcy Auction

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-28T18:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/tpg-capital-is-said-to-be-bidder-for-innkeepers-usa-in-bankruptcy-auction.html
Innkeepers USA Trust , bankrupt
owner of 72 hotels, will have an auction with undisclosed
bidders after a court hearing at which representatives for
Cerberus Capital Management LP and TPG Capital LP made an
appearance by telephone.  “There has been a tremendous amount of activity and we’re
looking forward to an auction,” on May 2, Brian Lennon, a
lawyer for the bankrupt hotel owner, told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  at the hearing today. He declined
to comment in an interview after the hearing on how many bids
had been received or the identities of the bidding parties.  Innkeepers has approval of a $970.7 million offer from
Lehman Ali Inc. and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC, which will
compete at the auction with any other qualifying bids received
by April 25. TPG Capital, the private equity firm, will be one
of the bidders for the assets, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Bids, which are scheduled to be heard at the offices of
Innkeeper’s counsel Kirkland & Ellis LLP, may be for all or
parts of the hotel owner’s assets. The final stalking horse
offer separated seven hotels from the sale, and covers 45
properties with $825 million in fixed-rate mortgages serviced by
Midland Loan Services Inc, and 20 properties with a $238 million
floating-rate mortgage held by Lehman Ali.  ‘Apples to Oranges’  In addition to Cerberus, law firm Ropes & Gray LLP and C-
III Asset Management, a servicer to some of Innkeeper’s debt,
participated in today’s court hearing by phone.  “The auction could last a while, depending on whether they
have to compare apples to oranges,” said David Neff, a lawyer
for C-III.  Neff said he wasn’t aware of the qualifying bidders but
said it was “interesting” that Cerberus had made an appearance
in the court call. Ropes & Gray lawyer Mark Bane declined to
comment.  Cerberus spokesman John Dillard declined to comment. A
person involved in the situation said Ropes & Gray represents
TPG Capital.  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for San Francisco-
based TPG Capital, declined immediate comment.  The so-called stalking-horse offer from Lehman Ali, a unit
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ; Connecticut-based asset
manager Five Mile; and  Midland Loan Services , a division of PNC
Bank, also includes  Apollo Investment Corp.  Such offers serve as
a baseline agreement to be challenged by competing bidders at an
auction.  Breakup Fee  Bidding to become the stalking horse offer was also
competitive, as a revised offer approved by Chapman March 11 was
sweetened to remove a $7 million breakup fee that would have
compensated the stalking horse if a higher offer was received.  According to court papers, “Bidder D” has submitted
competitive bids for Innkeepers and will be reimbursed for its
expenses.  In approving that offer, Chapman overruled objections from
creditor  Appaloosa Investment LP , which said a deal calling for
Lehman to get $200.3 million in cash to cover its claims is
improper, and “creates an unsupportable hurdle to competitive
bidding.”  The stalking horse agreement calls for unsecured creditors
to get a distribution as high as 65 percent of their claims. An
$8 million overbid, or total offer of $978.7 million, is
required to top the Lehman and Five Mile agreement, according to
court papers.  The parent of Innkeepers, owner of hotels in 20 states,
including Residence Inns by Marriott and Hampton Inns, is
managed by an affiliate of Apollo Global Management LLC,  Leon Black ’s private-equity firm.  Lehman Ali helped Apollo finance the buyout of the  Palm
Beach , Florida-based Innkeepers with a $1.2 billion loan.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 