-- 
Philippine Inflation May Be 3.7% to 4.7%, Tetangco Says

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-04-28T11:54:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/philippine-inflation-may-be-3-7-to-4-7-tetangco-says-1-.html
Philippine inflation this month may
range from 3.7 percent to 4.7 percent, central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said.  “Prices have remained well-behaved,” Tetangco said in a
mobile phone message today. “We will continue to monitor
developments, particularly movements in international commodity
prices, to see if there would be a need to make adjustments in
our policy stance.” Inflation was 4.3 percent in February and
in March.  Tetangco’s comments came ahead of the May 5 policy meeting
and inflation data release. The  Philippines  last month raised
its benchmark interest rate for the first time since August
2008, joining neighbors including Thailand and  India  in raising
borrowing costs as oil trades above $100 a barrel.  President  Benigno Aquino  has provided fuel subsidy for
public transport groups for a month and the assistance may be
extended to help shield people from rising costs, his spokesman
Edwin Lacierda said today.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas “will continue to monitor
developments on the inflation side,” Tetangco said. “Our next
move will depend on what new data and information will reflect
on aggregate demand and inflation expectations.”  On April 18, Tetangco said “upside risks to inflation
remain” and that authorities “will implement further monetary
action as and when necessary.”  The top end of Tetangco’s forecast for April will be the
fastest pace since April 2009.  Bangko Sentral raised its overnight borrowing rate to 4.25
percent on March 24 from 4 percent and that was “enough,”
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima, a member of the central bank’s
Monetary Board, told reporters today.  “We’re still ahead of the curve in terms of managing
inflation,” Purisima said. “Those who think much higher are
out of line.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  