-- 
Pimco’s Devlin Says NDP Election ‘Theater’ Won’t Sink Canadian Bond Market

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-04-28T13:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/pimco-s-devlin-says-ndp-election-theater-won-t-sink-canadian-bond-market.html
Surging support for  Canada ’s  New
Democratic Party  may have no lingering impact on bonds and other
assets, said Ed Devlin of Pacific Investment Management Co.,
even as the NDP’s rise has undercut the currency and sparked
concerns about higher taxes.  The pro-labor NDP, whose C$68.9 billion ($72.5 billion) of
campaign  promises  over 4 years compares with the ruling
Conservatives’ C$6.6 billion of  promises  over five years, has
become the second most popular party, three polls show.
Projections based on the surveys suggest it may replace the
Liberals as the main opposition party in the House of Commons
after next week’s election.  While Canada’s dollar has fallen against all but two of 17
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg News since April 20 as
polls showed NDP support growing, the most likely scenario
remains another Conservative government, said Devlin, who heads
Pimco’s Canadian portfolio management team. Pimco manages the
world’s largest bond fund.  The New Democrats’ rise “makes great political theater,
but from a markets perspective, while it could create some
volatility, I can’t see a resurgent NDP being relevant,” Devlin
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Investors are anticipating the two most likely outcomes
from the vote are a majority Conservative government, or another
 minority Parliament  with Prime Minister Stephen Harper returning
to power, he said.  Coalition ‘Less Likely’  Harper has raised the prospect that the opposition parties
will combine and take power if his Conservatives don’t win a
majority. That becomes less likely if the Liberals fall to third
place, because it would mean making NDP Leader Jack Layton prime
minister, Devlin said.  In the 2008  election , the Conservatives won 143 seats with
38 percent of the vote, the Liberals took 77 seats with 26
percent of the vote and the NDP won 37 seats with 18 percent.
Harper has been governing since 2006 without a majority.  The NDP had 30 percent support among decided voters,
according to the CTV/Globe/Nanos tracking poll published this
morning. The Conservatives had 37 percent support, while the
Liberals had 22 percent. The poll surveyed 1,200 eligible voters
and has a margin of error of 2.8 percent.  “A likely outcome is that we will get a minority
Conservative government with the NDP as the official
opposition,” said Charles St-Arnaud, an economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in  New York . “Policy wise, how
different is that situation compared to when the NDP held the
balance of power in the past few years?”  Falling Currency  Canada’s dollar has lost 1.8 percent against the euro and
1.5 percent against the Australian dollar since April 20. It has
advanced against the  U.S. dollar .  The Canadian dollar was 0.1 percent weaker at 95.09 cents
per U.S. dollar at 9:33 a.m. in Toronto, from 94.97 cents
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0516.  Both the NDP and Liberals have said they will reverse past
and planned reductions in corporate income taxes that benefit
companies like  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  to help pay for new spending
commitments.  “Uncertainty over the May 2nd federal election is growing,
with the small potential of an NDP-led minority government
weighing on markets more than the potential of a conservative-
led majority,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at the
capital markets unit of Toronto-based Bank of Nova Scotia, wrote
in an e-mail yesterday. Without the broad-based selling pressure
that is hitting its U.S. counterpart, the Canadian dollar would
likely have weakened to beyond 96 cents per U.S. dollar, she
said.  Coalition and Taxes  “A coalition government in general means more spending and
higher taxes,” Sheryl King, head of Canada economics at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in Toronto, said in an e-mail. “I do not
think the corporate tax hike will be sufficient. Higher taxes
elsewhere will have to occur as well.”  The growing NDP support has led opponents to focus on its
platform, which says its promises will be financed by raising
corporate taxes, cracking down on  tax havens , ending subsidies
for fossil-fuel exploration that benefit companies like Calgary-
based  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , and revenue from a cap-and-trade
system for carbon.  “Markets are not fond of change in a successful formula
and the Harper government has been very good economically,”
said Joseph Trevisani, chief market analyst at FX Solutions in
Saddle River,  New Jersey .  ‘Not Credible’  Harper said yesterday at a rally in Waterloo, Ontario, that
the opposition parties “have economic policies that are simply
not credible.”  Layton defended his party’s platform at a campaign stop in
Winnipeg, Manitoba, yesterday. “We would be providing very
stable and predictable conditions for business,” he said,
pointing to the fiscal record of NDP provincial governments in
Manitoba and  Nova Scotia . “Our economic approach would be step-
by-step, affordable, and realistic. That’s what I think
businesses are looking for.”  Tom Nakamura, a fixed-income portfolio manager for AGF
Investments Inc. in Toronto, who helps oversee about C$6
billion, said international investors may not be comfortable
with the idea of the NDP holding a share of power. “It would
create uncertainty,” he said by telephone. “The global
community isn’t used to thinking of a more left-leaning
government,” adding it could delay Canada’s return to balanced
budgets.  Still Nakamura said the NDP would likely be restrained by
“other voices in Parliament.” The country has “a much better
starting point in terms of fiscal health,” he said. “I don’t
think it’s drastic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Winnipeg, Manitoba at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Waterloo, Ontario at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 