-- 
Poland Hasn’t Reached Deal With JSW Miners on Share Sale, Walenczak Says

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-04-28T14:52:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/poland-hasn-t-reached-deal-with-jsw-miners-on-share-sale-walenczak-says.html
Poland  is still seeking an
agreement with unions at state-owned  Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa
SA  that would allow the European Union’s largest coking-coal
producer to proceed with an initial public offering.  Deputy Treasury Minister Krzysztof Walenczak, in charge of
what is set to be Poland’s biggest IPO this year, commented on
today’s talks with unions in a text message to Bloomberg News,
denying a Reuters report, carried on the Gazeta Wyborcza
newspaper’s website, that a deal had been reached.  Poland had planned the IPO in June as part of a 15 billion-
zloty ($5.5 billion) asset-sale program aimed at helping finance
the  budget deficit  and limit debt. Economy Minister Waldemar Pawlak, who needs to approve the sale before the government
files a prospectus with the financial regulator, said last week
Poland may need to delay the IPO because of labor protests.  Piotr Szereda, a spokesman for JSW unions, said by phone
that unions rejected management’s proposal of 10-year job
guarantees in exchange for approving the sale of a minority
stake in the company. He didn’t say when the talks would resume.  The province government of the southern Silesia region,
where JSW is based, said on its website that another round of
negotiations may take place May 5. Miners at JSW, set to be the
third coal producer traded in Warsaw after  Lubelski Wegiel
Bogdanka SA (LWB)  and  New World Resources NV (NWR) , held a 24-hour strike
last week as they demand higher pay and seek to block the sale.  The Treasury Ministry plans to file the prospectus by May 4
so that the shares could start trading June 30, according to the
Silesia province government. The Economy Ministry, which acts as
the sole shareholder, hasn’t decided when it will approve the
IPO plans, it said in an e-mail today.  Treasury Minister Aleksander Grad will discuss the sale
tomorrow with Pawlak, who heads the government’s junior
coalition party and earlier opposed the sale of Enea SA,
Poland’s third-largest power utility, to Electricite de France
SA.  JSW’s offering could be priced as high as 5 billion zloty,
Chief Executive Officer Jaroslaw Zagorowski told the PAP
newswire in January. UniCredit SpA, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are global coordinators
of the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nathaniel Espino at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net  