-- 
Rajaratnam, Deutsche Bank, Madoff, Glaxo in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-04-28T10:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/primary-global-deutsche-bank-madoff-glaxo-in-court-news.html
While prosecutors await a jury’s
verdict in the trial of Galleon Group LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam, they
may take comfort that four defendants tied to the insider-
trading probe that began with him are pursuing plea deals.  Don Ching Trang Chu, a former hedge-fund consultant for
Primary Global Research LLC, will probably plead guilty, a judge
said at a hearing in his case yesterday, after the government
noted “extensive” talks with his lawyer. Prosecutors in the
same Manhattan courthouse said this afternoon that Donald
Longueuil, a former hedge fund manager at SAC Capital Advisors
LP, will plead guilty to related insider-trading charges today.  Yesterday, Craig Drimal, a trader who worked at Galleon,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud. He faces a
maximum sentence of more than seven years in prison, far more
than the average sentence of about 18 months handed down in
similar cases since 2003, according to an analysis of court data
by Bloomberg News.  The three men are among about three dozen people charged in
what prosecutors said was a series of insider-trading rings.
Jason Goldfarb, a Brooklyn,  New York , lawyer, pleaded guilty
April 21 to passing inside tips as part of Drimal’s ring. He
faces a maximum of almost four years in prison when he’s
sentenced.  Rajaratnam, 53, was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Clearwire Corp.
Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted of the most serious
counts.  As the jury weighed the evidence, Rajaratnam sat on a bench
outside the courtroom chatting with his lawyers. The panel of
nine women and three men began deliberating at about noon on
April 25. This afternoon, they asked to hear wiretap recordings
presented during the trial.  Prosecutors yesterday failed to persuade U.S. District
Judge Richard Holwell to let jurors view transcripts of the
recordings in the jury room.  Rajaratnam’s lawyer John Dowd said he “vehemently”
objected to providing the transcripts. Holwell, who had
previously ruled against the same request, said yesterday that
he didn’t see a reason to provide the transcripts now. He also
declined Brodsky’s request to give jurors access to the audio
recordings themselves.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For more about Longueuil and Chu, see below.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Former SAC Capital Manager to Plead Guilty in Insider Probe  Donald Longueuil, a former junior portfolio manager at SAC
Capital Advisors LP, will plead guilty to federal charges today,
becoming the latest in a series of defendants to seek a deal
with prosecutors in a nationwide insider trading probe.  Assistant U.S. Attorney David Leibowitz told U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan that Longueuil would enter a
guilty plea during a hearing yesterday on whether to separate
his case from co-defendant Winifred Jiau, a former hedge fund
consultant for Primary Global Research LLC.  Longueuil and Jiau were accused of conspiring to commit
securities and wire fraud from 2006 to 2010. They pleaded not
guilty, rejecting U.S. allegations that nonpublic information
Longueuil allegedly received was from an insider at Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. or Nvidia Corp., or that Jiau received
inside information.  The defendants are among about three dozen people charged
in what prosecutors said was a series of insider trading rings
tied to Galleon and the indictment of the hedge fund’s co-
founder, Raj Rajaratnam. Longueuil and Jiau were part of the
third ring, the government said, involving the use of so-called
expert networking firms that employed technology company
insiders to provide nonpublic information to hedge fund clients.  Craig Carpenito, a lawyer for Longueuil, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Chu, U.S. Had ‘Extensive’ Plea Talks, Prosecutor Tells Judge  Don Ching Trang Chu, an expert consultant to hedge funds
who is accused of passing inside information, had “extensive”
plea talks with U.S. prosecutors, a prosecutor told a federal
judge yesterday in Manhattan.  Chu, 57, who worked for Primary Global Research LLC,
appeared in court yesterday before U.S. District Judge Jed
Rakoff, in Manhattan and entered a not guilty plea to a new
criminal information unsealed yesterday. That charging document
accuses Chu of two crimes, conspiracy to commit securities fraud
and conspiracy to commit wire fraud conspiracy.  Federal defendants traditionally waive their right to be
indicted by a grand jury and agree to be charged in a criminal
information as a prelude to entering into an agreement with
prosecutors and pleading guilty.  “This case comes after some extensive plea negotiations
and they are still ongoing,” Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney
David Leibowitz told Rakoff at yesterday’s hearing.  Chu, who worked as the Taiwan liaison for the expert-
networking firm based in Mountain View, California, was arrested
in November, charged with passing tips to Richard Choo-Beng Lee,
a former partner at San Jose, California-based Spherix Capital
LLC beginning in late 2008, according to a criminal complaint
filed by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan.  Rakoff noted yesterday that Chu’s case was added yesterday
to a pending criminal case involving James Fleishman, a former
sales manager with Primary Global. He asked lawyers in the case
if they wanted Chu’s case put on the same trial schedule as
Fleishman’s case.  Fleishman, who was indicted in February on conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud, has
pleaded not guilty and is awaiting trial.  Chu’s lawyer, James DeVita yesterday consented to the cases
being joined and told Rakoff he needed to review evidence before
agreeing that his client should be tried with Fleishman.  Asked after court if his client was considering pleading
guilty, DeVita said, “We’ve had discussions.”  He was the first in a new wave of federal arrests tied to
the Galleon Group case, the largest insider trading probe
involving hedge funds. Two overlapping insider trading cases
involving Galleon Group founder Raj Rajaratnam have led to
accusations against more than 20 people.  To date, 21 people have pleaded guilty in the case, with
most agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors and testify against
others. A federal jury in New York has been deliberating the
Rajaratnam case since April 25.  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 11-CR 032, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee Must Publish Probe of Firm, Lawyer Argues  The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s defunct firm
must publish the results of his probe in the case after spending
more than two years and almost $300 million on it, a lawyer for
Madoff investors said.  “The trustee has provided none of this information to the
customers, to whom he owes a fiduciary duty,” the lawyer, Helen
Chaitman, said in a filing April 26 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Manhattan on behalf of 1,200 Madoff investors. “The customers
now move to compel him to fulfill his statutory obligation.”  Trustee Irving Picard, appointed after Madoff’s December
2008 arrest, has “represented” that he exhaustively
investigated the Madoff firm, pursuing its property and tracing
customer deposits and withdrawals, Chaitman wrote. Firms
retained by the trustee were paid more than $288 million over
two years, she said, citing government documents.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The trustee has filed more than 1,000 lawsuits seeking to
recoup customers’ money. He said this month in a filing that he
had recovered $7.6 billion, or 44 percent of the principal lost.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Sony Faces Lawsuit, Scrutiny Over PlayStation Breach  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s network entertainment unit faced a legal and
regulatory backlash over delays in telling 77 million
subscribers that their personal account data may have been
stolen by a hacker.  A lawsuit filed April 27 in federal court in  San Francisco 
alleges the delay left PlayStation console users exposed to
losses related to any credit-card data theft. Officials in
Connecticut, the U.K. and Ireland began inquiries.  Sony warned customers of the security breakdown on April
26, offering its first accounting of the severity of the
intrusion six days after closing the PlayStation Network and
Qriocity video- and music-streaming services. The Tokyo-based
company said it notified consumers as quickly as it could.  “Consumers and merchants have been exposed to what is one
of the largest compromises of Internet security and the greatest
potential for credit-card fraud to ever occur in U.S. history,”
according to the complaint.  In the lawsuit, plaintiff Kristopher Johns, of Birmingham,
Alabama, seeks to represent people who bought a PlayStation
console, subscribe to either PlayStation Network or Qriocity
service and “suffered loss of service and break of security,”
according to the complaint.  The PlayStation Network, which provides access to online
games, movies and TV shows, was attacked from April 17 to April
19. Sony had combined PlayStation Network customer data with
Qriocity, which offers movies or music in 11 nations on Web-
connected Bravia TVs and Blu-ray players.  “It was necessary to conduct several days of forensic
analysis, and it took our experts until yesterday to understand
the scope of the breach,” Patrick Seybold, a Sony spokesman,
said in an e-mail on April 26. “We then shared that information
with our consumers and announced it publicly.”  Seybold didn’t respond to requests for comment April 27.  The case is Johns v. Sony Computer Entertainment America
LLC, 11-02063, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  Orchard Brands Unit Sues Golden Gate for Dividend Payment  Golden Gate Capital Corp. affiliates were sued by a unit of
Orchard Brands Corp., which claims its bankruptcy was caused in
part by a fraudulent $310 million special-dividend payment.  The trustee for the litigation trust of Appleseed’s
Intermediate Holdings LLC, a unit of Orchard Brands, sued Golden
Gate and certain directors, arguing the 2007 leveraged buyout of
Blair Corp., an Appleseed’s unit, and a simultaneous dividend
payment left the company insolvent with a debt load that would
eventually force it into bankruptcy.  Golden Gate “used their leveraged buyout of Blair
Corporation to saddle” Appleseed’s “with more than half a
billion dollars of new secured debt,” lawyers for the trustee
said in the complaint filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy court
in Wilmington, Delaware.  By loading the company up with debt and “then
simultaneously draining the loan proceeds to pay dividends to
themselves,” the private equity firm rendered the company
insolvent and “on a collision course with bankruptcy” without
receiving “reasonably equivalent value in return for the
payments,” the lawyers said in court papers.  Barry O’Sullivan, an outside spokesman for Golden Gate with
Coltrin & Associates, wasn’t immediately able to respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  The case is In re Appleseed’s Intermediate Holdings LLC,
11-10160, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington). The lawsuit is In re Michaelson, as Trustee of the
Appleseed’s Lit v. Golden Gate Private Equity Inc., 11-51847,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Sued by Hana Daetoo on Losses From Kospi Plunge  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was sued by Hana Daetoo Securities Co., a
South Korean brokerage, for loss compensation stemming from a
stock-market plunge in November.  Hana Daetoo filed the lawsuit to the Seoul Central District
Court April 26, demanding 76.4 billion won ($71 million) for
losses it incurred on behalf of a client, the Seoul-based
company said in an e-mail yesterday. Deutsche Bank’s Hong Kong-
based spokesman Michael West sent an e-mail declining to
comment.  South Korea’s regulator in February banned Deutsche Bank
from trading on its own account for six months, saying the
company caused the market rout on Nov. 11, when options expired.
The Financial Services Commission also asked prosecutors to
investigate five employees at the Frankfurt-based firm.  Unlisted Hana Daetoo is a unit of  Hana Financial Group
Inc. (086790) , the nation’s fourth-largest financial company by assets.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ex-Glaxo Lawyer ‘Went Too Far,’ U.S. Says at Trial’s Opening  An ex- GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  attorney accused of covering up
the company’s improper marketing of its antidepressant drug
Wellbutrin SR is a “lawyer who went too far,” a federal
prosecutor said as her trial began.  Lauren Stevens, former vice president and associate general
counsel for London-based Glaxo, is charged with impeding an
inquiry in 2002 and 2003 by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration into the marketing of the drug for uses not
approved by the FDA.  “This is a case about a lawyer who put loyalty to her
company above fidelity to the truth and to the law,” said
Patrick Jasperse, a Justice Department lawyer, during opening
statements yesterday in Greenbelt, Maryland, federal court.
“This is a case about a lawyer who went too far, from
aggressively representing her company to breaking the law.”  Stevens, 61, of Durham, North Carolina, is charged with one
count of obstructing an official proceeding, one count of
falsifying and concealing documents and four counts of making
false statements. The first two charges are punishable by a
maximum of 20 years in prison while the others carry terms of as
long as five years.  Stevens’s attorney, Reid Weingarten, told the jury that she
never intended to mislead the FDA and that she relied on the
advice of in-house lawyers at Glaxo as well as its outside law
firm King & Spalding in crafting her company’s responses to the
agency.  The case is U.S. v. Stevens, 10-cr-694, U.S. District
Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  For more, click here.  Ex-Lehman Executive Appeals Over $19.6 Million Bonus Claim  An ex-Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. brokerage executive
took his fight for $19.6 million in bonuses to a higher court
after a bankruptcy judge said  Barclays Plc (BARC)  didn’t agree to be
bound by his Lehman contract when it bought the brokerage.  Maximilian Coreth, hired as a managing director of the
Lehman Brothers Inc. brokerage’s fixed income division in April
2008, was granted a base salary of $200,000 and a bonus of $9.8
million for each of 2008 and 2009, according to court documents.
If dismissed without cause, he was entitled to two years’
bonuses totaling $19.6 million.  A U.S. court confirmed that London-based Barclays wouldn’t
be subjected to so-called successor liability when it bought the
defunct firm’s North American business in 2008, U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge James Peck wrote in February as he dismissed Coreth’s
suit. Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
September 2008.  Offering jobs to Coreth and another ex-Lehman employee,
“Barclays states that as a Barclays employee, you will continue
to receive your current base salary or applicable commission
based remuneration,” the judge wrote. “Barclays did not make
any commitment in either of the e-mails offering employment to
make any bonus payment or assume any obligation arising under
any LBI employment contract.”  Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment
on the appeal, made in U.S. District Court in New York.  Coreth, who joined Lehman from Morgan Stanley, worked for
Barclays from September 2008 to October 2008, when he was fired,
according to his 2009 lawsuit. The bank “repudiated its
severance obligations” in agreeing to pay severance of
$1,960,000, which was about one-tenth of the amount promised by
Lehman, he said in the suit.  The main case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). Coreth’s appeal is In Re Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., 1:11-cv-02792, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Class Actions Limited as U.S. Supreme Court Supports AT&T  A divided U.S. Supreme Court reinforced the ability of
businesses to channel customer complaints into arbitration,
ruling that companies can block consumers from pressing those
claims as a group.  Voting 5-4 along ideological lines, the court  said  an  AT&T
Inc. (T)  unit can enforce a contract provision that requires its
customers to press any claims individually. The majority said a
federal arbitration statute trumps a California law that would
have invalidated the provision.  Writing for the majority, Justice Antonin Scalia said class
actions would interfere with “fundamental attributes of
arbitration,” including its streamlined nature.  “The switch from bilateral to class arbitration sacrifices
the principal advantage of arbitration -- its informality -- and
makes the process slower, more costly and more likely to
generate procedural morass than final judgment,” Scalia wrote.  The case could affect tens of millions of arbitration
agreements in California alone, according to court documents.
The ruling may also help companies in the 20-plus states that
either restrict or bar companies from including class-action
bans in consumer arbitration accords.  Businesses say class-action requirements undermine the cost
savings that arbitration offers.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Earthlink
Inc. (ELNK) ,  DirecTV (DTV)  Inc.,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce all filed briefs supporting AT&T.  The fight stemmed from a complaint against AT&T Mobility
LLC by Vincent and Liza Concepcion, who say they were improperly
charged about $30 in sales tax on a mobile phone AT&T advertised
as free. A federal appeals court said the class-action ban in
their agreement with AT&T was “unconscionable” under
California law.  Scalia said earlier high court rulings “place it beyond
dispute that the FAA was designed to promote arbitration.”
Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Clarence Thomas, Anthony
Kennedy and Samuel Alito joined Scalia in the majority.  The court’s four Democratic appointees -- Justices Stephen
Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan  --
dissented. Breyer said California’s law was “of no federal
concern so long as the state does not adopt a special rule that
disfavors arbitration.”  The high court “dealt a crushing blow to American
consumers and employees,” said  Deepak Gupta , Concepcions’
Supreme Court lawyer.  “Now, whenever you sign a contract to get a cell phone,
open a bank account or take a job, you may be giving up your
right to hold companies accountable for fraud, discrimination
other illegal practices,” said Gupta, a lawyer with Public
Citizen, a consumer-advocacy group.  “This is a victory for consumers,” AT&T said in a
statement. “The court recognized that arbitration often
benefits consumers.”  The case is AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion, 09-893, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Lancer Group Founder Michael Lauer Acquitted of Fraud  Lancer Group founder Michael Lauer was acquitted of fraud
charges stemming from an alleged stock-pricing scheme that
prosecutors said he used to artificially inflate the value of
his hedge funds.  Jurors in federal court in Miami deliberated more than
three days before finding Lauer not guilty of wire fraud and
conspiracy in connection with the alleged scheme. He faced as
many as 25 years in prison and $500,000 in fines if convicted.  “There was simply no evidence, nothing illegal,” Lauer
said outside the courtroom after the verdict. He said he plans
to return to the hedge fund business.  The government alleged Lauer and an associate bought
quantities of restricted stock of shell companies starting in
1999 and instructing brokers to buy a smaller number of shares
of the same companies at higher, open-market prices to drive
shares to a targeted price, according to court filings.  Lauer, who founded the New York-based Lancer Group in 1993,
then falsely valued all of the firm’s securities at the higher
closing prices, which artificially inflated the funds’
investment returns, prosecutors contended. That helped attract
new investors and generated lucrative fees for fund officials,
the government contended.  Lauer’s lawyers countered during the six-week trial that
the hedge fund manager was a savvy trader whose stock picks were
designed to make money for investors and he didn’t engage in
fraud.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Michael Lauer, 08-20071, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  U.K. SFO General Counsel to Join McGuireWoods  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office’s general counsel will join
U.S. law firm McGuireWoods LLP, adding to the list of lawyers
leaving for private practice as the agency faces possible
closure by the government.  Vivian Robinson will join the firm’s London office,
Richmond, Virginia-based McGuireWoods said in a statement
yesterday. At least five other top lawyers have left the agency
this year as it faces dissolution under plans to create an
economic crime agency.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  