-- 
Procter & Gamble Cuts Annual Forecast After Profit Misses Some Estimates

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-04-28T20:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/procter-gamble-profit-misses-some-estimates-on-higher-raw-material-costs.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer-products company, reduced the top end of its
annual profit forecast after higher raw-material costs and slow
growth in  Europe  and North America ate into income.  P&G cut the top of its forecast range by 5 cents. It now
predicts profit this year of $3.91 to $3.96 a share, excluding
the impact of legal costs and taxes. Twenty-five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg estimated an average profit of $3.96.  Like other consumer-products companies, the maker of
Gillette razors and Olay skin care continues to cope with higher
costs for wood pulp, resins and other raw materials. Commodities
cost increases are about $1.8 billion this fiscal year, triple
what the company expected, Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller
said during a media call today.  Chief Executive Officer Bob McDonald is raising some U.S.
prices and expanding in emerging markets to boost revenue.  “The rate of improvement in developed markets is obviously
slower than we had originally forecast,” McDonald said on the
call. Almost two-thirds of the company’s sales last year came
from  North America  and Western Europe.  Profit rose 11 percent to $2.87 billion, or 96 cents a
share, in the period ended March 31, from $2.59 billion, or 83
cents a share, a year earlier, the Cincinnati-based company said
today in a statement. Twenty-three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg estimated profit of 97 cents a share on average,
excluding such items as legal costs and taxes. Revenue rose 5.5
percent to $20.23 billion.  ‘Competitive Environment’  P&G rose 48 cents to $64.50 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares are about unchanged this
year.  Toothpaste maker  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  said today its
first-quarter profit excluding some items fell amid higher
material costs and what CEO Ian Cook called “an intense
competitive environment globally.”  Sales rose 4.3 percent to $3.99 billion. Net income
increased to $576 million, or $1.16 a share, compared with $357
million, or 69 cents a share, in the year-ago period. That
included an after-tax charge in the year-ago quarter of $271
million for accounting changes in  Venezuela . The shares of New
York-based Colgate have gained 0.9 percent this year.  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  earlier this week reduced the bottom
end of its full-year profit forecast and reported earnings below
analysts’ expectations after raw-materials costs jumped more
than anticipated. The Dallas-based maker of Huggies diapers and
Kleenex tissues says it’s raising prices on most of its North
American goods.  P&G is raising U.S. prices on Charmin toilet paper, Pampers
diapers and Bounty paper towels, spokesman Paul Fox said in an
April 26 e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  