-- 
ProLogis European Gains After Investor Opposes Bid by Biggest Shareholder

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-04-28T10:07:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/prologis-european-gains-after-investor-opposes-bid-by-biggest-shareholder.html
ProLogis European Properties (PEPR) , the
biggest owner of warehouses in  Europe , rose the most in two
weeks after one of its shareholders opposed an offer that values
the company at 1.2 billion euros ($1.8 billion.)  PEPR rose as much as 1.8 percent in Amsterdam trading, the
most since April 14. The 6.10-euro bid by ProLogis, PEPR’s
largest shareholder, “significantly” undervalues the company,
New York-based Fir Tree Partners said in a statement yesterday.
PEPR, based in  Luxembourg , is reviewing the offer. Fir Tree has
a stake of 4.3 percent  “We’re not going to respond directly on that right now,”
PEPR Chief Executive Officer Peter Cassells said in an interview
today. “We’re reviewing the offer document from  ProLogis (PLD)  and we
will come to a reasoned opinion on that in as short a timeframe
as possible.”  PEPR’s net asset value, based on the EPRA accounting
standard, rose to 6.37 euros per unit in the three months
through March from 6.32 euros in the previous three months, the
company said in a statement today. PEPR doesn’t foresee any
improvement in its net asset value this year, said Simon Nelson,
the head of asset management.  PEPR was little changed at 6.16 euros as of 11:35 a.m.,
giving the company a market value of 1.17 billion euros.  “Any slight pick-up in cap rates that may start to come
through is more than likely to be offset by the softening of
rents as we’re still working through rolling rents back to
market,” Nelson said in an interview.  PEPR declined to comment on the value of ProLogis’s offer,
which trumped an approach by APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV and
 Goodman Group .  First-quarter profit fell 27 percent to 12.3 million euros,
while rental income fell 2.1 percent to 60.4 million euros, PEPR
said in a statement.  Under takeover rules in Luxembourg, where PEPR is based,
ProLogis had to make a bid for all of the units after its stake
exceeded the 33.33 percent threshold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 