-- 
PulteGroup Gains as Homebuilder Forecasts Profit in Second Half of 2011

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-04-28T20:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/pultegroup-s-first-quarter-loss-widens-as-weak-housing-demand-lowers-sales.html
PulteGroup Inc., the largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, reported a narrower-than-expected first-
quarter loss and said it expects to be profitable in the second
half of the year. The shares climbed more than 3 percent.  The net loss in the first quarter was $39.5 million, or 10
cents a share, compared with $12.5 million, or 3 cents, a year
earlier, the  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based company said today
in a statement. The average estimate of 17 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was for a loss of 14 cents a share.  PulteGroup focused on cutting costs in the face of weak
demand for new homes. Selling, general and administrative
expenses for the quarter decreased 10 percent from a year
earlier to $136 million. The rate of cancellations declined and
visits to the company’s sale centers increased, said  Richard Dugas , chairman and chief executive officer.  “Assuming market conditions remain stable, we have put
ourselves in a position to return to profitability in the back
half of the year.” Dugas said on a conference call with
investors. “Now it’s about effort and execution, which are
clearly within our control.”  Roger Cregg, chief financial officer, said the builder
expects profits in both the third and fourth quarters.  Share Rise  PulteGroup rose 26 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $8.24 as of
4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The gain
was the largest among the 12 companies in the Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index, which increased 0.1 percent.  The first-quarter results were “somewhat encouraging,”
Vincent Foley and Cedric Morris, analysts with Barclays Capital
Inc. in New York, said in a research note. “Operating trends
were better than expected, particularly as it relates to new
orders.”  Net new orders rose to 4,345 homes from 4,320 a year
earlier and the cancellation rate decreased to 16 percent from
18 percent. Revenue slipped to $805.2 million from $1.02
billion.  Tax Credit  The builder’s year-ago sales were boosted by a government
tax incentive for homebuyers, valued at as much as $8,000, that
ended in April 2010. Builders have struggled as tighter lending,
unemployment near 9 percent and competition from lower-priced
foreclosures reduce demand. Purchases of new houses were at an
annual pace of 300,000 last month, close to the record low of
270,000 in February, the Commerce Department said April 25.  “Housing is profoundly weak and most of the builders,
Pulte included, serve the entry and mid-level market so there’s
a lot of competition there,”  Vicki Bryan , senior bond analyst
for Gimme Credit LLC in New York, said before the report.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook for
PulteGroup on April 21 to stable from positive while saying the
builder’s greater “size, scale and diversification” after its
August 2009 purchase of Centex Corp. will be a benefit when the
industry begins to turn.  “The change in outlook back to stable from positive
reflects Moody’s expectation that both Pulte’s improvement in
operating performance and the homebuilding industry’s return to
a more normal operating environment will take longer to
materialize than had earlier been anticipated,” the ratings
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  