-- 
Putin Orders Gasoline Export Tax Increase to Fight Fuel Shortage

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-28T14:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/putin-calls-for-oil-product-export-tax-increase-on-fuel-deficit.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  called for higher export taxes on gasoline amid a shortage
in some regions.  Putin told the Energy Ministry to develop a plan today,
which may include some compensation for oil producers via a
reduction of excise duties or extraction taxes. He was speaking
at a government meeting in Moscow.  The higher export tax on gasoline will be in addition to
increases on the export duties for crude and refined products
already been approved for May, Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s spokesman,
told reporters.  Motor fuel shortages in a number of regions including
Novosibirsk in western Siberia, and Sakhalin Island among others
led Putin to order the state to open an investigation.  Russia ’s
competition watchdog is probing the role of Russia’s largest
companies. Putin had called on refiners to rein in fuel prices
in February.  “The government’s efforts in micromanaging companies are
not working to the extent that they want,” Artem Konchin, an
oil and gas analyst at UniCredit SpA said by telephone today.  The Energy Ministry said earlier today that Russia’s
biggest oil companies agreed to halt exports of motor fuels next
month.  ‘No Export’  Oil companies have turned to exports because of pressure
from the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service to damp the growth of
gasoline prices at home, Konchin said.  “We agreed that companies will deliver all volumes to
domestic markets,” Deputy Energy Minister Sergei Kudryashov
said today in comments broadcast on state television station
Rossiya 24. “Nobody is going to export.”  Russia’s three largest  oil companies  said they don’t export
any motor fuel that meets domestic quality standards. OAO
Rosneft exports only low-grade gasoline, which Russian law
forbids from sale, Rustam Kazharov, a spokesman for the
country’s largest oil producer, said by phone from Moscow.  TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil producer, will provide
10 percent more of these fuels to the domestic market in January
to May than it did in the same period last year, Dmitry Sergeev,
a spokesman, said by e-mail today. TNK-BP said.  OAO Lukoil also keeps all motor fuel that meets Russian
standards for domestic sale, said Dmitry Dolgov, a spokesman.  OAO Gazprom Neft will study domestic demand and then decide
on export volumes for Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, said Ekaterina
Stenyakina, a spokeswoman for Gazprom Neft.  “Sales of oil products on Russian markets in February and
March didn’t go well, so companies exported part of their
volumes instead,” the Energy Ministry’s Kudryashov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  