-- 
Rajaratnam Lawyer Dowd Waits for Jury, Shares War Stories, Vacation Plans

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/rajaratnam-lawyer-dowd-shares-war-stories-vacation-plans.html
After about 18 months preparing to
defend Galleon Group LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam at his federal
insider-trading trial in Manhattan, attorney  John Dowd  said he
could use a vacation.  Dowd, who spent a fourth day yesterday waiting for jurors
to deliver a verdict in the case, said he hasn’t gotten much
sleep lately and plans to take a trip to Cape Cod in
 Massachusetts  when the trial’s over.  “You don’t sleep,” said Dowd, chatting with a group of
reporters in the courtroom of U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell. “It will take me six months to recover from this.”  Dowd spoke after approaching a group of reporters talking
with Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , one of the
prosecutors in the case. Reporters, lawyers and trial observers
spent yesterday along with Rajaratnam waiting for a verdict,
which could come at any time.  Dowd told reporters he has been working non-stop on the
Rajaratnam case for the past 10 months. The defense team has
about 10 people in the courthouse with another 14 outside, he
said.  “Raj was a huge resource” in preparing the defense, Dowd
said, providing details of the transactions in the government’s
charges against him. “He knew it.”  Dowd said he didn’t have his client testify during the
trial because he didn’t want to give prosecutors the opportunity
to try to reinforce their points on cross-examination.  Not Giving ‘Oxygen’  “There’s no sense giving these guys any oxygen to retry
their case,” he said.  Dowd declined to discuss other aspects of the case or to
speculate on what jurors were thinking. He said the Rajaratnam
legal team is set up at a hotel in lower  Manhattan , where three
other teams of lawyers trying cases are also located.  “It’s like a club,” Dowd said.  Dowd shared war stories from some of his trials, including
his defense of former Arizona governor Fife Symington on bank-
fraud charges in 1997. Symington won acquittal or dismissal of
17 of the 23 charges against him. Two years later, an appeals
court reversed the conviction, granting Symington a new trial on
the other six counts. Symington was pardoned by President  Bill Clinton  before he could be retried.  Dowd also discussed a 1973 trial in the old U.S.
courthouse, next door to the one where jurors are considering
Rajaratnam’s fate.  “Were you even alive then?” Dowd, who was born in 1941,
asked 41-year-old Brodsky, prompting laughter from the group.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  