-- 
Rand Strengthens to a Four-Month High Against Dollar on Fed Rates Outlook

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-28T12:58:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/rand-surges-to-strongest-against-dollar-in-four-months-on-fed.html
The rand surged to its strongest
level against the dollar in almost four months after the U.S.
Federal Reserve pledged to keep interest rates near zero,
spurring investors to buy higher-yielding assets.  The rand climbed as much as 1 percent to 6.5831 per dollar,
its strongest intraday level since Jan. 3, before paring gains
after lower food prices in March fueled speculation policy
makers won’t lift rates from a 30-year low. The currency
appreciated 0.3 percent to 6.63 by 2:10 p.m. in Johannesburg. It
weakened 0.4 percent to 9.8049 per euro.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six major trading partners, fell to its lowest level
since 2008 and gold climbed to a record after Fed policy makers
kept the target rate for overnight lending between banks at zero
to 0.25 percent. Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said the Fed is likely to
continue reinvesting its securities holdings when they mature
even after its $600 billion bond-buying program ends in June.  “So long as the U.S. chooses to embark on what are
essentially currency-debasing policies, the dollar is likely to
come under increasing pressure,” Tradition Analytics
researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in
a research note today.  Gold, which along with platinum accounts for one-fifth of
 South Africa ’s export earnings, climbed as much as 1.2 percent
to $1,535.10 an ounce. Platinum advanced 0.2 percent.  ‘Risk-On’  “Firmer precious metal prices and risk-on investor
sentiment have contributed towards a stronger rand,”  Michael Keenan , a Johannesburg-based analyst at  Standard Bank  Group
Ltd., said in a research note. “Both these factors have been
spurred on by the Fed’s ongoing accommodative stance.”  Even as producer prices rose at a faster rate, the cost of
food produced by farmers in South Africa declined by 1.9 percent
in March compared with February, Pretoria-based Statistics South
Africa said on its website today. That reduces pressure on the
Reserve Bank to raise interest rates.  “The moderation in food prices, one of the few direct
linkages between consumer and producer inflation, bodes well for
consumer inflation and, thus, the interest rate outlook,”
Nomvuyo Guma, an economist at Standard Bank, said in a research
note after the release of the producer price data. “Despite
rising inflation, the  Reserve Bank  is still likely to keep rates
on hold throughout 2011.”  ‘Second-Round Effects’  Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus left the benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 5.5 percent for a second meeting on
March 24 as inflation quickened to 4.1 percent, from 3.7 percent
in February. Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said on April 16 the
bank will monitor the “second-round effects” of rising food
and fuel costs on the economy.  Producer prices increased an annual 7.3 percent after
gaining 6.7 percent in February, Pretoria-based Statistics South
Africa said on its website today. The median estimate of nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 7.2 percent.  The European Central bank raised its benchmark rate a
quarter-percentage point to 1.25 percent on April 7, and
indicated it may increase rates further to stem inflation in the
euro region. That would reduce the rand’s yield advantage,
damping demand for the South African currency.  South African  government bonds  gained. The 6.75 percent
notes due 2021 advanced 27 cents to 88.56 cents, driving the
yield down 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.48
percent, the lowest since April 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  