-- 
Republicans Dismiss Public Attacks on Ryan Medicare Revamp as Orchestrated

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-04-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/republicans-dismiss-public-attacks-on-ryan-medicare-revamp-as-orchestrated.html
U.S.  House Republicans  pushing to
overhaul Medicare dismiss the vocal opposition some have
encountered from constituents as orchestrated by political foes.  The Republicans, who have spent much of the two-week
congressional recess fending off questions from voters about the
proposal, say they are standing by the plan, a cornerstone of
the 2012 budget measure the House passed April 15 on a party-
line  vote .  They’re blaming much of the criticism voiced at town-hall
meetings, which sometimes turned raucous, on activists
dispatched by  MoveOn.org  and other Democratic allies, even as
some of the lawmakers have taken measures to control the tone of
forums.  “This is not genuine anger over Medicare; it’s
manufactured political anger that’s causing the disturbances,”
said Representative Lou Barletta, a freshman Republican from
 Pennsylvania .  At one forum, Barletta offered a slide show detailing the
Republican plan, written by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin . It calls for replacing the traditional
Medicare health-care system for the elderly by providing those
currently under the age of 55 with subsidies to buy private
insurance. His presentation quickly devolved into a shouting
match after a constituent accused Republicans of trying to
destroy the program.  Barletta dismissed the hecklers as Democratic plants and
said he would keep promoting the plan in public forums. “It’s
very important for me to continue to have these meetings to make
sure that seniors know they have nothing to worry about,” he
said.  ‘Extreme Ideology’  Democrats rejected the accusation that they had
orchestrated the outrage.  “Republicans must be so blinded by their extreme ideology
that they can’t see what’s happening at town halls across the
country where the American people are rejecting their radical
scheme to end Medicare and raise health care costs for
seniors,” Jesse Ferguson, spokesman for the  Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee , said in an e-mail.  The executive director of MoveOn.org,  Justin Ruben , said in
an e-mail that his group “is simply encouraging our members to
attend town halls and talk to their elected representatives
about their votes to abolish Medicare.”  “Republicans dismiss this anger at their peril,” he said.  Political Pressure  The confrontational tone of meetings like Barletta’s
highlight the political pressure confronting Republicans as they
attempt to fulfill campaign promises to reduce the federal
deficit and, in the process, alter the entitlement programs that
are its biggest drivers.  While voters say they want politicians to bring down the
deficit -- which the Congressional Budget Office estimates will
reach $1.4 trillion by Sept. 30, the end of the 2011 fiscal year
-- surveys show that they don’t want to significantly change
entitlements such as Medicare and Social Security.  “The perception of the American public is we can fix all
our problems if we just didn’t waste the money,” said Ed Goeas,
head of the Tarrance Group, a Republican polling firm in
Alexandria, Virginia. “Which makes getting into the discussion
of how we make programs better more difficult.”  A Washington Post/ABC News  poll  conducted April 14-17 found
that 78 percent of Americans oppose cutting Medicare spending to
lower the debt and 65 percent said Medicare should remain as it
is, rather than providing recipients with a check or a voucher
from the government to purchase private insurance.  The budget crafted by Ryan would slash U.S. spending by
$6.2 trillion over a decade by cutting Medicare and scores of
other programs, including Medicaid,  food stamps , farm subsidies
and Pell college tuition grants.  Medicare ‘Crisis’  As they left for the congressional recess, Republican
leaders said they and their colleagues needed to focus on
discussing the Medicare issue. “It’s important for our members
to go home and talk about the crisis that we face” in the
program’s funding, House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, told reporters on April 15.  Democrats and their allies had their own plans for the
recess, mobilizing a campaign of automated phone calls,
advertisements and protests that charged the Republican aim was
to end the program.  The House Majority PAC, a political action committee
focused on helping Democrats regain the House majority in the
2012 elections, ran radio ads in 10 districts in which an
announcer said Republican lawmakers had voted for a plan that
“threatens to end Medicare as we know it.”  In an April 26 interview with ABC News, Boehner cautioned
that while he backed the plan, he was not “wedded to one single
idea” to tackle Medicare.  “I’m for it. It’s our idea,” he said, “but other people
have other ideas.”  Wider Focus  Republicans also have sought to switch the focus from
Medicare to overall federal spending -- a more challenging issue
for Democrats who, polls have shown, face voter skepticism that
they are willing to tackle the  budget deficit .  The National Republican Campaign Committee launched a
three-week run of ads targeting 13 fiscally conservative
Democrats, featuring an announcer saying that the lawmakers
“refused to vote for any of the five budget proposals that cut
spending.”  Security Concerns  Still, even Ryan has faced mixed receptions at public
meetings in his district. Several news outlets reported that
attendees booed Ryan at some of those sessions this week. He
left one of them, on April 26, through a different door and in a
different car due to security concerns, according to a  report  by
Milwaukee television station WTMJ.  Representative Dan Webster, a freshman Republican from
 Florida , faced a confrontational crowd at an April 26 town hall
meeting that included a shouting match. Video  shot  by Orlando
television station WFTV showed hecklers holding up signs that
said “Hands off my Medicare” as Webster stressed the Ryan
plan’s exemption for those 55 and older from the privatization
provisions.  A few Republicans have worked to restrict the typically
open nature of the town hall forum.  In their town hall sessions this week, freshman
Representatives Allen West of Florida and Michael Grimm of  New
York  asked moderators to select and vet questions submitted by
constituents.  Despite such efforts, three hecklers were removed from
West’s forum in  Fort Lauderdale  on April 26, including one in
handcuffs, according to local news reports.  A Democratic website, BlueBroward.org, had urged Democrats
to question West at the session. “We need everybody (especially
seniors) at this town hall meeting -- media will be present!” a
member of the group posted on the site last week.  West said the protesters wouldn’t change his position.  “I am disturbed that a select few of people are using
these informative events as their own personal soapbox,” he
said in a statement. “I will not be intimidated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  