-- 
Rhine Water Levels Fall to 17-Month Low, Push Up Barge Demand

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-04-28T15:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/rhine-water-levels-fall-to-17-month-low-push-up-barge-demand.html
Water levels on the Rhine River
dropped to the lowest level in 17 months, pushing up demand for
barges on  Europe ’s busiest inland waterway.  The barge clearance level at Bingen, a potential bottleneck
south of Cologne, dropped to 113 centimeters (44 inches)
yesterday, according to German government data available on
Bloomberg. The clearance level, the depth at which a barge can
travel safely without the risk of running aground, is at its
lowest since November 2009.  “The quantities we can lift are getting less and less,”
said Joachim Hessler, operations manager at Maintank
Schiffahrtsgesellschaft mbH, which delivers jet fuel and diesel.
“Prices will start to move up,” he said, referring to freight
rates.  The Rhine is a commercial waterway, linking industrial
sites operated by BP Plc and BASF SE to Rotterdam, Europe’s
business port. Barges, which would usually carry about 2,000
metric tons, are operating at as little as 30 percent of
capacity, Hessler said.  The drop in water levels is causing a shortage of barges,
said Patrick Kulsen, commercial director at PJK International
BV, a research company based in Oosterhout in the Netherlands.  “There are long waiting times at terminals, especially at
Amsterdam where much of the gasoline blending is done,” Kulsen
said. European gasoline for immediate loading traded at a record
$1,171 a ton today, according to a Bloomberg survey of deals
done on the Argus Bulletin Board.  The cost of shipping gasoil to Duisburg in  Germany  from
Rotterdam or Amsterdam was 5.50 euros ($8.14) a ton yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. That was unchanged
from the previous day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Graham in Belfast at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  