-- 
RIM Cuts Profit Forecast as BlackBerry Demand Falls Short

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-04-28T21:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/rim-cuts-profit-forecast-as-demand-for-blackberry-smartphones-falls-short.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , facing
intensifying competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , cut
its sales and profit forecasts for this quarter on slower-than-
expected demand for BlackBerry smartphones. The stock plunged.  Profit this quarter will be $1.30 to $1.37 a share,
Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM said today in a statement. The
company last month forecast profit of $1.47 to $1.55 a share.
Sales in the quarter ending May 28 will be “slightly below” the
$5.2 billion to $5.6 billion the company had forecast.  RIM said BlackBerry shipments will be at the lower end of
the range of 13.5 million to 14.5 million it projected last
month, and the mix of devices it sells will shift toward cheaper
models. The forecast shows that higher-end BlackBerrys like the
Torch, designed to compete with Apple’s iPhone and devices built
on Google’s Android platform, are missing estimates, said
Michael Walkley, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd.  “Higher-end phones have not sold so well,” said Walkley,
who has a “hold” rating on the stock. “The investment
community was already skeptical about the full-year guidance of
$7.50 and this gives them reason to be more skeptical.”  Analysts predicted earnings of $1.50 a share on sales of
$5.44 billion for this quarter, the average estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  RIM fell $5.20, or 9.2 percent, to $51.39 in late trading,
after closing at $56.59 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. It has lost
2.7 percent this year as of today’s close.  Full-Year Forecast  The company said full-year earnings will be about $7.50 a
share. Last month, it projected earnings in excess of $7.50. The
company said it anticipates “strong” revenue growth in the third
and fourth quarters, helped by new BlackBerry models and
“prudent” cost management. Analysts estimate earnings of $6.91 a
share on average.  RIM’s share of worldwide smartphone sales slipped to 14
percent in the fourth quarter from 20 percent a year earlier,
according to Canalys, a British research company. Apple’s share
was unchanged at 16 percent, while Android’s more than tripled
to 33 percent.  RIM said shipments of the PlayBook tablet, which started
selling in the U.S. April 19 to challenge Apple’s iPad, are in
line with its previous estimates. The device hasn’t experienced
significant supply disruptions due to the Japan earthquake, RIM
said.  (RIM plans to have a conference call at 5:30 p.m. New York
time. Go to  http://www.rim.com/investors/events/index.shtml  to
access the call).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  