-- 
Ringgit Rises to 13-Year High on Fed Rate Pledge; Bonds Steady

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-04-28T08:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ringgit-rises-to-13-year-high-on-fed-rate-pledge-bonds-steady.html
Malaysia’s ringgit advanced for a
seventh day, its longest winning stretch in a year, after the
 Federal Reserve  renewed its pledge to keep  interest rates  near
zero to stimulate economic growth.  The currency reached the strongest level in more than 13
years after Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled the Fed will
maintain its record monetary stimulus. The near-zero interest-
rate policy has accentuated the appeal of higher-yielding assets
in  Asia  as countries including India, Thailand and  China  raised
borrowing costs to fight inflation.  Government bonds  were
steady.  “The U.S. didn’t show any sign of abandoning its super-
loose monetary policy, and that has encouraged risk-taking on
the ringgit and other Asian currencies,” said Azmi Shukri Rahman, a foreign-exchange trader at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd.
“In this dollar-negative environment, we could expect central
banks to step in and tone down the rally.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.5 percent to 2.9640 per dollar
as of 4:15 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 2.9608, the strongest level since
September 1997.  The Fed kept its target rate for overnight lending between
banks at zero to 0.25 percent yesterday, as forecast by all
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The rate has remained at
that level since December 2008. The  U.S. economy  is recovering
at a “moderate pace” and a pickup in inflation is likely to be
temporary, it said. Policy makers also agreed to end a $600
billion bond-buying program on schedule in June.  Bond Rally  Malaysia’s currency has gained 4.8 percent in the past six
months, the fourth-best performance in Asia, according to
Bloomberg data. “Markets are anticipating a rate hike” at  Bank
Negara Malaysia ’s meeting on May 5, IdeaGlobal said in a
research note today.  The central bank has kept its overnight policy rate at 2.75
percent since July, after lifting it three times earlier in
2010. Inflation in Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy
accelerated 3 percent in March from a year-earlier, the fastest
pace since April 2009, the government said on April 20.  Benchmark three-year bonds rallied this month, pushing
yields to the lowest level since mid-February on speculation
overseas investors will add to record holdings of local-currency
debt.  The yield on the 3.434 percent note due August 2014 held at
3.29 percent today, according to Bursa Malaysia. The rate has
declined 16 basis points so far this month.  Overseas funds owned a  record  137.9 billion ringgit ($46.5
billion) of ringgit-denominated securities at the end of
February, up 91 percent from a year earlier, according to latest
data published by the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{David Yong} in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  