-- 
Roche Holding’s Avastin Treatment Effective for Blindness in Study

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-04-29T18:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/roche-holding-s-avastin-treatment-effective-for-blindness-in-study.html
(Corrects measurement in second paragraph in story
published April 28.)  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin was as
effective as the company’s more costly Lucentis for treating the
most common cause of blindness in the elderly, according to a
study published in the New  England Journal of Medicine .  Patients given Avastin, a cancer drug not approved for the
disease, had a similar improvement in vision as those given
Lucentis, which was developed for the condition known as wet
age-related macular degeneration, or AMD. Vision improved by 8
letters on an eye chart for patients given Avastin, compared
with 8.5 letters for those on Lucentis, the study found.  The study, dubbed CATT, validates an approach doctors
crafted five years ago when they had few ways to treat the
condition caused when blood vessels in the eye leak and damage
the macula. Avastin will continue to lead the market for  macular
degeneration , researchers said, potentially shrinking the space
for costly brand name drugs like Lucentis and an experimental
therapy from  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  and  Bayer AG. (BAYN)   “The CATT results, together with the totality of global
experience, support the use of either” Avastin or Lucentis for
the treatment of macular degeneration, said Philip Rosenfeld, a
professor of ophthalmology at the Bascom Palmer Eye Institute at
the  University of Miami . “Health-care providers and payers
worldwide will now have to justify the cost of using
ranibizumab,” or Lucentis, he wrote in an editorial.  Forty Times as Expensive  A single dose of Lucentis costs 40 times as much as a dose
of Avastin, researchers led by Daniel Martin, chair of the
 Cleveland Clinic  Cole Eye Institute, said in the study. Lucentis
given every month cost $23,400, compared with $595 for Avastin,
which is used in about 60 percent of the cases. A separate arm
of the study suggested the drugs may be given less frequently
without a significant reduction in benefit.  The cost difference has important economic implications
when applied to the 250,000 Americans treated for macular
degeneration annually, the researchers said.  Patients getting injections only when needed, such as when
there were signs of fluid buildup or reduced vision, were able
to eliminate about five shots a year. The difference in vision,
losing about two letters on an eye chart, is about the same as
having a smudge on your glasses or looking through them after
they have slipped down your nose, said Paul A. Sieving, director
of the  National Eye Institute , in a press conference.  Doctors have primarily given their patients Avastin and
treated them on an as-needed basis, said Martin, of the
Cleveland Clinic. The results show the approach is appropriate,
he said.  “This trial was conducted to determine the best drug for
our patients and the optimal dosing frequency,” Martin said in
a conference call. “It’s a choice we as clinicians make every
single day.”  Shares Decline  Regeneron fell $2.44, or 3.6 percent, to $64.61 at 4:15
p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Shares of the Tarrytown,
New York-based company have almost tripled in the past 12
months. Roche, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , rose 2 Swiss francs,
or 1.5 percent, to 138.8 francs in Zurich. Bayer rose 1.18
euros, or 2 percent, to 58.78 euros.  Novartis AG (NOVN) , which sells
Lucentis outside of the U.S., rose 0.5 Swiss francs, or 1
percent, to 51.4 francs.  Regeneron and Bayer’s drug, called VEGF Trap-Eye, showed a
similar benefit for patients in clinical trials, though it’s
given every other month, said Michael Aberman, Regeneron’s vice
president of strategy, in a telephone interview. Patients
treated as needed with Lucentis and Avastin still required
monthly doctor visits, and the improvement with less frequent
Avastin was not as good, he said.  ‘Unique Molecule’  “We still believe our VEGF Trap-Eye, given every two
months, offers a potential advantage if it’s approved, compared
to other therapies,” he said. “We’d like for patients and
physicians to have a choice that includes a unique molecule with
more convenient dosing.”  Since Avastin works by choking off blood vessels, doctors
injected tiny amounts of the drug into the eye. While results
were dramatic, there were no studies proving the approach was
safe or effective. Still, it is the most common drug used to
treat the condition, doctors said.  “Ophthalmologists and retinal specialists seem to be very
price-sensitive,” said Ziad Bakri, an analyst with Cowen & Co.
in  New York . “A lot of them outwardly express discontent toward
Genentech,” the South  San Francisco , California-based Roche
unit that developed Lucentis and Avastin, “and some of its
reimbursement policies and pricing decisions.”  1,208-Patient Study  The study released today of 1,208 patients funded by the
National Eye Institute provides assurance that Avastin, also
known by its chemical name bevacizumab, is effective. Almost one
in four patients given Avastin suffered a serious side effect in
the first year, mainly hospitalization, compared with 20 percent
of those given Lucentis. There were no differences in deaths,
heart attacks and strokes.  The difference in hospitalizations and other serious
adverse events is key, said Anthony Adamis, global head of
ophthalmology at  Genentech . If the results are borne out, that
would mean an additional hospitalization for every 25 patients
treated with Avastin, he said in a telephone interview.  “That is not trivial,” he said, pointing out that many of
the patients are elderly. “We designed Lucentis to be different
from Avastin specifically to avoid these sorts of side effects.
It’s cleared much more quickly from the blood stream,”
potentially reducing the risks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  