-- 
Rupiah Advances to Seven-Year High as Fed Keeps Rate Unchanged

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r   a n d   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-04-28T10:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/rupiah-advances-to-seven-year-high-as-fed-keeps-rate-unchanged.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah advanced to a
seven-year high after the  Federal Reserve  renewed a pledge to
keep U.S. interest rates low, boosting the appeal of higher-
yielding assets elsewhere.  The currency gained the most in five months after global
funds bought $49 million more Indonesian stocks than they sold
in the first three days of this week. The Jakarta Composite
Index rose 0.11 percent today. The Fed left its key lending rate
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since
December 2008. Indonesia must achieve the “right balance”
between managing inflation and promoting exports in terms of how
quickly it lets the rupiah appreciate, Trade Minister Mari Pangestu told Bloomberg Television in Jakarta today.  “The Fed is still sounding very dovish and there are no
hints of tightening,” said Joanna Tan, a Singapore-based
economist at Forecast Singapore Pte. “ Bank Indonesia  will
ensure there is no volatility in the rupiah because they are
relying on the currency to curb imported pressures. The bias for
the rupiah is for appreciation in the next two months.”  The rupiah strengthened 0.6 percent to 8,581 per dollar as
of 4:08 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 8,573 earlier, the strongest level since April 2004.
The currency has gained 4.6 percent this year.  Bank Indonesia will provide “more room” for the rupiah to
appreciate as a stronger currency eases pressure from imported
inflation, Deputy Governor Budi Mulya told reporters in Jakarta
today. The  Central Bureau of Statistics  will publish inflation
data for this month on May 2.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy sold $2.5 billion of 10-
year dollar bonds in international markets yesterday, Bloomberg
data show. The debt was sold with a 4.875 percent coupon to
yield 5.1 percent.  The government’s 10-year rupiah-denominated bonds rose. The
yield on the 8.25 percent note due July 2021 fell four basis
points or 0.04 percentage points to 7.76 percent, according to
closing prices from the Inter-Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  