-- 
Russia May Hold Interest Rates as Ruble Advance Helps Tame Consumer Prices

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-28T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/russia-may-hold-interest-rates-as-ruble-advance-helps-tame-consumer-prices.html
Russia ’s central bank may leave its
main  interest rates  unchanged today, allowing a stronger ruble
to tame price growth and relying on higher  reserve requirements 
to lock up cash.  Bank Rossii  will hold the refinancing rate at 8 percent
after keeping it unchanged last month, according to 15 of 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The deposit and overnight
auction-based repurchase rates will be left at 3 percent and
5.25 percent, respectively, two separate surveys showed.  The central bank is relying on currency gains and higher
 reserve requirements  for lenders to quell inflation, targeting a
record-slow annual price growth of between 6 percent and 7
percent this year. Bank ratios are a “powerful tool for
fighting inflation” and policy makers are prepared to raise the
level again after three straight increases this year, central
bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said April 25.  “The inflation data are sufficiently favorable to allow
the central bank to keep interest rates unchanged,” Sergei Voloboev, a London-based emerging markets economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said by e-mail yesterday. Consumer prices will
probably rise 0.4 percent in April from the previous month,
slower than a monthly increase of 0.6 percent in March, he said.  Record Lows  Russia has kept borrowing costs within 25 basis points of
record lows and loosened currency controls to help bring down
prices on imported goods. The inflation rate fell from a 15-
month high of 9.6 percent in January to 9.5 percent in February
and March as the ruble rose about 11 percent against the dollar
this year.  Modernizing the economy, a priority for President  Dmitry Medvedev , “practically doesn’t begin” with inflation above 7
percent, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin  said  April 21. Loans
become affordable for companies when price growth dips below 3
percent, he said.  Medvedev wants to attract foreign technology and capital to
help end the economy’s reliance on oil and natural gas exports.
Russia’s inflation target of between 3 percent and 5 percent is
“achievable” within the next six years, central bank Chairman
Sergey Ignatiev said March 29.  Bank Rossii has followed China and  Turkey  in relying on
reserve ratios to drain cash from the economy. The regulator
boosted reserve requirements in three steps this year from 2.5
percent, raising the level for liabilities to non-resident
companies by a percentage point each month and by half a point
for all others.  The ratio for foreign liabilities was at 8.5 percent until
September 2008 before the regulator loosened monetary policy to
unlock credit flows during the global credit squeeze.  Turkey,  China   Turkey raised the ratio for short-term lira deposits last
week for the fourth increase in six months, while China this
month pushed the requirement to a record 20.5 percent for the
biggest lenders.  Russia’s central bank “sees a greater effect from reserve
requirements as a way to absorb liquidity than from raising
rates,” Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist for  Barclays
Capital  in Moscow, said by phone yesterday.  Investors have scaled back bets for higher interest rates.
Forward-rate agreements signal 59 basis points, or 0.59
percentage points, of increases in the next three months, down
from 115 basis points on Jan. 26.  The cost to lock in interest payments for a year dropped to
a 2 1/2-week low of 4.65 percent on April 27 and was at 4.695
percent yesterday, down 30 basis points since Bank Rossii last
met on March 25, according to interest-rate swap data on
Bloomberg.  “Stable weekly inflation, moderate credit growth and mixed
economic data might prompt the central bank to postpone hiking
the interest rates,” VTB Capital economists Alexey Moiseev,
Aleksandra Evtifyeva, Dmitri Fedotkin said in an e-mailed
research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 