-- 
Samsung Broadens Patent Dispute Against Apple With U.S. Suit

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-04-29T04:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/samsung-broadens-patent-dispute-against-apple-with-u-s-lawsuit.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the
second-largest maker of mobile phones, broadened its patent-
infringement dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  by suing the iPhone creator
in the U.S. a week after making claims in  Asia  and  Europe .  Apple is infringing 10 patents related to mobile phones,
Samsung said in an April 27 lawsuit in federal court in  San
Jose ,  California . The Suwon, South Korea-based company, which
sells the Galaxy smartphone and tablet, claims Apple is using
Samsung’s inventions without paying.  The lawsuit intensifies a legal dispute that began when
Cupertino, California-based Apple sued Samsung earlier this
month, claiming the Galaxy products “slavishly” copied iPad
and iPhone technology and design. Samsung, which is also a
supplier of some Apple chips, retaliated last week with lawsuits
in  Seoul ,  Tokyo  and Mannheim,  Germany .  “Samsung is continuing to respond actively to the legal
action taken against us,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement today.  In the U.S. complaint, Samsung accuses Apple of violating
patents that “relate to fundamental innovations that increase
mobile device reliability, efficiency, and quality, and improve
user interface in mobile handsets and other products.”  The patented technology includes ways that a phone allows
calls and Internet surfing at the same time; improvements in how
text messages and attachments are sent; reductions in
interference among mobile devices; and increases in the capacity
of mobile networks, according to the complaint.  Samsung, which received the second-highest number of U.S.
patents last year after International Business Machines Corp.,
is seeking an order to prevent further use of its innovations by
Apple, plus cash compensation.  Apple Complaint  “Apple continues to violate Samsung’s patent rights by
using these patented technologies without a license,” Samsung
said in the lawsuit.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, referred to the
company’s April 18 statement accusing Samsung of “blatant
copying.”  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,” the company said.  Apple’s April 15 complaint claims Samsung is infringing
seven patents related to the way Galaxy devices understand user
gestures, including selecting, scrolling, pinching and zooming.
Samsung is also copying three patents on the design, including
the flat black face of the iPhone and iPad, according to Apple.  The Galaxy phones and tablet, which use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software, were specifically designed to copy Apple
products, Apple claims.  Apple is seeking a court order to block further use of its
patents and trademarks, along with cash compensation and
“reasonable funds for future corrective advertising.”  Samsung’s mobile-phone business “crossed the line,”  Tim Cook , Apple’s chief operating officer, said last week after the
company reported profit that almost doubled from a year ago.  The case is Samsung Electronics Co. v. Apple Inc.,
11cv2079, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  