-- 
Sanofi Profit Dips on Generic Competition, Pandemic Flu End

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-04-28T15:44:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sanofi-first-quarter-net-drops-on-generics-competition-pandemic-flu-end.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) , the French
drugmaker that bought  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ)  this month, said first-
quarter profit fell as generic competition dented sales of five
key medicines and the end of the pandemic wiped out demand for
swine flu vaccines.  Earnings slid to 2.17 billion euros ($3.22 billion), or
1.66 euros a share, excluding costs such as writedowns and
merger expenses, from 2.43 billion euros, or 1.86 euros a share,
a year earlier, Paris-based Sanofi said in a  statement  today.
Analysts had expected 2.13 billion euros, based on the average
of 11 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sanofi, like rivals  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
saw vaccine sales slip following the end of the swine flu
pandemic. The French drugmaker is also suffering from generic
competition to best-selling products such as the blood thinner
Plavix. Sanofi bought Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme,
the largest maker of medicines for rare genetic disorders, to
gain innovative drugs that aren’t likely to face generic copies.  “Sanofi was hurt by the end of the pandemic and the impact
of the different generics,” Arsene Guekam, an analyst at CM-CIC
Securities in Paris, said in a telephone interview. “It will be
interesting to see how they project themselves in the future
with Genzyme.” Today’s earnings matched expectations, he said.  Middle of Cliff  Sanofi stock rose 0.1 percent to 53.30 euros at the close
of Paris trading. The shares have returned 7.9 percent including
reinvested dividends in the past year, compared with 9.5 percent
for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  “We are right in the middle of the patent cliff,” Chief
Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher said on a conference call
with reporters today. To make up for that, “we really tried to
build up businesses that have sustainable growth,” such as
consumer health, emerging markets and animal health, he said.
The Genzyme integration “started favorably,” he said.  Since joining in December 2008, the 51-year-old CEO has
been hunting outside Sanofi’s labs for products to help the
company replenish its pipeline of new drugs. With Genzyme,
Sanofi gained treatments for Fabry, Gaucher and Pompe diseases.
The French drugmaker has said the deal will add to earnings in
the first year after closing, and will contribute 75 cents to 1
euro to earnings per share by 2013.  The integration of Genzyme “is something that we are doing
very sensitively; this is a company with a very different
culture,” Viehbacher told reporters today.  ‘Fragile’ Recovery  “There is an awful lot in the research and development and
the way Genzyme does this that we want to re-infuse back into
Sanofi,” Viehbacher said. Manufacturing problems that led to
shortages of Genzyme’s main products last year are being solved,
he said.  “When we came in, we knew the situation for the recovery
of manufacturing was fragile,” Viehbacher told reporters. “It
improves every day and I have a lot of confidence that,
particularly with Sanofi resources added to this, we are going
to be able to get manufacturing issues back on track.”  Viehbacher said he is “personally” overseeing the
integration, spending about one or two days every week in
Genzyme’s headquarters in Cambridge.  Genzyme’s own first-quarter revenue climbed 7 percent to
$1.01 billion, led by sales of the Myozyme and Lumizyme
treatments for Pompe disease, Sanofi said in a  separate
statement  today. The French drugmaker said it booked 42 million
euros of advisory fees linked to the Genzyme transaction.  No More Pandemic  “The inclusion of Genzyme should lead to an improving
sales dynamic as the year progresses, despite increasing generic
erosion,”  Michael Leacock , an analyst at Royal Bank of  Scotland 
in  London , wrote in an April 21 note to clients. He has a
“buy” recommendation on Sanofi shares.  Sales at the French company fell 1.5 percent to 7.78
billion euros in the three months ended March 31, beating the
7.61 billion-euro average analyst estimate. Sanofi recorded no
revenue from the pandemic flu vaccine, compared with 413 million
euros of swine flu vaccine sales in the first quarter of 2010.
Total vaccine sales dropped 38 percent to 602 million euros at
constant exchange rates.  Sales dropped for Plavix, the cancer drug Taxotere, the
Ambien sleeping pill and the anti-clotting treatment Lovenox. In
all, generic competition erased 569 million euros in sales
during the quarter, Sanofi said. Revenue increased for the
diabetes therapy Lantus, the cancer drug Eloxatin and the heart
medicine Multaq.  Fleas and Ticks  Sales of animal-health products also advanced, led by the
Frontline flea and tick control medicine for pets. The French
drugmaker said it recorded 517 million euros of depreciation and
amortization in the quarter linked to the change of plan for its
Merial animal-health unit.  Sanofi and Merck & Co. last month abandoned plans to
combine their animal-health businesses after wrestling with
competition regulators for a year over potential divestitures.
The decision ended a plan to create the world’s biggest maker of
medicines for livestock and pets, as the two companies sought
stable sources of revenue growth.  “Sales in pharma, consumer, generics, and animal health
beat our forecasts, while vaccines were light,”  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in  Boston , wrote in
a note to clients. He has an “outperform” recommendation on
Sanofi shares.  The drugmaker said it is “on track” to achieve planned
cost cuts of 2 billion euros this year and will review the
guidance for 2011, to include Genzyme, when it publishes first-
half earnings.  “Mechanically, we expect Genzyme will have a positive
contribution of between 3 to 4 percent on the business EPS for
the full year,” Sanofi Chief Financial Officer Jerome Contamine
told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  