-- 
Banco Santander Posts 5% Decline in First-Quarter Profit to $3.1 Billion

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-04-28T15:52:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/santander-first-quarter-net-income-fell-5-to-eu2-11-billion.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest
bank, said first-quarter profit declined 5 percent as lower
earnings at home offset gains in Latin America.  Net income fell to 2.11 billion euros ($3.13 billion) from
2.22 billion euros a year earlier, the Santander, Spain-
registered lender said in a filing today. The mean estimate of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 2.17 billion euros.  Earnings from Latin America, led by  Brazil  where it owns
the third-biggest non-state-owned bank, are buoying Santander as
Spanish divisions suffer losses on real-estate loans and
shrinking loan books. Santander, which has so far come through
the financial crisis with profit only about 10 percent off its
2007 peak, strengthened its core capital ratio by almost 1
percentage point during the quarter.  “There’s still pressure on  Spain , but overall the
operating performance of the group is looking good,” said
Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International in Madrid who
rates Santander “neutral.” “Despite the miss compared with
estimates, the good capital number makes this a reasonable set
of results.”  Santander climbed 1.5 percent to 8.60 euros in Madrid,
extending this year’s advance to 8.5 percent and valuing the
bank at 72.6 billion euros. That compares with a 3.4 percent
gain this year for the 48-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
which reports earnings May 5, is up 15 percent.  Capital Position  “These results show the enormous benefits of geographic
diversification,” Chairman  Emilio Botin , 76, said in a
statement.  Santander’s core capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, rose to 9.66 percent from 8.8 percent in December as
it reduced risk-weighted assets and sold convertible bonds in
Brazil.  It will keep the ratio above 9 percent this year even as
the purchase of  Poland ’s Bank Zachodni WBK SA shaves off about
60 basis points, the bank said. A basis point is one hundredth
of a percent.  Santander will press ahead with plans for an initial public
offering of its U.K. business in the second half of this year,
Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz said on a webcast for
analysts.  Bad Loans  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending at Santander
rose to 3.61 percent from 3.55 percent in December and 3.34
percent a year earlier. The bad-loan ratio in the bank’s home
market, which rose by almost 1 percentage point to 4.57 percent,
will probably peak in the third quarter and won’t exceed 5
percent, Saenz told reporters in  Madrid .  The bank had 3.1 billion euros of net loans newly classed
as in default in the quarter, compared with 3.4 billion euros a
year ago. Costs for covering impairments dropped 10 percent to
2.2 billion euros.  Revenue from Spain “reversed their trend” to grow 7
percent from the preceding quarter, the bank said. Lending in
the country declined 5 percent from a year earlier.  Santander’s profit from Spain fell 32 percent to 593
million euros from a year earlier. Net interest income dropped
18 percent to 1.34 billion euros.  “We are putting out our photo of Spain at its worst and
ugliest moment,” Saenz said. “Spain is a country that must
deleverage -- we may not like it but it is necessary.”  Profit from  Latin America  increased 27 percent to 1.27
billion euros, with a 23 percent gain in Brazil. Lending in
Brazil rose an annual 18 percent in local currency terms.  Earnings from the U.K., a business led by Botin’s eldest
daughter Ana Patricia, 50, rose 2 percent to 491 million euros,
the bank said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  