-- 
SAP Profit Misses Analyst Estimates as Growth Trails Oracle

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-04-28T19:31:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sap-first-quarter-profit-misses-analyst-estimates-company-confirms-target.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, reported first-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates and trailed growth at rival  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , sending the stock down the most in 1 1/2 years.  Operating profit based on non-IFRS accounting rules rose 26
percent to 779 million euros ($1.2 billion), Walldorf, Germany-
based SAP said today. The figure missed the 833 million-euro
average estimate of 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Software
and related services revenue gained 20 percent to 2.34 billion
euros, trailing the 2.46 billion-euro average estimate.  SAP fell 5.7 percent in  Frankfurt . Profit were weighed down
by costs linked to last year’s acquisition of Sybase Inc. Led by
co-Chief Executive Officer Bill McDermott and Jim Hagemann Snabe, SAP is banking on increased use of mobile technology and
computing over the Internet to boost sales and hold back Oracle.
The U.S. rival last month predicted profit that topped estimates
and has stepped up spending on hardware and the programs needed
to organize data.  “The market was in general expecting higher revenue
numbers and in particular in terms of subscriptions, which were
flat year-on-year,” said Jonathan Crozier, an analyst at WestLB
AG in  London  who has an “add” recommendation on SAP. “What
we’re seeing is 50 percent disappointment with the results and
50 percent profit taking. The shares were ready for any excuse
to take profits.”  Sybase Costs  SAP lost 2.59 euros to 43.09 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close
of trading in Frankfurt. That’s steepest decline since October
2009, paring the stock’s gain this year to 13 percent. Oracle is
also up 13 percent this year.  Reported net income gained 4.1 percent to 403 million
euros, SAP said. Non-IFRS profit rose 20 percent to 528 million
euros.  The German company, which bought database and mobile-
computer software maker Sybase last year, had acquisition-
related charges of 112 million euros.  Total sales rose 21 percent to 3 billion euros, in line
with estimates by analysts. Software licenses, an indicator of
future sales, grew 26 percent.  Last month, Oracle reported a 29 percent jump in new
software licenses for the quarter through February. The  Redwood
City , California-based company posted a 78 percent jump in net
income, fueled by demand for its databases.  SAP reiterated its forecast for 2011 non-IFRS software and
related service revenue to increase by a range of 10 percent to
14 percent at constant currencies. Non-IFRS operating margin
will gain as much as 1 percentage point, it said.  20 Billion Euros  Snabe said he’s confident new technologies will help SAP
reach annual sales of 20 billion euros, with a 35 percent
operating margin “by the middle of the decade.”  “If you look a year back, we didn’t have Sybase, and
therefore companies were not even discussing mobile with SAP,”
Snabe said on a conference call. “We have a pipeline today that
is more than 10 times what they had, so you really see the
synergies between these two assets.”  SAP has a “triple-digit-million euro pipeline” for both
the in-memory technology product Hana, and for the mobile
platform from Sybase, the executive said. In on-demand
computing, SAP will probably reach 1,000 customers ahead of
plan, he said.  “They’re clearly staying on the growth track even if
earnings fell short with regard to top line and profit,” said
Marco Guenther, an analyst at Hamburger Sparkasse in Hamburg who
recommends buying the stock.  Stock-Based Compensation  SAP had costs of 52 million euros in stock-based
compensation to SAP employees and executives, including to
former CEO  Leo Apotheker .  Software and related services sales in the Americas grew 29
percent. Asia-Pacific was up 28 percent, while  Europe , Middle
and  Africa  gained 13 percent. Growth in  Germany , at 7 percent,
was the weakest.  “We are spot-on for the rest of the year and are
delivering exactly as expected,” Snabe said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  In the first quarter, SAP announced a deal with HSBC
Holdings Plc to create software that connects enterprise
customers to the bank, and luxury-goods maker Salvatore
Ferragamo Italia SpA agreed to use SAP to streamline global
business processes from financials to the point of sales in
retail stores.  SAP provides software for the order fulfillment behind
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes download system and its software is used by
companies for payroll management.  The company is “looking for opportunities” to fuel
growth, though it won’t make an acquisition just to increase
market share, Snabe said in an April 12 interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  