-- 
SAP Reports 4.1% Gain in First-Quarter Profit, Missing Analyst Estimates

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-04-28T05:14:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sap-reports-4-1-gain-in-first-quarter-profit-missing-analyst-estimates.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s largest maker
of business-management software, reported a 4.1 percent increase
in first-quarter profit, missing analysts’ estimates, and
confirmed its full-year outlook.  Net income was 403 million euros ($599 million), compared
with 387 million euros a year earlier, Walldorf, Germany-based
SAP said in a statement today. Analysts had predicted profit of
496 million euros, the average of 13 estimates shows. Software
and related services revenue gained 20 percent to 2.34 billion
euros, also trailing estimates.  SAP, led by co-Chief Executive Officer Bill McDermott and
Jim Hagemann Snabe, is banking on increased use of mobile
technology and computing over the Internet to boost sales. Rival
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  reported a 29 percent jump in new software
licenses, an indication of future revenue, for its third quarter
through February.  “ Information technology  should stay at a high level or
even continue growing and the environment will remain favorable
this year for SAP,” said Bernd Laux, an analyst with Cheuvreux
in Frankfurt, who has an “outperform” rating on the stock,
before the earnings announcement.  Best Performer  SAP shares have gained 20 percent this year, the best
performance in Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX) , which climbed 7.1 percent in
the period. The stock fell 22 cents, or 0.5 percent, to 45.68
euros yesterday in Frankfurt, valuing the company at 56.1
billion euros.  Total sales rose 21 percent to 3 billion euros, in line
with average 3.05 billion-euro estimate by analysts.  During the quarter, SAP announced a deal with HSBC Holdings
Plc to create software that connects enterprise customers to the
bank, and luxury-goods maker Salvatore Ferragamo Italia SpA
agreed to use SAP to streamline global business processes from
financials to the point of sales in retail stores.  SAP provides software for the order fulfillment behind
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes download system and its software is used by
companies for payroll management.  The company is “looking for opportunities” to fuel
growth, though it won’t make an acquisition just to increase
market share, co-CEO Snabe said in an April 12 interview. SAP
last year acquired Dublin, California-based Sybase Inc., a maker
of database and mobile-computing software, its second-largest
acquisition after the takeover of Business Objects SA in 2007.  Software AG (SOW) , Germany’s second-biggest maker of  business
software , yesterday reported a 43 percent jump in first-quarter
profit, beating estimates, helped by cost savings from the
integration of its IDS Scheer consulting business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt  at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  