-- 
Scene Last Night: Sarah Jessica Parker, Liv Tyler, Brooklynites

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-28T14:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/scene-last-night-sarah-jessica-parker-liv-tyler-tim-ingrassia-brooklyn.html
Sarah Jessica Parker left early for
the opening of “The Normal Heart” on Broadway, but other
guests stayed for the  Brooklyn  Museum’s “Brklyn Artists Ball”
last night and then departed with table decorations.  Criterion Collection  President Peter Becker grabbed a brick
covered in a green fabric with an aquatic scene and signed by
 Shinique Smith .  Smith and 15 other artists with Brooklyn roots were
recruited to decorate the dinner tables. Her contribution
involved colorful bricks.  “When you’re a host, you display wealth and generosity,”
Smith said earlier in the evening, standing next to one of the
mushroom sculptures by  Situ Studio  in the museum’s Great Hall.
“My guests can take what they want. It’s social sculpture.”  The table decorations were the talk of the event as guests
sat down for a dinner including timbale of avocado and quinoa,
and grilled hanger steak with fingerling and purple Peruvian
potatoes.  Ball Chairman Stephanie Ingrassia and her husband, Tim Ingrassia, co-chairman of global mergers and acquisitions at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , sat at the center table. Artist Brian
Tolle had decorated it with patches of Astroturf.  “We got to meet the artists at a reception at our house
three weeks ago. It was wonderful,” said Tim Ingrassia when he
entered the dining room. He had stopped to admire the work of
 Dustin Yellin : rows of boxes made of acrylic, paint and collage,
consisting of images cut out from old books.  “He was worried the tables wouldn’t be strong enough so he
made his own table for this event,” Ingrassia said.  Yellin, who has a studio in the Red Hook section of
Brooklyn, built his table of steel. He said the installation
weighed more than 2,000 pounds.  Comfortable Artists  The goal of the evening was “to make Brooklyn artists feel
comfortable here,” said retiring Brooklyn Museum board chair
and real-estate developer Norman Feinberg, right after posing
for photographs with Liv Tyler, an honorary chairman along with
Parker.  “Absolutely, I saw people I know from Brooklyn,” said
artist  Lorna Simpson , on her way to the dessert reception and
after-party. Simpson was one of the artist honorees of the event
and has an exhibition at the museum.  “You were also representing,” added Thelma Golden,
director of the  Studio Museum  in Harlem.  “Yes, I was born in Brooklyn, and I live in Brooklyn,”
Simpson said. “I’m so provincial.”  “In the best way,” said Golden.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 