-- 
SEC Credit-Risk Rule, Swaps Rules, Solvency II: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-28T12:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sec-credit-risk-rule-swaps-rules-solvency-ii-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is seeking comment on a rule that would let broker-
dealers use internal assessments instead of outside ratings in
gauging credit risk for meeting net capital requirements.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 yesterday to propose a measure
that would strip references to credit ratings from standards
that determine how much liquidity broker-dealers must maintain
to cover their obligations. The proposal is part of a Dodd-Frank
Act requirement to replace ratings in federal regulations with
an “appropriate” standard for gauging risk.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in July, sought
to ban references to credit ratings after lawmakers faulted
inflated grades from firms such as  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and McGraw-Hill
Cos.’  Standard & Poor’s  unit for fueling the housing bubble
before the 2008 credit crisis.  Yesterday’s proposal would revise provisions of the
 Securities Exchange Act of 1934  affecting how broker-dealers may
reduce the value deducted from less-risky assets such as
commercial paper, preferred stocks and nonconvertible debt when
figuring their net capital.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Proposes Protecting Swaps User Margin From Peer Default  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved a
proposal to allow swaps users who post collateral to a
clearinghouse to have their margin protected against another
investor’s bankruptcy, a move that may increase trading costs.  A clearinghouse “would have recourse against the
collateral of defaulting customers, but not against the
collateral of non-defaulting customers” should both a futures
broker and one or more of its customers fail, the CFTC said in a
proposal summary released yesterday.  BlackRock Inc. , the world’s
largest asset manager, advocated in a November letter to the
CFTC for this approach because it afforded protection against
“fellow customer risk.”  That will lead to clearinghouses requiring more money from
swaps users in either margin or a separate type of fund known as
guaranty, said Lauren Teigland-Hunt, managing partner of New
York-based  Teigland-Hunt LLP , a law firm that represents hedge
funds and institutional investors.  The proposal differs from how futures margin is handled by
clearinghouses. In that case, if a customer of a futures broker
causes the broker to default, the other customers of the broker
can be tapped for margin payments to cover the shortfall.  Chairman  Gary Gensler  and Commissioners Bart Chilton,
Michael Dunn and  Scott O’Malia  voted to approve the proposed
rule, with Commissioner Jill Sommers voting against it. The
proposal now enters a public comment period, after which the
commission could issue a final rule.  For more, click here.  CFTC, SEC Propose Exempting Insurance From Swaps Regulation  Financial regulators voted to propose rules excluding
insurance policies, home heating oil contracts and forwards tied
to commodities from swaps regulations required under the Dodd-
Frank Act.  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  and
 Securities and Exchange Commission , at separate Washington
meetings yesterday, proposed a joint rule defining which types
of trades will face rules aimed at limiting risk and boosting
transparency in the $583 trillion global swaps market. The
proposal also determines when transactions fall under the
jurisdiction of the CFTC or SEC. Commissioners voted 5-0 at the
SEC, while the CFTC voted 4-1 to open the proposal to public
comment before it’s finalized.  Under the proposal, credit-default swaps tied to indexes of
nine or more securities would be regulated by the CFTC, while
such swaps linked to narrower indexes would be overseen by the
SEC. Foreign currency options and currency swaps would be
regulated as swaps under Dodd-Frank, while the Treasury
Department is considering whether to exclude foreign exchange
swaps and forwards for most of the law’s clearing and trading
requirements.  Transactions regulated by the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  aren’t included in the swap definition rule and would
be subject to a separate waiver process.  The proposal also sets up a system for overseeing mixed
swaps that don’t fall exclusively under the oversight of the
CFTC or SEC.  For more, click here.  For video of the SEC open meeting, click here.  SEC Proposes Definitions for Security-Based Swaps Regulations  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will seek
comment on definitions for security-based swaps that aim to
clarify the agency’s authority over trading of derivatives.  The commissioners voted 5-0 yesterday to propose a series
of definitions that would shape the trading and regulation of
derivatives including certain credit-default swaps.  The SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission are
required by the Dodd-Frank Act to establish parallel regulatory
systems for derivatives markets, with the SEC overseeing
security-based swaps and the CFTC regulating all others. The
definitions exclude already regulated insurance products and
consumer transactions such as home heating oil contracts,
according to a CFTC summary.  Yesterday’s vote by SEC commissioners opens the agency’s
proposal to public comment for 60 days.  Largest Dutch Banks Face ‘Too-Big-to-Fail Rules’ Before Others  The Netherlands’ biggest lenders will be subject to “too-
big-to-fail” measures ahead of international guidelines because
of the size of the nation’s banking industry, the country’s
central bank said, following the lead of Switzerland, the U.K.
and Sweden.  The Dutch central bank “opts to roll out the framework to
all Dutch systemically important financial institutions at the
same time,” the Amsterdam-based institution said in a report
yesterday, without specifying which lenders it was referring to.
The  Financial Stability Board  allows regulators to apply the
framework to globally systemically important banks first, ahead
of nationally relevant institutions.  The five biggest Dutch banks’ total assets make up more
than four times the country’s gross domestic product, Morgan
Stanley said in a report dated April 26. The biggest of those
are  ING Groep NV (INGA) , Rabobank Groep and ABN Amro Group NV.  The Group of 20 nations agreed in November there should be
tougher rules for lenders that would threaten the wider
financial system if they collapsed, forcing them to increase
their ability to cover losses. The FSB asked the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision to draft the global requirements for
these systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs.  Compliance Action  French Insurance Market Meets Solvency Rules, Noyer Says  Recent tests show that French insurance companies meet
European capital requirements known as Solvency II, Bank of
France Governor Christian Noyer said.  The European Union’s latest  quantitative impact study  shows
“the entire French insurance industry passes the Solvency II
tests without major difficulties,” he told insurance executives
yesterday in Paris. Still, some individual institutions “have
significant work left to do.”  The Solvency II plan, an effort to provide a common
regulatory framework for all insurers within the 27-nation EU,
will come into effect on Jan. 1, 2013.  Barclays Chief Says U.K. Bank Report May Cause Costs to Rise  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond said
returns and dividends may be affected if the U.K.’s  Independent
Commission on Banking  implements proposed rule changes.  Diamond told the company’s annual general meeting in  London 
yesterday that the bank is “working through the detail of the
questions” raised by the ICB’s interim report published this
month. The government-appointed commission recommended that the
U.K.’s biggest banks boost capital, implement plans for an
orderly bankruptcy and build fire breaks around their consumer
units to protect the financial system.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  CEO  Stephen Hester  said
last week that creating fire breaks around lenders’ retail units
won’t make them safer and RBS Chairman Philip Hampton said the
plans will increase costs for clients and investors.  Barclays has been working with the Financial Services
Authority to establish a system to give customers access to
essential banking services even in the event of a crisis, the
bank said.  Barclays expects to have these plans “fully in place”
with the FSA within the next 12 months, Diamond said.  Egypt Extends Deadline for Earnings Reports by a Month  Egypt’s financial markets regulator has extended the
deadline for companies to send their earnings reports for 2010
and the first quarter of this year by a month.  The Cairo-based  Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority 
made the announcement in an e-mailed statement. It didn’t say
what the old deadline was.  Regeneron Is Latest Stock Halted by Circuit Breakers  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  became the latest stock
halted by circuit breakers yesterday.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares before
prices rebounded. The pause lasts five minutes for Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index (RIY)  companies as well as 
more than 300  exchange-traded funds when they rise or fall at
least 10 percent within five minutes.  New rules proposed by exchanges on April 5, 2011, would
shift the market to a limit-up/limit-down system that prevents
shares from moving more than a certain amount.  For a table listing the securities that have been halted by
U.S. circuit breakers since they were implemented in June 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, click here.  Apple Risks Following Google as  Europe  Leads Privacy Probes  Apple Inc. may face greater scrutiny in the European Union
than the U.S. as regulators investigate possible data-privacy
lapses betraying the location of iPhone and iPad users.  The Apple probes in Europe echo similar inquiries that have
dogged  Google Inc. (GOOG)  over wireless Internet data collected by its
Street View service, said Nick Graham, head of the London
Internet and data protection group of law firm  SNR Denton .  Regulators in Germany, France and Italy said last week they
are checking whether Apple’s iPhone and iPad products violate
privacy rules by tracking, storing and sharing data about the
locations of users. Irish officials are also examining “a
number of complaints about this issue,” Diarmuid Hallinan, a
spokesman for the country’s data protection commissioner, said
in an e-mail today.  U.S. lawmakers this week sent letters to six companies,
including Apple and Google to determine how location data is
stored on mobile device systems and how it’s transmitted.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, said yesterday it
isn’t tracking the users’ location and plans to reduce the
amount of data the iPhone stores.  For more, click here.  Courts  Sony Faces Lawsuit, Regulators’ Probe Over PlayStation Hack  Sony Corp. (6758)  faced a legal and regulatory backlash over
delays in telling 77 million subscribers that their personal
account data may have been stolen by a hacker.  A lawsuit filed April 26 in federal court in  San Francisco 
alleges the delay left PlayStation users exposed to losses
related to any credit-card data theft. Makiko Noda, a Tokyo-
based Sony spokeswoman, declined to comment, as the company
hadn’t received a notice of legal action.  Sony slumped the most since the aftermath of the March 11
earthquake on concern the fallout will set back efforts to
compete against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in online movies
and games. Sony warned customers of the security breach on April
26, six days after closing the PlayStation Network and Qriocity
video- and music-streaming services.  The Tokyo-based company said it notified consumers as
quickly as it could.  In the lawsuit, plaintiff Kristopher Johns, of Birmingham,
Alabama, seeks to represent people who bought a PlayStation
console, subscribe to either PlayStation Network or Qriocity
service and “suffered loss of service and break of security,”
according to the complaint.  Sony said on April 26 that it was trying to determine
whether credit-card data were stolen. The intruder obtained
user-provided names, e-mail addresses, birthdates, login
information and purchase history, Sony said on its  blog .  Separately, the U.K. and Irish information watchdogs will
investigate the hacking of Sony Corp.’s PlayStation Network
after the company warned 77 million customers may have had their
personal data stolen.  The  Irish Office of the Data Protection  Commissioner said
it asked Sony for a report on the breaches. The  U.K. Information
Commissioner ’s Office said it will make additional inquiries
before deciding whether to take further action.  The company reported the intrusion to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation office in San Diego that specializes in
cybercrime, the New York Times said on its website. Darrell
Foxworth, an FBI special agent in San Diego, said he can neither
confirm nor deny whether there is an investigation.  The case is Johns v. Sony Computer Entertainment America
LLC, 11-02063, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  Comings and Goings  Draghi Pick for ECB Needs German Consent, Merkel Aide Says  Germany asserted the power to block Mario Draghi as the
successor to European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
after the Bank of Italy governor won France’s endorsement.  Steffen Seibert, a spokesman for German Chancellor Angela
Merkel who spoke to reporters yesterday in Berlin, noted that
Italy and France have backed Draghi’s candidacy.  “Notwithstanding, there will be no appointment to the ECB
presidency without German approval,” Seibert said.  While Seibert said Germany would cooperate with France in
the appointment, the decision by French President Nicolas
Sarkozy to back Draghi puts pressure on Merkel to follow suit or
risk rankling her biggest European partners. Portugal and
Belgium yesterday added their support for the Italian.  The leader of Europe’s largest economy, Merkel has yet to
indicate a preference for a successor to Trichet. The pick may
become tied up in German opposition to bailouts.  Under EU voting rules, Germany wouldn’t be able to block
Draghi on its own. It would need anywhere from one to five other
countries to amass enough votes for a veto.  For more, click here.  Sokol Misled Buffett, Violated Trading Rules, Board Audit Finds  David Sokol  violated  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s insider-
trading rules and misled the company about his personal stake in
 Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) , which he recommended as a takeover target to
Chairman Warren Buffett, the firm said.  An 18-page report released April 26 by Berkshire’s audit
committee portrayed Buffett as a victim of deception and said
the company should weigh suing Sokol, 54, to recover his trading
profits. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is probing
whether Sokol bought Lubrizol shares on inside information that
Buffett was considering a buyout, according to a person who
declined to be identified because the investigation is secret.  Buffett, 80, is facing questions about his oversight of
managers and criticism for not condemning the stock trading that
preceded Sokol’s resignation from Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire. Buffett had said March 30 in announcing Sokol’s
departure that he didn’t believe the trades were unlawful.  Sokol was previously considered a candidate to replace
Buffett as Berkshire’s chief executive officer.  Sokol “would not, and did not, trade improperly, nor did
he violate any fair reading of the Berkshire Hathaway
policies,” according to a statement from William Levine, a
lawyer for Sokol at Dickstein Shapiro LLP in Washington.  For more, click here.  U.K. SFO General Counsel to Join McGuireWoods as Lawyers Depart  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office’s general counsel will join
U.S. law firm  McGuireWoods LLP , adding to the list of lawyers
leaving for private practice as the agency faces possible
closure by the government.  Vivian Robinson will join the firm’s London office,
Richmond, Virginia-based McGuireWoods said in a statement
yesterday. At least five other top lawyers have left the agency
this year as it faces dissolution under plans to create an
economic crime agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 