-- 
Shirakawa Bets Japan to Revive Without More Stimulus After ‘Drastic’ Slide

-- B y   L i l y   N o n o m i y a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-04-29T02:55:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/shirakawa-bets-japan-to-revive-without-more-stimulus-after-drastic-slide.html
The  Bank of Japan  raised its growth
forecast for next year on optimism the economy will bounce back
on reconstruction work and restored power supplies after factory
output dropped by a record in March.  The world’s third-largest economy will expand 2.9 percent
in the year starting April 2012, the central bank said yesterday.
It more than halved its prediction for this fiscal year to 0.6
percent after the March 11 earthquake.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board yesterday rejected
a call by one of his deputies for additional asset purchases to
spur growth as they assess the effects of the central bank’s
existing stimulus. Companies from All Nippon Airways Co. to
Panasonic Corp. have delayed profit forecasts after the economy
took a bigger-than-estimated hit in March and as analysts
predict a contraction this quarter.  “The board thinks it’s useless to ease policy when supply
constraints are the main factor depressing growth,” said
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo.
“April data probably won’t be as drastic as March, but the BOJ
may be compelled to add more stimulus if it sees signs of a
prolonged slump.”  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  urged care in considering
any increase in bond purchases by the central bank, when he
spoke to lawmakers in Tokyo today.  Nippon Electric  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 1.6 percent yesterday
after the U.S. Federal Reserve renewed its pledge to support the
economy, Japan’s second-largest export destination, and
companies including Nippon Electric Glass Co. reported better
earnings. Japanese markets are closed today.  The BOJ said the nation’s economic outlook hinges on when
supply-side constraints that have hurt production and shipments
can be resolved. It predicted that some of them will ease by
this fall, while Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister Kaoru Yosano yesterday said the limitations will be erased “earlier
than we all expected,” without elaborating.  “We implemented drastic measures in March, so it’s
appropriate to gauge the effectiveness of those now,” Shirakawa
told reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday after his board rejected
deputy Kiyohiko Nishimura’s proposal to expand asset purchases
to 15 trillion yen ($184 billion) from 10 trillion yen. “We’re
fully aware of the high degree of uncertainty about the outlook
and stand ready to take appropriate action if determined
necessary.”  Lawmakers’ Calls  Nishimura’s proposal, which Shirakawa said was driven by
the deputy’s concern about worsening corporate and household
sentiment, echoes calls from some lawmakers for the BOJ to
unveil more stimulus to shore up the economy.  Since the temblor, the central bank has injected record
amounts of cash into the money market, doubled the size of its
asset-purchase fund and unveiled a one-year lending program for
bank in areas affected by a quake.  “Nishimura did the right thing in proposing further easing
given uncertainties are high and there’s room for the bank to do
more,” said  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan
Chase and a former Bank of Japan official. “His opposition is
going to make BOJ meetings a lot more interesting from now on.”  A cross-party group of lawmakers this week said the
government shouldn’t raise taxes to pay for rebuilding and
called on the BOJ to buy more government debt instead. The BOJ
purchases 1.8 trillion yen in bonds every month.  Power Supply  Power shortages that threaten growth may also be less
severe than initially estimated. Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda 
said yesterday the government has reduced energy-saving goals
for companies to 15 percent from 25 percent because of increased
supply, according to Kaname Ogawa, a deputy director at
ministry’s Electricity and Gas Department. Kaieda didn’t
disclose how much supply will increase by, he said.  Energy shortages contributed to the record decline in
output and largest drop in retail sales in 13 years in March.
Toyota Motor Corp. output in  Japan  plunged 63 percent in March
from a year earlier and the company estimated it may lose
production of 300,000 autos in Japan because of shutdowns.  A government survey released with yesterday’s output report
showed manufacturers plan to step up output 3.9 percent this
month and 2.7 percent in May, an indication that last month’s
plunge was only temporary.  The central bank raised its inflation forecast for fiscal
2011 to 0.7 percent from an earlier estimate of 0.3 percent, a
report released after yesterday’s policy decision showed. Growth
will accelerate to 2.9 percent next year, while consumer prices
will rise by 0.7 percent, the same amount projected for this
year, the bank said.  ‘Too Optimistic’  Not all economists think the recovery will get underway as
smoothly as the central bank projects. Additional spending
packages rolled out by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  may also compel
the central bank to loosen policy further, according to Akio Makabe, an economics professor at  Shinshu University  in central
Japan.  Five of the 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last
week said the bank will likely ease policy in June or July, when
the government is expected to compile a next round of extra
budgets to pay for reconstruction.  “The BOJ’s economic view is too optimistic,” said  Susumu Kato , chief economist for Japan in Tokyo at Credit Agricole CIB
and CLSA. “Consumer sentiment is deteriorating, in addition to
the slump in production and exports. The downside risks to the
economy could be bigger than the BOJ projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lily Nonomiya in Tokyo at 
 lnonomiya@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  