-- 
Sinopec Profit Gain Tops PetroChina on Smaller Refining Loss

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-29T09:11:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sinopec-s-profit-growth-tops-petrochina-on-smaller-refining-loss.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
 Asia ’s biggest refiner, used crude from its stockpiles to keep
oil costs in check as it ramped up fuel production to meet
demand in the world’s second-largest economy.  The Hong Kong-listed company known as Sinopec said
yesterday first-quarter profit rose 25 percent from a year
earlier to 20.6 billion yuan ($3.2 billion). That beat the 19.9
billion-yuan median estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg and surpassed rival PetroChina Co.’s 14 percent gain.  “Sinopec’s oil-stockpiling capacity allowed the company to
use cheaper crude for a longer time,” Yin Xiaodong, the chief
oil analyst at Beijing-based Citic Securities Co., said by
telephone after the earnings announcement.  Fuel sales rose 15 percent and Sinopec’s losses from
turning crude into gasoline and diesel were less than a tenth of
PetroChina’s. Earnings growth at China’s biggest oil companies
lagged behind  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s 69 percent gain and a 60
percent profit increase at Royal Dutch Shell Plc, which aren’t
restrained by government controls on fuel prices.  “Sinopec is vulnerable to domestic pricing controls amid
the nationwide inflation clampdown,”  Gordon Kwan , head of
regional energy research at Mirae Asset Securities in  Hong Kong ,
said by e-mail.  Sinopec shares fell 0.3 percent to HK$7.82 in Hong Kong
trading, while the benchmark  Hang Seng  Index dropped 0.4 percent.
The stock has climbed 27 percent in Hong Kong the past year,
compared with the 14 percent gain in the Hang Seng. PetroChina
advanced 25 percent in the same period.  Refining Losses  Refining losses at Sinopec reached 576 million yuan and 6.1
billion yuan at PetroChina in the first three months, after the
government raised fuel prices by less than 5 percent while New
York crude averaged 20 percent higher from a year earlier.  “We forecast  China  will raise prices further by 15 percent
before the year is out, and the next hike is due in early May.”
Kwan of Mirae Asset said.  China’s fuel-price mechanism allows the government to
adjust tariffs when crude costs change more than 4 percent over
22 working days. The state controls diesel and gasoline prices
to curb inflation that reached 5.4 percent last month, the
fastest pace since 2008 and higher than the full-year target of
4 percent.  Fuel prices in China were last increased by as much as 5.8
percent on April 7, after crude costs advanced to a 30-month
high. The government raised tariffs as much as 4.6 percent on
Feb. 20.  Domestic Demand  Sinopec’s crude output fell 5.8 percent in the first
quarter to 10.98 million tons because of maintenance at overseas
fields. Natural gas output climbed 30 percent to 3.63 billion
cubic meters.  Fuel sales rose to 54.3 million metric tons while
production increased 6.2 percent to 31.3 million tons, Sinopec
said in its earnings statement.  China’s apparent fuel consumption, including output and net
imports and excluding inventories, gained 12 percent from a year
earlier to a record 21.73 million tons in March, according to
the National Development and Reform Commission, the country’s
top economic planner.  Sinopec will ensure supplies of diesel for farmers, its
parent China Petrochemical Corp., known as Sinopec Group, said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The group said April 19 it
halted exports to ensure domestic supply as crude costs and
price controls caused private refiners to cut production.  Overseas Assets  Sinopec said March 28 it will cut costs and accelerate its
expansion overseas as government controls prevent the company
from passing on higher  oil prices  to customers.  The refiner’s parent spent $11 billion buying assets in
 Australia  and  South America  in the last 12 months. On April 21,
the group agreed to pay $1.5 billion for a 15 percent stake in
an Australian liquefied natural gas venture and buy fuel from
the project over two decades.  Sinopec Group received approval from  Brazil ’s oil regulator
to buy 20 percent stakes in two blocks from state-controlled
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the regulator said on April 26.  The Chinese company is also in talks with  Spain ’s largest
oil company, Repsol YPF SA, on joint ventures around the world,
Repsol said on Jan. 4. In October, Sinopec Group agreed to pay
$7.1 billion for a 40 percent stake in Repsol’s Brazilian unit.  In December, the Beijing-based company said it would buy
Occidental Petroleum Corp.’s Argentine oil and gas unit for
$2.45 billion, marking its first investment in the Latin
American country.  Sinopec Group Chairman  China earlier this month appointed Fu Chengyu to the newly
created position of chairman at Sinopec Group after he presided
over a fivefold profit increase at smaller state-controlled oil
producer  Cnooc Ltd. (883)   “Fu will bring much more focus on upstream for the company,
domestically and particularly internationally where Fu was
particularly active with Cnooc,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-
based senior oil-and-gas analyst at brokerage Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. Inc., said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wang Ying in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Gordon  in Hong Kong at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 