-- 
TSMC Profit Beats Estimates on Tablet, Smartphone Demand

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-04-28T07:54:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/tsmc-first-quarter-profit-climbs-to-1-26-billion-beats-analyst-estimates.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co., the world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips, posted
first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates after demand
for smartphones and tablets drove sales of pricier chips.  Net income climbed 8 percent from a year earlier to NT$36.3
billion ($1.3 billion), the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company said
in a statement today. The average of 10 analysts’ estimates in
the past 28 days compiled by Bloomberg was for profit of NT$35.3
billion.  TSMC, whose clients include  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ,
widened its profit margins as smartphones and tablets  boosted
demand for more-advanced chips. The March 11 Japan earthquake
“probably has some impact” on second-quarter demand, and may
“snap back” after the situation improves, Chairman  Morris Chang  said today.  “Smartphone demand is generally good, and TSMC’s strong
pricing indicates they’re getting a good portion of that,” said
Randy Abrams, who rates the stock “outperform” at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Taipei.  The shares gained 1 percent to NT$73 in Taipei trading,
before the earnings announcement. They’ve have gained 2.8
percent this year.  Revenue this quarter will be NT$109 billion to NT$111
billion, the company said today. That’s ahead of the NT$106.1
billion average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg
in the past 28 days. Eight of the analysts lowered their second-
quarter sales estimates in the past month, according to
Bloomberg data.  Global Economy  First-quarter sales climbed 14 percent to NT$105.4 billion,
the company said April 8, missing the NT$106.7 billion average
estimate of 20 analysts.  The global economic outlook is “softer” than it was three
or four months ago, following the Japan earthquake, Chang said.
The earthquake won’t hurt supply of materials, he said.  Sales of communications chips will decline this quarter
from the preceding three-month period, unlike the typical
“single digit” percentage growth, because of the Japan
earthquake, Chief Financial Officer Lora Ho said at an
investors’ conference today.  “We believe this is a short-term phenomenon, and will last
no more than two quarters,” she said. There may be a rebound to
satisfy pent-up demand after the situation improves, she said.  Consumer electronics chip sales will increase less than
normal because customers currently hold excess inventory, she
said.  Qualcomm, Broadcom  Chang on April 6 lowered his forecast for global chip-
industry sales, excluding memory products, to 4 percent growth
this year from an earlier 7 percent estimate because of the
Japan quake’s impact on the global economy.  Qualcomm, the biggest maker of mobile-phone chips, on April
21 announced quarterly sales of $3.88 billion, above the average
analyst estimate for $3.62 billion.  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , which
designs chips used in TV set-top boxes, on April 26 forecast
second-quarter revenue of up to $1.85 billion, missing estimates
for $1.89 billion.  TSMC reiterated its $7.8 billion forecast for spending on
factories and equipment. Increased outsourcing from customers
continues to justify the higher spending as consumers buy more
portable devices such as tablets and smartphones, Chang said.  “Every time someone buys a tablet, TSMC gets six or seven
dollars,” Chang said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 