-- 
Sokol Moves From Buffett’s Heir Apparent to Rebuked Ex-Berkshire Executive

-- B y   P a u l   M .   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-04-28T07:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sokol-once-buffett-s-heir-apparent-is-rebuked-by-berkshire.html
From the panoramic windows of his
20th-floor corporate law office, Harold J. Daub Jr., a
Republican former four-term congressman and mayor of Omaha,
Nebraska, shows the imprint his longtime friend David L. Sokol
has made on their hometown.  Daub points out the emerald field of the TD Ameritrade
baseball stadium, brand-new home of the College World Series,
Bloomberg BusinessWeek reports in its May 2 edition. As a board
member of the municipal arena authority, “Dave Sokol did as
much as any citizen of Omaha to get that beautiful thing
built,” Daub says.  The same nonprofit board oversees the Qwest Center, where
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , Sokol’s former employer, holds its
annual meeting on April 30.  “Over there, that’s Creighton University,” Daub
continues, “and that lovely red brick building is the D.J.
Sokol Arena.” The tidy 2,500-seat gymnasium for women’s
basketball and volleyball is named for Sokol’s late son, who
died of Hodgkin’s disease in 1999, a few weeks after graduating
from high school.  “And Dave isn’t even a Creighton alum; he’s UNO” --
University of Nebraska at Omaha -- “and one of their big
supporters, too,” Daub says. “The man puts his money where his
mouth is, that’s for darn sure.”  Putting his money behind personal convictions of a
different sort has now landed Sokol in deep trouble. Until
March 30, he was widely seen as heir apparent to 80-year-old
Warren Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer
and the prophet of heartland common sense. That day, Buffett
made headlines by announcing that Sokol, 54, would resign from
Berkshire.  Audit Committee  On Wednesday, April 27, Berkshire’s audit committee again
electrified the financial world. In a scathing 18-page report,
it accused Sokol of violating company standards by misleading
Berkshire about his personal stake in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) , a chemical
manufacturer he recommended to Buffett as a takeover target.  The committee stopped short of concluding that Sokol
committed  insider trading  under federal law when he bought
Lubrizol shares worth $10 million in January and then pitched
the company to Buffett. But the company signaled that the former
corporate star is now on his own, and Berkshire will cooperate
“with any government investigations relating to this matter.”
The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating,
although a spokeswoman declined to comment.  Berkshire’s harsh report intensifies the attention the
Sokol affair has focused on the succession question at
Berkshire, a company whose achievements and $205 billion market
capitalization depend heavily on its reputation for “playing in
the middle of the court,” to use a famous Buffettism, and
nowhere near the ethical boundary lines.  ‘It’s a Shock’  Sokol’s sudden fall has also shaken a city that takes
tremendous pride in its association with Berkshire. “We’re all
sad, indeed,” says Daub, a partner with the law firm Husch
Blackwell. “It’s a shock.”  It’s certainly not the outcome any who knew Sokol imagined
for the assertive executive, who was not born to power or wealth
and relied on his energy, competitiveness, and outsider’s will
to become the ultimate insider, Omaha-style -- a protégé of two
local business legends, builder Walter Scott Jr. and Buffett. As
a member of their charmed circle, Sokol enjoyed access to
opportunities unavailable to other executives. Buffett trusted
him to scout multibillion-dollar investments and fix failing
companies. Sokol repaid his mentor with clever deal ideas and
extraordinary balance sheets.  ‘Important Guy’  “Dave Sokol is a real important guy around here,” says
Terry L. Moore, president of the Omaha Federation of Labor.
Sitting at his usual breakfast table at the downtown Hilton, the
AFL-CIO leader shakes his head in wonderment. He has negotiated
with Sokol and done political battle against him. Despite their
differences, Sokol had Moore’s respect.  “About the smartest business guy I know,” Moore says.
“We’re all baffled by this -- what happened, and why did it
happen?”  The Berkshire committee’s report provided a devastating
version of the “what,” suggesting that Sokol “intended to
deceive” Buffett about several key aspects of the Lubrizol
episode.  The “why” remains more of a mystery: Why was Sokol,
already a rich man with a vacation retreat near Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, and a yacht to go with a third home in Fort Lauderdale,
dabbling in the stock of a company he suggested that his boss
acquire?  On  Wall Street , this kind of trading is often considered
front-running. It’s usually a firing offense, if not necessarily
illegal.  Not Right  “It just doesn’t smell right,” says Andrew Kilpatrick, a
retired stockbroker and author of “Of Permanent Value: The
Story of  Warren Buffett .”  A Berkshire shareholder has sued Buffett and Sokol in
Delaware Chancery Court, alleging that they put the company at
risk of an SEC enforcement action. The audit panel said
Berkshire is considering suing Sokol “to recover any damage the
company has sustained, or his trading profits, or both.”  After Berkshire announced its $9 billion acquisition of
Lubrizol on March 14, the chemical maker’s stock soared; Sokol
may have pocketed as much as $3 million in profit, depending on
whether he sold his shares.  The audit committee report constituted a startling reversal
from an earlier written statement, issued March 30, in which
Buffett praised his protégé as a managerial genius.  “Neither Dave nor I feel his Lubrizol purchases were in
any way unlawful,” Buffett wrote at that time. “He has told me
that they were not a factor in his decision to resign.”  Nothing Improper  In a March 31 interview with CNBC, Sokol went further,
saying he had done nothing even remotely improper and that his
resignation was unrelated to the Lubrizol stock incident. His
attorney, Barry W. Levine, said in a written statement that he
was “profoundly disappointed” by the audit panel’s report and
that Sokol’s trading was “specifically allowed by his
employment agreement.” Berkshire and MidAmerican Energy
Holdings, a Berkshire unit that Sokol formerly headed, didn’t
respond to phone messages or e-mail.  Leaving aside whether anything illegal occurred, there’s
the less technical matter of how someone so smart and successful
could stumble over dealings that seem so trivial. Sokol’s
biography and interviews with people who know him fill in a
picture of an executive who may have become too comfortable in
his rarefied environment and, temporarily at least, lost his
bearings.  In Buffett’s Circle  The outsider who became an insider grew accustomed to the
unique access to deals afforded those in the Buffett circle.
Sokol also got used to the unusual combination of  stock trading 
and corporate stewardship that characterizes Berkshire. This
lucrative mix can raise sticky questions about the insider’s
advantage.  Over the years, Sokol has developed a high regard for his
own integrity, much as Buffett has. Like the older man, Sokol
has become a font of bromides about capitalism and the good
life. His stumble illustrates an occasion when, for all his
strengths, he apparently came to believe that if he did
something, then, by definition, it was right.  If Sokol never quite escaped the shadow of his boss in the
public sphere, those who know him speak of an intense man
propelled by a mix of determination and ritual.  Sokol rises at 5 a.m., jogs five miles, and lifts weights.
He has an athlete’s solid physique and flawless posture. He
typically spends half the year on the road. On weekends,
depending on the season, he hunts, fishes, or skis. He abhors
lateness.  Sokol’s Notebook  By his own account, he keeps a notebook, updated monthly,
in which he ranks all his aides in the order in which he would
fire them if forced to do so.  “Early on,” he writes in “Pleased But Not Satisfied,”
the autobiographical business treatise he self-published in
2007, “I figured if I worked harder, I at least would be the
last person let go if such an eventuality occurred.” He hands
out copies of the slender volume to subordinates.  The grandson of Polish immigrants, Sokol was born in 1956,
the youngest of five children. His father managed a food store.
Growing up in blue-collar North Omaha, he writes, he often found
himself “bruised and mildly in trouble.”  Sokol attended a Catholic grade school and public high
school. He wrestled, played football, and ran track. The grocery
chain where he worked nights helped pay his tuition at the local
campus of the University of  Nebraska . He considered studying
medicine but fainted at the sight of a cadaver, so he switched
to civil engineering.  Fear of Failure  As a young man, he writes, “I was not always the smartest
individual in the groups I worked in, but I had a driving fear
of failure that caused me to always give 110 percent no matter
what the task was.”  That fear served him well, and success came quickly. After
stints at an architectural engineering firm and Citibank, Sokol
signed on in 1983 to start a waste-to-energy business with
$500,000 in seed money from a company called Ogden. In just six
years, the subsidiary grew to a billion-dollar corporation with
plants in Oklahoma and Oregon and more than 1,000 employees.
Ogden took it public in 1989.  “Here I was, 32 years old and CEO of a  New York  Stock
Exchange company,” Sokol writes. “Then,” he adds, “a real
dose of the ugly side of human nature showed up.” He clashed
with the son of Ogden’s CEO, and in 1990 he was shown the door.  What Is Right  In his next job, as president of JWP, a New York
contractor, Sokol uncovered what he considered accounting
improprieties. “Integrity,” he writes, “is merely doing what
is right, even when no one is looking.” He informed the JWP
board of directors of the accounting problems and resigned in
1992.  At this point, hometown connections kicked in to rescue the
young executive from the hazards of integrity. He received a
phone call from Walter Scott, then the CEO of Peter Kiewit
Sons’, a nationally prominent construction company based in
Omaha that had done work for Ogden. “Get back here to Omaha,
and let’s get something started,” Scott said, according to
Sokol’s memoir.  The Scott-Sokol partnership evolved from a small geothermal
business into what’s now MidAmerican, a large and profitable
utility with headquarters in  Des Moines ,  Iowa . Scott, a
childhood friend of Buffett, sat on Berkshire’s board and
brought Sokol into the Buffett extended clan. In 2000, Berkshire
acquired an 80 percent stake in MidAmerican and added the power
company to an eclectic portfolio that now includes the car
insurer Geico, Burlington Northern Santa Fe, and the Nebraska
Furniture Mart.  MidAmerican’s Growth  Sokol expanded MidAmerican with savvy acquisitions, and the
company has a strong customer service record. For these labors,
he has been well compensated.  During the decade he ran MidAmerican since helping to
arrange its buyout by Berkshire, Sokol earned a total salary of
$8.8 million, bonuses totaling $53.9 million, and $26.3 million
in profit sharing, according to math done by  Jeff Matthews ,
founder of RAM Partners, a hedge fund in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
and author of “Pilgrimage to Warren Buffett’s Omaha.” Since
2000, by Matthews’s tally, Sokol has sold MidAmerican stock and
stock equivalents worth $145.5 million back to the company. It
pays to be on the inside.  Sokol enthusiastically concurs with the adulation Buffett
receives from nearly all quarters.  “He is as soundly based in the fundamentals of business as
any human in history,” Sokol writes. “Warren creates a climate
for business managers akin to playing in the Pro Bowl.”  Unlike the postseason exhibition football game, at
Berkshire the bottom line counts. Sportsmanship, on occasion,
gets overshadowed by brutal blocking and tackling.  Judge’s Ruling  Last year, a state court judge in Omaha went out of his way
to mention Sokol by name in a ruling that concluded that
MidAmerican had acted “inequitably, unfairly, and dishonestly”
in its dealings with shareholders of an irrigation project in
the Philippines.  The dispute stemmed from a complicated deal in which
Sokol’s company invested in the water project on the condition
that if the project’s “internal rate of return” fell below a
certain level, the minority shareholders would lose their entire
stake.  Judge Gary B. Randall of Douglas County, Nebraska, ruled
last April that MidAmerican’s decision to change the method of
calculating the internal rate of return, which Sokol directly
oversaw, was intended to harm the other shareholders. Randall
awarded the victims $32 million in damages and gave them stock
in the project that could yield substantial profits.  Sokol’s Conduct  “The judge accurately portrayed Sokol’s conduct in this
particular case as deliberately wrongful and betraying a
partner,” says James W. Kennedy, the New York lawyer who
represented the minority shareholders. After MidAmerican
appealed, the case settled out of court on confidential terms,
Kennedy says. MidAmerican didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Whatever the settlement cost, it amounted to peanuts for
MidAmerican, which had net earnings of $1.2 billion in 2010, up
7 percent. In his March 30 statement, Buffett congratulated
Sokol and his right-hand man, Gregory E. Abel, who now assumes
sole leadership of the company, for “the best performance of
any managers in the public utility field.”  Moore, the Omaha labor leader, knows Sokol well in part
because he has persuaded the executive to use union contractors
for power-plant construction at MidAmerican. Moore has also
clashed with Sokol in their roles as Omaha political power
brokers -- most recently in a Republican campaign earlier this
year to recall the city’s Democratic mayor, Jim Suttle. Sokol
wrote a check for $50,000 to help finance the recall; Moore
helped organize the successful counter-effort that kept Suttle
in office.  Breaking Eggs  “Someone once told me that Dave makes a beautiful omelet
-- just delicious -- but he breaks a lot of eggs and leaves a
mess,” Moore says. “I don’t think he worries too much about
what other people think about the mess.”  Omelet making describes Sokol’s role at NetJets, a
Berkshire property he has revived financially since parachuting
in two years ago. A provider of fractional ownership of sleek
executive airplanes, NetJets, based in Columbus,  Ohio , had an
aggregate pretax loss of $157 million in 11 years through 2009,
according to Buffett’s Feb. 26 annual  letter to shareholders .
That loss would have been hundreds of millions of dollars larger
if NetJets hadn’t enjoyed the benefit of Berkshire’s rock-solid
credit.  Sokol turned the company upside down. In 2010, after
layoffs, asset sales, and a management shakeup, NetJets earned a
$207 million pretax profit.  Former Employees  Some NetJets employees, and especially ex-employees Sokol
laid off, came to despise him. The personal website of Bloomberg
News columnist  Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball: Warren
Buffett and the Business of Life,” became a venue for
vituperation from current and former workers alleging that
NetJets had been taxiing toward a recovery before Sokol arrived
and that he harmed the company by shrinking it.  Enraged, Sokol fired back in an unusual e-mail to NetJets
workers last August (which Schroeder obtained and published). He
decried “a campaign designed to decrease the number of owners
in the NetJets program, poison our relationships with our
business partners, and incite our team members into providing a
reduced level of service.”  His detractors said the e-mail illustrated part of the
problem. “ David Sokol  can tolerate no disagreement of any kind
regarding his decisions,” one anonymous commenter posted. “The
mere fact of suggesting a different course of action is in and
of itself an act of ‘sabotage’ to him.”  Praise From Buffett  In the end, of course, the opinion of one NetJets passenger
matters the most: that of the owner. “I can’t overstate the
breadth and importance of Dave Sokol’s achievements at this
company,” Buffett wrote in February to Berkshire shareholders.
Buffett noted that he and his family have flown more than 5,000
hours on NetJets planes, with only superlative service.  Sokol made a lot of money for Buffett, and that in turn
generated a lot of confidence in his ability. In addition to
running companies for Berkshire, Sokol scouted investment
opportunities.  For much of 2008, as the Wall Street crisis worsened, Sokol
served as Buffett’s agent, assessing potential bargains created
by the financial chaos. Urgent pleas came over a period of
months from the top management of struggling  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , a victim of reckless dealing in subprime
securities. In September 2008, Lehman’s chief of  investment
banking , Hugh E. McGee III, reached out once again to Sokol.  “McGee asked, ‘Do you have any ideas to save us?’”
according to a 2010 U.S. Bankruptcy Court examiner’s report on
Lehman. “Sokol, who was bear hunting in Alaska at the time,
told McGee that he did not.” Days later, Lehman filed court
papers to begin liquidating.  Constellation Deal  On other occasions, Sokol pushed Buffett to act.
Immediately after Lehman’s collapse, Sokol pointed out that the
stock of Constellation Energy Group, a Baltimore utility, was
dropping fast. As the head of MidAmerican, Sokol perceived a
chance to buy assets at a sharp discount.  With Buffett’s approval, he rushed to Baltimore and struck
a deal to acquire Constellation for $4.7 billion, staving off
its bankruptcy. Before the acquisition could take place, a
French competitor stepped in with a much higher bid. But Sokol’s
insight did not go unrewarded. Berkshire received more than
$1 billion from Constellation, including breakup fees it had
negotiated in the event its deal didn’t go through -- not at all
shabby for a couple months’ work.  Buffett’s Edge  This kind of lucrative opportunism is a big and
underappreciated part of the Berkshire formula. Buffett has a
reputation for being a benevolent owner, one who values and
retains skilled management. As a result, many companies are
eager to sell themselves to Berkshire. At the same time,
Buffett’s aura and track record open doors to non-ownership
investments that others can only dream about.  Examples of the latter include preferred investments
Berkshire made in 2008 to prop up  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
($5 billion) and  General Electric Co. (GE)  ($3 billion), when Wall
Street panic threatened the stability of both companies. In
exchange for these crucially timed gestures, Berkshire
ultimately could receive more than $4 billion, including
interest, redemption fees, and proceeds from warrants. That’s on
top of the repayment of Berkshire’s $8 billion principal --
profits simply not available to regular investors.  The Lubrizol incident and Sokol’s abrupt demise occurred in
this context: An ambitious executive appears to have taken
advantage of his fortunate position within the Buffett universe
to bring his boss a promising acquisition and -- hey, why not?
-- make some cash for himself. As illustrated by his
autobiography, Sokol regards himself as tough but highly
principled, someone who instinctively does the right thing.  Not Complicated  Integrity, he writes, “is not as complicated or gray as
many would have you believe. … It is playing by the rules and
not attempting to get around them.”  His former employer said on April 27 that Sokol forgot his
own advice and violated both Berkshire’s Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics and its Insider Trading Policies and
Procedures.  The story began last fall, when bankers from Citigroup Inc.
sent Sokol a list of potential Berkshire acquisitions in the
chemicals industry. Sokol met with the Citi bankers on Dec. 13,
2010. Sokol, who told CNBC that he had already independently
identified Lubrizol as a winner, asked the Citi team to set up a
meeting with the chemical maker’s management. The next day, he
put in an order to purchase 50,000 shares of Lubrizol on the
open market. He acquired 2,300 shares, and sold them a week
later.  Buying Stock  On Jan. 5, the day before Lubrizol’s management gathered to
discuss a sale to Berkshire, Sokol again began to buy the
company’s stock. Within three days he had purchased 96,060
shares, worth about $10 million. In mid­January, he told Buffett
he owned Lubrizol stock, but according to the audit committee,
Sokol did not disclose to his boss that he had bought the shares
after discussing Lubrizol with Citi and after learning that
Lubrizol’s CEO would report Berkshire’s interest to his board.  On CNBC, Sokol framed this chronology as beginning with his
own investment interests and extending only as an afterthought
to Berkshire’s.  “I’m trying to invest my family’s capital,” he said,
“and if I see a company that I think is interesting and
potentially undervalued, to not mention it to Warren, to me,
seems inappropriate.” As for his own conduct, Sokol said it was
blameless.  Berkshire’s audit committee disagreed. The panel’s report
said that Sokol had acted throughout as a Berkshire
representative.  ‘Undermine the Trust’  “If its representatives were to trade ahead of potential
mergers in which they represented Berkshire Hathaway, they could
undermine the trust that Berkshire Hathaway strives to earn from
its potential merger partners,” the committee said.  The Citi bankers were not trying to facilitate Sokol’s
personal stock trades; that’s a task for his individual broker.
Citi seeks fees from consummated takeovers -- by Berkshire, not
Sokol.  Likewise, Lubrizol’s management did not hustle to their
boardroom in early January because Sokol was buying millions of
dollars of the company’s stock on the open market. They gathered
in hopes of selling the whole operation to Warren Buffett for
billions. Sokol had the opportunity to benefit personally
because of his role as a high-level messenger from the  home
office  in Omaha, the committee said.  Now the question inevitably arises: Has Sokol engaged in a
similar pattern of trading before other acquisition pitches to
Berkshire? The SEC can pull records to check.  Question of Ethics  Whether there are ever government accusations of insider
trading -- an area of law suffused with ambiguity about who
constitutes an “insider” and whether information is
“material” -- a lot of observers, including many Berkshire
admirers, have already concluded that things went ethically
awry.  “Look, everyone would think it’s unfair if Warren Buffett
personally bought stock ahead of Berkshire acquisitions,” says
Kilpatrick, the Buffett biographer, who is also a Berkshire
shareholder. “It seems unfair for one of his top managers to do
the same thing, whether or not it constitutes a prosecutable
offense.”  By emphatically distancing themselves from a talented
executive, Buffett and his company are attempting to align
themselves with the widely held opinion that in business the
perception of fairness still counts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul M. Barrett in New York at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at   bwieners@bloomberg.net . 