-- 
Sokol’s One-Time Takeover Target Nears Lubrizol’s Gain: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-04-28T15:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sokol-s-one-time-target-nears-lubrizol-s-gain-chart-of-the-day.html
David Sokol  could have made almost
as much money on a company he failed to acquire for  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  as he did on Lubrizol Inc., which his former
employer agreed to buy.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the stock performance of
 Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  and Lubrizol since Dec. 14, when
Sokol first bought shares of the latter. The comparison includes
today’s trading.  Constellation spurned a takeover offer from Berkshire’s
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., where Sokol was chairman, in
December 2008, after previously agreeing to the deal. Instead,
the owner of Baltimore Gas & Electric accepted a bid from
Electricite de France SA for a 50 percent stake in its nuclear-
power business.  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the largest U.S. owner of nuclear plants,
agreed to buy Constellation for about $7.9 billion in stock. The
deal initially was valued at $38.59 a share, or about 46 percent
more than MidAmerican would have paid in cash.  Constellation’s shares rose 27 percent from Dec. 14 through
today’s first hour of trading. Most of the gains occurred before
Exelon’s bid was announced. Lubrizol rose 29 percent during the
same period, mainly after Berkshire announced its agreement on
March 14.  Sokol sold the Lubrizol stock he bought in December after a
week. He purchased shares valued at about $10 million on Jan. 5,
6 and 7, and the stake climbed by an estimated $3 million when
the takeover bid was announced.  After the trades came to light, Sokol left Berkshire last
month. The company’s audit committee yesterday said he violated
its trading policy. William Levine, an attorney for Sokol, said
in a statement that his client didn’t trade improperly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  