-- 
Sokol Misled Buffett on Holdings, Citigroup’s Role, Audit Finds: Timeline

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-28T13:37:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sokol-misled-buffett-on-holdings-bankers-audit-finds-timeline.html
Warren Buffett  was misled by former
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  executive  David Sokol  about his dealings
before the takeover of  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) , a Berkshire audit
committee concluded.  Sokol, who resigned last month after Buffett revealed his
stake in Lubrizol, failed to disclose the role  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s
investment bankers played in steering him toward the engine-
lubricant maker, according to a  report  released by Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire’s audit committee yesterday.  The following is a timeline of events leading up to
Berkshire’s acquisition of Lubrizol, Sokol’s resignation, and
the publication of the audit report:  Dec. 13, 2010: David Sokol, who advises Buffett on acquisition
targets, meets with investment bankers at Citigroup Inc. to
discuss a list of three companies in the chemicals industry,
according to the  audit committee  report. He asks the bankers to
set up a meeting for him with James Hambrick, chief executive
officer of engine-lubricant maker Lubrizol.  Dec. 14: Sokol buys 2,300 shares of Lubrizol, a partial fill of
a 50,000 share order, according to the report.  Dec. 17: Citigroup bankers call Hambrick, according to the
report. Hambrick says that he will inform the Lubrizol board of
Berkshire’s possible interest in the company. The bankers inform
Sokol of Hambrick’s response.  Dec. 21: Sokol sells the Lubrizol shares he bought on Dec. 14.  Jan. 5, 6, and 7, 2011: Sokol buys a total of 96,060 shares of
Lubrizol. The stake, as reported by the audit committee, would
have been worth about $9.92 million on Jan. 7, based on the
closing price on the  New York  Stock Exchange.  Jan. 14: Sokol and Hambrick talk on the telephone and generally
discuss the corporate cultures and philosophies at Berkshire and
Lubrizol, according to a regulatory filing from Lubrizol. They
arrange to meet in person on Jan. 25.  Jan. 14 or 15: Sokol suggests to Buffett that Berkshire buy
Lubrizol. “Initially, I was unimpressed,” the Berkshire
chairman said in a March 30 statement. Buffett asks Sokol how he
had become familiar with Lubrizol, and Sokol mentioned that he
owned the stock, according to the audit committee report. Sokol
did not disclose the amounts or timings of his purchases,
according to the report.  Jan. 25: Sokol meets with Hambrick in  Cleveland . The Lubrizol
CEO provides publicly available results and forecasts through
2013, and internal forecasts for 2014 and 2015, according to the
Lubrizol filing. The two men don’t discuss a price for a
potential acquisition. Hambrick offers to meet with Buffett.  Jan. 27: Buffett calls  Roger Altman , founder and chairman of
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , Lubrizol’s investment banker, according
to the audit committee report. Buffett said in the March 30
statement that he “quickly warmed to the idea” of purchasing
Lubrizol after hearing from Sokol about the Jan. 25 meeting.  Feb. 8: Hambrick meets Buffett in Omaha. Buffett offers to
acquire Lubrizol for $135 a share in cash, 20 percent more than
the closing price that day on the New York Stock Exchange.  March 14: Berkshire says it agreed to buy Lubrizol for about $9
billion. The shares rise to $134.68 in New York. Sokol’s stake,
if he still owned it, would have jumped about $3 million to
$12.9 million. A Citigroup representative congratulates Buffett,
which is the first time he learns of the bank’s role introducing
Lubrizol to Sokol, according to the report.  March 15: Buffett asks Berkshire Chief Financial Officer Marc Hamburg to call Sokol and ask about his Lubrizol holdings and
Citigroup’s role, according to the audit committee report. Sokol
tells Hamburg he thought he had gotten Lubrizol CEO Hambrick’s
phone number from a Citigroup banker he knew.  March 17-25: Berkshire collaborates with Lubrizol on the
preparation of a preliminary proxy statement and learns of
Citigroup’s role, according to the audit committee report.  March 22: Buffett says Berkshire’s directors would support Ajit Jain as the company’s next head if the reinsurance executive
decides to seek the post. “He’s not only excelled at every
single task he’s taken on in insurance, but he’s behaved in a
way that’s been totally honorable,” Buffett says at a news
conference in Bangalore.  March 28: Sokol sends a resignation letter to Buffett, who said
Sokol tried to quit twice before and been persuaded to stay.  March 30: Buffett says that he accepted Sokol’s resignation and
that he feels the former Berkshire manager’s share purchases
were legal.  March 31: Sokol tells CNBC, “I don’t believe I did anything
wrong,” according to a  transcript  on the station’s website. “I
was making an investment that I believe in.”  April 27: Berkshire publishes its audit committee  report , saying
that Sokol violated the company’s insider-trading rules and
misled the company about his stake in Lubrizol. Sokol “would
not, and did not, trade improperly, nor did he violate any fair
reading of the Berkshire Hathaway policies,” according to a
statement from William Levine, a lawyer for Sokol at Dickstein
Shapiro LLP in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  