-- 
Sony Faces Lawsuit, Regulators’ Scrutiny Over PlayStation Breach

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s ,   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-04-28T00:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sony-faces-lawsuit-regulators-scrutiny-over-playstation-user-data-breach.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ’s network entertainment
unit faced a legal and regulatory backlash over delays in
telling 77 million subscribers that their personal account data
may have been stolen by a hacker.  A lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court in San Francisco
alleges the delay left PlayStation console users exposed to
losses related to any credit-card data theft. Officials in
Connecticut, the U.K. and Ireland began inquiries.  Sony warned customers of the security breakdown on April
26, offering its first accounting of the severity of the
intrusion six days after closing the PlayStation Network and
Qriocity video- and music-streaming services. The Tokyo-based
company said it notified consumers as quickly as it could.  “Consumers and merchants have been exposed to what is one
of the largest compromises of  Internet security  and the greatest
potential for credit-card fraud to ever occur in U.S. history,”
according to the complaint.  In the lawsuit, plaintiff Kristopher Johns, of Birmingham,
 Alabama , seeks to represent people who bought a PlayStation
console, subscribe to either PlayStation Network or Qriocity
service and “suffered loss of service and break of security,”
according to the complaint.  The PlayStation Network, which provides access to online
games, movies and TV shows, was attacked from April 17 to April
19. Sony had combined PlayStation Network customer data with
Qriocity, which offers movies or music in 11 nations on Web-
connected Bravia TVs and Blu-ray players.  “It was necessary to conduct several days of forensic
analysis, and it took our experts until yesterday to understand
the scope of the breach,” Patrick Seybold, a Sony spokesman,
said in an e-mail on April 26. “We then shared that information
with our consumers and announced it publicly.”  Seybold didn’t respond to requests for comment yesterday.  Credit Monitoring  The complaint seeks payment for credit monitoring for all
plaintiffs, refunds for defective services and PlayStations, and
unspecified punitive damages.  Sony said on April 26 that it was trying to determine
whether credit-card data were stolen. The intruder obtained
user-provided names, e-mail addresses, birthdates, login
information and purchase history, Sony said on its  blog .  Sony fell 3.2 percent to 2,291 yen at 9:10 a.m. on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, headed for its biggest drop since March
15. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 0.3 percent.  Sony faces tens of millions of dollars in costs, said  Marc
Zwillinger , a partner at Washington-based Zwillinger Genetski
LLP, which specializes in cyber-related law.  Financial Fallout  In similar breaches, companies have had to pay at least $1
a person to set up dedicated hotlines and call-center capacity
to deal with a deluge of customer calls, Zwillinger said.  The ultimate cost will depend on the damage caused by the
breach, Zwillinger said. Courts typically throw out lawsuits in
which users can’t show harm, he said.  Spokesmen for  Wells Fargo & Co ., American Express Co. and
MasterCard Inc. said they were monitoring cardholder accounts
and hadn’t seen unauthorized activity relating to Sony.  The Ponemon Institute, a think tank that studies data-
breach costs, estimates companies paid on average $7.2 million
for each incident last year to deal with each intrusion and
implement plans to keep existing or attract new customers.  Customers Worldwide  Sony has 36 million customers in the U.S., 32 million in
 Europe  and 9 million in  Japan  and the rest of  Asia , according a
report today by Daiwa Capital Markets.  In the year ended in March 2010, Sony’s games unit
generated $9.07 billion in sales, or almost 12 percent of the
parent company’s total revenue.  U.S. and European lawmakers and regulators were seeking
information about Sony’s breakdown. Users of Sony’s PlayStation
Network sign a licensing agreement that limits the company’s
liability for data breaches unless the law in the subscriber’s
jurisdiction supersedes the agreement.  The U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office said yesterday
it has begun an inquiry into the breach. The Cheshire, England-
based agency can fine companies as much as 500,000 pounds
($826,300) for violations of privacy law.  “The Information Commissioner’s Office takes data
protection breaches extremely seriously,” the agency said in an
e-mailed statement. “Any business or organization that is
processing personal information in the U.K. must ensure they
comply with the law, including the need to keep data secure.”  Ireland’s Office of the Data Protection Commissioner said
it asked Sony for a report on the breaches.  Connecticut  Attorney
General George Jepsen also sought information, according to an
e-mailed statement.  Parents’ Role  Sony’s costs could exceed the norm quickly because parents
may be more concerned about their children’s privacy, said Lawrence Ponemon, chairman of the Traverse City, Michigan, institute.  “Parents are going to make judgments about the safety of
the device,” Ponemon said. “Consumer groups could be more
active than usual. In some ways, this could be surprisingly
costly.”  Sony recommends customers change their passwords when
service is restored and to do the same elsewhere if they use the
login data with other businesses.  The U.S. must adopt nationwide standards that companies and
government entities follow to secure sensitive information, U.S.
Senator Tom Carper, a Democrat from  Delaware , said today.  “It is my hope that this issue can be addressed in the
context of a comprehensive cyber-security bill as soon as
possible this year,” Carper said in a statement.  The case is Johns v. Sony Computer Entertainment America
LLC, 11-02063, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  