-- 
Sony Network Breach Puts Hirai to the Test as Succession Looms

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-04-29T01:27:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sony-network-breach-tests-hirai-s-leadership-as-stringer-succession-looms.html
The day after  Sony Corp. (6758)  named
 Kazuo Hirai  the frontrunner to succeed Chief Executive Officer
Howard Stringer,  Japan ’s strongest quake hit. Three weeks into
the job, an intruder hacked into the company’s online services.  The theft of personal data and possibly credit-card
information for 77 million of Sony’s customers will test Hirai’s
leadership because it’s the first major crisis since he became
head of all consumer electronics on April 1, investors and
analysts said. The breach has already led to a legal and
regulatory backlash after the Tokyo-based company took more than
a week to warn subscribers their accounts were compromised.  “The market is watching how Hirai handles this, especially
whether it’s business as usual or he takes the chance to change
things,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital
Management Inc., which manages the equivalent of $8.6 billion in
Tokyo. “The solution will have to be pretty drastic to convince
users that the system is safe.”  Sony yesterday slumped to the lowest in almost two years on
concern the fallout will set back efforts to compete against
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Microsoft Corp. in online movies and games. Hirai
is in charge of turning network services into a 300 billion yen
($3.7 billion) business in two years by connecting Bravia TVs,
Vaio PCs and PlayStation game players.  “Almost everything Hirai has been trying to do has an
element of network,” said  Masahiko Ishino , an analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “Sony’s strategy
to connect its products through network is very crucial for the
company’s transformation. Sony may struggle if the business gets
disrupted.”  Falling Shares  Shares of Sony fell 4.5 percent to 2,260 yen in Tokyo
trading yesterday. The stock market is closed today for a public
holiday.  Hirai, who hasn’t made any public statements since the
attack, wasn’t available for an interview because the 50-year-
old executive had no time for it, spokeswoman Yuki Kobayashi
said.  Sony’s breach may top the computer theft of 47.5 million
credit- and debit-card numbers from TJX Cos. in 2007. The  data
theft  at the Framingham, Massachusetts-based owner of the T.J.
Maxx and Marshalls discount closing chains was the biggest on
record the time.  According to  Sony , the attacks occurred from April 17 to
April 19, with the hacker stealing e-mail addresses, birthdates,
login information, purchase history and possibly credit card
information. The company shut down the PlayStation Network and
Qriosity the following day and issued the warning six days
later.  Forensic Analysis  “It was necessary to conduct several days of forensic
analysis, and it took our experts until yesterday to understand
the scope of the breach,” Patrick Seybold, a Sony spokesman,
said in an e-mail on April 26. The Tokyo-based company said it
notified consumers as quickly as it could.  The response may have been too slow.  Sony now faces a lawsuit filed in federal court in  San
Francisco  that alleges the delay in announcing the breach left
PlayStation users exposed to losses related to credit-card data
theft. The complaint seeks payment for credit monitoring for all
plaintiffs, refunds for defective services and PlayStations, and
unspecified punitive damages. Satoshi Fukuoka, a Tokyo-based
spokesman at Sony, declined to comment on the legal proceedings.  Sony may face tens of millions of dollars in costs,
according to Marc Zwillinger, a partner at Washington-based
Zwillinger Genetski LLP, which specializes in cyber-related law.
In similar breaches, companies have had to pay at least $1 a
person, though ultimate cost will depend on the damage caused by
the breach, he said.  Government Inquiries  Spokesmen for  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  American Express Co. (AXP)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  said they were monitoring cardholder accounts
and hadn’t seen unauthorized activity relating to Sony.  Regulators are making inquiries. The U.K. Information
Commissioner’s Office, which can fine companies as much as
500,000 pounds ($832,500) for violations of privacy law, this
week said it began examining the incident. Ireland’s Office of
the Data Protection Commissioner and Connecticut Attorney
General George Jepsen have said they’ve asked Sony for
information.  The network was introduced in November 2006 when the
company started selling PlayStation 3 game consoles, according
to Sosuke Kamei, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Sony’s game unit.
Hirai was promoted to President Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.
in Dec. 2006, replacing Ken Kutaragi, developer of the
PlayStation.  Rebuilding PlayStation  “Hirai was the one who has been nurturing the PlayStation
Network business and it stumbled,” said  Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-
based analyst at Barclays Plc. “You can’t fix what has
happened, so the challenge will be how to rebuild the
business.”  The PlayStation Network provides access to online games,
movies and TV shows. The service shares data with Qriocity,
which offers movies or music in 11 nations on Web-connected
Bravia TVs and Blu-ray players.  Sony said in February revenue in the network services
business reached 38 billion yen in the nine months ended Dec.
31, accounting for less than 1 percent of total sales, according
to spokeswoman Makiko Noda. The company, which had targeted
doubling annual sales at the unit in the period to March 31,
said at the time it may miss the goal.  Grooming Hirai  Hirai this month took control of a newly created group that
combines all of consumer electronics and network services, from
game consoles to Bravia TVs and Cyber-shot cameras. Chairman
Stringer cited Hirai’s ability to turn around the PlayStation
games division for promoting him to the expanded role.  Stringer had been grooming Hirai, Hiroshi Yoshioka,
Yoshihisa Ishida and Kunimasa Suzuki since 2009 as the next
generation of leaders to carry out his vision to integrate
Sony’s TVs and computers with content from the entertainment
businesses. After the Walkman’s domination of portable players
in the 1980s, Sony lost against Apple with the iPod, failed to
fend off Samsung Electronics Co. in TVs, while Nintendo Co. took
the lead in video-game consoles.  In naming Hirai on March 10 to oversee all of Sony’s
consumer electronics, Stringer picked the only one of the “Four
Musketeers” he’d been grooming who isn’t an engineer by trade.  Hirai, who received a bachelor’s degree in liberal arts
from the International Christian University in  Tokyo  in 1984,
joined a joint venture set up in Tokyo between Sony and CBS Inc.
after graduation. He moved to Sony Computer Entertainment
America in 1995 and became president of the U.S. unit in 1999
before becoming head of the games business in 2006.  “This is a very bad thing to happen for Sony, especially
when it’s putting so much emphasis on networking, but it’s also
an opportunity to rethink their strategy,” said  Atul Goyal , a
senior analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in  Singapore .
“Hirai is a natural successor, but he still has to prove
himself. This is his moment to shine.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  