-- 
South Korea Current-Account Surplus Widens to 3-Month High as Exports Rise

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-04-28T00:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/south-korea-current-account-surplus-widens-to-3-month-high-as-exports-rise.html
South Korea ’s current-account
surplus widened to a three-month high in March as record exports
offset a rise in dividend payments to foreign shareholders.  The surplus was $1.43 billion, compared with a revised
$1.13 billion, the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement in Seoul
today. The current account is the broadest measure of trade,
tracking goods, services and investment income.  South Korea’s exports are withstanding a stronger currency
that’s risen about 3 percent in the past month to the highest
since 2008. Foreign-capital inflows are adding pressure on the
won even as gains aid the government’s efforts to tame inflation
by cutting the cost of imports.  “Exporters are weathering a strengthening won thanks to
stronger-than-expected global demand but the government may try
to cap gains for the sake of market stability,” Go You Sun, an
economist at Daewoo Securities Co. in  Seoul , said before the
release. “The won will likely rise further, touching 1,050 per
dollar soon,” Go said.  The won rose 0.6 percent to 1,079.45 at the 3 p.m. close in
Seoul yesterday, the biggest gain in a week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Kospi share index closed little
changed.  Exports Rise  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis rose 28.9 percent
last month from a year earlier, compared with a revised 16.9
percent gain in February, according to today’s statement.
Imports climbed 27.3 percent after expanding a revised 16.6
percent in February. Overseas shipments probably rose 24.2
percent this month, according to the median forecast of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The central bank raised the benchmark interest rate by a
quarter of a percentage point in January and March as inflation
exceeded its target every month this year. Governor Kim Choong
Soo’s policy board meets May 13 to decide whether to raise rates
for the third time this year.  The surplus on traded goods widened to $2.86 billion last
month from revised $1.53 billion in February, today’s report
showed. The services deficit, which measures the flow of travel,
transport costs and royalties, was $328 million in March,
compared with revised $569 million in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  