-- 
Soybean Premiums Steady as Price Decline Slows Sales by Farmers

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-04-28T21:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/soybean-premiums-steady-as-price-decline-slows-sales-by-farmers.html
Cash premiums for soybeans shipped
in May to terminals near  New Orleans  were steady relative to
Chicago futures, after prices fell the most in more than two
weeks. Bids fell for corn delivered in May.  The spot-basis bid, or premium, for soybeans delivered next
month was unchanged at 60 cents to 70 cents a bushel above May
futures, U.S. Department of Agriculture  data  show. There was no
comparison for corn delivered in May as exporters rolled basis
from May to July futures. The average spot price fell 28.5 cents
compared with a 30-cent drop in July futures.  “It’s very quiet today, after the futures declined,” said
 Glenn Hollander , a partner at Chicago-based Hollander &
Feuerhaken, a cash trader and futures broker. “The basis is
going to have to come up to buy some corn the next several
weeks,” because farmers will be focused on planting this year’s
crop, Hollander said.  Soybean futures for May delivery fell 27.75 cents, or 2
percent, to $13.5025 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
third straight decline.  Corn futures for July delivery fell the exchange limit of
30 cents, or 3.9 percent, to close $7.2925 a bushel on the CBOT.  Barge shipments of grain and soybeans fell 23 percent to
468,222 metric tons in the week ended April 23 from a year
earlier as flooding slowed river traffic, the  USDA  said. Sixteen
locks on the upper Mississippi, Ohio, Kaskaskia and Arkansas
rivers are closed because of high water, according to a weekly
 USDA report  today.  Major flooding is already  reported  at 66 locations, data
from the National Weather Service show. A  record  crest on the
 Ohio River  near Cairo,  Illinois , is expected on May 1, and many
locations from Cincinnati to  Memphis ,  Tennessee , will top prior
all-time highs, according to the  agency .  “Most exporters have already prepared for the shipping
delays,” Hollander said. “If we get the water levels to drop,
it should not be a long-term problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 