-- 
Spain’s Crackdown on Black Economy Aims to Trim EU’s Highest Jobless Rate

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-04-29T13:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/spain-to-pass-plan-on-black-economy-to-help-budget-employment.html
Spain  unveiled a crackdown on
underground employment as the government seeks to shrink one of
the region’s largest shadow economies, bolster  tax revenue  and
reduce the Europe Union’s highest jobless rate.  The plan increases fines for companies hiring workers
without registering them with authorities and for people working
at the same time as claiming jobless benefits, Labor Minister
Valeriano Gomez said. The new fines come into effect on Aug. 1,
and current sanctions remain in place until then, he told
reporters after a weekly Cabinet meeting in Madrid today.  Spain’s Socialist government is clamping down on the
underground economy, which is worth almost a quarter of gross
domestic product, according to Spain’s union of tax inspectors.
Amid efforts to shield the economy from the sovereign-debt
crisis, the government is trying to raise revenue to slash the
euro region’s third-largest budget deficit while cutting an
official unemployment rate of 21 percent.  “We’re at the top of the European rankings in terms of the
black economy, just behind  Greece  and neck-in-neck with Italy,”
Jose Maria Mollinedo, secretary general of tax inspectors union
Gestha, said in a telephone interview.  Gestha estimates undeclared earnings amount to 82 billion
euros ($121 billion) a year and shrinking the shadow economy by
10 percentage points as a proportion of GDP would raise 13
billion euros in social-security contributions.  500-Euro Bills  Overall, the underground economy is worth 23 percent of
GDP, according to Gestha. Funcas, the research arm of Spain’s
savings-bank association, puts the number at about 17 percent
and says there may be around 4 million undeclared jobs.
Friedrich Schneider, a professor at the University of Linz in
 Austria , who studies underground activity, estimates Spain’s
shadow economy at 19 percent of GDP last year, compared with 25
percent in Greece and 22 percent in  Italy .  Spain is home to 18 percent of the euro region’s 500-euro
bills, which are habitually used for unrecorded cash
transactions, although the Spanish economy accounts for 12
percent of the region’s output, according to data from the Bank
of Spain and  European Central Bank .  Official Unemployment  The plan increases by five-fold the minimum fine for
companies hiring workers without registering them with the
social security system to 3,126 euros, and raises the maximum
fine to 10,000 euros, the  ministry  said. It almost doubles the
minimum fine for people claiming benefits while working
illegally to 10,000 euros, lifting the maximum sanction to
187,515 euros. Inspections will be stepped up as part of the
program, the ministry said.  Today’s measures aim to trim the official  unemployment
rate , which rose to 21.3 percent in the first quarter, the
National Statistics Institute said today, compared with 20.3
percent in the previous three months. Even though joblessness in
Spain tops the EU, the default rate on home mortgages is 2.5
percent, suggesting that households are topping up  unemployment
benefits  with informal income, Mollinedo said.  “The underground economy is a survival system both for
workers and companies,” said Jose Manuel Saiz, a professor at
Nebrija business school and contributing author of “Ethics and
Legality in Business,” which address the underground economy.  Informal jobs will only be converted into formal employment
“if the company can pay,” Saiz said, warning that the program
may “strangle small companies that are just surviving.”  Role of Companies  The plan may also not go far enough as it only tackles one
aspect of the underground economy and doesn’t address the source
of the unregistered cash that companies use to pay informal
workers, said Javier Diaz-Gimenez, a professor at  IESE  business
school in  Madrid  and former government adviser.  Employers paying a salary of 2,000 euros a month must
additionally contribute more than 500 euros in social-security
payments, data from the national statistics institute show.  “If you’re serious about the underground economy you need
a big plan that doesn’t just include the labor market, but a
comprehensive approach to the black market,” he said in a
telephone interview. “The whole thing is patchy, half-baked.”  The government has also been cracking down on  tax fraud 
since 2005, tracking payments made with 500-euro notes,
tightening control on  bank transactions  and investigating
fraudulent ownership structures in companies. The campaign
against tax fraud raised 10 billion euros last year, or 1
percent of GDP last year, the  Finance Ministry  said on Feb. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 