-- 
Spencer Tunick Plans Naked Installation at Israel’s Dead Sea

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-28T08:32:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/spencer-tunick-plans-mass-naked-artwork-at-dead-sea-lowest-place-on-earth.html
Spencer Tunick, the artist known
for gathering together hundreds of naked volunteers, is planning
his next project at the lowest place on earth, the  Dead Sea  in
Israel. He is using the Internet to raise money for it.  The Dead Sea, popular for the restorative powers of its mud
baths and mineral waters, is shrinking more than three feet (a
meter) a year, marine experts said. The drop is caused by the
diversion of agricultural and drinking water and dry winters.  U.S.-born  Tunick , 44, has photographed large groups of
naked people at the Big Chill Festival in the U.K., and cities
including London, Amsterdam, Sydney and  Buenos Aires .  “This project is dear to me, one that I have dreamed of
since my early days as an artist,” Tunick said in an e-mailed
statement seeking backers. “I look forward to your support in
exposing a part of  Israel  that hasn’t been seen before and at
the same time bring attention to the deteriorating situation of
the Dead Sea.”  Tunick’s Israeli partner, Avi Fruchter, initially wasn’t
sure that Israelis were “ready to get naked for art.” He
reconsidered when university students started a campaign that
has enlisted thousands of volunteers.  “My second challenge was to get financial support from
local government, institutions and sponsors,” Fruchter said in
the statement. “Due to the nature of this art in this region of
the world -- this has proven to be most challenging.”  After what Fruchter said was years of great effort, he
decided to begin an Internet fundraising  campaign  with the goal
of raising $60,000 for the project by June 6. The site, started
on April 26, today showed it has raised $963 from 11 backers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 