-- 
Sprint Loss Narrows After Contract-Customer Defections Slow

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-28T20:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sprint-has-narrower-loss-after-paring-costs-to-offset-customer-defections.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier, reported a narrower loss than
analysts estimated after contract-subscriber defections slowed
and prepaid-customer rolls increased. The stock jumped.  The first-quarter loss narrowed to $439 million, or 15
cents a share, from $865 million, or 29 cents, a year earlier,
the  Overland Park , Kansas-based carrier said in a statement
today. Analysts predicted a loss of 22 cents, the average of
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sprint added 846,000 prepaid users, while losses of the
more lucrative customers who sign up for two-year contracts
shrank to 114,000 from 578,000 a year earlier. The carrier added
handsets such as the HTC Corp. Evo to wrest customers from
larger rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless  and draw users to
its fourth-generation network.  “Sprint had a significant improvement in postpaid customer
churn and their prepaid results were well ahead of
expectations,”  Michael Nelson , a Mizuho Securities analyst in
 New York , said in an interview. He estimated Sprint would add
450,000 prepaid customers and lose 75,000 postpaid users.  The rate at which contract customers left, known as churn,
fell to 1.81 percent from 2.15 percent a year earlier. Contract
customers spend more each month than prepaid users. Churn among
prepaid customers dropped to 4.36 percent from 5.74 percent.  Sprint rose 32 cents, or 6.7 percent, to $5.11 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , the biggest gain
since July 26. It has added 21 percent this year.  IPhone Competition  The carrier has been drawing more prepaid customers because
Americans are seeking to spend less on their monthly bills,
Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  said in an interview.  “Smartphones are driving postpaid and the desire not to
have a contract is driving prepaid,” he said.  Verizon, which started sales of the Apple Inc. iPhone in
the quarter, and AT&T are building out competing 4G networks and
boosting their subscriber rolls. AT&T added 62,000 postpaid
customers last quarter and Verizon won 906,000.  “Verizon’s introduction of their new iPhone in this past
quarter did have a notable impact on our net add performance,”
Hesse said on a conference call, without providing details. AT&T
halving the price of the older iPhone 3GS model also added to
competitive pressures during the quarter, he said.  Opposing AT&T Deal  Sprint’s  sales  rose 2.8 percent to $8.31 billion. Analysts
estimated $8.19 billion on average. The carrier cut operating
expenses by 2.6 percent to $8.05 billion.  A year earlier, Sprint added 348,000 customers for its
prepaid services, which include the  Boost Mobile  and Virgin
Mobile USA brands.  Sprint has been fighting AT&T’s proposed $39 billion
purchase of Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA unit, which would
combine the second- and fourth-largest U.S. wireless operators.
Hesse said today the buyout could stifle innovation and force
competitors to raise prices.  Sprint likely will testify before Congress as lawmakers
evaluate the  T-Mobile  takeover and the carrier plans to submit
formal objections to the Federal Communications Commission and
 Department of Justice , Hesse said in the interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  