-- 
Standard Life’s Sales Beat Estimates on U.K. Pensions

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-28T16:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/standard-life-s-sales-beat-estimates-on-u-k-pensions-1-.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/) ,  Scotland ’s
biggest insurer, said first-quarter revenue rose 25 percent,
beating analysts’ estimates, on higher demand for U.K. corporate
pensions.  Sales of long-term savings products climbed to 5.8 billion
pounds ($9.7 billion) in the three months to March 31, compared
with 4.6 billion pounds a year earlier, the Edinburgh-based firm
said today in a statement. That beat the 4.94 billion-pound
average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by the company.  The insurer’s statement “is modestly encouraging in
aggregate, though it is still early days in the group’s three-
year program,” Oliver Steel, a London-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG with a “hold” rating on the stock, wrote in a note to
clients. “Encouragingly too, there are signs of an improving
pipeline.”  Standard Life last year spent a third of its operating
profit on investment in new technology that Nish says will
generate higher inflows of pensions and long-term savings over
the next three years. Rivals such as Aviva Plc and Legal &
General Plc have outperformed Standard Life over the past six
months as they spent less on investing in new business and
generated more cash from existing policies.  New Products  Sales in the first quarter “have largely not benefited”
from Standard Life’s new products such as Lifelens, Chief
Financial Officer Jackie Hunt said on a call with reporters.
Lifelens allows employees within companies to manage their
savings and pensions using the same online portal.  “We would expect flows and sales out of those products to
escalate over the coming months,” she said.  Revenue from U.K. pensions sold to companies rose 78
percent to 1.3 billion pounds in the quarter. Sales in Standard
Life’s Canadian division were 41 percent higher at 1.04 billion
pounds.  The stock climbed 3.2 percent to 226.1 pence in London
trading, valuing the firm at about 5.2 billion pounds. The
shares are 7.6 percent below their price on March 10, when the
company tumbled after revealing higher-than-expected investment
spending in 2010.  The company has met about 100 institutional investors over
the past three weeks, Hunt said. “Investors understand this is
a three-year journey,” she said. “While they are absolutely
looking for delivery from us, they understand that you have to
invest to achieve some of the growth aspirations we do have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  