-- 
Starwood First-Quarter Profit Falls After Mideast Unrest, Japan Earthquake

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-04-28T12:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/starwood-first-quarter-profit-falls-as-cost-of-running-hotels-increases.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , owner of the St. Regis and W brands, said first-quarter
earnings fell as unrest in the Middle East and the earthquake
and tsunami in  Japan  hampered its operations.  Net income dropped to $28 million, or 14 cents a share,
from $30 million, or 16 cents, a year earlier, the  White Plains ,
New York-based company said in a statement today. Starwood was
expected to have a 25-cent profit, the average estimate of 11
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Starwood posted revenue per available room increases in all
regions except  Africa  and the Middle East, where public protests
felled regimes in Tunisia and Egypt and caused turmoil in
countries from  Libya  to Bahrain. Adjusted earnings excluding
charges related to a minority investment in a Tokyo hotel
affected by the earthquake were 30 cents a share.  “Companies had to deal with a number of issues during the
quarter, such as bad weather in markets like  New York ,” Joseph Greff, a New York-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said
before the results were announced. “There’s also a modest
impact from the North African turmoil and some from what’s been
going on in Japan.”  Global system-wide revenue per available room, or revpar,
increased 9.1 percent from a year earlier, before adjustments
for currency-exchange rates. North American revpar climbed 10.4
percent. Total revenue for the quarter rose 9.1 percent to $1.3
billion.  Starwood expects second-quarter and full-year worldwide
revpar at company-operated hotels to increase by 7 to 9 percent,
before currency adjustments.  The hotelier forecast earnings per share of 42 cents to 46
cents for the second quarter and $1.60 to $1.70 for the full
year. It previously predicted 2011 earnings of $1.55 to $1.65
per share.  “Our group and transient bookings remain robust,” Chief
Executive Officer Frits van Paasschen said in the statement.
“As such, we remain cautiously confident for 2011 and are
bullish about our long-term prospects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  