-- 
State Street Targeted in Massachusetts Probe of Foreign Exchange Pricing

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-04-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/state-street-targeted-in-massachusetts-probe-of-foreign-exchange-pricing.html
State Street Corp. (STT)  is being
investigated by Massachusetts’ chief securities regulator over
its handling of foreign-exchange transactions, the same issue
that has drawn legal action from five other states.  Secretary of the Commonwealth William F. Galvin, whose
office can pursue civil suits, has been examining the trades for
two months, Brian McNiff, a spokesman, said in an interview this
week. Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley last year
declined to back a lawsuit initiated by whistle-blowers claiming
fraud by the Boston-based firm.  State Street, the third-largest custody bank, has been sued
by  California  and the Arkansas Teacher Retirement System for
alleged fraud involving the pricing of some foreign-exchange
transactions. California asserted in October 2009 that State
Street defrauded the state’s two biggest public pension funds of
$56 million since 2001. The state is seeking more than $200
million in damages and penalties.  “This is a real issue for State Street with all the
litigation, although their exposure is somewhat contained
because this represents a small piece of their overall
revenue,”  Marty Mosby , a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst for
Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in an interview.  The type of bundled foreign-exchange transactions that
spurred the lawsuits accounted for $335 million in revenue in
2010, or about 3.7 percent of sales, Chief Financial Officer
Edward Resch said at an April 19 earnings conference call.  Alicia Curran Sweeney, a State Street spokeswoman, declined
to comment on Galvin’s probe.  Coakley’s office spent 15 months investigating claims made
by Associates Against FX Insider Trading, a Delaware general
partnership of unnamed whistle-blowers, and decided not to step
in, according to court documents filed July 15, 2010.  Whistle-Blower Group  The California suit was initiated by the same whistle-
blower group, before the state’s attorney general took over the
case.  Harry Markopolos , the former  money manager  in Boston who
tried for years to alert the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, is helping the
whistle-blower effort, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter who asked not to be named because the information
isn’t public. Markopolos declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News.  State Street employs 12,600 in Massachusetts, where a
forerunner to the bank was founded in 1792, according to
researcher Hoover’s Inc.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , State Street’s largest
rival, faces similar claims from Virginia,  Florida  and a public
pension fund in  Pennsylvania .  Both companies have said they will defend against the
suits. Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer of
New York-based BNY Mellon, and Joseph “Jay” Hooley, chairman
and CEO of State Street, have said neither the suits nor the
scrutiny they have brought to foreign-exchange pricing would
negatively affect revenue from the business.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in  Boston  at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  