-- 
Tornadoes Sweep Across Southern U.S., Killing at Least 269 in Six States

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-28T21:04:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/storms-kill-178-in-five-southern-u-s-states-as-tornado-ravages-tuscaloosa.html
The worst day of tornadoes in 37
years tore through the U.S. Southeast, killing hundreds of
people, causing millions in damage and cutting power to a
nuclear plant.  At least 280 people died in six states, with  Alabama 
hardest-hit, as high winds tore apart homes and businesses, the
 Associated Press  reported. As many as a million people were
without power, Alabama’s governor said. Earlier this week the
same weather system killed 11 people in Arkansas.  It was the deadliest single day for tornadoes in the U.S.
since April 3, 1974, when 310 people died, according to
AccuWeather Inc. President Barack Obama will travel to Alabama
tomorrow to survey the damage.  As the system pushed onto the Eastern Seaboard today,
thunderstorms caused hours-long delays at airports in New York,
Newark,  Washington , Baltimore and Philadelphia, according to the
 Federal Aviation Administration .  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines and
other large carriers canceled about 1,300 flights today on top
of 1,000 yesterday because of weather disruptions, said
FlightAware.com, a Houston-based firm that tracks aviation data.  Damaging winds and large hail were reported yesterday in 21
states from  New York  to Arkansas, according to the  U.S. Storm
Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma , which had warned of a
major outbreak of tornadoes.  Disaster Declarations  The governors of Mississippi,  Virginia  and Tennessee
declared emergencies and Alabama Governor Robert Bentley
activated the state’s National Guard to deal with damage
reported in 18 counties, according to state websites.  Insured losses will be in the hundreds of millions and
total damage may reach $1 billion, said Jose Miranda, director
of client advocacy for catastrophe risk modeler  Eqecat Inc.  in
Hackensack,  New Jersey .  Obama issued a disaster declaration for Alabama late
yesterday.  “In many places, the damage to homes and businesses is
nothing short of catastrophic,” Obama said today at the White
House.  Tuscaloosa, a city of 93,000 in the west-central part of
the state and home to the  University of Alabama , was among the
hardest-hit areas. Much of the damage there was along a busy,
six-lane boulevard, Julie Kenny, owner of the downtown Café J
coffee shop, said in a telephone interview today.  ‘Completely Gone’  “There is a lot of student housing in that area and a lot
of that was devastated and lots and lots of businesses were
completely gone,” Kenny said.  In the Pratt City neighborhood about five miles northwest
of downtown Birmingham, stretches of streets looked like refugee
thoroughfares as people carried belongings from wrecked homes
past piles of rubble, roofless buildings and fallen trees.  Barbara Wells, a trucking company recruiter, said the storm
took off the back of her house.  “We heard the walls when they collapsed, and I actually
saw the walls go in and I told my daughter, I said, ‘Come out of
your room, now,’” Wells said. “I told her to hold onto me and
don’t let go.”  In addition to Alabama, storm-related deaths were reported
in  Mississippi , Tennessee, Georgia, Virginia and Kentucky, AP
said.  Reactors Shut  The Tennessee Valley Authority shut all three reactors at
the Browns Ferry nuclear plant in Alabama yesterday after the
storms caused a brief power outage, Barbara Martocci, a company
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. With other reactors
offline for seasonal maintenance, U.S. nuclear output fell to
the lowest level in more than 10 years.  Each of the reactors at Browns Ferry, 84 miles north of
Birmingham, has the capacity to generate more than 1,000
megawatts, according to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Combined, they produce enough to power 2.6 million average U.S.
homes, based on Energy Department statistics.  Yesterday’s vicious storm outbreak was caused by warm, wet
air pushing north from Texas,  Arkansas  and Louisiana,
 AccuWeather said . It collided with cooler air, while winds from
the south and the southwest combined to allow rotation.  April has been marked by heavy rains that have threatened
to drive the Mississippi and Ohio rivers to record flood levels,
and by destructive tornadoes, thunderstorms and hail that have
left a trail of death and damage from New York to the  Gulf of
Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  