-- 
Stratton Street’s Yuan Share Class Raises Money on Currency Bets

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-04-28T01:21:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/stratton-street-s-yuan-share-class-raises-money-on-currency-bets.html
Stratton Street Capital LLP , an
Asia-focused asset manager based in  London , said a new yuan
share class in a fund it helps manage now makes up 9 percent of
the assets as investors seek appreciating currencies.  The yuan share class drew $34 million of investment since
its Sept. 17 creation, out of the Wealthy Nations Bond Fund’s
total assets of $374 million, said Andy Seaman, a Stratton
Street partner. Investors in the share class receive gains in
the Chinese currency against the dollar in addition to usual
investment returns, with payouts in dollars, he added.  Stratton Street, which advises  Switzerland ’s EFG Private
Bank Ltd. on the fund, is tapping demand for currencies such as
yuan and the  Singapore dollar  which are backed by large trade
surpluses and central bank tightening to combat inflation.
Investors are turning away from dollars, euros and pounds amid
trade and budget deficits in the U.S., the European debt crisis,
and the U.K.’s budget shortfall.  “What they want is exposure to currencies with strong
fundamentals,” Seaman, 45, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “Asian currencies are typically undervalued and
they’re creditor nations as well. And the cost of hedging from
Group of Seven countries into  Asia  is probably the cheapest it
has ever been.”  The yuan appreciated 3.3 percent against the dollar in 2010
and is forecast to gain another 4.9 percent by the end of this
year, the most among the currencies of the so-called BRIC
emerging economies, according to median forecasts in Bloomberg
surveys. Chinese premier  Wen Jiabao  has encouraged the wider use
of the currency as an alternative to the dollar in global trade
and investment.  Currency Tool  China ’s policy makers may also use foreign-exchange tools
more frequently than in the past to tame inflation,  Ba Shusong ,
a researcher at the State Council’s Development Research Center,
said in  Shanghai  on April 22. China’s consumer prices rose 5.4
percent in March from a year earlier, the most since July 2008,
the government said on April 15.  The yuan share class of the Wealth Nations Bond Fund
returned 5.1 percent between Sept. 17 and April 25, compared
with the 4.2 percent return of the dollar share class of the
fund, said Seaman.  The Wealthy Nations Bond Fund, which does not sell borrowed
securities, was set up in September 2009. It buys investment-
grade bonds sold by countries and companies in those countries
deemed to have the greatest ability to pay their debts.  Stratton Street scores countries’ net foreign assets -- the
difference between a country’s value of assets abroad and its
debts to foreigners. Countries with negative net foreign assets
of more than 50 percent are excluded from its investments, said
a fund document.  ‘Biggest Weight’  “The bond indexes are constructed to give the biggest
weight to the most indebted countries,” said Seaman. “It means
the investors end up with the likes of Ford or General Motors,
 Portugal ,  Spain  and so on. They have very little exposure to
countries like the Middle East or more wealthy countries like
Holland, for example.”  The dollar share class of the Wealthy Nations Bond Fund
returned 13 percent last year. The fund also started a Singapore
dollar share class in January, adding to those denominated in
euro, Swiss franc and pound.  Stratton Street was one of the earliest asset managers to
tap international demand for yuan funds. It started the Renminbi
Bond Fund in November 2007, which invests in dollar-denominated
investment-grade bonds and uses non-deliverable currency
forwards to hedge investments into the Chinese currency.  “We thought yuan was on an appreciation trend,” Seaman
said. “We thought this market was going to be one of the
biggest markets in the world in years to come.”  The Renminbi Bond Fund’s assets more than doubled to $54
million from $21 million a year earlier, Seaman said. It
returned 15 percent last year and 1.3 percent this year.  Stratton Street, founded in 2000, manages and advises $725
million of assets as a firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at   bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  