-- 
Suez Environnement Profit Rises Amid European Waste Recovery

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-04-28T09:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/suez-environnement-profit-rises-amid-european-waste-recovery-1-.html
Suez Environnement,  Europe ’s
second-largest water company, reported a 29 percent rise in
first-quarter operating profit after a Spanish acquisition and
an improvement in European waste collection and treatment.  “Energy recovery, sorting and recycling volumes are up
while the good news is also that landfill volumes are up,”
Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Boursier said on a conference
call with analysts. The volume of waste sorted and recycled
increased by 10 percent, while the total volume handled rose 5
percent compared with 1 percent over the same period last year,
he said.  Suez Environnement rose as much as 3.7 percent and was
trading 50 cents higher at 15.425 euros at 9:34 a.m. in Paris.
The shares of rival Veolia Environnment SA also rose.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, climbed to 592 million euros ($879.2
million) from 460 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said in a statement. This was higher than the average
estimate of 565.1 million euros from nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 14 percent to 3.51 billion euros. The
French company maintained full-year financial targets.  Larger Competitor  Together with larger competitor  Veolia Environnement , Suez
Environnement has struggled to increase industrial waste sorting
following the 2009 recession that forced factory clients to idle
plants, reducing demand for utility services. It shut 13 waste-
treatment sites in Europe and cut its fleet of vehicles to
weather the slowdown. The utility has said 2011 will be a year
of growth.  “We have not reopened the sites,” which were shut during
the economic slump, Boursier said today. “We prefer to move
from one shift to two shifts on existing sites.”  Economic recovery is “only very progressive which is why
we are sticking to our February guidance,” Boursier said,
adding that European industrial production will take another
couple of years to rebound to the peak levels reached in the
middle of 2008.  Sales increased at the waste collection and treatment
division in Europe due to a “sharp rise” in prices for
recycled materials and higher volumes, according to the utility.
Prices of scrap paper and metals rose, leading sales for sorting
and recycling to surge 40 percent, Boursier said.  Suez Environnement has said future growth will come from
water contracts in southern Europe, especially  Spain , and
turning waste into energy.  Reduce Ratio  Suez Environnement is aiming for Ebitda growth of at least
10 percent in 2011 at constant foreign exchange and at least 7
percent on average for 2012 and 2013. It aims to raise the
dividend about 5 percent annually for the three years through
2013, while 2011 net profit is expected to exceed 425 million
euros.  Suez Environnement was spun off by Suez SA in 2008 in its
merger with Gaz de France SA. The combined entity,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA,
owns 35 percent of the water utility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  