-- 
Sugar Seen Capped on Record Thai Production, Helping Nestle

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-04-28T12:48:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/sugar-seen-capped-by-record-thai-production-curbing-nestle-kraft-costs.html
Sugar-price gains are likely to be
capped by record production in  Thailand , the biggest shipper
after Brazil, said broker and researcher Kingsman SA. That may
help  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  curb commodity costs.  The sweetener used in everything from cereals to candy will
trade between 20 cents a pound and 25 cents a pound in the next
six to nine months,  Jonathan Kingsman , the managing director
based in Lausanne,  Switzerland , said in an interview. Prices may
drop to 20 cents in six months, said Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  A 37 percent jump in production in Thailand will add to
global supply and limit any recovery in prices that have tumbled
39 percent from a three-decade high of 36.08 cents in February.
That may cool a rebound in global food costs the  United Nations 
estimated dropped 3 percent in March from a record in February.  “I don’t expect prices to rise above 25 cents a pound
because there is no particular shortage at the moment and the
Thailand crop is bigger than expected,” said Kingsman, 54, who
traded sugar for more than three decades and correctly predicted
in February that futures would drop. “I don’t expect prices to
fall below 20 cents. It will be capped on both sides.”  While Nestle, the largest food company, reported first-
quarter sales growth that beat estimates on April 15, input-cost
inflation will probably be near the top end of its forecast 2.5
billion to 3 billion Swiss francs ($3.4 billion) this year, said
Roddy Child-Villiers, head of  investor relations . Raw-material
purchases include coffee, milk, cocoa and sugar.  Kraft, Goldman  Kraft Foods, the maker of Oreo cookies and Cadbury
chocolates, lowered its full-year earnings forecast in February
because of rising commodity costs. Kraft, Sara Lee Corp. and
General Mills Inc. have raised product prices to cope with
increasing expenses on wheat, corn and sugar.  Thailand’s sugar production will reach a record after
rainfall increased yields and high prices spurred farmers to
increase area, boosting shipments to an all-time high, Prasert Tapaneeyangkul, secretary-general at the Office of the Cane &
Sugar Board, said yesterday.  Production may climb to 9.47 million metric tons in the
year started Nov. 28 and exports surge to 6.67 million tons,
Prasert said. That compares with his forecasts of 9.11 million
tons for output and 6.3 million tons for exports on April 20.
Last year production totaled 6.93 million tons and shipments
were 4.63 million tons.  Thailand,  Brazil   La Nina brought unseasonal rain in Thailand from the start
of January, improving soil moisture and boosting cane output,
according to the board. Sugar production totaled 9.17 million
tons between Nov. 28 and April 27, and cane output was 89.1
million tons, according to data from the  website  of the Office
of the Cane & Sugar Board.  Raw sugar for July delivery slumped 3.8 percent to 22.08
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  today, extending a
1.2 percent drop yesterday. Prices will be 20 cents a pound in
six months and 12 months time, according to a Goldman Sachs
report dated April 21.  Futures are unlikely to fall below 20 cents, or the cost
for Brazilian millers to produce sugar. Prices around that level
will attract buyers, said Piromsak Sasunee, chief executive
officer at Thai Sugar Trading Corp., the country’s largest
exporter. Sugar may climb to 25 cents if Brazil’s production
drops below estimates, he said in an interview yesterday.  ‘Big Unknown’  “Brazil is the big unknown,” Kingsman said by phone
yesterday. “They had heavy rains. Some of the mills had got
financial problems and they didn’t replant as much cane as they
should have. Cane is now older than it should be. So, all these
different elements mean there is a big confusion and debate
about what the final output will be.”  China , the world’s biggest sugar consumer after  India , may
seek more imports after buying a “substantial” amount to help
curb inflation as output drops for a third year, said the
nation’s top economic planning agency.  While the country has sufficient stockpiles, it’ll be
“happy” to see more purchases as overseas sugar costs less
than domestic supplies, Liu Xiaonan, deputy head of China’s
economy and trade division at the National Development and
Reform Commission, said April 25.  “I think that if prices fall China will buy more to build
its stocks,” Kingsman said. “That will be another supportive
factor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  