-- 
Syncrude Coker Turnaround Expected in September or October

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-04-28T23:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/syncrude-coker-turnaround-expected-in-september-or-october-1-.html
Canadian  Oil Sands  Ltd., the
largest holder in the Syncrude Canada Ltd. oil-sands venture,
said a turnaround on a coker will probably begin in September or
October.  The work on the unit will take about 45 days, Canadian Oil
Sands Chief Executive Officer Marcel Coutu said today. Syncrude
output will be reduced by 4 million to 5 million barrels during
the maintenance, Coutu told reporters after the Calgary-based
company’s annual meeting. A turnaround is a planned shutdown or
slowdown of equipment for maintenance, overhaul or repair.  Synthetic crude oil, or syncrude, will probably maintain a
premium above West Texas Intermediate crude as long as the U.S.
benchmark’s price remains disconnected from that of North Sea
Brent, Coutu said. The Syncrude premium to WTI was $10 a barrel
today and has averaged $7.89 this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The differentials we have seen over the last two months
have been north of $10 positive,” Coutu said. “As long as WTI
is disconnected, the potential for getting a positive
differential is going to be strong.”  Canadian Oil Sands has boosted its price outlook for
Syncrude to $90 a barrel, a $4 premium to WTI, from the previous
$80, a $2 discount.  Syncrude is the world’s largest producer of oil from tar-
soaked sands in northeastern  Alberta  with a capacity of about
350,000 barrels a day. The company’s owners include  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ’s Canadian unit,  China ’s Sinopec Oil Sands Partnership and
Suncor Energy Inc. Canadian Oil Sands holds about 37 percent of
the venture, which is operated by Exxon Mobil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  