-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending April 26 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-28T13:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-april-26-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  Severe storms ripped through the country again this week.
Tornadoes killed eight or more people in Arkansas and struck the
St Louis airport, halting flights in and out.  Flooding along
the Black River in southeastern  Missouri  has broken levees
leading to flooding around the Butler County area.  Emergencies
due to the flooding have been declared in Missouri,  Illinois ,
and Kentucky.  Meanwhile, drought in the South continues
unabated at near-record levels in some places.  The Southeast: Storms passed through northern  Mississippi ,
 Alabama , and  Georgia  again this week while the southern parts of
these states and the Panhandle of  Florida  saw little in the way
of precipitation.  Severe (D2) and Moderate (D1) Drought
expanded in  Louisiana , as did Abnormal Dryness (D0).  Recent
beneficial precipitation helped alleviate Moderate Drought (D1)
in central  South Carolina .  Sporadic thunderstorm activity was
experienced over much of southern Florida where drought
conditions remained steady.  In western and central  Kentucky ,
another week of above-normal precipitation, with estimates in
some areas over 5 inches, resulted in flood watches and
warnings.  an estimated seven plus inches of rain fell in an
already wet area leading to more concern over flooding than
drought.  The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: Ample rains fell again this week
through the western part of the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast.
Eastern parts of this area were drier this week but longer-term
deficits are almost non-existent. Continued improvement in
Abnormal Dryness (D0) in  Virginia  was experienced due to the
impacts of the recent storms.  The South:  Severe weather and impacted select areas of the
South. Heavy rain accompanied tornadoes in some areas, such as
 Arkansas .  In Oklahoma, rains in the central and eastern part of
the state, alleviated some Extreme (D3) Severe (D2), and
Moderate (D1) drought conditions, especially in areas that saw
over 7 inches. Mild improvement from this same system was felt
in north-central  Texas  and across most of Arkansas. Over much of
the remaining region, however, drought conditions maintained
status quo or intensified.  An area of Exceptional (D4) Drought
was introduced along the Texas-Oklahoma border.  Exceptional
Drought (D4) also intensified in western and southern Texas.
Areas of Extreme Drought (D3) also expanded in central and
southern Texas. Severe drought (D2) expanded in northern Texas.
Across Texas, short-term impacts, especially on agriculture, are
being felt.  High temperatures combined with no precipitation
and high winds continue to drive widespread wildfires and have
led to massive crop losses.  Unless precipitation comes in to
the area soon, longer-term impacts will begin to be felt and
conditions will likely degrade to Exceptional Drought (D4).  The Plains and Midwest: Another week with beneficial rains in
Nebraska alleviated Abnormal Dryness (D0) in the western and
central parts of the state.  In eastern Nebraska and  Iowa ,
Abnormal Dryness (D0) was eradicated.  The West: The West generally continues to benefit from above
normal snowpack and beneficial precipitation, with the exception
of the Southwest.  In  Colorado , Severe Drought (D2) expanded
westward in the south-central part of the state.  An area of
Extreme Drought (D3) was introduced in the southeast part of the
state, coinciding with deteriorating conditions in the  Oklahoma 
Panhandle, northern Texas, and southwest Kansas.  New Mexico saw
an expansion of Extreme Drought (D3) through the central part of
the state up to the Albuquerque area.  Hawaii, Alaska and Puerto Rico: Drought conditions remained
unchanged across these areas this week.  Some improvement in
southeast Puerto Rico could be warranted in coming weeks, if
they continue to receive precipitation at the above normal rate
experienced this week.  Looking Ahead: During the April 28 - May 2, 2011 time period,
there is an enhanced probability of precipitation extending
across the northern tier of the country.  Later in the period,
this precipitation is expected to move into the Midwest and
Southeast.  Temperatures are generally forecast to be normal to
above normal from the central US into the East Coast the highest
probabilities moving eastward throughout the period.  Below-
normal temperatures are generally expected migrate from the
Pacific Northwest early in the period to the central US later in
the period.  For the ensuing 5 days (May 3 - 7, 2011), the odds favor normal
to cooler-than-normal conditions over much of the northern part
of the lower-48 states, from the High Plains to the Northwest.
Warmer-than-normal conditions are expected across the Southwest
and the South and into the Southeast, along the  Gulf Coast .  The
odds of above-normal precipitation are greatest across the
northern tier of the country, in the South, and up through the
Ohio Valley and into southern New England.  Odds favor below-
normal precipitation in the Southeast in the Southwest,
extending into the lower Plains.  In  Alaska , the odds favor
normal to below-normal temperatures across the state. Below-
normal precipitation is also expected across the state with the
exception of the coastal area around Glacier Bay and Juneau,
where the odds favor above-normal precipitation.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story: Stephen Rose in Washington
at   srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  