-- 
U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for April 27 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-28T18:11:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-energy-department-natural-gas-update-for-april-27-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
natural gas update as released by the U.S. Department of Energy
in Washington D.C.:  Mild temperatures coupled with continued strong domestic
production resulted in natural gas cash market prices dropping
modestly at nearly all domestic pricing points over the week.
The lone exception was the  Henry Hub  price which rose a token 2
cents per million Btu (MMBtu) (0.5 percent) to $4.35 per MMBtu
on April 27.  Working natural gas in storage rose to 1,685 billion cubic feet
(Bcf) as of Friday, April 22, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration’s (EIA) Weekly Natural Gas Storage
Report (WNGSR). The implied increase for the week was 31 Bcf,
with storage volumes positioned 215 Bcf below year-ago levels.  At the  New York Mercantile Exchange  (NYMEX), the expiring May
2011 natural gas contract price ended 6.7 cents above the
previous Wednesday, reaching $4.377 per MMBtu after peaking late
last week.  The natural gas rotary rig count, as reported April 21 by Baker
Hughes Incorporated, dropped by 7 to 878 active units. Oil-
directed rigs now outnumber gas-directed rigs for the first time
since 1995.  Prices  Prevailing downstream natural gas prices resumed their gradual
decline during the week. The New York citygate was reflective of
pricing points showing an overall loss for the week dropping
from a level of $4.72 per MMBtu last Wednesday to $4.64 per
MMBtu yesterday. The Chicago citygate was also representative of
the general weekly trend and eased from $4.59 per MMBtu the
previous Wednesday to $4.52 per MMBtu yesterday. The only
pricing exception occurred earlier in the week at Henry Hub and
in  Florida  where a passing warm front triggered some incremental
gas-fired cooling load and temporary price increases.  Spot Prices  At the NYMEX, the price of the expiring May 2011 contract
increased a token 6.7 cents (1.6 percent) over the week from
$4.310 per MMBtu to $4.377 per MMBtu after peaking late last
week. However, the NYMEX price has declined in 4 of the last
trading sessions.  The Henry Hub price defied the general trend in a slightly
oversupplied market rising 0.5 percent from $4.33 per MMBtu and
ending the week up slightly at $4.35 per MMBtu. The Henry Hub
cash price turned what was to have been a 1 cent weekly loss
into a 2 cent gain on Wednesday with a late 3 cent price surge.  Overall moderating natural gas consumption, primarily due to
milder weather during the week, was likely the prime catalyst
causing softening natural  gas prices . According to estimates
from BENTEK Energy Services, LLC, domestic gas consumption
decreased this week by 5.4 percent from last week. A large drop
in natural gas consumption by the residential/commercial sector
of 11.9 percent (weather inspired) led the decrease. This was
followed by a drop of 2.2 percent in the industrial sector that
largely offset a 2.4 percent increase in the power sector.  According to BENTEK estimates, the week’s average total nominal
gas supply represented an increase of 1.0 percent from last
week’s value. Domestic weekly gas production averaged 64.1 Bcf
per day, up 0.5 percent, which countered a drop in Canadian
imports. Production has been above 64 Bcf per day for 5 of the
past 7 days. Canadian imports averaged just above 6.0 Bcf per
day, representing a slight decline from last week, and now stand
8.8 percent below year-ago levels. Supply also picked up in the
liquefied natural gas (LNG) arena, where imports increased to
over 1.3 Bcf per day due to a plant performance test being
conducted last week.  Storage  Working natural gas in storage rose to 1,685 Bcf as of Friday,
April 22, according to EIA’s WNGSR (see Storage Figure
< http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/oog/info/ngw/storagefig.html >). The
31-Bcf net injection was relatively small and has sent stocks
below the 5-year (2006-2010) average of 1,696 Bcf after
finishing slightly above average the week before. The build was
considerably less than last year’s build of 81 Bcf, leaving
stocks 215 Bcf below last year?? level of 1,900 Bcf.  Regional storage differences are continuing with relatively low
stocks in the East and West Regions partially offset by high
stocks in the Producing Region. While stocks in the East and
West Regions are 94 Bcf and 36 Bcf below the 5-year average
respectively, the Producing Region is 119 Bcf above average and
even 70 Bcf above last year’s high levels.  Temperatures in the lower 48 States during the week ending April
21 averaged 53.9 degrees, the same as the average temperature
but 1.7 degrees cooler than last year. The  National Weather
Service ’s degree-day data show that temperatures were below
average in the upper Midwest and  New England  but above average
in most other regions (see Temperature Maps and Data
< http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/oog/info/ngw/maps.html >). Gas weighted
heating degree days were about 6 percent higher than normal for
the week because the relatively cool temperatures were seen in
high gas consuming regions. The West South Central Region saw
the highest relative temperatures at 4.0 degrees above normal,
while the West North Central Region was the coldest relative to
normal at 6.6 degrees below the historical average.  Other Market Trends  Rig Count Falls to 878. The natural gas rotary rig count fell by
7 to 878 last week, according to data released April 21 by Baker
Hughes Incorporated. This is the third consecutive week that
natural gas directed rigs have fallen. For the same week, oil
rigs rose by 33 to 913, and for the first time since 1995
outnumbered natural gas rigs. Oil rigs have risen 19 percent
from the beginning of 2011, while natural gas rigs have fallen
about 4 percent. Horizontal rigs (including both oil and natural
gas) rose to 1,020 this week, an increase of 17 from the
previous week, and are at a high for the 20 years for which
Baker Hughes has data available. Directional rigs fell by 4 for
the week to 213, while vertical rigs increased by 15.  EIA Releases Full Annual Energy Outlook. On April 26, EIA
released the full Annual Energy Outlook 2011, with forecasts for
 energy supply  and demand through 2035. In December 2010, EIA
released an early version of the AEO, including only the
reference case, a “business-as-usual” scenario assuming baseline
economic growth. The full version includes 57 sensitivity cases,
including scenarios for high and low economic growth, high and
low oil prices, and more. Additionally, the reference case
released in December has been updated to incorporate modeling
changes and changes in legislation and regulation. The full
version of the AEO is available at:
 http://www.eia.doe.gov/forecasts/aeo/index.cfm 
< http://www.eia.doe.gov/forecasts/aeo/index.cfm >  Natural Gas Transportation Update  A harbinger of the upcoming cooling season occurred this week as
forecasts of hot temperatures in Florida resulted in Florida Gas
Transmission Company, LLC notifying customers of expected demand
increases from electric power generators meeting air
conditioning needs. The pipeline company reminded customers of
the need to balance receipt and deliveries on its system, and
set a 20-percent tolerance for negative daily imbalances
(greater takes than deliveries). The notice was contained in a
Daily Overage Alert to shippers.  Southern Star Central Gas Pipeline, Inc. on Tuesday, April 26,
announced that it had expanded operations at its Elk City
Storage Facility, increasing deliverability by 40 million cubic
feet (MMcf) per day and storage capacity by 4 Bcf. According to
the company, customers are contracted for all of the expanded
capacity and deliverability. Southern Star now operates a total
of 47 Bcf of storage capacity.  Texas Eastern Transmission Company (TETCO) reminded shippers of
upcoming maintenance on its Philadelphia Lateral near Chester,
 Pennsylvania . To comply with the applicable Federal regulatory
requirements, the pipeline company will be conducting in-line
inspection tool runs on the Lateral from May 16 to June 6. TETCO
said it will coordinate with downstream operators to facilitate
the in-line inspection tool runs to minimize flow restrictions.
However, depending on nominated quantities, several delivery
meters may be restricted during the maintenance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  