-- 
U.S. First Quarter Advance Gross Domestic Product (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-28T12:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-first-quarter-advance-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Gross Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the  United
States  -- increased at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in the
first quarter of 2011 (that is, from the fourth quarter to the
first quarter) according to the "advance" estimate released by
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  In the fourth quarter, real
GDP increased 3.1 percent.  The Bureau emphasized that the first-quarter advance
estimate released today is based on source data that are
incomplete or subject to further revision by the source agency
(see the box on page 3).  The second estimate for the first
quarter, based on more complete data, will be released on May
26, 2011.  The increase in real GDP in the first quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from personal consumption
expenditures (PCE), private inventory investment, exports, and
nonresidential fixed investment that were partly offset by
negative contributions from federal  government spending  and
state and local government spending.  Imports, which are a
subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased.  The deceleration in real GDP in the first quarter
primarily reflected a sharp upturn in imports, a deceleration
in PCE, a larger decrease in federal government spending, and
decelerations in nonresidential fixed investment and in
exports that were partly offset by a sharp upturn in private
inventory investment.  Annual Revision of the National Income and Product Accounts  The annual revision of the national income and product
accounts (NIPAs) will be released along with the "advance"
estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2011 on July 29.  In
addition to the regular revision of estimates for the most
recent 3 years and the first quarter of 2011, GDP and some
components will be revised back to the first quarter of 2003
(see the Technical Note).  The August Survey of Current
Business will contain an article that describes the annual
revision in detail.  Motor vehicle output added 1.40 percentage points to the
first-quarter change in real GDP after subtracting 0.27
percentage point from the fourth-quarter change.  Final sales
of computers added 0.12 percentage point to the first-quarter
change in real GDP after adding 0.35 percentage point to the
fourth-quarter change.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 3.8 percent
in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 2.1 percent
in the fourth.
Excluding food and energy prices, the price index for gross
domestic purchases increased 2.2 percent in the first quarter,
compared with an increase of 1.1 percent in the fourth.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 2.7
percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 4.0
percent in the fourth.  Durable goods increased 10.6 percent,
compared with an increase of 21.1 percent.  Nondurable goods
increased 2.1 percent, compared with an increase of 4.1
percent.  Services increased 1.7 percent, compared with an
increase of 1.5 percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 1.8
percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 7.7
percent in the fourth.  Nonresidential structures decreased
21.7 percent, in contrast to an increase of 7.6 percent.
Equipment and software increased 11.6 percent, compared with
an increase of 7.7 percent.  Real residential fixed investment
decreased 4.1 percent, in contrast to an increase of 3.3
percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 4.9 percent
in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 8.6 percent
in the fourth.  Real imports of goods and services increased
4.4 percent, in contrast to a decrease of 12.6 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and
gross investment decreased 7.9 percent in the first quarter,
compared with a decrease of 0.3 percent in the fourth.
National defense decreased 11.7 percent, compared with a
decrease of 2.2 percent.  Nondefense increased 0.1 percent,
compared with an increase of 3.7 percent.  Real state and
local government consumption expenditures and gross investment
decreased 3.3 percent, compared with a decrease of 2.6
percent.  The change in real private inventories added 0.93
percentage point to the first-quarter change in real GDP after
subtracting 3.42 percentage points from the fourth-quarter
change.  Private businesses increased inventories $43.8
billion in the first quarter, following increases of $16.2
billion in the fourth
quarter and $121.4 billion in the third.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change
in private inventories -- increased 0.8 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 6.7 percent in the
fourth.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
1.8 percent in the first quarter, in contrast to a decrease of
0.2 percent in the fourth.  Disposition of personal income  Current-dollar personal income increased $256.0 billion
(8.3 percent) in the first quarter, compared with an increase
of $128.5 billion (4.1 percent) in the fourth.  The sharp
acceleration in personal income primarily reflected a downturn
in contributions for government social insurance -- a
subtraction in the calculation of personal income -- resulting
from provisions of the Tax Relief,
Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of
2010 that reduced the social security contribution rate by 2
percentage points for 2011.  Personal current taxes increased $63.3 billion in the
first quarter, compared with an increase of $26.9 billion in
the fourth.  Disposable personal income increased $192.7 billion (6.9
percent) in the first quarter, compared with an increase of
$101.6 billion (3.6 percent) in the fourth.  Real disposable
personal income increased 2.9 percent, compared with an
increase of 1.9 percent.  Personal outlays increased $169.1 billion (6.4 percent)
in the first quarter, compared with an increase of $142.6
billion (5.4 percent) in the fourth.  Personal saving --
disposable personal income less personal outlays -- was $663.6
billion in the first quarter, compared with $640.0 billion in
the fourth. The personal saving rate -- saving as a percentage
of disposable personal income -- was 5.7 percent in the first
quarter, compared with 5.6 percent in the fourth.  For a
comparison of personal saving in BEA's
national income and product accounts with personal saving in
the Federal Reserve Board's flow of funds accounts and data on
changes in net worth, go to
 http://www.bea.gov/national/nipaweb/Nipa-Frb.asp .  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation's
output of goods and services -- increased 3.7 percent, or
$135.0 billion, in the first quarter to a level of $15,006.4
billion.  In the fourth quarter, current-dollar GDP increased
3.5 percent, or $126.3 billion.  Next release -- May 26, 2011, at 8:30 A.M. EDT for:
Gross Domestic Product:  First Quarter 2011 (Second Estimate)
Corporate Profits:  First Quarter 2011 (Preliminary Estimate)  Comparisons of Revisions to GDP  Quarterly estimates of GDP are released on the following
schedule:  the ``advance estimate, based on source data that
are incomplete or subject to further revision by the source
agency, is released near the end of the first month after the
end of the quarter; as more detailed and more comprehensive
data become available, the ``second and ``third estimates are
released near the end of the second and third months,
respectively.  The
``latest estimate reflects the results of both annual and
comprehensive revisions.  Annual revisions, which cover the quarters of the 3 most
recent calendar years, are usually carried out each summer and
incorporate newly available major annual source data.
Comprehensive (or benchmark) revisions are carried out at
about 5-year intervals and incorporate major periodic source
data, as well as improvements in concepts and methods that
update the accounts to portray more accurately the evolving
U.S.
economy.  The table below shows comparisons of the revisions between
quarterly percent changes of current-dollar and of real GDP
for the different vintages of the estimates.  From the advance
estimate to the second estimate (one month later), the average
revision to real GDP without regard to sign is 0.5 percentage
point, while from the advance estimate to the third estimate
(two months later), it is 0.6 percentage point.  From the
advance estimate to
the latest estimate, the average revision without regard to
sign is 1.3 percentage points.  The average revision
(with regard to sign) from the advance estimate to the latest
estimate is 0.3 percentage point, which is larger than
the average revisions from the advance estimate to the second
or to the third estimates.  The larger average revisions to
the latest estimate reflect the fact that comprehensive
revisions include major improvements, such as the
incorporation of BEA's latest benchmark input-output accounts.
The quarterly estimates correctly indicate the direction of
change of real GDP 98 percent of the time, correctly indicate
whether GDP is accelerating or
decelerating 74 percent of the time, and correctly indicate
whether real GDP growth is above, near, or below trend
growth more than three-fifths of the time.  Revisions Between Quarterly Percent Changes of GDP:
Vintage Comparisons  [Annual rates]  Vintages    Average    Average without   Standard deviation of
compared               regard to sign     revisions without  regard to sign  Current-dollar GDP  Advance to second  0.2                 0.5                  0.4
Advance to third  0.2                 0.7                  0.4
Second to third  0.0                 0.3                  0.2  Advance to latest  0.4                 1.2                  0.9  Real GDP  Advance to second  0.1                 0.5                  0.4
Advance to third  0.1                 0.6                  0.4
Second to third  0.0                 0.2                  0.2  Advance to latest  0.3                 1.3                  1.0  NOTE.--These comparisons are based on the period from 1983
through 2007.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  