-- 
U.S. Lawmaker Uneasy About Data Gathered From AT&T Customers

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-04-28T22:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-lawmaker-uneasy-about-at-t-verizon-gathering-mobile-data.html
A lawmaker expressed “uneasiness”
about how companies that develop applications for smartphones
may use data collected from U.S. mobile phone customers.  Wireless providers led by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless 
don’t control how some independent companies gather information
about mobile phone users’ location, according to Representative
 Joe Barton , a Texas Republican.  “Third-party developers can access the location of
customers anytime they want,” Barton said in a  news release .
‘This is a huge problem. They shouldn’t have free rein over your
location data and personally identifiable information.’’  Barton and Representative Ed Markey, a Massachusetts
Democrat, co-chairmen of the House Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus,
released letters from wireless carriers including AT&T, Verizon,
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , and T-Mobile USA Inc. responding to
questions about how they collect, store and use customer data.  AT&T doesn’t sell customers’ personal information, Robert
Quinn, an AT&T senior vice president, said in the company’s
April 19 letter to Markey and Barton.  Developers who use AT&T’s online store to sell applications
must disclose what location information is gathered and whether
it is to be shared with third parties, Quinn said. “AT&T has no
control” over practices of providers who aren’t affiliated with
it, Quinn said.  Third-party developers must “bear responsibility for
informing customers about their privacy and data protection
policies,” Peter Davidson, Verizon’s senior vice president of
federal government relations, said in an e-mail.  Apple, Google  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  also were among six companies
that lawmakers asked to provide information on tracking, storing
and sharing user locations to determine whether their products
breach privacy rules. Five lawmakers in letters April 25 asked
the companies if they store location data, who can access it and
whether it’s transmitted through third parties.  Apple said yesterday it isn’t tracking customers’ locations
while acknowledging it gathers information about wireless gear
near a user’s handset. The iPhone saves information on Wi-Fi hot
spots and cellular towers near the device’s location and
accesses the data when users need it, Apple said.  Regulators in  Germany ,  France  and Italy said last week they
are checking whether Apple’s iPhone and iPad products violate
privacy rules by tracking, storing and sharing data about the
locations of users. Irish officials also are examining
complaints on the issue.  U.S. Senator Al Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, invited
Apple and Google executives to a May 10 Judiciary subcommittee
hearing on mobile-device privacy.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who is
chairman of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee,
said today he also plans to hold a hearing on the topic in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  