-- 
U.S. Local Government Spending Drops 3.3% in Drag on Economy

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-04-28T15:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-local-government-spending-drops-3-3-in-drag-on-economy-1-.html
U.S. state and local- government
spending  dropped last quarter at the second-fastest pace since
1981 as officials across the country cut back to close budget
deficits.  Expenditures declined at a 3.3 percent annual pace in this
year’s first three months, according to figures released by the
Commerce Department today. It was the  steepest drop  since a 3.8
percent annual tumble in the same quarter last year, and the
second-most since a 7.4 percent drop in April-June 1981.  The latest figures show how the fiscal strains on states,
cities and counties are hindering the nation’s recovery from the
 18-month recession  that ended almost two years ago. With tax
revenue yet to rebound to its  2008 peak,  the economic drag may
persist as spending plans face deeper cuts next fiscal year,
which begins in July in most states.  “This is a harbinger of things to come and it doesn’t bode
well for the economy going forward,” said Gary Pollack, who
helps oversee $12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at
Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in  New York ,
in an interview. “State and local governments will continue to
be a drag on GDP for the next several quarters.”  The  U.S. economy  grew at a slower pace than forecast last
quarter as government spending fell. Gross domestic product rose
at a 1.8 percent annual rate from January through March after a
3.1 percent pace in the prior three months, the Commerce
Department said. Economists projected 2 percent growth,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  New Year’s Cuts  Faced with $112 billion less in revenue than needed to
cover expenses, at least 35 states have proposed budgets for the
next fiscal year that  would hold spending  below 2008 levels,
according to the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities  in
 Washington . Next year’s deficits result in part from losses in
federal aid that states relied on the last two years.  The cutbacks are also affecting cities and counties, which
are contending with diminished property-tax collections and
smaller aid payments from cash-strapped state capitals. Moody’s
Investors Service said this year may be the toughest financially
for state and local governments since the recession began.  The Commerce Department’s figures mark the seventh
quarterly drop for state and local governments since the last
three months of 2008. Together, state and localities cut more
than 500,000 jobs since payrolls peaked in 2008, according to
Labor Department data.  Supports Bonds  The figures signal public officials are moving to balance
their books, which may support investors in municipal bonds,
said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  The $2.9 trillion municipal  bond market  was rattled late
last year after  Meredith Whitney , the banking analyst, forecast
municipal defaults will increase this year. The forecast was
challenged by bond analysts who follow the municipal market,
typically a safe haven for investors seeking tax-free returns
with little risk.  “You cut back on state and local government jobs and it
helps your budget, but it also hurts the economy,” Schankel
said. “Long-term I think it’s probably a positive,” he added.
“They’re working to get their houses in order.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  