-- 
U.S. Stocks Erase Early Decline as Earnings, M&A Boost Investor Optimism

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-28T13:49:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-stocks-erase-early-decline-as-earnings-m-a-boost-investor-optimism.html
U.S. stocks erased an early drop as
Sprint Nextel Corp.’s narrower-than-forecast loss triggered a
rally in telephone companies and a takeover in the utility
industry overshadowed concern over slowing economic growth.  Sprint Nextel, the third-largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier,
rallied 3.2 percent. Constellation Energy Group Inc. jumped 4.9
percent after Exelon Corp. offered $7.9 billion for the power
producer.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell less than 0.1 percent
to 1,355.14 at 9:49 a.m. in New York and the Dow Jones
Industrial Average increased 8.7 points, or 0.1 percent, to
12,699.70.  The  S&P 500  rallied 7.8 percent in 2011 through yesterday
amid higher-than-expected corporate profits and as economic
reports from manufacturing to housing bolstered investors’
confidence. Earnings-per-share beat estimates at 77 percent of
the 261 companies in the S&P 500 that reported results since
April 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a slower pace than forecast in the
first quarter as consumer purchases cooled,  home construction 
fell and  government spending  declined. Higher gas prices
prompted Americans to limit spending after they ramped up
purchases in the prior three months.    Economic Growth  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate
from January through March after a 3.1 percent pace in the last
three months of 2010, the Commerce Department said. Economists
projected 2 percent growth, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Another report showed new applications for  unemployment
benefits  in the U.S. unexpectedly rose last week to the highest
level in three months, a sign the labor market will be slow to
recover. Jobless claims increased by 25,000 to 429,000 in the
week ended April 23, Labor Department figures showed.  The global equities bull market will weather any halt in
bond purchases by the Fed amid rising U.S. consumption and
investment in emerging markets, according to Templeton Asset
Management’s  Mark Mobius .  U.S. stocks rose yesterday, sending benchmark indexes to
almost three-year highs, after the central bank renewed its
pledge to keep  interest rates  near zero to stimulate the
economy. The  Federal Open Market Committee  agreed to finish $600
billion of Treasury purchases in June. Another round of buying
isn’t needed to sustain the rally and there won’t be an economic
slump in the second half, Mobius said in a phone interview from
Bucharest yesterday before the Fed statement.  “We are in a  bull market  and it will continue,” said
Mobius, 74, who oversees more than $50 billion as the Singapore-
based executive chairman of Templeton’s emerging markets group.
“There will be corrections along the way but these will be very
temporary. The consumer in Europe and America is back. They’re
not spending like crazy but they are spending.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  