-- 
U.S. Stock Futures Are Little Changed; EBay Gains, Akamai Slides

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-04-28T10:31:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-ebay-advances-akamai-slides.html
U.S. stock-index futures were
little changed as investors awaited earnings statements from
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and the initial
estimate of first-quarter economic growth.  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  climbed in early New York trading after
forecasting higher second-quarter revenue than analysts had
estimated.  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  slid 10 percent after its
sales forecast fell short of projections.  Constellation Energy
Group Inc. (CEG)  jumped 7.9 percent after  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  agreed to buy
the company.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in June were
almost unchanged at 1,351.1 as of 11:30 a.m. in  London  after the
gauge closed at the highest level since June 2008 yesterday. Dow
Jones Industrial Average futures rose less than 0.1 percent to
12,644 today and Nasdaq-100 Index futures slipped less than 0.1
percent to 2,406.75.  “In the short term, we’re looking at earnings reports,”
said Henrik Degrer, who helps oversee $35 billion in assets at
Svenska Handelsbanken in Stockholm. “We’re relieved. We feared
companies would bring down expectations.”  Earnings-per-share have beaten estimates at 77 percent of
the 224 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported quarterly
results since April 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Procter & Gamble, the world’s largest consumer-products
company, and Exxon Mobil, the biggest publicly traded oil
company, report earnings today before the stock market opens,
along with Colgate-Palmolive Co. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the largest software maker, is set to post
earnings after the close of trading.  Economic Growth  The  U.S. economy  probably grew at a slower pace in the
first quarter as higher gasoline prices prompted American
consumers to curb spending, economists said ahead of a
government report today.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual pace
after increasing at a 3.1 percent rate in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of 80 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other reports today may show that
applications for unemployment benefits decreased last week,
while more contracts were signed in March to buy previously
owned homes.  Stocks rose yesterday as the  Federal Reserve  renewed its
pledge to stimulate growth with low rates and said a pickup in
inflation is likely temporary. The Fed left its benchmark
interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent and retained a
pledge in place since March 2009 to keep it “exceptionally
low” for an “extended period.”  Asset Purchases  The S&P 500 has rallied 29 percent since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke suggested on Aug. 27 that he would pursue a second
round of asset purchases to stimulate the economy, a tactic
known as quantitative easing. Bernanke yesterday said the end of
the Fed’s $600 billion bond-buying program in June probably
won’t have a “significant” effect on financial markets or the
economy, and the central bank will likely continue reinvesting
maturing debt after June.  EBay added 0.2 percent to $34.10 in pre-market  New York 
trading. The world’s largest online marketplace forecast higher
second-quarter revenue than analysts had estimated, driven by
demand for its PayPal payment service and improvements to its
main site.  Akamai lost 10 percent to $36.73 in German trading. The
operator of a server network that helps websites load faster
said second-quarter profit will be no more than 37 cents a
share, missing the average analyst estimate of 38 cents a share
in a Bloomberg survey.  Constellation, Exelon  Constellation Energy advanced 7.9 percent to $37.01 in
Germany after Exelon agreed to buy the company for $7.9 billion,
or $38.59 a share.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee-shop operator,
declined 0.6 percent to $36.96 in Germany as second-quarter
profit matched analysts’ projections. The Seattle-based company
said rising commodity costs will cut full-year per-share
earnings by 22 cents, compared with a previous estimate of 20
cents.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , an offshore drilling contractor, gained
0.3 percent to $71.42 in New York. The stock was raised to
“strong buy” from “reduce” at Duncan Williams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 