-- 
U.S. Airline Surcharges Set Record at $420 as Oil Prices Climb

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-04-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-airline-surcharges-set-record-at-420-as-oil-prices-climb.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and rival U.S. carriers added a record $420
in fuel surcharges to round-trip European fares as soaring oil
prices propelled first-quarter losses.  Across the industry, surcharges are as much as 50 percent
greater than those put in place when fuel prices reached a
record three years ago, according to air-travel website
BestFares.com.  Jet fuel has become airlines’ biggest operating expense,
surpassing labor and climbing to an average $2.96 a gallon from
January through March, up 41 percent from a year earlier. U.S.
carriers raised surcharges and fares and trimmed expansion plans
to try to preserve the full-year profitability achieved in 2010,
when demand rebounded after the financial crisis.  “No one foresaw the dramatic increase that has occurred
over the last three months,” Chief Executive Officer Gerard Arpey told American Airlines employees in an April 20 e-mail.
“It is beyond frustrating to see the fruits of our labor wiped
out by something over which we have seemingly little control.”  Combined first-quarter losses for the five biggest U.S.
airlines widened to $951 million from $892 million a year
earlier. Among the five, only  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  reported a
profit.  Adding surcharges, which airlines have used on
international flights for decades, is easier than boosting
prices because fees are applied to thousands of ticket-pricing
algorithms at once. Fare increases are set for individual routes
and time frames, then adjusted if competitors don’t match.  ‘Getting Smarter’  “There’s no question they’re getting smarter about it,”
said  Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital Group LLC analyst in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Even if fuel prices go down a little,
you can bet that the surcharges will stay because they need
it.”  American parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) , based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , was
unable to overcome a 25 percent surge in fuel spending even
after sales jumped 9.2 percent in the first quarter. The $1.84
billion fuel bill represented almost a third of total operating
expenses.  United’s fuel expenses climbed $725 million from a year
earlier, or about 35 percent, and hedging blunted about $154
million of that, Chief Financial Officer Zane Rowe said on a
conference call after the Chicago-based company’s April 21
earnings report.  “Surcharges are the most effective tool for passing
through higher fuel prices” for international routes, Chief
Revenue Officer Jim Compton said on the call. Those fees have
risen 26 percent this year on Atlantic flights, 42 percent for
Latin American routes and 47 percent across the Pacific.  ‘Veiled Fare Increase’  Some consultants questioned the extent of airlines’
surcharges, because the increases are outpacing fuel-price
gains. Jet fuel for immediate delivery in New York Harbor closed
at $3.39 a gallon yesterday, about 22 percent less than the July
2008 record of $4.36 a gallon, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It seems airlines have come to rely on fuel surcharges as
a veiled fare increase,” said Jay Sorensen, a former Midwest
Airlines marketing director who is now an aviation consultant at
IdeaWorks in Shorewood,  Wisconsin . “The fuel surcharge should
truly reflect the cost of fuel. If they are rising in excess of
that, that is an abuse.”  Jet fuel climbed 29 percent from the end of last year
through April 25, matching the increase in the same period of
2008, said  Jean Medina , spokeswoman for the  Air Transport
Association , the lobbying group for the largest U.S. airlines.  Covering Costs  “In 2008, the airlines lost $23.7 billion,” she said in an
e-mailed statement. “Fuel is the airlines’ single largest
expense, and due in large part to skyrocketing fuel prices,
carriers lost $1 billion in the first quarter alone. Like any
business, airlines must be able to cover their costs.”  The $420 surcharge on U.S.-Europe flights, which make up
one of the most competitive international markets, compares with
$330 in the summer of 2008 when fuel prices peaked, said Tom Parsons, chief executive of  BestFares.com.  The prevailing U.S.-
London surcharge is $362, up from $302 in the 2008 period, he
said.  Fuel surcharges between the U.S. and some countries in
 South America  are as much as $580 round trip today, up from $390
in 2008, said Parsons, who compiles fare data in part from Sabre
Holdings Corp. The fee on flights between the U.S. and Sydney is
$500 now, compared with $220 in mid-2008, he said.  Surcharge Influences  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index slumped 11 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 32 percent jump in jet
fuel. Rising prices for crude oil, which is refined into jet
fuel, also can slow economic growth and discourage lucrative
business travel.  From April through June 2008, use of surcharges climbed 48
percent overall, said Zachary Wynne, a marketing analyst at
Washington-based  ATPCO , which collects and distributes airline
fares worldwide.  The surcharges are influenced by local government
regulations, flight distance and airline competition, said  Tim Smith , an American Airlines spokesman.  Surcharges usually are the same among major carriers, and
may be lower in markets with more competition, said Rick Seaney,
CEO of Dallas-based  FareCompare.com.   ‘Hard to Argue’  An added benefit of the surcharges for carriers is that
they’re not taxed and contractual corporate fare-discount
agreements don’t apply, said Howard Brooks, the global travel
practice leader at ICG Commerce, which helps companies including
Whirlpool Corp. and Kimberly-Clark Corp. lower their travel
spending. ICG Commerce is based in  King of Prussia ,
 Pennsylvania .  “Fuel surcharges are very hard to argue with,” Brooks
said. “As long as airlines treat this as a reimbursement of
actual costs and not a profit-maker to them, then there aren’t
many things that can be done about it.”  United, the world’s largest carrier, expects to spend
almost $13 billion on fuel this year, up more than $3 billion
from 2010, said Christen David, a spokeswoman. The company was
formed in the October merger of United and Continental airlines.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  will pay about $1.4 billion more for
fuel this year than last, double what the carrier budgeted for,
Chief Financial Officer Derek Kerr said on April 6.  ‘Basic Fundamental’  Delta’s bill for fuel and related taxes rose about $610
million to $2.63 billion in this year’s first quarter compared
with the same period in 2010. The company said it saved about
$78 million through fuel hedges in the period.  For the full year, the Atlanta-based carrier said it would
spend about $3 billion more on fuel than last year.  “As you see fuel rise and continue to rise over the course
of the next few months, you can expect ticket prices to
increase,” Delta President Ed Bastian said on an April 26
conference call. “That’s a fairly basic fundamental.”  In addition to boosting surcharges, four of the five
biggest U.S. airlines -- United, Delta, American and Tempe,
Arizona-based  US Airways  -- have trimmed capacity growth plans
this year.  Delta is recouping about 70 percent of its costs and that
“isn’t enough,” CEO Richard Anderson said on the call. “We
must fully recapture our cost on every flight every day to
maintain and improve our earnings performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  