-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise as Earnings Temper Slower GDP Growth Concern

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-28T21:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-stocks-retreat-as-economy-cools-amid-higher-fuel-costs-p-g-declines.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the highest level since June
2008, as better-than-estimated corporate earnings tempered
investors’ concern over slowing economic growth.  Insurers led gains as  Allstate Corp. (ALL) ,  Aflac Inc. (AFL)  and
 Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  posted earnings that topped estimates.
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  rallied 6.7 percent as the third-largest
U.S. mobile-phone carrier reported a narrower loss after paring
costs to offset contract-customer defections.  Constellation
Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  advanced 5.7 percent as Exelon Corp. offered
$7.9 billion to buy the power producer.  Boeing Co. (BA)  gained 3.2
percent as Citigroup Inc. raised its share-price estimate.  The S&P 500 climbed 0.4 percent to 1,360.48 at 4 p.m. in
 New York . The benchmark gauge for American equities rallied
yesterday as the  Federal Reserve  renewed its pledge to stimulate
growth with low interest rates. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
increased 72.35 points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,763.31 today.  “Corporate America has managed to do very well in this
environment of sluggish growth,” said Randy Bateman, chief
investment officer of Huntington Asset Management in Columbus,
Ohio, which oversees $14.4 billion. “Earnings are beating
estimates. Companies are adding value to their shareholders.
There are just not that many alternatives that can compete with
corporate America at this point.”  Earnings Scorecard  The  S&P 500  has rallied 8.2 percent in 2011 as higher-than-
estimated profit and economic reports from manufacturing to
housing bolstered investors’ confidence. Earnings-per-share beat
estimates at more than three-quarters of the 269 companies in
the S&P 500 that reported results since April 11, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Benchmark gauges reversed early losses today as a report
showed the number of Americans signing contracts to buy
previously owned homes rose more than forecast in March, a sign
the industry that triggered the recession may be stabilizing.  Stock-index futures fell before the start of regular
trading as government data showed the  U.S. economy  grew at a
slower pace than forecast in the first quarter as consumer
purchases cooled and government spending declined. Another
report showed new applications for unemployment benefits in the
U.S. unexpectedly rose last week to the highest level in three
months, a sign progress in the labor market may be stalling.  ‘Harder and Harder’  “It’s very clear that it’s going to be harder and harder
to beat estimates from here,” said  Quincy Krosby , a market
strategist for Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential Financial
Inc., which oversees $784 billion. “You’re going to see the
leading economic indicators weaken, albeit from a high level.
You are going to have more questions in the market.”  The global equities bull market will weather any halt in
bond purchases by the Fed amid rising U.S. consumption and
investment in emerging markets, according to Templeton Asset
Management’s  Mark Mobius .  The S&P climbed to an almost three-year high yesterday and
the Russell 2000 Index of smaller stocks reached a record after
the central bank renewed its pledge to keep  interest rates  near
zero to stimulate the economy. The Federal Open Market Committee
agreed to finish $600 billion of Treasury purchases in June.
Another round of buying isn’t needed to sustain the rally and
there won’t be an economic slump in the second half, Mobius said
in a phone interview from Bucharest yesterday before the Fed
statement.  Bull Market Intact  “We are in a bull market and it will continue,” said
Mobius, 74, who oversees more than $50 billion as the Singapore-
based executive chairman of Templeton’s emerging markets group.
“There will be corrections along the way but these will be very
temporary. The consumer in Europe and America is back. They’re
not spending like crazy but they are spending.”  The  S&P 500 Insurance Index (S5INSU)  rose 1.7 percent, the biggest
gain within 24 groups, as 21 of its 22 stocks rallied.  Lincoln and Allstate are among insurers benefiting from
improved investment results in the first quarter. Lincoln
reported gains on alternative investments, such as hedge funds,
while Allstate said losses narrowed on derivatives. Allstate’s
results also improved as claims from costs tied to natural
disasters declined.   Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, gained 5.7 percent to $33.76. Aflac rose 5 percent to
$57. Lincoln National added 4.2 percent to $31.64.  Sprint Rallies  Sprint Nextel rallied 6.7 percent to $5.11. The company
added 846,000 prepaid users, while losses of the more lucrative
customers who sign up for two-year contracts shrank to 114,000
from 578,000 a year earlier. The carrier added handsets such as
the HTC Corp. Evo to wrest customers from larger rivals  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless and draw users to its fourth-
generation network.  Constellation Energy climbed 5.7 percent to $36.26. Exelon,
the largest operator of U.S. nuclear power plants, agreed to buy
the power producer for about $7.9 billion in stock, adding
stakes in five reactors and becoming the largest U.S.
electricity marketer.  Overall, there have been more than 8,000 deals announced
globally this year, totaling $794.7 billion, a 26 percent
increase from the $629.7 billion in the same period in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Boeing gained 3.2 percent, the most in the Dow, to $78.55.
Citigroup raised its share-price estimate for the world’s
largest aerospace company to $90, citing positive “momentum”
over the next several years.  Cost Cuts  PulteGroup Inc. gained 3.3 percent to $8.24. The largest
U.S. homebuilder by revenue forecast profit in the second half
of the year. The company focused on cutting costs in the face of
weak demand for new homes. Selling, general and administrative
expenses for the quarter decreased 10 percent from a year
earlier to $136 million. The rate of cancellations declined and
visits to the company’s sale centers increased, said  Richard Dugas , chairman and chief executive officer.  “Assuming market conditions remain stable, we have put
ourselves in a position to return to profitability in the back
half of the year.” Dugas said on a conference call with
investors. “Now it’s about effort and execution, which are
clearly within our control.”  Energy shares had the biggest decline in the S&P 500 within
10 industries, falling 0.2 percent as a group.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  slumped 3 percent to $77.45. The third-
largest U.S. oil company was cut to “hold” at Deutsche Bank
AG, which cited disappointment with first-quarter earnings and
said that the outperformance potential is limited.  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  tumbled 15 percent, the most in
the S&P 500, to $34.94. Traffic growth in the company’s volume
business has “moderated,” and it’s “too early” to predict
the pace of growth for the rest of the year, according to Chief
Executive Officer Paul Sagan. Akamai delivers data for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes and streams video for  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  