-- 
U.S. Labor Board Urged by States to Drop Boeing Complaint

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-04-28T23:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-labor-board-urged-by-nine-states-to-drop-boeing-complaint.html
The National Labor Relations Board
should “withdraw immediately” a complaint against  Boeing Co. (BA) 
that alleges the company retaliated against union employees,
attorneys general in nine states said in a letter.  The board’s action, citing Boeing’s decision to open a 787
aircraft assembly line in South Carolina, is an “assault” on
the ability of the states to create jobs, according to the
letter released today.  “Our states are trying to emerge from one of the worst
economic collapses since the Depression,” South Carolina
Attorney General Alan Wilson wrote in the letter signed by eight
colleagues. “Your complaint further impairs an economic
recovery.”  The board last week said Boeing chose South Carolina, a
state that bans labor agreements that require workers to join a
union, over keeping the work in Washington state because it was
“motivated by a desire to retaliate for past strike and chill
future strike activity.” Boeing executives had said they were
concerned about strikes by employees, according to the
complaint.  Wilson and the  attorneys general  from  Virginia , Nebraska,
 Texas ,  Georgia ,  Florida , Alabama, Oklahoma and  Arizona  urged the
board to “cease this attack on our right to work, our states’
economies, and our jobs.”  Assembly Lines  The board’s  complaint  said Boeing should be forced to open
a Washington state assembly line after violating workers’ rights
by building the facility in South Carolina. The company, the
world’s biggest aerospace company, decided in 2009 to build the
new assembly line.  The complaint doesn’t seek to close Boeing’s plant in South
Carolina and both parties will have a chance to present evidence
at a scheduled hearing, Nancy Cleeland, a spokeswoman for the
NLRB, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The complaint has nothing to do with state right-to-work
laws, which ban certain types of employer-union agreements and
are expressly permitted” by national labor law, she said.  Boeing declined to comment, company spokesman Tim Neale
said.  Boeing’s choice of  South Carolina  marked its first
departure from the Puget Sound hub where it has built all its
commercial jets. Relations with the Machinists union have been
strained by four strikes since 1989, including the most recent,
two-month walkout at the end of 2008.  A hearing on the labor board’s recommendation, which was
issued by its acting general counsel, was scheduled for June 14
before an administrative law judge in Seattle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  