-- 
U.S. Failure on South Korea Trade Agreement Would Cede Market, Locke Says

-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   S t e p h e n   E n g l e
-- 
2011-04-28T02:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-failure-on-s-korea-fta-would-cede-market-to-beef-rivals-locke-says.html
U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke
said failure by Congress to pass a free-trade agreement with
 South Korea  would hand an advantage to rivals such as Australian
beef exporters.  “We need to ratify this agreement as quickly as we can to
make sure that our American beef producers have access without
ending up losing to  Australia ,” Locke, President Obama’s
candidate to be the next ambassador to China, said today in an
interview in South Korea. The U.S. would also continue to push
for greater  market access  in China, he said.  U.S. lawmakers’ push to ratify the deal with stalled trade
agreements with Colombia and  Panama  in a package may hamper the
Obama administration’s goal to have the four-year-old South
Korea FTA approved before July 1. Australian Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  and South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  this week
in Seoul agreed to conclude free-trade agreement talks this year.  South Korea imported 90,569 tons of U.S. beef and 121,790
tons from Australia last year, together accounting for about 87
percent of the market, according to data from Korea Meat Trade
Association. Imports will rise this year after an outbreak of
foot and mouth disease led the government to slaughter about 3.5
million animals, mostly pigs and cattle.  Demand is increasing with rising wealth, with beef
consumption in South Korea up about 30 percent in the five years
through 2010, government data shows. Gross domestic product per
person, adjusted for the cost of goods, hit a record $27,100 in
2009, the latest available World Bank data show, 57 percent
higher than at the beginning of the decade.  Mad Cow Disease  Beef imports are a contentious issue in South Korea, where
agriculture is protected by tariffs. Health concerns after an
outbreak of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow disease,
helped fuel violent protests in 2008 when Lee agreed to open the
South Korean market to U.S. imports.  “We have an education challenge ahead of us,” said Locke,
who was speaking in Gimpo, outside Seoul, where he toured a
factory of cell-phone maker Pantech Co. Concerns over mad cow
disease were not just an issue in South Korea, he said.  Locke, a Chinese-American, is waiting for confirmation by
the Senate of his appointment as ambassador in Beijing.  China  poses “one of America’s most critical and complex
diplomatic, economic and strategic relationships,” he said
March 9.  China Trade  The U.S. reported a $273.1 billion trade deficit with China
last year, a 20.4 percent increase from 2009 and the biggest U.S.
bilateral trade gap.  Departing U.S. Ambassador to China  Jon Huntsman  said on
April 6 said the U.S. will defend the rights of Chinese
activists. China has detained dozens of human rights activists
and restricted reporting freedom for foreign journalists
following calls in February for nationwide rallies against
corruption and misrule inspired by pro-democracy protests in
Arab countries.  Huntsman, who is stepping down from his post at the end of
April, was among the spectators at a Beijing rally on Feb. 20.  The South Korea deal, also pending approval by South Korean
legislators, is the largest U.S. trade pact since the  North
American Free Trade Agreement . The accord would increase exports
of U.S. goods by $10.9 billion a year when in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Auto Exports  The U.S. and South Korea agreed in December to change
provisions in the pact, which had been stalled by legislators
since it was signed in 2007 over U.S. demands for improved
access for its cars and beef. While the revised agreement
included scaling back initial tariff cuts for vehicles by both
countries, U.S. beef wasn’t covered.  South Korea restricted beef imports in 2003 when the U.S.
discovered its first case of mad cow disease. After resuming
purchases in 2008, the government restricted shipments to those
from cows aged younger than 30 months. South Korean officials
including Trade Minister Kim Jong Hoon have ruled out holding
talks on scrapping age limits on U.S. beef imports.  South Korea reported a trade surplus of $9.4 billion with
the U.S. in 2010, with two-way trade topping $90 billion,
according to the Korea International Trade Association.  The pact will help South Korea’s trade surplus with the U.S.
widen by $463 million annually over 10 years, aided by increased
exports of automobiles, electronics and textiles, according to a
2007 study by South Korean think tanks, including the Korea
Institute for International Economic Policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in  Seoul  at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Seoul at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  