-- 
U.S. Economy Probably Cooled in First Quarter as Gasoline Prices Climbed

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-28T04:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/u-s-economy-probably-cooled-in-first-quarter-as-gasoline-prices-climbed.html
The  U.S. economy  probably grew at a
slower pace in the first quarter as higher gasoline prices
prompted American consumers to curb spending, economists said
ahead of a government report today.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual pace
after increasing at a 3.1 percent rate in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of 80 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Household purchases from January
through March may have advanced at half the pace as the fourth
quarter 2010.  To keep spurring the economy, Federal Reserve policy makers
said yesterday they’ll complete their $600 billion round of
stimulus through June. While the highest gasoline prices since
2008 may have led to the slowest pace of consumer spending in a
year, companies like  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  benefited from
business investment and inventory restocking.  “We did have higher gas prices, and that did have some
effect on restraining growth,” said  Patrick Newport , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .
Still, “we are getting back on track. The economy is adding
jobs and factories are doing well.”  Other reports today may show that applications for
 unemployment benefits  decreased last week, while more contracts
were signed in March to buy previously owned homes.  The GDP estimate, due at 8:30 a.m. from the Commerce
Department in Washington, is the first of three for the quarter,
with the other releases scheduled for May and June when more
information becomes available.  The Fed yesterday revised down its 2011 growth forecast to
3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, according to its so-called central
tendency. In January, the central bankers projected 3.4 percent
to 3.9 percent.  Consumer Spending   Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the world’s largest economy, rose at a 2 percent annual pace
following a 4 percent gain in the last three months of 2010, the
best performance in four years, according to the survey median.  Higher commodity prices for necessities like food and
energy may have hurt spending on less essential goods. The cost
of a gallon of regular gasoline rose 18 percent in the first
three months of the year, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
motoring organization. The price has increased another 7.2
percent so far this month, reaching $3.88 a gallon on April 26,
the highest since August 2008.  Prices for all goods and services rose last quarter at a
2.3 percent annual pace, the biggest gain in more than two
years, economists forecast the GDP report will also show.  The Fed said yesterday in its policy statement that
“inflation has picked up in recent months, but longer-term
inflation expectations have remained stable and measures of
underlying inflation are still subdued.”  Stronger Manufacturing  Manufacturers in the U.S. are faring better than consumers
as increasing demand from  China  and other emerging economies
supplements gains in business spending.  Orders for durable goods increased 2.5 percent in March,
more than forecast, after a 0.7 percent rise the prior month,
according to a Commerce Department report yesterday.  Shares of machinery makers have outpaced the broader market
since the beginning of the year. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Machinery Index has climbed 13 percent compared
with a 7.8 percent increase for the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   UPS, the world’s biggest package-delivery company, this
week bolstered its full-year forecast after revenue per package
climbed in all its sectors during the first quarter. The gains
reflect “some of the increased velocity in the core economy
with manufacturing and finished goods,” Kurt Kuehn, chief
financial officer of the Atlanta-based firm, said in an April 26
telephone interview.  UPS, FedEx  UPS and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  handle goods ranging from financial
documents to pharmaceuticals and industrial parts, making them
economic bellwethers.  Fed policy makers, after two days of meetings that ended
yesterday, said “business investment in equipment and software
continue to expand.”  “I would say roughly most of the slowdown in the first
quarter is viewed by most on the committee as transitory,” Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a news conference in
Washington.  The housing market continues to struggle as foreclosures
mount.  Home prices  in 20 cities for the 12 months through
February fell 3.3 percent, the biggest decline since November
2009, a report from the S&P/Case-Shiller index showed this week.  Home Sales  Pending home sales, or contract signings for existing
homes, rose 1.5 percent in March after a 2.1 percent increase
the prior month, economists forecast the National Association of
Realtors will report today at 10 a.m. in  Washington . The group’s
data on previously owned home sales during the month showed 40
percent of the purchases were of distressed properties.  The number of Americans filing for jobless benefits
probably fell to 395,000 last week, from 403,000 the prior week,
the survey showed. The figures from the Labor Department in
Washington are due at 8:30 a.m.  The rise in gas prices is souring consumers’ attitudes. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, a weekly gauge scheduled for
release at 9:45 a.m. in Washington, may have dropped for the
first time in five weeks, according to economists surveyed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  