-- 
UBS Wants to Remain ‘Independent and Swiss,’ Gruebel Says

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-04-28T13:38:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ubs-wants-to-remain-independent-and-swiss-ceo-gruebel-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
wants to “remain independent and Swiss,” Chief Executive
Officer Oswald Gruebel said, adding that too stringent banking
regulation would hurt the whole economy.  “’Too big to fail’ is an emotional topic,” Gruebel, 67,
said in a speech at the annual  shareholders’ meeting  in Basel
today. “Although you may not believe it, I’m not concerned in
this regard about the big banks themselves. If Switzerland is
the only country to place a disproportionate burden on its big
banks, it could lose some of the prosperity it has gained.”  UBS, which was rescued by the Swiss state in 2008, has been
criticized by some politicians and shareholders for voicing
reservations about the government’s proposal to set capital
requirements for UBS and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  that would be
almost double those of international rivals. Gruebel has said
that the bank may have to consider moving some investment-
banking businesses outside of the country to maintain
competitiveness.  “It is unacceptable that UBS of all people is being the
loudest here. We’re disappointed with you,” Rudolf Meyer,
president of the Actares shareholder group, said at the meeting
today. “The profitability goals indicate that the old casino
culture, or at least parts of it, is still there.”  Profit Targets  Gruebel aims to double UBS’s pretax profit from last year’s
level to 15 billion Swiss francs ($17.2 billion) by 2014.
Analysts say Gruebel may cut his targets to return earnings at
the investment bank to pre-crisis levels because they were set
before the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  stiffened
rules last year, forcing lenders to set aside more capital for
their riskiest operations.  “I’m confident that the remarkable financial improvement
that we have achieved in the last two years is sustainable,”
Gruebel said. “I can assure you, however, that it is our top
priority to work even harder.”  The bank this week reported an 18 percent decline in first-
quarter profit to 1.81 billion francs, as pretax earnings at the
investment bank fell 30 percent on lower revenue from sales and
trading of stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities. The stock
jumped 3.9 percent after the Zurich-based bank reported the
highest net inflows from wealthy clients since 2007.  Gruebel didn’t mention the bank’s profit targets in his
speech. Chief Financial Officer John Cryan told journalists this
week the bank is sticking to them while reviewing the effects of
stricter  capital requirements  on its businesses.  ‘Optimum Structure’  Chairman Kaspar Villiger, a former Swiss finance minister,
said the bank isn’t threatening to relocate abroad. “In this
difficult environment, we, as a global bank, 80 percent of whose
shareholders are non-Swiss, must seek the optimum structure for
our business,” he said in his speech.  The Swiss government, which gave UBS a 6 billion-franc
capital injection during the financial crisis, last week asked
parliament to approve legal changes that will require the
country’s two biggest banks to hold total capital equal to at
least 19 percent of assets, weighted according to risk, starting
in 2019. UBS has said that Switzerland shouldn’t rush with
legislation and should limit capital requirements to 13 percent
until it becomes clear what other countries are doing.  The Basel committee last year proposed raising total
capital requirements to 10.5 percent of risk-weighted assets and
recommended individual countries consider setting stricter rules
for their biggest lenders.  Shareholder Complaint  Shareholders called on UBS to accept the stricter rules, at
the same time complaining that the bank isn’t paying a dividend
for 2010. UBS hasn’t paid a cash dividend since 2006 as it
hoards capital to meet regulatory requirements.  “The amount of bonuses shouldn’t exceed the amount of
dividends paid to shareholders,” said shareholder Guido
Roethlisberger. His suggestion to split the 4.25 billion-franc
2010 bonus pool by leaving a billion for variable compensation
and the rest for dividends met applause from other investors.  Shareholders today approved the 2010 compensation report in
a consultative vote with 64 percent for and 32 percent against.
Only 55 percent of investors at the meeting last year gave their
approval.  Villiger said that UBS will probably never achieve higher
rates of approval for its compensation reports because if
executives were to fulfill all shareholder demands on pay they
wouldn’t be able to effectively manage the bank anymore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Basel at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  