-- 
Ukraine Raises Grain Harvest Forecast to up to 45 Million Tons

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-04-28T13:35:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/ukraine-raises-grain-harvest-forecast-to-up-to-45-million-tons.html
Ukraine raised this year’s grains
harvest forecast to as much as 45 million metric tons from 42
million tons last month, said Anatoliy Rozgon, head of the
agriculture-markets department at the Agriculture Ministry.  “According to scientists’ calculations, the grain harvest
will probably be between 42 million to 45 million tons,” Rozgon
said in a phone interview today, adding that may be adjusted in
two weeks when the spring grain planting is complete. The crop
condition is currently fine, he said.  Corn export limits were lifted this week. Ukraine will
export nearly 2 million tons of additional corn before June 30,
bringing the total to 13.5 million tons for this year, Rozgon
said. Outbound grain shipments may jump to between 19 million
and 20 million tons in the year starting July 1, he said.  Ukraine put quotas on exports of wheat, barley and corn in
October. The government was trying to tame domestic food prices
after  Russia ’s export ban pushed up world grain prices. Drought
last summer crippled harvests in both countries.  Soil moisture improved for both winter and spring crops
after rainfalls in the middle of April, Tetiana Adamenko, head
of the agriculture department of the national Hydrometeorology
Center, said in a phone interview on April 26.  About 56 percent of winter grains, which have higher
yields, were in good condition and 38 percent were in
satisfactory condition as of April 21, according to Agriculture
Ministry data.  Spring grains, especially barley, which was planted a week
later than usual due to cool weather, will need more moisture
and their condition may worsen if it doesn’t rain in the first
few days of May, Adamenko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  