-- 
Unilever Says Profitability to Drop as Sales Miss Estimates; Shares Slide

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-04-28T09:04:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/unilever-sales-miss-estimates-says-profitability-will-drop-in-first-half.html
Unilever, the world’s second-
biggest consumer-goods company, reported first-quarter sales
that missed estimates and said profitability will drop in the
first half, prompting the biggest stock decline in more than
eight months.  Underlying sales growth, which excludes the effect of
acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations, was 4.3
percent, Unilever said today in a statement, as revenue fell in
western Europe. That missed the median estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News for a 4.4 percent gain.  The maker of Magnum ice cream and Dove soap raised prices
1.8 percent in the period to help offset higher costs for
commodities such as crude oil, which dragged on volume.
Unilever, which predicts a margin improvement in the second
half, now expects the impact of rising input costs to be around
500 to 550 basis points of turnover this year, up from a
February forecast of 400 basis points.  “The group’s outlook statements underscore the
uncertainties regarding its margin performance this year,”
 Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam,
wrote in a note today. “Margin pressure will be more intense,
while price increases will result in lower volume growth.”  Rivals’ Faster Growth  Unilever’s performance trailed first-quarter sales gains
posted this month by rivals Nestle SA, the world’s largest food
company, and Danone, the world’s biggest yogurt-maker. Nestle’s
sales grew 6.4 percent and it said profitability will improve in
the second half as it sells more expensive products. Danone’s 
like-for-like revenue rose 8.5 percent. Both results exceeded
analysts’ estimates.  Unilever’s shares slid as much as 3.9 percent, or 89 cents,
to 22.07 euros in Amsterdam, and were down 3.3 percent at 22.19
as of 11:01 a.m. Today’s intraday decline is the biggest since
Aug. 5.  Commodity cost volatility is “unprecedented” this year,
Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said today on a
conference call with journalists. Crude oil has risen to about
$125 a barrel from about $100 since the company’s annual
results, he said, particularly affecting the company’s health
and personal-care business, which “has a lot of exposure to
chemicals, be they petrochemicals, or natural.” Increasing
costs of edible oils including  palm oil  are also hurting the
spreads business, he said.  ‘Volatile Year’  The volume of goods sold rose 2.5 percent while the median
estimate of analysts surveyed was for volume to increase 3
percent and pricing to rise 1.4 percent.  Total sales advanced 7 percent to 10.9 billion euros
($16.2 billion). Analysts had estimated revenue of 10.8 billion
euros.  “This year is a volatile year,” Huet said, adding that
Unilever will still deliver “modest sustainable margin
improvement” in 2011 as ongoing price increases and increased
cost savings offset the impact of cost inflation. “As long as
there is innovation, as long as we are the market leader, as
long as we do it judiciously” the company will be able to
increase the cost it charges for its goods, he said.  The company now expects to save about 1.3 billion euros
through its cost-savings plan this year, higher than a previous
forecast of more than 1 billion euros, Huet said.  Western  Europe   Sales in western Europe fell 2.7 percent as Unilever lifted
prices 0.1 percent. The company has increased prices ahead of
its competitors, Huet said today, depressing volumes, which fell
2.8 percent. Economic circumstances in southern European
countries are “very, very difficult and will continue to be
difficult,” Huet said.  “Unilever needs to prove it can return western Europe to
even modest growth, as this remains a key obstacle in our view
to a more exciting group performance,” Graham Jones, an analyst
at Panmure Gordon in  London , wrote in a note today.  Unilever increased volume and prices across its other
units, leading to an 8.9 percent rise in sales at its Asia,
Africa and central and eastern European division and a 4.1
percent increase in the Americas. The company is expanding in
emerging economies and the health and personal-care businesses
to offset a slowdown in developed markets including Europe and
the U.S. About 56 percent of sales come from  developing
countries  including India and  Brazil , according to Huet.  Organic Growth Focus  Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman has pledged to double
Unilever’s revenue after a decade of stagnant growth. He has
disposed of food units and bought health and personal-care
businesses including Sara Lee Corp.’s shower-gel and European
detergents unit, and Alberto Culver Co., adding Nexxus and
TRESemme hair-care products. The Sara Lee integration is “well
on track,” Unilever said today. The company is 99 percent
focused on driving organic sales growth, Huet said when asked
about further acquisitions.  Unilever reported sales growth across all categories in the
quarter, driven by new products. The company started selling
Dove Hair Damage Repair in Indonesia and  Japan , and said a
“strong program” of innovation in its spreads unit, including
Flora Cuisine liquid margarine, will help it raise prices to
offset commodity costs. The Savoury, Dressings and Spreads unit
showed the slowest growth of the divisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 