-- 
Turkey’s Central Bank Raises 2011 Inflation Forecast to 6.9%, Yields Surge

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-04-28T09:09:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/turkey-s-central-bank-raises-2011-inflation-forecast-to-6-9-from-5-9-.html
Turkey ’s central bank raised its
inflation forecast for 2011 to 6.9 percent from 5.9 percent,
more than analysts expected, citing higher  oil prices  and taxes
on textiles. Bond yields rose the most in a month.  The bank’s forecast assumes “limited tightening” of
monetary policy in the second half and loan growth of 20 to 25
percent, governor Erdem Basci said at a news conference in
Ankara to introduce a quarterly inflation report. The estimate
compares with the bank’s official target of 5.5 percent.  Turkey should raise  interest rates  in a “move toward
normalization” because today’s forecast is “really high”
compared with targets, Murat Toprak, head of HSBC Holdings’
Plc’s foreign exchange strategy for  Europe , the Middle East and
 Africa , said in e-mailed comments from  London .  The central bank controversially cut the benchmark one-week
repo rate by a total of 0.75 percentage points in December and
January in a bid to deter capital inflows that strengthen the
lira and hurt exports. It’s trying to offset the possible effect
of the cuts on inflation by increasing banks’  reserve
requirements  to limit their ability to lend.  Turkish bonds reversed earlier gains, with yields rising as
much as 23 basis points to 8.46 percent, the biggest increase
since March 23. The ISE National 100 share index fell 0.6
percent to 67,393.63, after rising 0.6 percent earlier. The lira
was little changed at 1.5160 per dollar.  ‘Surprise Move’  “This 1 percentage point rise was a surprise move,”
Turgut Keles, WestLB AG’s chief of local-market trading in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “It will be hard for bond
yields to move toward 8 percent from now on.”  The central bank also increased its forecast for inflation
in 2012 to 5.2 percent from 5.1 percent, Basci said. Inflation
was seen at 5 percent in 2013, he said. The estimate for the
price of oil this year was raised to $115 per barrel from $95
per barrel.  Credit growth is expected to slow in the second quarter,
while inflation will probably accelerate in the period, Basci
said. The rate of inflation will decline in the third quarter
before climbing in the fourth, he said.  “The continuing emphasis on credit expansion supports our
view that the bank will remain committed to its unconventional
policy framework,” said  Inan Demir , chief economist at
Finansbank AS in Istanbul. “Thus, we continue to expect the
bank to tighten monetary conditions by implementing reserve
requirement hikes.”  Turkish banking customers are starting to extend the term
of their deposits to three months from one month after the
central bank increased reserve requirements at a faster rate on
shorter-term deposits, Basci said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  