-- 
Usiminas Posts $17 Million First-Quarter Net Loss as Material Costs Gain

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-04-28T16:46:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/usiminas-posts-17-million-first-quarter-net-loss-as-material-costs-gain.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA (USIM5) ,  Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker by market value, posted a
first-quarter net loss as costs rose and output fell.  The net loss of 26.1 million reais ($16.6 million),
compared with a revised profit of 365.3 million reais in the
year-ago period, the company said today in a regulatory filing.
Usiminas, as the Belo Horizonte-based company is known, was
expected to post profit of 117.1 million reais on an adjusted
basis, the average of six analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “The results were affected by the continuous cost pressure
from the main raw materials and the unfavorable exchange-rate
that gives an incentive to competition from imported products,”
Usiminas said in the statement.  Crude-steel output declined 2 percent to 1.78 million tons
in the quarter, and net sales gained 1 percent to 3.06 billion
reais, Usiminas said. The cost of goods sold jumped 18 percent.  Profit margins for Brazilian steelmakers are being
pressured by higher prices for raw materials such as  iron ore 
and coking coal. The stronger Brazilian real, which has rallied
10 percent against the U.S. currency in the past 12 months, also
eroded dollar-denominated export revenue.  ‘Complicated Currency’  “It’s going to be a bad first half, with higher costs,
stable or falling sales, a stronger currency -- a very
complicated half,” Marcos Saravalle, an analyst at Sao Paulo-
based brokerage Coinvalores, said in a phone interview today.  Coal prices will continue to affect costs in the second
quarter, Usiminas executives said on a conference call with
analysts today.  Usiminas is “the most negatively impacted stock” by the
appreciation of the real in the Brazilian mining and steel
industry, Bank of America analysts led by Felipe Hirai in  Sao
Paulo  said in a note to clients April 1.  Usiminas’s preferred shares fell 51 centavos, or 3.1
percent, to 16.19 reais in Sao Paulo trading at 12:19 p.m. New
York time. The stock has dropped 43 percent in the past 12
months.  Last week, rival steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA
announced that it boosted its stake in Usiminas to 10 percent of
common shares and 5.25 percent of preferred shares. The
announcement follows speculation that Gerdau SA, the country’s
largest steelmaker, may buy part of Usiminas.  The company’s controlling stakeholders, which include
Nippon Steel Corp., Votorantim Participacoes SA and Camargo
Correa SA, have told Usiminas they aren’t in talks to sell
stakes, according to today’s conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  