-- 
Vale Acquires Stake in Amazon Hydropower Project After Ouster of Agnelli

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   J e s s i c a   B r i c e
-- 
2011-04-28T23:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/vale-to-invest-1-5-billion-in-brazil-hydro-power-project-after-ceo-ouster.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the Brazilian miner that
announced the ouster of its chief executive amid government
criticism, agreed to buy a stake in a hydro-power project in the
Amazon and invest about 2.3 billion reais ($1.5 billion).  Vale, the world’s second-largest miner by market value,
said in a regulatory filing  yesterday  its board approved buying
as much as 9 percent of Norte Energia SA, which will build and
operate the Belo Monte dam, from Gaia Energia & Participacoes
SA. Rio de Janeiro-based Vale will reimburse Gaia for
expenditures made and assume its future investment commitments.  The deal comes less than a month after Vale said it would
replace Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  amid criticism
from Brazil’s government, which has direct and indirect stakes,
that it wasn’t doing enough to help generate jobs. The 25.8
billion-real dam, which will flood 516 square kilometers (199
square miles) of the world’s largest rainforest, is a key piece
in the government’s plan to increase energy supplies.  “It appears as if it was the government’s idea to bring
Vale into this investment,” Rogerio Freitas, a partner at Rio
de Janeiro-based hedge fund Teorica Investimentos, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The most rational thing to do
is invest your resources where you get the highest return given
the risk, and in Vale’s case that would be the mining
business.”  Failed Bid  Vale, which  failed  in a previous bid to buy a stake when
the rights to Belo Monte were auctioned last year, joins state-
controlled  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  as a partner in
Norte Energia. Eletrobras, as  South America ’s largest utility is
known, and two of its units hold a combined 49.98 percent,
according to its website.  Vale has stakes in other hydroelectric dams in Brazil.  The Organization of the American States requested April 5
that Brazil suspend work on Belo Monte. The OAS echoed protests
of "Avatar" director  James Cameron , former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  and former California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger ,
who gathered in the Amazon city of Manaus earlier this year to
voice concern about the potential environmental impact from the
dam. The project will require the relocation of about 1,000
Indians.  Vale announced April 5 that it named Murilo Pinto de Oliveira Ferreira to take over as CEO in May after Agnelli’s
mandate expires. Vale has underperformed Brazil’s Bovespa index
and BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company by
market value, since mid-January amid concern the government
would seek to play a bigger role in management decisions.  Vale Share Drop  Vale fell 22 centavos, or 0.5 percent, to 46.05 reais in
 Sao Paulo  trading. The acquisition announcement was made after
the end of regular trading yesterday. The company’s preferred
stock has plunged 12 percent since Jan. 15, compared with a 7.4
percent drop for the Bovespa and a 12 percent gain for BHP.  During the global recession two years ago, Vale fired 1,300
employees and said 5,500 more would be put on paid leave. The
company pared investments by about half to $9 billion, from an
announced $14.2 billion, a decision criticized by then-President
Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who said it had “no reason” to cut
spending as it had “lots of cash” to help the economy grow.  Agnelli also faced government criticism for buying ships in
 China  when Brazil was setting up its own shipyards. The former
president urged Vale to spend more on fertilizers and, between
April and September 2009, asked the company to build steelworks
at least half a dozen times.  More recently, Energy and Mining Minister Edison Lobao said
Vale was interested in becoming a partner of Belo Monte project,
according to local newspapers. Vale said March 25 that it was
still assessing the venture and hadn’t made a decision.  Pension Stakes  Previ and Funcef, the pension funds of state-run banks
Banco do Brasil SA and Caixa Economica Federal, hold 49 percent
of Vale’s group of controlling shareholders along with Petros,
the retirement fund for government-controlled oil producer
Petroleo Brasileiro SA.  Other  shareholders  of the group, Valepar SA, include
Bradespar SA, the holding company of Bradesco; Mitsui & Co. and
BNDESPAR, a subsidiary of the Brazilian state-owned  development
bank .  Vale plans to finance about 75 percent of its investments
in Belo Monte, estimated at 2.3 billion reais, Vale Marketing
Director Jose Carlos Martins said yesterday on a conference call
with journalists.  Brazil ’s national development bank, known as
BNDES, will provide most of the financing, he said.  The investment will eventually allow Vale to generate about
73 percent of its own energy needs, Energy Director Almir
Rezende said on the same call. The project will provide Vale
with 400 megawatts, he said.  “Vale is a large consumer of electricity and invests in
generation assets based on its consumption needs,” the company
said in yesterday’s statement. Vale is “seeking to reduce
operating costs on a permanent basis and minimize price and
supply risks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  