-- 
Vertex Joins Merck in Winning FDA Panel Backing for Hepatitis C Treatment

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-28T23:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/vertex-wins-u-s-fda-panel-s-backing-for-hepatitis-c-drug-1-.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s
experimental hepatitis C treatment won unanimous support from a
U.S. panel that yesterday backed a similar drug from Merck & Co.  Telaprevir, Vertex’s drug, works sufficiently to outweigh
risks of skin rash and anemia, outside advisers to the  Food and
Drug Administration  said today in an 18-0 vote in  Silver Spring ,
Maryland. The agency usually follows its advisory panels’
recommendations.  Vertex, of Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and  Whitehouse
Station , New Jersey-based Merck are vying to win the first FDA
clearance in almost a decade for a medicine to treat the
bloodborne liver disease. The companies are among about a dozen
seeking to sell hepatitis C drugs with higher cure rates and
fewer side effects than standard therapy.  “This is a long-awaited, landmark day for our patients
with hepatitis C,” panelist  Barbara McGovern , an associate
professor of medicine at  Tufts University  in  Boston , said after
the vote.  Sales of telaprevir may surpass $2.1 billion in 2013,
according to the average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Vertex gained 46 cents to $56 at 7:12 p.m.  New York  time in
extended trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Trading was halted
during today’s FDA panel meeting. Merck, the second-biggest U.S.
drugmaker, gained 14 cents to $35.77 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Spread Worldwide  About  170 million  people worldwide, and 3.2 million in the
U.S., have chronic hepatitis C, a disease that can lead to liver
cirrhosis and cancer, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. No vaccine exists for the
virus, which is commonly spread through needle-sharing and can
be transmitted sexually in rare cases.  The current standard therapy for the most common strain of
hepatitis C requires 48 weeks of treatment and fails in about
half of patients, Debra Birnkrant, director of the FDA’s
Division of Antiviral Products, told the panel at yesterday’s
meeting on Merck’s drug.  Standard treatments combine the antiviral drug ribavirin
with peginterferon, an immune-boosting protein sold by Merck as
PegIntron and Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  as
Pegasys. The FDA approved PegIntron in 2001 and Pegasys in 2002.  Protease Inhibitors  Vertex’s telaprevir and Merck’s boceprevir are so-called
protease inhibitors that work by blocking an enzyme used by the
hepatitis C virus to copy itself.  Both medicines are likely to win agency approval and may
reach the market in May or June, said  Geoffrey Porges , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  Separate clinical trials on boceprevir and telaprevir
showed both drugs cured more patients when used with approved
treatments. There haven’t been clinical studies that compare
whether one drug is safer or more effective than the other.  Vertex’s drug cured 84 percent of patients in a company-
funded trial who had previously relapsed after standard therapy,
compared with 24 percent who only took peginterferon and
ribavirin, FDA staff reviewers said April 26 in a  preliminary
review  of a company-funded study.  Another Vertex study found the drug cured 79 percent of
patients who were new to treatment, compared with 46 percent of
those on standard therapy alone, the agency said. Most patients
were cured after 24 weeks of treatment, company executives told
the advisory committee today.  ‘It’s Unbelievable’  “I’m sort of pinching myself and saying, ‘Am I really
looking at numbers like this?’ Because it’s unbelievable,” said
Victoria Cargill, who headed the panel and is the director of
minority research at the National Institutes of Health’s Office
of AIDS Research in Bethesda,  Maryland .  A Merck study found that boceprevir, combined with standard
therapy, cured 63 percent of chronic hepatitis C patients who
had failed previous treatments, compared with 23 percent of
those who took peginterferon and ribavirin alone, FDA staff said
April 25 in a  report .  About 69 percent of patients who relapsed after prior
treatments were cured with boceprevir after 32 weeks, and 75
percent cleared the virus after 48 weeks, Merck told the FDA in
a  briefing document  released by the agency on April 25. Standard
therapy alone, taken for 48 weeks, cured 29 percent of people
who previously relapsed.  Among hepatitis C patients who were new to treatment, 65
percent of those who took boceprevir, and 38 percent on standard
therapy alone, were cured in the Merck study.  “A nice head-to-head study may be warranted” if both
medicines win FDA clearance, panelist  Elizabeth Connick , an
associate professor of medicine at the  University of Colorado 
Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora,  Colorado , said at yesterday’s
meeting on Merck’s drug.  Both drugs also are under review by the  European Medicines
Agency . Telaprevir would be marketed in  Europe  by Vertex and  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
second-biggest seller of health products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Silver Spring, Maryland at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  