-- 
Viacom Second-Quarter Profit Advances 53% Fueled by ‘Jersey Shore’ Ratings

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-28T21:18:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/viacom-profit-exceeds-analysts-estimates-as-jersey-shore-added-viewers.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) , owner of Nickelodeon,
 MTV  and other cable networks, said second-quarter profit climbed
53 percent as shows such as “ Jersey Shore ” added viewers.  Net income increased to $376 million, or 63 cents a share,
in the period ended March 31, from $245 million, or 40 cents, a
year earlier, New York-based Viacom said today in a statement.
Excluding a debt-extinguishment loss, earnings per share of 72
cents exceeded the 62-cent average of 22 analysts’ estimates.  Viacom topped estimates across its businesses, Michael Nathanson, an analyst at Nomura Securities International in  New
York , said today in a report. MTV is drawing viewers,
advertisers are paying more for Nickelodeon’s kids programming
and the Paramount film studio will release movies including
“Super 8” from  J.J. Abrams  and “Transformers: Dark of the
Moon.”  “Viacom reported a strong quarter,” Nathanson said.
“Given the company’s continued ratings strength and a
continuing rebound in the ad economy, we believe there is still
upside for the stock.”  Viacom, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , jumped
$1.78, or 3.6 percent, to $50.63 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, the highest price for the stock
since the company split with CBS Corp. in 2006. The Class B
shares have climbed 28 percent this year.  Ad Sales  Advertising sales rose 11 percent in the U.S. and 12
percent worldwide last quarter, marking the fifth consecutive
gain. Chief Executive Officer Philippe Dauman said ad sales will
rise again in the current period, without offering specifics.  “We expect to deliver another quarter of sequential
improvement in our domestic ad revenue growth rate,” Dauman
said today on a conference call with investors.  Viacom’s U.S. ad growth trailed at least one competitor.
Discovery Communications Inc. reported today that its cable
channels, excluding Discovery Health after its conversion to the
Oprah Winfrey Network, had gained 15 percent.  Total revenue rose 20 percent to $3.27 billion, topping the
$3 billion average of 19 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The media networks unit’s operating profit climbed 13
percent to $806 million. Sales at the division, which
contributes 60 percent of the company’s total revenue, rose 11
percent to $2.08 billion.  Stronger ratings will help Viacom negotiate higher rates
with advertisers during so-called upfront meetings next month,
 Michael Morris , an analyst at Davenport & Co. in New York, wrote
in an April 20 report.  Streaming Video  Viacom provides movies and TV shows to digital outlets
including Netflix Inc. and Hulu LLC. A legal battle with Time
Warner Cable Inc. erupted this month after the pay-TV system
began streaming Viacom-owned channels to subscribers in the home
through an application for Apple Inc.’s iPad.  Operating profit at the Paramount film studio was $39
million, compared with a loss of $83 million a year earlier,
boosted by the box-office success of “Rango,” “Justin Bieber:
Never Say Never” and “No Strings Attached.” The division’s
sales climbed 38 percent to $1.23 billion from $886 million a
year ago.  Paramount is releasing Walt Disney Co.’s “Thor” on May 6
and DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc.’s “Kung Fu Panda 2” on May
26, according to Imbd.com.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  