-- 
Vietnam Dong Rises to 2-Month High on Dollar Supply; Bonds Gain

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-28T09:30:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/vietnam-dong-rises-to-2-month-high-on-dollar-supply-bonds-gain.html
Vietnam ’s dong advanced to a two-
month high on speculation the supply of dollars has increased
after the government capped deposit rates for accounts
denominated in the U.S. currency.  Government bonds  gained.  The country now has an “abundant” supply of dollars as
individuals and companies have been selling about $10 million to
$15 million a day to banks, the government said in a statement
on its website yesterday. The  State Bank  of Vietnam imposed a 3
percent ceiling on the dollar-deposit rates banks could offer to
individuals, which took effect April 13. Dong accounts offer
interest as high as 14 percent.  “It’s very easy for us to buy dollars these days as people
sold the foreign currency to shift to dong deposits for more
attractive  interest rates ,” said Vu Thi Thu Giang, a foreign-
exchange trader at Hanoi-based Ocean Commercial Joint-Stock Bank
in Hanoi.  The dong gained 0.5 percent, to 20,540 per dollar as of
4:01 p.m. in Hanoi, according to prices from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. That was the strongest level since Feb. 10.  The central bank fixed the  reference rate  at 20,693 today,
compared with 20,698 yesterday, according to its website. The
currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side of
that rate.  Government bonds gained, with the yield on the benchmark
five-year notes falling four basis points to 12.49 percent,
according to a daily fixing price from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  --Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen. With assistance from Diep Pham in Hanoi.
Editors: Andrew Janes, Ven Ram  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 