-- 
World Bank Business Aid Should Target Poor Better, Audit Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-28T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/world-bank-business-aid-should-target-poor-better-audit-says.html
A majority of the  World Bank ’s
investments in the private sector of developing economies fail
to bring identifiable benefits to the poor, even as they
generate growth, an internal evaluation said.  The International Finance Corporation , the bank’s arm that
lends to companies, has traditionally focused on growth,
trusting it would automatically alleviate poverty, according to
the report published today. As the IFC starts paying more heed
to how expansion trickles down to people, the agency should
better outline how its investment and advice help the poor, the
audit said.  “The link between growth and poverty reduction is not
automatic or universal,” said Ade Freeman, the report’s lead
author, in a phone interview. IFC should “make explicit the
assumption through which growth leads to poverty reduction,”
and “do a better job of tracking the poverty outcomes and
impacts from its interventions.”  Institutions including the World Bank and the  International
Monetary Fund  are rethinking their approach to policy advice
after uprisings toppled the presidents of Tunisia and  Egypt ,
countries they had praised for their economic policies. For the
IFC to both support the private sector and make an impact on
development, the agency must understand who are the poor it
wants to help and where they are located, the report said.  Today’s report from the Independent Evaluation Group cited
as an example a farm forestry project in an unnamed country of
 South Asia  where IFC had invested in a company owning a pulp
plant. While the goal was to have more farmers cultivating trees
for the plant, an insufficient knowledge of their livelihood led
to having only 10 percent of them choosing to do so.  Cash Needs  The reason is that most of the farmers had immediate cash
needs and didn’t want to make a long-term investment in pulpwood,
which had high initial costs and took four to five years to
bring higher income, according to the report.  In a written response to the report, IFC management
welcomed its recommendations, saying “a key next step for IFC
in its poverty focus is to better articulate poverty dimensions
in its projects.”  “The key conclusion for us is we have to be much more
explicit upfront about the expected poverty reduction effects”
be they direct or indirect, said Nigel Twose, IFC’s Director for
Development Impact, in a phone interview. “So we can then track
it and see if we were right.”  The report looked at IFC projects over the decade that
ended in June 2010. A focus on 58 of them in the non-financial
sector showed that 59 percent made a positive contribution to
growth “without evidence of discernible benefits to the poor.”  That doesn’t mean that the projects had no impact on the
poor at all, the report said.  “Rather, there is no conclusive evidence of how the
benefits from growth actually created employment for poor people
or delivered good and services that reached the poor,” it said.
“These findings reflect a failure to articulate the poverty
effects of projects that focus primarily on economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  