-- 
WPP Quarterly Sales Rise 7% on U.S., German Recovery, Raises Growth Target

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-04-28T07:46:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/wpp-raises-forecast-after-first-quarter-ad-sales-increase-7-1-.html
WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest
advertising company, said first-quarter revenue rose 7 percent,
led by a faster-than-expected recovery in mature markets such as
the U.S. and Germany, and raised its full-year sales forecast.  Revenue for the period was 2.22 billion pounds ($3.71
billion), the Dublin-based company said in a statement today.
Sales had been predicted at 2.21 billion pounds, according to
the average estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Like-for-like revenue, which strips out impacts of acquisitions
and currency fluctuations, gained 6.7 percent.  WPP, which owns ad agencies including  Young & Rubicam ,
 Ogilvy & Mather  and Grey Group, raised its forecast for like-
for-like revenue to increase to more than 6 percent for 2011,
from 5 percent. Stronger second-quarter growth in the Asia-
Pacific region and in  Latin America  is expected to offset slower
growth in the U.S., the company said.  “We did better than people expected and we’ve budgeted
revenue to now over 6 percent, so that indicates increasing
confidence that we’ll reach our margin targets and maybe even do
a bit better than that,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell 
said in a phone interview.  WPP rose as much as 21 pence, or 2.8 percent, to 780.50
pence in London trading and was up 2.4 percent as of 8:29 a.m.,
extending the gain in 12 months to more than 15 percent.  Margins will probably meet or surpass WPP’s target of a
0.5-point improvement, the company said.  More Ad Dollars  Advertising companies are benefitting as companies increase
marketing spending following the economic slowdown. Sorrell said
last month that the company’s 2010 profit increase was led by a
recovery in the U.S., which behaved more like a fast-growing
market than a mature one. French rivals  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  and
 Havas SA (HAV)  each reported increases in first-quarter sales this
month, citing growth in the U.S. and  Europe  as well as in
digital operations.  Publicis’ quarterly revenue rose 11 percent to 1.29 billion
euros ($1.92 billion), while Havas said sales increased 9.7
percent to 361 million euros.  ZenithOptimedia Group Ltd. , a unit of Publicis, earlier
this month cut its forecast for global ad sales growth in 2011
to 4.2 percent from 4.6 percent, citing the earthquake in  Japan 
and turmoil in the Middle East. Those events will reduce this
year’s global advertising expenditure by about $2.4 billion, the
Publicis unit said.  ‘Risk-Averse Managements’  Sorrell said there is some uncertainty in developed markets
from “risk-averse managements” at companies that prefer to
spend budgets on brand equity rather than expanding capacity. At
the same time, sellers of some  consumer goods  that lack pricing
power may decrease promotional discounts and boost advertising
spending, the CEO said.  Sorrell said WPP will spend about 200 million pounds on
acquisitions this year, including last week’s agreement to
purchase Commarco GmbH in  Germany , for which it didn’t disclose
a price.  “There is a lot going on now, and pricing is aggressive,”
he said. “There is plenty out there to buy in the small- and
medium-sized area.”  WPP is planning to return the company’s tax base back to
the U.K. from Ireland following proposed cuts in Britain’s
corporate tax.  “The board has decided it’s the route to go,” Sorrell
said, adding that the company held a board meeting since tax
changes were proposed in March. “Once the legislation comes
through, we’d probably hold an EGM to pass the resolution to
come back to the U.K.,” he said.  Global advertising spending may get a 1 percent to 2
percent boost in 2012 from events such as the U.S. presidential
elections, the  London  Olympics and the UEFA Euro 2012 Football
Championships, WPP said in the statement.  The company said 2013 could be difficult as governments
“wrestle with the impact of fiscal and monetary stimuli and the
failure to deal quickly enough with fiscal deficits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  