-- 
Xanadu Project in New Jersey Meadowlands Set for Completion by Triple Five

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-04-28T19:31:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/xanadu-project-in-new-jersey-meadowlands-set-for-completion-by-triple-five.html
Triple Five Worldwide Development
Co. LLC, owner of the Mall of America in  Minnesota , reached a
deal with lenders and New Jersey’s governor to complete and
expand the stalled Meadowlands Xanadu entertainment complex.  The developer will increase the project’s size to about 3
million square feet (279,000 square meters) from 2.4 million,
change its much-maligned exterior, and add indoor water and
theme parks to the mix of attractions, said Maureen Bausch, a
spokeswoman for  Triple Five . The complex, which will be renamed
“American Dream | Meadowlands,” is set to open in phases
starting in the fall of 2013, according to the spokeswoman.  “The building will provide opportunity in a lot of ways,”
Bausch said. “It will bring jobs, opportunities for people to
start businesses, and opportunities to visit  New Jersey  with
their families.”  Bausch declined to provide details about Triple Five’s
investment. The New York Times reported today that the company
would pump more than $1 billion into the project and that New
Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  agreed to provide low-interest
financing and allow the developer to use most of the  sales tax 
it collects over a period of time to repay the loan. The state
is offering a financing package of $180 million to $200 million,
according to the newspaper.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  2014  Super Bowl   Earlier owners invested about $2 billion in the project,
which sits about 10 miles west of  Manhattan  in East Rutherford,
New Jersey. The goal is to have the complex open in advance of
the 2014 NFL Super Bowl, which will be played at the New
Meadowlands Stadium, home to the  National Football League ’s New
York Giants and  New York Jets .  Plans for the project include 1.7 million square feet of
shops and restaurants, a Ferris wheel, movie and performing arts
theaters, an indoor ski slope and virtual skydiving.  Jeff Tittel, New Jersey director of the  Sierra Club , an
environmental group, criticized the agreements, saying the
project has already received hundreds of millions of dollars in
state subsidies.  “This bailout is corporate welfare,” Tittel said in a
statement. “At a time when property taxes are rising, police
are being laid off, and government services are being cut out,
New Jersey taxpayers will be subsidizing a shopping mall.”  ‘Ugly’ Exterior  Triple Five plans to change the complex’s checkerboard
exterior, called “ugly” by 79 percent of New Jersey voters
familiar with the project, according to a Quinnipiac University
 poll  released April 22. A backlit mesh overlay may allow the
color of the buildings to change for special occasions, Bausch
said.  The company expects the project to create 8,900
construction jobs and draw 55 million visitors a year, according
to Bausch.  Triple Five signed a letter of intent with a lender group
to take over the development of Xanadu, according to a joint
statement in December. Creditors took control of the project in
August from a group led by  Colony Capital LLC  after delays in
construction.  The complex has been plagued by delays since building began
more than five years ago. Colony, led by billionaire Thomas J. Barrack, took over in 2006 from Mills Corp., the original
developer, after Mills ran out of money.  Work stalled after the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., which had financed the project, left
lenders unable to meet obligations,  Santa Monica , California-
based Colony said in an August statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  