-- 
Tyco Open to Strategic Changes That Boost Value, CEO Says

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-28T20:29:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/tyco-international-profit-climbs-on-higher-sales-at-adt-unit.html
Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) , the
subject of takeover speculation this month, is open to options
that boost long-term value for investors and regularly reviews
its mix of businesses with the board, Chief Executive Officer Ed Breen said.  The company likes its current combination of assets, which
includes flow-control and fire and security, Breen said on a
conference call today. Still, “we always look at all the other
alternatives to see if something makes more sense to create
long-term shareholder value,” he said.  Tyco was identified as a takeover candidate after Bloomberg
reported April 11 that  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  held preliminary
talks about acquiring the Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based
company. Tyco declined to comment on the reports, and Schneider
said April 20 that it has no plans for a large transaction this
year.  Breen, who is also board chairman, didn’t mention Schneider
on the call, which focused on earnings in the fiscal second
quarter through March. A company spokeswoman, Antonella Franzen,
said Tyco wouldn’t address “recent reports speculating about
the possibility of a transaction” involving the company.  Tyco, which climbed 3.6 percent through yesterday after the
Schneider talks were reported, boosted its full-year forecast
today after posting a quarterly profit gain.  ‘Love the Mix’  Profit companywide, excluding some items, will be $3.02 to
$3.07 a share in 2011, compared with a January projection of
$2.93 to $2.98 a share, the company said. Tyco predicted full-
year sales of $16.9 billion to $17 billion and said it would
start a $1 billion share buyback program after repurchasing $500
million in shares in the quarter through March.  “I love the mix of businesses we have,” Breen said. “I
think they all have great dynamics coming over the next five to
10 years. They all play out nicely in emerging markets. We just
have nice growth opportunities coming.”  Sales climbed 12 percent to $2.08 billion at the security
solutions unit and 2.5 percent to $1.11 billion at the fire
protection business. Revenue fell 2.4 percent to $804 million in
flow control, Tyco said.  Executives on the earnings call “left the door open” to
structural changes, C. Stephen Tusa, a New York-based analyst
with JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note.  “They reinforced that they bring everything to the board,
and they are always open to moves that create  shareholder
value ,” said Tusa, who has an “overweight” rating on the
shares. “There is nothing here that changes the view of
potential moves at some stage.”  Brink’s Acquisition  Breen, who pared the company’s portfolio to three stand-
alone units after spinning off electronics and health-care
businesses in 2007, said today he’s proud of that move. The goal
was to create long-term, sustainable value for investors, not
generate an “overnight pop in a stock price,” he said.  Sales and profit in security solutions were helped by last
year’s $2 billion acquisition of Brink’s Home Security, which
added 1.3 million customers.  In December, Tyco completed the sale of a 51 percent
interest in its electrical and metal products business to buyout
firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC. Tyco received $713 million in
cash, the company said in a Jan. 27 statement.  Second-quarter income from continuing operations throughout
the company increased to $319 million, or 67 cents a share, from
$306 million, or 64 cents, a year earlier, Tyco said.  Excluding items such as restructuring and acquisition
costs, Tyco posted profit of 73 cents a share, topping the 68-
cent average estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Sales Decline  Second-quarter revenue, which excluded sales from the
divested majority of the electrical division, fell 2.5 percent
to $3.99 billion. Excluding electrical sales from the year-
earlier period, revenue climbed about 6 percent, the company
said.  Tyco fell 46 cents to $48.41 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 17 percent
this year.  When asked if Tyco’s Switzerland base and lower  tax rate 
would make it difficult to sell a unit such as flow-control in
the future because of tax differences, Breen said it shouldn’t
be an obstacle, while declining to comment on a specific unit.  “There’s always ways to structure things in creative ways
and all that help benefit you,” Breen said. “It’s just like we
did with electrical and metal. We did have some tough cost-basis
issues there, but the way we were able to structure that deal,
we had very little leakage at all” with taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net  or
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  