-- 
Yemen Opposition Says More Bloodshed Jeopardizes Deal on Saleh’s Departure

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-04-28T14:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/yemen-opposition-says-more-bloodshed-jeopardizes-deal-on-saleh-s-departure.html
Yemen’s main opposition movement
said it may pull out of a plan brokered by Gulf Arab states for
President Ali Abdullah Saleh to step down because his forces
haven’t stopped killing protesters.  Saleh is “broadening the public’s rejection of the
initiative” as he seeks to achieve his own agenda and stay in
power, the Joint Meeting Parties, made up of six opposition
groups, said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday.  Yemeni police and armed government supporters opened fire
on protesters in Sana’a yesterday killing at least 12, according
to Idrees al-Qadasi, a physician at the Science and Technology
Hospital. More than 100 people have been killed since protests
began on Feb. 11, according to Majed al-Madhaji, a spokesman at
the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human Rights in Sana’a.  The plan drafted by the Gulf Cooperation Council and due to
be signed in the coming week would protect Saleh from
prosecution provided he steps down within 30 days. Elections
would be held two months later.  The signing ceremony will take place in the Saudi capital,
 Riyadh , on May 2, the official Saudi Press Agency reported
today. GCC Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-Zayyani will visit
Sana’a on April 30 to deliver the invitations to members of the
ruling and opposition parties, SPA said.  The preparatory committee for the national dialogue issued
an emergency plea today calling on the  United Nations  and other
international organizations to take a stand against the “crimes
against humanity” that occurred this week, the group said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The U.S. Embassy in Sana’a called the violence
“disturbing” and urged Yemeni citizens to avoid “all
provocative demonstrations, marches and speeches in the coming
days,” according to a statement on the embassy website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  