-- 
Hyundai Motor First-Quarter Profit Rises 46% on More Expensive, New Models

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-04-28T06:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/hyundai-motor-first-quarter-profit-rises-46-on-more-expensive-new-models.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s
largest carmaker, raised quarterly profit 46 percent as sales
climbed in  China ,  Europe  and the U.S. Buyers in its home market
helped boost profit by purchasing more expensive models.  Net income was 1.88 trillion won ($1.75 billion) in the
three months ended March 31, compared with a revised 1.28
trillion won a year earlier, the Seoul-based company said in a
regulatory filing today. First-quarter sales gained 21 percent
to 18.23 trillion won on a consolidated basis, it said.  Hyundai Motor lifted global sales by about 9 percent last
quarter from a year earlier after adding new models including
the Grandeur premium sedan at home and Accent small car in China
since late 2010. The stock jumped 7.3 percent to the highest
closing price since it began trading in January 1975. The
carmaker may continue to gain sales this year as  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and other Japanese rivals curtail production following a
record earthquake in March.  “Hyundai’s showing strong earnings momentum on new models
and improved quality,” said Lim Jeong Seok, head of equity at
KDB Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $2
billion in assets in Seoul. “I expect the trend will continue
for the next two to three years, leveling up the stock
performance, too.”  Operating profit, or sales minus the costs of goods sold
and administrative expenses, rose 46 percent from a year earlier
to 1.83 trillion won.  Hyundai rose 7.3 percent to 250,500 won at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Seoul, extending a 44 percent gain this year. That
compares with the benchmark Kospi index’s 7.7 percent gain.  Overseas Sales  The maker of the Sonata sedan and Elantra small car sold
922,000 units in the January to March period, 9 percent more
than a year earlier, according to company data.  Sales from overseas factories increased 14 percent, while
sales in the domestic market were little changed. Shipments from
Chinese plants climbed 13 percent and jumped 23 percent at the
U.S. plant, the data showed.  “Hyundai’s charging higher prices to customers backed by
better quality and brand perception,” said Cho Soo Hong, an
analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul . “The
rise in selling price and increased overseas production will
more than compensate the negatives from a strengthening won on
earnings.”  U.S. Demand  The company expects U.S. auto demand this year at 13
million units, compared with a previous forecast for 12.8
million, Chief Financial Officer Lee Won Hee said in a post-
earnings briefing in Seoul today. The carmaker has no plans for
a second plant in the country, he said.  Hyundai’s first-quarter average selling price in the local
market rose 2.5 percent from a year earlier and 14 percent in
overseas markets, Cho at Woori estimated. He rates Hyundai
“buy.”  The won gained 5 percent this year, the best performer
among  Asia ’s 10 most actively traded currencies, excluding the
yen, tracked by Bloomberg. A stronger local currency usually
cuts the repatriated earnings from Hyundai’s exports.  Toyota, which may lose its top spot as the world’s largest
carmaker because of reduced output following the 9-magnitude
quake and tsunami that struck  Japan  on March 11, estimated in
April that it would need until at least November to return
production to pre-quake volumes.  Lost Production  The Japanese carmaker on April 22 estimated it may lose
production of 300,000 autos in Japan and 100,000 at plants
abroad through the end of April because of quake-related
shutdowns.  In contrast, Hyundai and Kia are running their U.S. plants
overtime, unscathed by parts shortages, the companies said
earlier this month.  “Chaos brings disorder and that’s the time you see changes
in ranks among leaders,” said Lim at KDB Asset. “The past
financial crisis and the recent earthquake may be an opportunity
for Hyundai to pass bigger rivals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  