-- 
Zimmer, Stryker May Seek Orthopedic Purchases to Keep Pace After J&J Deal

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-28T20:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/zimmer-stryker-may-seek-purchases-to-keep-pace-with-j-j-deal.html
Johnson & Johnson’s newfound
dominance of the orthopedic-device market, cemented by its $21.3
billion acquisition of  Synthes Inc. (SYST) , may drive rivals  Zimmer
Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  to seek purchases of their own.  The deal announced yesterday boosts  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J’s share of the $5.5 billion market for tools to
treat  bone fractures  and traumatic injuries to 55 percent from 5
percent and doubles its slice of the $9 billion spinal-care
segment to 22 percent, said  Larry Biegelsen , a Wells Fargo & Co.
analyst in New York.  That may pressure Zimmer and Stryker, which mostly build
devices for knee and hip replacements, to bulk up by acquiring
smaller orthopedic companies in faster-growing parts of the
industry, said David Turkaly, a Susquehanna Financial Group
analyst in New York. Likely targets include  ArthroCare Corp. (ARTC) ,
 BioMimetic Therapeutics Inc. (BMTI) ,  Wright Medical Group Inc. (WMGI)  and Mako
Surgical Group Inc., he said.  “What clearly happens is J&J becomes No. 1 in all of
ortho,” Turkaly said in a telephone interview. “The Strykers
and Zimmers of the world are probably now a good distance behind
the animal that J&J is in those markets.”  J&J, the world’s second-biggest seller of medical products
after New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , fell 19 cents to $65.38 at
4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before
today, the stock had climbed 8.5 percent since April 18, when
Synthes disclosed the deal talks. Synthes, based in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , and traded in Switzerland, rose 1.1
percent to 148.2 Swiss francs at the close of Zurich trading.  Cash and Stock  J&J will buy Synthes, the biggest maker of trauma devices,
for a mix of cash and stock, in an acquisition that may close in
the first half of 2012, pending regulatory reviews, the two
companies said.  Orthopedics “is probably the largest opportunity in the
whole medical device area,” J&J Chief Executive Officer William C. Weldon told analysts on a conference call yesterday.  The market will likely grow as  developing countries  expand
their health-care spending while the global population ages and
deals with growing obesity, said Alex Gorsky, vice-chairman of
J&J’s executive committee, in a telephone interview.  There have been 420 announced or completed deals in the
U.S. medical-products industry in the past five years, with an
averaged disclosed size of $258.8 million and an average premium
of 60 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Synthes acquisition would be the biggest since joint-implant
maker Biomet Inc. was bought in 2007 for $11.4 billion by a
private-equity group of Blackstone Group LP, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., KKR & Co and TPG Inc. It would also be the biggest in
J&J’s 125-year history  Smart Acquirer  J&J is generally considered a smart acquirer, said Matt Miksic, an analyst with Piper Jaffray in New York, in a
telephone interview.  “They do good deals, and the idea they’re ready to step up
and pay for an asset and begin consolidating around trauma and
spine may” lead others to follow, Miksic said. “It’s the first
of a number of steps in consolidation we’ll see.”  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , which held its annual  shareholders’
meeting  today, has announced or completed 54 acquisitions in the
past year, including the Synthes purchase, with an average deal
size of $1.15 billion and an average premium of 37 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  The company expects global sales of hip screws, bone grafts
and other trauma tools to grow at about 7 percent a year going
forward, Michael Mahoney, J&J’s worldwide chairman for medical
devices, said on yesterday’s analyst call.  Hips and Knees  That compares with revenue for hip and knee implants -- the
main business for Stryker, Zimmer and J&J’s orthopedics unit --
that’s likely to grow about 1 percent a year going forward, said
 Rick Wise , a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst based in  New York .  Combined, J&J and Synthes accounted for $9.28 billion in
orthopedic sales last year, compared with $4.22 billion for
Warsaw, Indiana-based Zimmer and $7.32 billion for Stryker,
based in Kalamazoo, Michigan.  The Synthes purchase would use only about a quarter of the
$27 billion in cash and short-term investments J&J held as of
March 31. Much of that reserve can’t be spent in the U.S.
without paying corporate income taxes, which may give Johnson &
Johnson incentive for more deals outside the country, Wise said.  Weldon, on yesterday’s call, said he’d be willing to
consider other acquisitions.  “If there’s a great opportunity, we would continue to
assess it,” the CEO said. “We look at everything, and if it
would bring value to our shareholders, we’d definitely consider
it and move forward.”  Smith & Nephew  J&J was involved in unsuccessful takeover talks with
London-based  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ,  Europe ’s biggest maker of
artificial hips and knees, said a person familiar with the plan
who declined to be identified because the negotiations were
private. A spokesman for Smith & Nephew didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment after normal business hours.  Zimmer probably faces more pressure to do a deal than
Stryker, which has a more diversified product line and growing
hip sales, Wise said. Russell Weigandt, a Stryker spokesman,
declined to comment in an e-mail.  Zimmer has “a comprehensive portfolio in trauma with a
number of differentiated and innovative products,” said Garry
Clark, a company spokesman, in an e-mail. “Irrespective of
competitor activities, we expect to remain competitive.”  The implant maker climbed $2.85, or 4.5 percent, to $65.76
in New York trading after earlier announcing first-quarter
earnings that beat analyst estimates. The stock gained 3.4
percent in the 12 months before today. Stryker rose 79 cents, or
1.4 percent, to $59.18.  $2 Billion Market  BioMimetic uses bone-growing proteins to repair skeletal
damage, a market that Turkaly estimated at $2 billion in annual
sales. The Franklin, Tennessee-based company would consider an
acquisition offer if it was in the interest of the company’s
shareholders, said Kearstin Patterson, a spokeswoman, in an e-
mailed response to questions.  “Currently, we are highly focused on product approval and
the potential launch of our lead orthopedic product, Augment
Bone Graft,” she said. “However, we are always looking out for
the best interest of our shareholders and, as such, are required
to consider viable opportunities.”  Nick Lamplough, a spokesman for Arlington, Tennessee-based
Wright Medical, and Yvette Cuello, a spokesman for  Fort
Lauderdale , Florida-based Mako, said their companies would have
no comment. A telephone message left for ArthroCare spokeswoman
Corrine Ervin wasn’t returned.  ArthoCare rose 76 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $35.06 in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading at 4 p.m. New York time.
Wright Medical rose 33 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $16.31.  Mako rose 34 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $27.30 and
BioMimetic fell 1 cent to $13.48.  Synthes has an operating margin of 35 percent, the highest
among medical-products makers with market values of more than $5
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It would be
folded into J&J’s DePuy Orthopaedics unit, already the biggest
seller of artificial hips.  Growth Through Purchases  The industry has tended to grow through acquisitions, said
Turkaly, the Susquehanna analyst.  “With all the larger players in the space seeking new
avenues for growth, along with swelling cash hordes on their
respective balance sheets, we continue to believe the ortho
market is ripe for further consolidation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 