-- ‘Supermax’ Suit on Mentally Ill Will Proceed, Judge Rules
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2013-04-23T22:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/-supermax-suit-on-mentally-ill-will-proceed-judge-rules.html
A judge refused to dismiss a
lawsuit over conditions at the so-called supermax federal prison
in  Colorado , where mentally ill inmates allegedly are held in
inhumane conditions without treatment.  U.S. District Judge Richard Matsch in Denver heard
arguments today over the government’s motion to throw out the
suit, which was filed on behalf of five inmates of the
 administrative maximum , or ADX, prison in Florence, Colorado.  The judge partly agreed with government lawyers who said
the lawsuit lacked specifics related to the five. He called the
allegations “extraordinarily broad.” Instead of throwing out
the case, he ordered lawyers for both sides to meet in his
chambers on May 24 for an “informal conference” to sharpen the
focus of the litigation.  “Are we having people going mad in Florence, Colorado,
because they’re not being treated?” he said, calling that the
heart of the matter.  If the “rather lurid descriptions of what is occurring in
this institution” are accurate, he said, “the need for medical
treatment is obvious.”  The judge frequently interrupted lawyers for both sides
with questions as they presented arguments based on written
filings made before the 45-minute hearing.  “Mentally ill prisoners, including those in the throes of
a psychotic episode, frequently are subjected to barbaric
treatment more suited to the dungeons of medieval  Europe  than to
a modern American prison,” attorneys for the prisoners said in
court papers. “No civilized society treats its mentally ill
citizens with such deliberate indifference to their plight.”  Inmates’ Lawyers  The case was filed by attorneys from the law firm Arnold &
Porter and the Washington Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights
and Urban Affairs, an advocacy group.  “Prisoners spend at least 20 and as many as 24 hours per
day locked alone in isolated cells, and are subject to a harsh
and unforgiving disciplinary regimen,” according to the
complaint. “Such isolation and brutal discipline are
inappropriate for prisoners who are seriously mentally ill.”  The Federal Bureau of Prisons doesn’t follow its own policy
that bars sending men with serious mental illness to ADX, the
lawyers said.  “Many prisoners at ADX interminably wail, scream, and bang
on the walls of their cells,” according to the complaint.
“Suicide attempts are common; many have been successful,”
according to the complaint.  450 Inmates  About 450 inmates are in the facility, part of a prison
complex about 110 miles (177 kilometers) south of Denver  The inmates’ lawyers asked the court to order bi-weekly
access to private psychotherapy, at least five to 10 hours per
week of therapeutic activity outside the cells, and regular
access to prescribed medication.  The government said that the suit doesn’t specify which
persons allegedly mistreated the five prisoners and doesn’t
supply enough information about the ones named as plaintiffs in
the action.  “There are no facts alleged by any of the five plaintiffs
showing a ‘serious harm’ that resulted from the alleged lack of
treatment,” the government said in a filing. “Rather, these
inmates simply allege that they were denied treatment for
unspecified illnesses, with no facts of any resulting harm
alleged.”  The plaintiffs’ lawyers responded that their allegations go
beyond the named inmates to describe “the inhumane and often
brutal conditions” of ADX prison as a whole. The Bureau of
Prisons didn’t deliver any documents requested in almost
60 Freedom of Information Act requests before today, they said.  More than 20 lawyers investigated the prison’s conditions
for 11 months, they said.  The case is Bacote v. Federal Bureau of Prisons, 1:12-cv-
01570, U.S. District Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kass in Denver at  kassj@msn.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 