-- H&T May Recover After Rival Pawnbroker’s Warning: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-04-23T15:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/h-t-may-recover-after-rival-pawnbroker-s-warning-london-mover.html
H&T Group Plc (HAT) , the pawnbroker that
fell the most in 10 months yesterday after rival  Albemarle &
Bond (ABM)  Plc issued a profit warning, should recover as its store
portfolio matures, according to Westhouse Securities.  “H&T’s core pawnbroking operation is continuing to
progress,” Rob Sanders, an analyst at Westhouse who recommends
buying the stock, wrote in a note today. “Our investment case
for H&T is predicated on an increase in profit and cash
generation as its store portfolio matures. The investment case
is still very much intact.”  Albemarle & Bond fell the most since 1995 yesterday after
saying that a fall in profit at its gold-buying unit may
accelerate as gold prices weaken and its pawn loan business
faces more competition with less gold jewellery in circulation.
Full-year earnings will be “materially below current market
expectations,” it said.  H&T declined 0.8 percent today to 265 pence after an
earlier drop of as much as 2.6 percent. The stock fell as much
as 8.2 percent yesterday and closed down 4.6 percent. Albemarle
& Bond’s share price was unchanged today after a plunge of 35
percent yesterday.  “We continue to prefer H&T,”  Andrew Wade , an analyst at
Numis who advises buying H&T and has a “reduce” commendation
on Albemarle & Bond, said in a note. H&T is “a better managed,
more conservatively forecasted business.”  Albemarle & Bond said April 19 after the close of trading
in  London  that “new leadership is needed.” Chief Executive
Officer Barry Stevenson will bring forward his planned
retirement and leave the board, the Berkshire, England-based
company said.  Of five analysts who share data with Bloomberg on H&T, four
advise buying and one rates the stock a hold. Of six analysts
who share data on Albemarle & Bond, two advise selling, two say
buy and two have a hold recommendation.  H&T has opportunities in the “increasing availability of
existing pawnbrokers at realistic valuations,” according to
Westhouse’s Sanders. The fact that H&T didn’t give an update
after an annual meeting last week indicates it’s “comfortable
with the current forecast range” for its earnings, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at  