-- AB Foods First-Half Profit Gains 26% on Primark Strength
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-04-23T07:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/ab-foods-sees-primark-slowdown-after-first-half-profit-gains-26-.html
Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , the
U.K. owner of Twinings tea and Ovaltine malt drink, reported a
26 percent gain in first-half profit, beating some estimates,
driven by the growth of the Primark budget-fashion chain.  Pretax profit rose to 415 million pounds ($633 million) in
the six months ended March 2, the London-based company said
today as it increased the  dividend  by 10 percent to 9.35 pence a
share.  Primark, which sells 1-pound electric-pink sunglasses,
benefited from investment in stores, additional openings and a
European customer base seeking value amid the region’s debt
crisis. Still, its growth may slow as the benefit of lower
cotton prices eases, while profit at the sugar division may
suffer from weaker European output and lower prices in  China .  “The numbers are pretty sparkling,” said  Warren Ackerman ,
an analyst at  Societe Generale  in  London , who has a hold rating
on the stock. “The outlook is the key here and there are some
near-term headwinds” at Primark and in the sugar unit.  AB Foods  rose  as much as 2.8 percent and was up 0.9 percent
to 1,868 pence at 8:30 a.m in London trading. The stock has
climbed 20 percent  this year .  The company said in December that profit would be weighted
toward the first half and today said it continues to operate in
“low-growth” markets.  Primark’s operating profit margins increased because of a
lower cotton price, a weaker  U.S. dollar  and fewer markdowns.
Still, the company expects no further benefit from cotton
prices, with gains in the dollar against the pound and euro seen
hurting profitability of the autumn and winter clothing ranges.  Same-store sales growth in  Spain  was “held back in the
short term” by the number of recent openings, AB Foods said.  In the sugar division, where revenue climbed 10 percent,
the company said the outcome of European Commission discussions
on sugar quotas is expected in the late summer, while recent
tenders have shown some fall in sugar prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  