-- Accor Board Fires CEO Hennequin Over Strategy Differences
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-04-24T16:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/accor-board-fires-ceo-hennequin-over-strategy-differences.html
Accor SA (AC) ,  Europe ’s largest hotel
operator, fired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Denis Hennequin  after he disagreed with the board over the pace of the
company’s expansion plan.  The board unanimously decided to remove Hennequin with
immediate effect during a meeting yesterday that he had
requested, the Paris-based company said today in a statement.
Yann Caillere, who had been president and chief operating
officer, will become CEO, Accor said. Philippe Citerne was
appointed non-executive chairman.  Accor, owner of the Sofitel and Ibis brands, said in
February it will restructure 800 hotels as part of a plan to
scale back the number of properties it owns. The company plans
to open 30,000 rooms a year through 2016 and by that time would
operate 40 percent of its rooms under franchise agreements and
40 percent under management contracts. Accor will own or lease
20 percent of the rooms.  Hennequin had expressed “reservations” about a plan to
speed up the implementation of the strategy before the board
voted to terminate his employment contract with immediate
effect, according to the statement.  Accor was down 49 cents, or 1.9 percent, at 24.92 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Paris, the lowest since Nov.
21. The shares have dropped about 5 percent in the past six
months, reducing the company’s market value to 5.66 billion
euros.  Motel 6  The company  sold  its chain of more than 1,100 Motel 6
hotels in  North America  to  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  for $1.9 billion
last year and used the proceeds to expand in markets such as
 Asia . Some shareholders said Hennequin hadn’t sold properties
quickly enough and was too slow to adapt to rising online
reservations, French newspaper Le Figaro reported yesterday,
without saying where it got the information.  “There could be a scenario of a real estate demerger,”
Exane BNP Paribas analysts including Matthias Desmarais wrote in
a note to clients today. Under that scenario, there would be
“limited incremental value creation compared to the” company’s
existing strategy.  The analysts downgraded Accor to neutral from outperform.
While Credit Suisse AG last week cut its rating to underperform
from outperform, S&P Capital IQ raised the shares to strong buy.  Accor has 450,000 rooms at more than 3,500 hotels in 92
countries, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 