-- Accused Bombers’ Firefight With Police Revives Gun Debate
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-04-23T19:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/accused-bombers-firefight-with-police-revives-gun-debate.html
Boston  bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s
name on a U.S. government travel-watch list should have kept him
from boarding an airplane without some scrutiny, yet he could
 purchase  semi-automatic handguns with none.  Local and federal  law enforcement  officials either don’t
know or aren’t yet saying how Tsarnaev and his brother, accused
of bombing the Boston Marathon, obtained the guns they later
used to kill a university police officer and critically injure a
mass-transit officer. They didn’t apply for  Massachusetts  gun
permits, as required by state law.  “I don’t know where they got the guns; that’s a good
question,” Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican,
told reporters in a briefing yesterday. He also confirmed
Tsarnaev’s status on the Treasury Department’s Enforcement
Communications System, a travel-screening database. Graham said
he was briefed April 21 by the associate director of the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation . “Where did they get the bombs?
Apparently these folks had a small munitions factory,” said
Graham.  The gun issue is re-emerging as Senate Democratic leaders
survey the defeat of last week’s expanded background checks
legislation, which would have imposed the requirement nationally
on individuals purchasing weapons over the Internet and at gun
shows.  Blocked Amendment  An amendment to prevent persons flagged by authorities as
potentially dangerous from purchasing guns was one of a number
of measures that weren’t considered after the bipartisan
proposal on background checks failed to get the necessary 60
votes to avoid a filibuster. The final tally was 54 to 46.  The amendment, sponsored by New Jersey Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a Democrat, would have blocked individuals whose
names appear on a terror watch list -- which is separate from
the broader travel-monitoring list -- from purchasing guns.
Federal law now prohibits the FBI from attempting to block such
a sale.  Current law also allows an individual to purchase as much
as 50 pounds of explosive “black powder” and unlimited amounts
of “smokeless powder” and “black powder substitute” without
a background check. Lautenberg introduced legislation last week
after the bombings to require background checks for any of the
powders. Black powder was used in the Boston bombs.  “It is outrageous that anyone, even a known terrorist, can
walk into a store in America and buy explosives without any
questions asked,” Lautenberg  said  in an April 17 press release.  Transcending Danger  The Violence Policy Center in  Washington  issued a report
today detailing how the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives has long expressed concern over its
limited ability to regulate black and smokeless powder.  In 2004, the ATF sent a letter to Federal Firearms
Licensees who sell such merchandise to “Be Aware for America”
since the powder is generally exempt from federal explosives
laws.  Jim Pasco, executive director of the Fraternal Order of
Police, said the Boston horror on April 15 should remind
lawmakers of the need to address gun laws.  “It transcends just domestic criminals and includes the
new element we’ve been dealing with since 9/11 of international
and domestic terrorism,” Pasco said in an interview.  Pressure-Cooker Regulations  Yet Pasco, who has devoted his career to observing the
politics of  gun control , said he remains skeptical.  “Nothing really surprises me anymore, but what really
frustrates me at this point is the inability of the Congress to
assert its will on anything,” he said. “They’ll go after
pressure cookers before they go after guns.”  In Boston, police and federal law-enforcement officials are
attempting to determine how Tamerlan Tsarnaev and his brother,
Dzhokhar, obtained guns and several rounds of ammunition.  According to the Watertown, Massachusetts, police
department, there were at least two handguns involved in the
April 19 firefight with law enforcement in which Tamerlan
Tsarnaev was killed. The two also had two pipe bombs and two
pressure cooker bombs filled with BBs and other materials,
according to a Boston federal court filing released yesterday
charging Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, with using and conspiring to use
a weapon of mass destruction resulting in death.  David Linsky, a Democratic state representative in the
Massachusetts House, this year filed legislation to strengthen
the state’s gun  restrictions .  Massachusetts Law  “If they’re Massachusetts residents they would need a
license to carry,” said Linsky. “Because we don’t have
national firearm laws, it is very easy to go to another state
and get a firearm. It is also illegal,” to possess that weapon
without a permit in Massachusetts. “We don’t know where they
got their handguns. What we do know is that most guns used in
crimes in Massachusetts originate in other states.”  Firearm dealers, including those at gun shows in
Massachusetts, are  required  to check that a purchaser is
licensed to possess the weapon, according to the Law Center to
Prevent Gun Violence. All firearm owners in Massachusetts must
be licensed through local or state police, and it’s also illegal
to possess magazines of more than 10 rounds capacity unless
manufactured before 1994.  The Tsarnaev brothers’ possession of the firearms puts a
spotlight on a broader weakness in U.S. anti-terrorism laws.  Terrorist Purchases  In 2011, the Government Accountability Office issued a
report finding that from February 2004 through December 2010,
individuals on the terrorist watch list have passed background
checks and purchased guns 1,321 times. On multiple occasions,
terror suspects have even passed background checks and managed
to buy explosives, the report found.  Adam Gadahn, an American-born al-Qaeda spokesman, is shown
in a 2011  video  played by MSNBC Television recommending that
would-be terrorists exploit the U.S. laws and buy guns.  “America is absolutely awash with easily obtainable
firearms. You can go down to a gun show at the local convention
center and come away with a fully automatic assault rifle
without a background check and most likely without having to
show an identification card,” Gadahn says. “So what are you
waiting for?”  There appears to be some bipartisan agreement on the need
to shut down those sales. In 2007, the  Bush administration  asked
Congress to give the FBI the power to block gun and explosives
sales to terror suspects.  NRA Opposition  Advocates for tightening the law say they’ve been
frustrated by Congress’s unwillingness to touch the issue amid
opposition from the  National Rifle Association , the nation’s
biggest gun lobby that claims 4 million members.  In 2007, NRA Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre
criticized the media’s coverage of the Lautenberg proposal in an
article posted on its website.  “There is never a hint about deeply flawed, inaccurate
lists, about the impossibility of ever getting off those lists
or about the abuses by federal bureaucrats who manage the
lists,” he wrote. “If someone is a legitimate threat to
America, they shouldn’t be on the street in the first place,”
he said.  Representative  Peter King , a  New York  Republican who’s
sponsored a measure addressing the issue in every Congress since
2007, is continuing to press the case.  “Right now federal law prohibits nine categories of
dangerous persons from purchasing or possessing firearms.
Remarkably, persons on the terror watch lists are not among
these,” said King in an e-mail. His proposal would have
provided individuals mistakenly on the list an appeals process.  ‘Makes No Sense’  “After September 11th, it makes no sense that the federal
government cannot stop gun sales to suspects on the terrorist
watch list,” said King.  Tamerlan Tsarnaev was placed on the travel-watch list --
which is separate from the terror-suspect roster --  after FBI
officials received a tip from a Russian intelligence service
that said he was a “follower of radical Islam” whose plans to
travel to  Russia  raised fears that he intended to join
“unspecified underground groups,” the FBI  said  on its website.  When the FBI began its 2011 review of Tsarnaev’s
activities, his name was entered into the Treasury’s screening
database, according to two law enforcement officials briefed on
the matter. The addition to the screening system is a routine
occurrence when the FBI reviews individuals, the officials said.
The FBI, which interviewed Tsarnaev, said it found no evidence
of terrorist activity at the time.  Russia Trip  In 2012, Tsarnaev visited his parents in Russia’s North
Caucasus region, a hotbed of Islamist separatist movements, a
trip that may have been missed by the FBI and those monitoring
the travel-watch list because his name was misspelled on airline
records, said Graham. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano today told the Senate Judiciary Committee that the
system did work; it “pinged when he was leaving” the U.S.,
despite the spelling discrepancy. By the time he returned, the
investigation of the Russian tip was done.  Most of the terrorist-related attacks in the U.S. over the
past two decades have involved the use of guns purchased in the
U.S., said Arkadi Gerney, an expert on crime and guns at the
Center for American Progress in Washington.  He cited Major Nidal Hasan’s shooting of 43 people at Fort
Hood in 2009 in which 13 were killed and 30 were wounded. That
same year Abdulhakim Muhammad allegedly attacked a military
recruiting station in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , shooting one to
death and wounding another. In 2007, six terror suspects were
caught training with various firearms and plotting to attack
Fort Dix. Hasan and Muhammad both were under investigation by
the FBI for having links to terrorism.  Graham, in speaking to reporters, warned that smaller-scale
terror attacks such as the Boston bombing are part of the
nation’s future. “There are more days like this coming,” he
said. “The new way of hitting America is to do it inside.”  Even so, Graham, who voted against last week’s gun
legislative package, said he is opposed to limits on the gun
ownership rights of individuals on the terror watch list out of
concern about mistaken identity.  “If you’re on the no-fly list you ought to be able to get
yourself off before you lose your Second Amendment rights,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  