-- Ace Halts Wall Street Guidance as CEO Asks ‘God Why’
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-04-23T13:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/ace-halts-wall-street-guidance-as-ceo-asks-god-why-.html
Ace Ltd. (ACE) , the insurer with
operations in more than 50 nations, said it will halt earnings-
per-share guidance after  Wall Street  questioned the usefulness
of the company’s forecasts.  “After giving considerable thought to this subject,
including a number of discussions with analysts and
shareholders, we’ve decided that we will stop providing explicit
operating EPS and catastrophe-loss guidance after 2013,” Phil Bancroft, chief financial officer of the Zurich-based insurer,
said in a conference call today.  Ace, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Evan Greenberg, joins insurer Travelers Cos. in shying away from
providing forecasts that have proved difficult to make because
of fluctuations in weather and pricing trends. Ian Gutterman of
Adage Capital Management LP told the company in a January
conference call that Ace’s projections created confusion “more
years than not.”  Greenberg welcomed Gutterman’s remark.  “Everyone here is cheering, because we’ve said that to
ourselves,” the CEO said in January. “My god, why are we doing
guidance?”  Bancroft said the company will still provide projections
for results from its  investment portfolio .  “We will continue to evaluate our disclosures as we go
forward,” Bancroft told analysts on today’s call. “We will
remain open and accessible to you if you have questions or need
clarifications.”  Greenberg affirmed the company’s targets for a 15 percent
return on equity and an underwriting profit.  “We have not changed our objective,” he said.  Greg Locraft, the Morgan Stanley analyst who pressed Ace
for more details about its 2013 forecast in January, said today
that he won’t miss the company’s projections.  “Taking away the guidance, beginning next year, I think
it’s going to make our lives a lot easier, just given the nature
of how you all have done it,” he said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  