-- Achillion Says Hepatitis C Drug Subdues Virus in 63% of Patients
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-04-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/achillion-says-hepatitis-c-drug-subdues-virus-in-63-of-patients.html
Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN)  said
an experimental drug against hepatitis C suppressed the virus in
63 percent patients in a study.  Four weeks after completing a 12-week course of treatment
with the medicine, ACH-3102, the liver-damaging virus was
undetectable in the blood of five out of eight patients,  New
Haven , Connecticut-based Achillion said in a statement today.
Two didn’t respond to the drug while on treatment, and in
another the virus returned three weeks after therapy ended.  Achillion said last week it’s started a trial of ACH-3102
in combination with its lead drug, sovaprevir, in as many as 50
patients, and expects to report interim results in the third
quarter. Other drugmakers, including  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ,
are also trying to develop treatments that are faster and safer
than the current standard, and which don’t involve injections.  Achillion “will continue to explore and execute
opportunities to combine our agents with other compounds that
could further shorten the treatment duration or provide
additional flexibility for treatment regimens to broadly cure
HCV,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Kishbauch said in the
statement.  Hepatitis C affects about 150 million people worldwide and
kills more than 350,000 each year, according to the  World Health
Organization . It can cause liver damage and  liver cancer , and
spreads through contaminated blood, often among drug users who
share needles.  The results of the trial were released today before the
annual meeting in Amsterdam of the European Association for the
Study of the Liver.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  