-- Aegean Airlines Faces EU Probe of Olympic Air Bid
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-23T16:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/aegean-airlines-faces-eu-probe-of-olympic-air-bid.html
Aegean Airlines SA (AEGN)  faces an in-
depth probe into its renewed bid to buy Olympic Air and form
 Greece ’s biggest carrier, two years after the EU blocked a
previous attempt over antitrust concerns.  The transaction may lead to price increases and poorer
service on several domestic Greek routes out of  Athens , where
the merged entity would have “a monopoly or an otherwise strong
market position,” the European Commission said in an e-mailed
statement today. It set a new deadline of Sept. 3 to rule on the
deal.  Aegean, based in Athens, said in October it would pay 72
million euros ($93.7 million) for Olympic Air to help the two
unprofitable airlines benefit from cost savings and an extended
network. The Brussels-based commission in 2011 blocked an
attempted merger of the two carriers over concerns they would
form a quasi-monopoly with likely increases in passenger fares
in Greece.  “We have the duty to ensure that Greek passengers and
people visiting Greece can travel at competitive air fares, even
more so during challenging economic times,” Joaquin Almunia,
the EU’s antitrust commissioner, said in an e-mailed statement.  The commission said its latest investigation also showed
that  Cyprus Airways (CAIR)  “may not continue to act as a viable
competitive force on the Greek domestic market in the future.”  Lower Prices  “We are confident that we will convince the EC that the
benefits to the consumers and the economy from the acquisition
are very important,” Roula Saloutsi, a spokeswoman for Aegean,
said in an e-mail.  Aegean in March proposed concessions to the EU to
allay any concerns and win approval for its renewed bid.  “We will keep discussing for appropriate remedies,”
Saloutsi said. The two airlines “together are a mere 28 percent
of the total Greek aviation market and they need the synergies
and the size to be viable and develop within such a crisis,”
she said.  The EU earlier this year blocked  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ’s bid
for Irish rival  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , more than five years after
a previous takeover was also banned on concerns it would end
competition on some routes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  