-- Aer Lingus Seeks to Fly Short-Haul Routes for European Majors
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-04-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/aer-lingus-seeks-to-fly-short-haul-routes-for-european-majors.html
Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , Ireland’s
national carrier, said it’s working on plans to fly short-haul
routes for major European airlines keen to exit unprofitable
services while retaining feeder traffic to their hubs.  Accords with Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. and Nova Airlines
AB of  Sweden  mark the beginning of the contract-flying strategy,
with Aer Lingus pursuing outsourcing work with larger carriers,
Chief Executive Officer Christoph Mueller said. Expanded U.S.
services using  Boeing Co. (BA)  757s are also under review.  Demand for so-called wet-leasing, when both crews and jets
are provided, should increase as companies including  Air France-
KLM Group (AF) ,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and Alitalia SpA seek to pare
expenses while maintaining access to key markets, Mueller said
in an interview. There may be 500 jets flying unprofitable
European routes solely to help fill long-haul planes based at
hubs such as London Heathrow and Amsterdam Schiphol, he said.  “This is one of the markets we want to focus on, whether
under our own brand, a Virgin Atlantic-type of model or simply
as a white-tail,” Mueller said, referring to the industry term
for an unbranded aircraft. The wet-lease model could best be
developed at Heathrow, which lost a neutral feeder carrier with
the takeover last year of BMI by  British Airways (IAG) , he added.  Improved Utilization  Aer Lingus could turn a profit by building up a sequence of
operating slots at airports where most carriers might have only
a few each day, improving aircraft utilization, Mueller said.  At Heathrow, the 23 pairs of take-off and landing positions
that Aer Lingus uses for its own flights mean it could make
better use than other carriers of single slots that might become
free, bundling them with the existing holdings.  Capacity restraints at  Europe ’s busiest airport compel some
carriers to have jets standing idle for three hours rather than
the optimum 25 minutes, according to Mueller. While short-haul
flights away from top hubs are dominated by  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) 
and its low-cost peers, no discount airlines fly to Heathrow.  The purchase of BMI by BA parent IAG SA drove Aer Lingus’s
first foray into charter flying, when the Dublin-based company
was selected by Virgin Atlantic to operate four fully crewed
 Airbus SAS (EAD)  A320 single-aisle planes on domestic U.K. routes.  The service, which replaced Virgin’s code-sharing deal with
BMI, provides Richard Branson’s long-haul specialist with feeder
traffic at Heathrow from Manchester and  Scotland .  Nova, JetBlue  Aer Lingus has also agreed to operate an Airbus A330-200
wide-body from Scandinavia to destinations in the Caribbean on
behalf of Nova’s Novair brand for the next two winters, with an
option for a third. The plane would otherwise have been idle
outside of the summer, when it’s used on trans-Atlantic flights.  In a separate agreement, Aer Lingus this month began a one-
way code-share with  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  to 33 U.S. cities. The
accord could be expanded if Aer Lingus grows its network, David Barger, JetBlue’s chief executive officer, said April 11.  Aer Lingus is considering leasing Boeing  757 s to fly to the
U.S. from Shannon, Ireland, the Clare Herald newspaper reported
March 11. Using the long-range single-aisle model would allow
 year-round operation  of routes currently viable only in the
summer when operated by the carrier’s bigger A330 planes.  Such a deal is “one of a number of business cases
currently under review,” spokesman Declan Kearney in an e-mail.  Aer Lingus will release an interim management statement for
the three months ended March 31 tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  