-- Allowing Knives on Planes? Yes, It’s a Good Idea
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-23T17:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/allowing-knives-on-planes-yes-it-s-a-good-idea.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  announced yesterday that it was delaying a plan
to allow passengers to carry pocketknives, hockey sticks and
 golf clubs  aboard airplanes.  With terrorism prominently in the news -- and opposition
surging from flight attendants and others in the  airline
industry  -- this decision was perhaps inevitable. It’s also
wrongheaded.  To a public that has gone along with relinquishing hand
lotions, bottled water and other seemingly innocuous items, it
may seem absurd that the TSA was even considering allowing
knives on board planes. To the contrary, it was an indication
that, after years of trial and error, the agency was finally
getting smart about security.  The prohibition against small knives is, first of all,
ineffective. As the former administrator of the TSA, Kip Hawley,
has pointed out, a terrorist could assemble a “12-inch razor-
sharp sword” using a soda can, a key, a ruler and some tape. The
current administrator,  John Pistole , has  said  that a passenger
could simply smash a wine bottle that he purchased on board.
Small scissors and screwdrivers have been allowed through U.S.
security since 2005  without incident . Other countries have
allowed pocketknives since 2010.  Yet highly trained TSA screeners still have to devote time
and attention to the  2,000 small knives  they find every day.
Each of these incidents requires two or three minutes to
resolve. That’s no small hindrance. Every additional banned item
that TSA agents must root through your luggage for distracts
them from looking for what really matters -- nonmetallic
explosives, which are a serious and evolving threat that could
bring down a plane.  Some Flaws  The proposed rule change wasn’t flawless. Knives that
extended beyond 2.36 inches could still have been confiscated.
Why a 2.37-inch blade would pose an enhanced danger remains
obscure to us, and making this distinction would seem to
undercut any timesaving advantage. As Hawley has  argued , battle
axes and machetes should also be approved under a logical
system. “Bring anything you want that is pointy and sharp,” he
told  CNN , “because while you may be able to commit an act of
violence, you will not be able to take over the plane.”  That may sound counterintuitive, but it’s an important
point to understand: The TSA’s job isn’t to make sure that
nothing bad ever happens on an airplane. Its job is to make sure
that no one blows up a plane or intentionally crashes one into a
building again.  You will probably hear people -- many of them in Congress -
- point out that the Sept. 11 hijackers used box cutters to gain
control of the planes they brought down. This  may be  true. But
three things have since changed. Cockpit doors are now locked
and reinforced. The Federal Air Marshal Service has been
substantially expanded. And the flying public now knows to
disarm potential hijackers -- as it did with the terrorists
aboard United Flight 93 on Sept. 11, with the “shoe bomber”
 Richard Reid  in 2001, and with the “underwear bomber” Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab in 2009.  The next terrorist who attempts to strike an American
airliner won’t be fooling around with knives and box cutters,
because they won’t work. He’ll use weapons that you probably
haven’t thought of. In response, the TSA shouldn’t endlessly try
to update a list of banned items -- it should focus on
identifying dangerous people instead. That means prioritizing
threats, sharpening intelligence, improving behavioral-profiling
techniques and managing risks.  Ending the knife ban would have been -- and still can be --
a step in the right direction.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 