-- America’s 99-Year War Against Terrorist Bombers
-- B y   T h a i   J o n e s
-- 2013-04-23T15:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/america-s-99-year-war-against-terrorist-bombers.html
On Independence Day 1914, New York
experienced a powerful dynamite explosion that killed four
people and injured dozens.  As police investigated the scene -- a tenement house on
Lexington Avenue in East Harlem -- they discovered the bodies of
three notorious anarchists. Further searches unearthed bomb
fragments, radical literature and evidence of a plot to
assassinate  John D. Rockefeller . The device had detonated
prematurely, instantly killing its creators.  Last week, the U.S. was horrified and captivated by another
terrorist attack. A longer perspective on terrorism and
counterterrorism in U.S. history reveals clear patterns that --
especially at times, like these, of high emotion -- are worth
recalling.  Violence against civilians (or assassination attempts on
leading figures) has inevitably led to increased repression,
security and  surveillance . The reaction is understandable, but
the laws and institutions that arose from previous episodes were
far more effective at stifling free speech, chilling dissent and
breeding distrust than they were at preventing future attacks.
No regulation has consistently stopped determined terrorists.  Anarchists’ Campaign  The first age of terror lasted from about 1886 to 1920 and
was defined by a campaign against radical anarchists who
believed that violent means could bring about an economic and
social revolution. Today’s “If You See Something, Say Something”
society has its origins in this largely forgotten past.  The initial wave of terrorism was largely carried out by
European immigrants: Italians, Germans and Russians. In 1886, an
unknown anarchist killed seven policemen with a homemade grenade
in  Chicago ’s  Haymarket Square . In the ensuing hysteria, four
radicals were hanged (a fifth committed suicide in prison),
despite a lack of evidence connecting them directly to the
crime. Yet the reprisals did nothing to slow the campaign of
violence.  In subsequent years, a series of attacks, near-attacks and
threatened conspiracies justified an unprecedented set of
governmental security measures, as fear of anarchists often
blurred with prejudice against immigrants and black Americans.  The very aspects of U.S. society that made it a beacon to
the peoples of the world came to be seen as grave disadvantages.
When an Italian immigrant living in  New Jersey  traveled home to
assassinate the Italian king, U.S. law-enforcement officers
bemoaned the lack of a centralized national police force,
similar to the Italian Carabinieri, the French Surete or
Scotland Yard’s Special Branch. It’s worth noting that terrorist
violence remained endemic in  Europe  despite the labyrinthine spy
networks.  Fears about domestic terrorism reached new heights in 1901
when President William McKinley was assassinated by an anarchist
in Buffalo, New York. In response, Congress enacted a sweeping
immigration law known as the  Anarchist Exclusion Act of 1903 .
The legislation was the first to cite ideological justifications
as a valid reason to bar foreigners from entering the U.S. It
was largely ineffectual because most anarchists in the U.S.
hadn’t arrived as radicals, but had become politicized by
conditions in American factories.  Less than one month after the July 4, 1914, explosion on
Lexington Avenue, the New York Police Department announced the
creation of a new secret service, the  Anarchist and Bomb Squad ,
its first permanent counterterrorism task force. The unit’s
officers employed the most modern techniques, as well as
elaborate disguises and subterfuges. Even so, the most
devastating bombing campaign in the city’s history occurred in
the squad’s first years. Explosives detonated in city churches
and courthouses across the boroughs. No one was ever arrested
for those attacks.  Security Apparatus  When the U.S. entered World War I, in April 1917,
counterterrorism and antiradicalism efforts spread far beyond
New York. The Military Intelligence Division, the Secret
Service, the  Justice Department ’s Bureau of Investigation (later
to become the  FBI ), and vigilante volunteers harassed
anarchists, socialists, Germans or anyone else who failed to
support the war effort.  These steps impinged on free speech, devastated labor
unions and destroyed the Socialist Party, but they didn’t curb
terrorism. The most brazen campaign of bombings occurred in 1919
and 1920. Mail bombs sent to dozens of prominent politicians and
capitalists were intercepted by alert postal workers. But in
June 1919, powerful bombs detonated in seven cities, including
 Washington , where the home of U.S. Attorney General A. Mitchell
Palmer was damaged.  In response, hundreds of the most notorious anarchists and
communists were deported to the newly founded  Soviet Union . In
late  1919 and early 1920, the attorney general and his young
protege, J. Edgar Hoover, authorized a series of mass arrests --
known as the Palmer Raids -- which stand as one of the most
repressive government actions in U.S. history.  It was also ineffective. On Sept. 16, 1920, dynamite
detonated near the Wall Street headquarters of  J.P. Morgan. (JPM)  It
was lunch hour and the street was packed. Almost 40 people were
killed and 400 were injured.  It was the deadliest terrorist strike attack on U.S. soil
until the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Despite a huge manhunt, the
identities of the perpetrators were never discovered.  In the years after World War I, there was a growing
acknowledgement that the government had gone too far.
Organizations such as the  American Civil Liberties Union  were
founded to curb infringements on free speech and the right to
dissent. Their work created a new understanding of the
importance of constitutional rights and the idea that more
freedom, not less, is the best guarantee of security.  ( Thai Jones  is an assistant professor of history at Bard
College’s Master of Arts in Teaching Program. His most recent
book is “More Powerful Than Dynamite: Radicals, Plutocrats,
Progressives, and  New York ’s Year of Anarchy.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Thai Jones at  tjones@bard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  