-- Asia Banks Offer Bond Perks as Returns Dwindle: Credit Markets
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-23T02:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/asia-banks-offer-bond-perks-as-returns-dwindle-credit-markets.html
Borrowers in  Asia  have stepped up
the use of rebates to get wealthy individual investors to buy
their dollar-denominated bonds, underscoring weakness in the
market as returns dwindle to an 18-month low.  At least 24 percent of the deals in the region last quarter
provided a monetary incentive for private banks whose clients
bought the offerings, more than double the same period of 2011,
according to FIL Ltd., a global  fund manager  known as Fidelity
Worldwide Investment that oversees $248.2 billion.  While the
practice is legal, it’s only common in Asia, lawyers say.  The sweeteners helped push dollar offerings in the region
to a record $44.9 billion last quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, even as returns slowed to about 1
percent, the least since the three months ended September 2011
as measured by Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Citigroup
Inc. and Barclays Plc predict demand will continue to wane.  “It is not clear that the private bank bid for credit will
be as strong as over the last few years,” said Krishna Hegde,
the Singapore-based head of Asia credit research at Barclays.
“Given the way equity markets and other alternate asset classes
have performed and the fact that credit returns have been anemic
at best this year, it makes the credit market less attractive.”  Tight Spreads  Global  stocks  jumped 7.2 percent in the first quarter,
drawing investors away from fixed-income securities. Yield
premiums on corporate dollar bonds from Asia rose to 336 basis
points more than Treasuries on April 19, from a 20-month low of
303 in January, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  “Spreads have become too tight,” said Debashish Duttagupta, Citigroup’s former Asia-Pacific head of investments,
who now runs Citi Private Bank’s global Indian business and who
predicts a slowdown in bond investments by private banks. “The
whole market is not cheap and we have to be more picky on the
deals.”  Billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  sold
53 percent of its $800 million offering to private banks,
according to a company statement on Jan. 29. The Mumbai-based
issuer offered a 50 cent discount to private banks per $100 of
bonds purchased, said a person with knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified without authorization to speak
publicly.  Deal Momentum  Singapore-based  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  sold $400 million of 10-
year bonds in September in part by offering a 25-cent rebate to
private banks for every $100 of bonds they bought, said Arthur Lang, the group chief financial officer at  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest property developer.  The rebate “does raise the cost but you can make the
argument that because of the momentum it brings down pricing
overall,” said Lang, adding that private banks bid for as much
as $2.8 billion of the securities. “It has to be done in a
yield-hungry environment.”  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  sold $3.65
billion of fixed- and floating-rate bonds in four parts.
JPMorgan is marketing $500 million of commercial-mortgage bonds.
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the world’s largest publicly traded
commodities supplier, set the terms for a refinancing of  almost
$13 billion  of loans.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.01 basis point to 13.75 basis points.
The gauge widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
 government securities  and narrows when they favor assets such as
corporate bonds.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting corporate debt from default in the
U.S. declined for a second day, with the Markit CDX North
American Investment Grade index, which investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreasing
1.7 basis points to a mid-price of 82 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure has declined from 92.5
on March 27, the highest level this year.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings decreased 2.6 to 110.8. In the
Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40
investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  declined 1 basis point
to 112.5 as of 8:42 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Hotel Loans  Bonds of New York-based Morgan Stanley were the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers yesterday, accounting for 7.6 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The offering from the owner of the world’s largest
brokerage included five-year notes split between a $2.5 billion,
2.125 percent portion yielding 145 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and a $700 million floating-rate
piece yielding 128 basis points more than the three-month London
interbank offered rate, Bloomberg data show. The remaining
portions were add-ons to existing debt due February 2016.  JPMorgan plans to issue securities linked to 82 properties
spanning the U.S. from  California  to  Kentucky , said a person
familiar with the offering who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t public. Hotel loans account for 64.2
percent of the deal, the person said.  Loans Rise  Issuance of bonds tied to commercial real estate in April
is poised to surpass the $8.3 billion sold in January, which
marked the highest monthly volume since December 2007, debt
analysts at New York-based JPMorgan said in a report last week.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
added 0.01 cent to 98.46 cents on the dollar. The measure, which
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans, reached 98.48 on April 15, the highest since July 2007.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P.  Glencore’s proposed deal consists of one-, three- and five-
year portions all paying initial interest margins of less than
100 basis points more than Libor, three people with knowledge of
the matter said. The company has invited 34 banks to participate
in the deal, asking each to provide $500 million, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the terms are
private.  ‘Asian Phenomenon’  In  emerging markets , relative yields tightened 1 basis
point to 295 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
index. The measure has averaged 280 basis points this year.  Private banks bought 76 percent of Hong Kong-based  Agile
Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) ’s $700 million perpetual debt offering in
January, according to people familiar with the deal who declined
to be identified because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  The notes were quoted at 94.2 cents on the dollar on April
19, down from an issue price of par, Bloomberg prices show.  “Private bank rebates that are retained by the bank are an
Asian phenomenon and are not common in the U.S. and  Europe ,”
said  Matthew Sheridan , the Singapore-based co-head of
international corporate finance in Asia at Sidley Austin LLP.  The sweeteners are disclosed to clients most of the time, a
change from a year ago, he said.  Leveraged Borrowing  Recent deals may indicate that demand from private banks
and their clients is drying up after Asia’s dollar bonds
returned 15 percent last year, the second-highest gains in the
past decade, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  Private banks scooped up just 12 percent of Texhong Textile
Group Ltd.’s $200 million offering of 6.5 percent notes on April
11, according to a person familiar with the matter. Borrowers
from Asia outside of Japan have $574 billion of dollar
securities outstanding, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Many Asian clients of private banks used leverage including
borrowing against their houses to boost purchases to as much as
20 percent of the region’s U.S. currency debt market, according
to Barclays. With yields near record lows, they risk having to
meet margin calls as borrowing costs rise.  “The leverage aspect does bring back thoughts of what
happened in 2007, 2008,” said Bryan Collins, a Hong Kong-based
fixed-income portfolio manager at Fidelity. “In particular
where we had a lot of leverage participation admittedly from the
hedge fund community that unwound and caused a lot of
problems.”  Cosco Pacific  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Asian Dollar Corporate
Index slumped 14 percent in 2008, its worst year in data going
back to 1997, amid the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  Bonds flagged by a Barclays report last month as being more
vulnerable to a sell-off include Cosco Pacific Ltd.’s $300
million of 4.375 percent notes due January 2023, the $350
million of 6.375 percent bonds maturing in September 2017 sold
by Sun Hung Kai & Co. and  Soho China Ltd. (410) ’s  securities  in the
U.S. currency.  Private banks are doing their due diligence, and the
incentives don’t influence their purchases, said Citigroup’s
Duttagupta. Citigroup is the biggest private bank in the Asia-
Pacific region by assets, according to a Private Banker
International survey in October, with UBS AG ranked second.  “When we seek approval on whether to distribute a new
issue our discussions are driven by the ratings and structure of
the issue,” Duttagupta said. “Rebates are not even discussed.
We always disclose commission and rebates to our clients. We are
distributors, not investors.”  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc is being “very selective”
with investments in Asian dollar bonds because private bank
buyers are overpaying based on past returns rather than future
prospects, according to  Anthony Michael , head of Asia-Pacific
fixed income at the firm, which manages $322 billion globally.  “There’s a lot of rear-vision investment going on,”
Michael said in an interview in Sydney this month. “We don’t
see a lot of value left in large parts of the high-yield market
in Asia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  