-- Lasry to Remain at Avenue After Ambassador Speculation
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-04-23T21:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/lasry-to-remain-at-avenue-after-ambassador-speculation.html
Marc Lasry , who was reported to be
in the running for the role of U.S. ambassador to France, told
clients he will stay as co-head of Avenue Capital Group LLC.  “I am very grateful to have been considered, but I would
like to put the speculation to rest and let you know that I will
be remaining at Avenue,” Lasry, whose firm oversees $11.5
billion, said in a letter to clients today.  Lasry last month appointed Richard Furst as chief
investment officer of New York-based Avenue. Former President
 Bill Clinton  had told guests at a fundraising event that Lasry
will be nominated by President  Barack Obama  to be ambassador to
France, the Wall Street Journal’s Washington Wire reported March
14, citing an unidentified person who was in attendance.  Lasry, who is chairman and chief executive officer of
Avenue, founded the firm together with his sister,  Sonia
Gardner , 18 years ago. News that Lasry will continue at Avenue
was reported earlier today by CNBC.  Lasry is staying in part because investors may not have
granted him a waiver of the so-called key-man clause, which
allows them to pull their money if a key executive leaves,
according to a person familiar with the firm, who asked not to
be named because the information is private.  Lasry, who emigrated to the U.S. from  Morocco  when he was 7
years old and whose mother taught French at a private school,
gave a maximum of $30,800 in 2011 to support Obama’s re-election
campaign. He is close to Bill and  Hillary Clinton , and employed
their daughter, Chelsea, as an analyst from 2006 to 2008.  Last year, Lasry was part of a group of Wall Street
executives who gathered at the White House as the administration
sought to build support for a deal to avert the so-called fiscal
cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  