-- Massachusetts Democrats Clash on Security in Primary Race
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-04-23T03:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/massachusetts-democrats-clash-on-security-in-primary-race.html
A week after deadly bombings in
 Boston , the two  Massachusetts  Democrats vying for an open  U.S.
Senate  clashed on homeland security issues during a televised
debate.  U.S. Representative Stephen F. Lynch, lagging in campaign
cash and public polls, criticized House colleague Ed Markey for
a 2002 vote in Congress against creating a joint task force
allowing collaboration among law enforcement agencies -- an
element Lynch argued was central to authorities’ apprehension of
the surviving suspect in last week’s Boston attacks.  “If all those federal, state and local agencies could not
work together, we would not have had the effective response we
had,” said Lynch, 58, of South Boston. “I don’t know how
you’re going to spin this; I voted yes, you voted no.”  Markey, 66, of Malden, defended his homeland security
record, saying he was the architect of legislation enacted in
the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the
U.S. that beefed up security on cargo as well as nuclear power
and chemical plants.  “I was successful in putting those laws on the books that
protect us today,” Markey said. He added that he supports the
existence of the Joint Interagency Homeland Security  Task Force .
“If I did vote no, the reason I voted no is that they were
excluding a provision that would have made the bill even
stronger.”  Sharpest Exchange  It was the sharpest exchange in the hour-long debate last
night co-sponsored by WBZ, Boston’s CBS TV affiliate, and the
Boston Globe. Other issues touched upon included  health care ,
abortion rights and the two candidates’ disparate approaches to
politics.  Lynch, a former ironworker from a working-class area of
Boston first elected to his seat in 2001, portrayed himself as
an independent voice for ordinary people, unconcerned about
appealing to the Democratic political establishment.  “Ed has been on the side of big business,” Lynch said,
citing Markey’s backing of the  North American Free Trade
Agreemen t -- a 1994 trade deal with Canada and  Mexico  -- and the
2008 financial bailout that prevented some major  bank failures .  “Ed is a policy guy; I’m a people guy,” Lynch said.  Markey said he was “proud” to have his name on important
laws including the 1996 Telecommunications Act, which aimed to
open up markets through lessening regulations, and to have stood
with other Democratic leaders in supporting the financial rescue
package to ensure “that our entire economy did not collapse.”  Those he sided with, Markey said, included President  Barack Obama , former Senator  John Kerry , whose seat they are seeking,
and former Representative  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts, who
didn’t run for re-election last year after 16 House terms.  Aquarium Needed  In a moment of frustration at Lynch’s offensive posture
throughout the debate, Markey said of his rival: “Steve is
putting so many red herrings out here, we’re going to have to
put an aquarium right here in the middle of the studio.”  The tenor was a departure from an otherwise low-key
campaign and came after Markey and Lynch both suspended their
campaigns following the explosion April 15 of a pair of bombs
near the Boston Marathon finish line. The blasts killed three
and injured more than 200, effectively freezing the Senate race
for the nomination to succeed Kerry, the 2004 Democratic
presidential nominee who resigned Jan. 29 to become U.S.
Secretary of State.  Turnout Focus  Markey and Lynch used the debate to speak to their core
constituencies as the April 30 primary approaches.  “Markey needs to turn out liberal Democratic activists,
and Lynch is hoping that he gets conservative Democrats,
independents, and maybe even some Republicans who say, ‘None of
my guys has a chance,’” as well as labor union members, said
Boston-based Democratic strategist Mary Anne Marsh, who isn’t
affiliated with either campaign.  The two are to meet again tonight for a debate in
Springfield, originally scheduled for April 17 and postponed
because of the bombings.  Lynch is pushing for an upset of Markey, a better-financed
and better-known opponent who has led in public opinion polls
and received high-profile endorsements, including from the
Globe.  Markey held a 10-percentage point advantage over Lynch
among prospective voters in the Democratic primary, 44 percent
to 34 percent, in a Western New England University  poll 
conducted April 11-18 with MassLive.com, the Springfield
Republican newspaper and CBS TV affiliate WSHM. The survey’s
margin of error was plus-or-minus six points.  Campaign Funds  Markey had $4.6 million in cash on hand after spending $3.2
million on his campaign in the first four months of the year.
Lynch had about $514,000 left after spending $1.8 million,
according to filings submitted yesterday to the  Federal Election
Commission .  The campaign is the third for a Massachusetts Senate seat
since the 2009 death of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Democrat
who had held his seat since 1862. A 2010 special election was
won by Republican  Scott Brown . He then lost a bid for a full
term to Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  last November.  Republicans seeking Kerry’s seat include former U.S.
Attorney for Massachusetts Michael Sullivan, 58, state
Representative Dan Winslow, 54, and Gabriel Gomez, 47, a former
Navy SEAL and private-equity investor who ran in last week’s
marathon.  Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans 3-to-1 in
Massachusetts, while more than half of those on the voting rolls
-- 52 percent -- are unaffiliated and can cast ballots in either
party’s primary.  The importance of who turns out was underscored in the
Western New England University poll. While Markey led by 20
points among registered Democrats, Lynch ran ahead among
unaffiliated voters by 6 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  