-- AT&T Plummets as Sales Miss Estimates on Verizon Competition
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-04-24T20:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/at-t-s-sales-miss-estimates-amid-decline-in-landline-business.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone
company, had its biggest one-day drop in four years as first-
quarter revenue missed analysts’ estimates, dragged down by
sluggish landline sales and competition with  Verizon Wireless .  AT&T  slid  5 percent to $37.04 at the close in  New York , the
biggest decline since February 2009. The stock has climbed 9.9
percent this year, compared with an 15 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  AT&T’s landline revenue slid 1.8 percent to $14.7 billion,
hurt by sluggish demand for traditional phone connections --
especially among business customers. While the company’s
wireless  division  attracted more subscribers than expected last
quarter, its growth was still dwarfed by that of Verizon. AT&T
added 296,000 contract customers in the period, compared with
Verizon’s 677,000.  “AT&T is still in catch-up mode relative to Verizon, and
the customer gains show it,” said  Roger Entner , an analyst with
Recon Analytics LLC in Dedham,  Massachusetts .  Sales dropped 1.5 percent to $31.4 billion, Dallas-based
AT&T said yesterday in a statement. Analysts had projected $31.7
billion on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Earnings climbed to 64 cents a share, excluding some items,
matching the average estimate.  Mixed Blessing  AT&T sold 4.8 million iPhones last quarter, a mixed
blessing for the carrier because of the resulting subsidy
payments. Like most major U.S. carriers, AT&T offers steep
discounts on the iPhone and other smartphones in exchange for a
two-year contract. That may have made it more difficult for the
company to exceed analysts’ profit estimates last quarter.  “Smartphones are expensive and subsidies are high,” said
 Todd Rethemeier , an analyst with Hudson Square Research in New
York. He has a hold rating on the shares. “You want to see that
the payoff of higher-spending customers is happening.”  The subscriber gains were fueled by tablets, as the company
actually lost high-paying phone customers in the first quarter,
John Hodulik, an analyst with UBS AG in New York, wrote in a
research note.  “This trend is likely to accelerate in the second quarter,
now that T-Mobile has the iPhone,” said the analyst, who has a
hold rating on AT&T. T-Mobile USA Inc. this month became the
last of the major U.S. carriers to start selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
device.  Payoff Needed  AT&T did see a rise in its average revenue per user, or
ARPU, for wireless customers -- a sign that smartphone owners
are paying more for wireless data. The ARPU for data use among
monthly wireless subscribers increased 18 percent, AT&T said.
Total subscriber ARPU, which includes high-margin but lower-
revenue-generating tablets, rose 0.9 percent from a year ago.  The company’s wireless service margin, which leaves out
items such as interest and taxes, was 43.2 percent, slightly
above the 42.5 percent estimate. The company also added 365,000
tablet subscribers, up from 240,000  a year earlier .  In an effort to catch up to Verizon, the largest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier, AT&T is upgrading its network to a
technology called long-term evolution, or LTE. That effort is
going well, AT&T Chief Financial Officer John Stephens said
yesterday. The company is far enough along that it can cut
 capital spending  in 2014 and 2015 to about $20 billion a year,
from the $22 billion that was originally planned.  “By year-end, we will be nearly 90 percent complete with
our LTE build-out,” Stephens said in an interview.  AT&T’s landline business had more success with consumers
than business customers last quarter, the company said. It added
731,000 subscribers to its U-verse  Internet service , marking
AT&T’s biggest single quarterly gain. An additional 232,000 U-
verse TV subscribers signed up for the service, exceeding the
200,000 projected by  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at  Wells
Fargo & Co . in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  