-- Aussie, Kiwi Fall as China Factory Data Fuel Slowdown Concerns
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-04-23T07:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/aussie-holds-loss-amid-china-growth-concerns-before-factory-data.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars fell against most of their major counterparts after a
report signaled manufacturing slowed more than estimated in
 China , the biggest trading partner of both nations.  The so-called Aussie slid for a third day against the  U.S.
dollar  after the data added to signs the global economic
recovery is struggling, reducing the appeal of riskier assets.
Australian and New Zealand government bond yields touched their
lowest levels this year.  “We’re not seeing a sustained period of recovery in the
China data, which is a bit of a concern,” said David Forrester,
a senior vice president for Group of 10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  Singapore . “It’s a
reflection of weaker global growth, and it’s not good news for
the Aussie or the kiwi.”  The Australian dollar slid 0.3 percent to $1.0242 at 5:19
p.m. in Sydney after touching $1.0221, the lowest since March
11. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar dropped 0.5 percent to 83.86 U.S.
cents after reaching 83.64 cents, the weakest since April 4.  The HSBC Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index for China
slipped to 50.5 this month from 51.6 in March. Economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predicted 51.5. Readings above 50 signal
expansion.  Data on April 15 showed  China’s economy  slowed in the first
quarter.  Gross domestic product  expanded 7.7 percent, compared
to 7.9 percent growth in the three months to December.
Economists projected 8 percent growth in a Bloomberg poll.  Rate Expectations  “The fact that we keep seeing Chinese data print to the
weaker side of expectations is keeping the market fairly
comfortable pricing in further RBA easing,” said  Michael Turner , a Sydney-based fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada. “More broadly, you’ve got to suspect with expanding
global central bank balance sheets that global yields are
staying low, and Aussie is being sucked down toward the rest.”  Australia’s 10-year government bond  yield  touched 3.13
percent, the lowest since Dec. 11. New Zealand’s 10-year yield
fell to 3.22 percent, the least since a record low on July 26.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see an 83 percent chance Australia’s  Reserve Bank  will cut the
benchmark rate from 3 percent by its September meeting. That
compares to 52 percent odds a month ago.  ‘Weak Inflation’  Australian consumer price  inflation  probably rose 0.7
percent in the first three months of this year compared to the
quarter before, according to the median of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg before the data are released tomorrow.  “A weak inflation figure gives them room to cut again if
they have to,” said  Spiros Papadopoulos , a senior economist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “But to see that cut
we really need to see some weakness in activity.”  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  decides monetary policy
tomorrow. All economists surveyed by Bloomberg  forecast  the
benchmark rate will stay at 2.5 percent.  RBNZ Governor Graeme Wheeler said March 14 that the
country’s “overvalued” currency is weighing on the economy and
that he expects to hold the key rate at a record-low 2.5 percent
through the end of the year.  The RBNZ may “invoke language associated with  exchange
rate  intervention, such as labeling the kiwi ‘unjustified’ and
‘exceptional’,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist in
Sydney at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , wrote in a research note today.  Best Performer  The New Zealand dollar has strengthened 5.7 percent over
the past six months, the most among 10 developed market
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes. The Australian dollar has gained 1.7 percent.  “Ultimately New Zealand policy makers know they have to
focus on domestic issues rather than the exchange rate which is
historically rather volatile,”  Axel Merk , president and chief
investment officer of Merk Investments LLC in Palo Alto,
California, wrote in an e-mail.  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, is
shunning the kiwi dollar, saying it’s become too expensive and
remains vulnerable to a slowdown in China.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  refrained from
criticizing China’s exchange rate in an interview yesterday.
Asked whether the  yuan  was overvalued, she said “I won’t be
specifying what level any one currency should be at, but
philosophically, we do look for freer-trading currencies.”  Gillard added her voice to global endorsements of Japan’s
stimulus efforts. “The Japanese economy certainly does need to
take steps to pursue growth, so we are pleased that the new
prime minister seems very focused on getting growth,” she said.  The Australian dollar fell 0.8 percent to 101.19 yen, while
New Zealand’s currency dropped 0.9 percent to 82.84 yen. In the
past six months, the Aussie has risen 23 percent against the yen
while the kiwi has gained 28 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  