-- Australia Turns to Auctions as Housing Revives: Mortgages
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-04-24T07:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/australia-turns-to-auctions-as-housing-revives-mortgages.html
Australians selling properties are
increasingly turning to auctions as  interest rates  matching the
lowest in 50 years fuel demand for homes in the country’s
largest cities.  In Sydney, the most-populous city, almost two-thirds of
homes offered at a public sale found buyers in February and
March, the highest level since April 2010, according to data
from researcher  Australian Property Monitors . In  Melbourne , the
second-biggest city and largest market for auctions, the
proportion rose to 68 percent in February, the highest since May
2010, the figures show.  Unlike in the U.S., where auctions are frequently used to
dispose of distressed properties, home sellers in  Australia  are
more likely to try them when the market is strengthening and
there’s the prospect of higher prices, a probability that’s
growing after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut rates to a half-
century low. A private index of housing market sentiment surged
in the first quarter to the highest level since 2010.  “There’s now an emerging sense of urgency, that the market
is on the rise,” Angus Raine, chief executive officer of  Raine
& Horne , a Sydney-based residential, commercial and rural
property broker founded in 1883, said in a telephone interview.  The rate of successful auctions has continued to climb this
month, particularly in Sydney. More than  three-quarters  of homes
that went to auction in the city last weekend sold successfully,
while in  Melbourne , the proportion is at 65 percent, APM figures
show, after dipping to 64 percent in March.  Falling Rates  Australia and  Canada , both resource-dependent nations, have
increased  interest rates  after the global financial crisis that
started in 2008, driving demand for their currencies as
commodities prices gain. The  International Monetary Fund  said in
November the high number of central banks buying the two
currencies indicates they should be added to a category of
reserve assets that includes the  U.S. dollar  and Japanese yen.  While the Australian central bank cut rates six times since
November 2011, Canadian policy makers have left borrowing costs
unchanged for more than two years.  Policies in both nations are also making entry into the
housing market more difficult for first-time buyers. Australian
states have shifted incentives away from first-home purchasers
to buyers of new homes, and in Canada, with a population about
50 percent bigger than Australia, tighter mortgage rules priced
out many first-time buyers over the past two years.  Two-Speed Economy  Glenn Stevens , governor of Australia’s central bank, is
trying to rebalance a two-speed economy, where mining regions in
the north and west thrive while manufacturers, builders and
retailers in the south and east struggle.  Australia’s  standard variable home-loan rates  have fallen
to a three-year low of 6.45 percent, while  three-year fixed-
mortgage rates  are at 5.45 percent, the lowest level since the
central bank began collecting data on fixed rates in 1990.  Core consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in the first quarter
of 2013 from the prior three months, government data today
showed, the slowest pace in 14 years and less than economists’
forecast for a 0.5 percent gain. Traders are pricing in a 51
percent chance that the RBA will cut rates to a record-low 2.75
percent at its May 7 meeting, up from 40 percent seen yesterday,
according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  The economy in  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner,
grew 7.7 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
missing analysts’ expectations and capping the longest streak of
expansion below 8 percent in at least 20 years.  Rising Expectations  A National Australia Bank Ltd. housing market survey of
real estate professionals, developers and investors found that
in the quarter ended March 31, respondents on average expected
price growth of 3.6 percent in the next two years, compared with
a forecast of 2.1 percent in the previous three months.  David Buttel, managing director at the  Raine & Horne
franchise in Neutral Bay , an affluent suburb on the lower north
shore of Sydney Harbour, auctioned a four-bedroom waterfront
home for A$3.27 million ($3.35 million), slightly higher than
the seller’s expectation. The result was better than what he
would have achieved a year ago when a lower price through a
private sale would have been the most likely outcome, he said.  Still, Buttel doesn’t expect a return to the boom days of
2009, when fierce competition among multiple buyers led to
auction sale prices that surpassed vendors’ expectations.  During the heyday, potential bidders, curious onlookers and
neighbors often overflowed onto sidewalks or crammed into living
areas to take part or witness the process. Auctions are usually
held at the property itself following several weeks when the
home is open for inspection.  Serious Buyers  Serious potential buyers register their interest and fast-
talking auctioneers solicit offers. If bids reach the minimum
price sought, the auctioneer declares the home “on the market”
and bidding continues if there’s further interest or sold to the
highest bidder if there isn’t. If the maximum bid is below the
seller’s lowest price, the home is “passed in” and remains
unsold.  The boom in auctions in 2009 and 2010 was followed by a
decline in the number of interested buyers showing up and an
even bigger drop in those actually bidding. Excluding January,
which is traditionally a slow auction month, Melbourne and
Sydney hit bottom in December 2011, when more than half of all
properties up for auction failed to sell, according to APM.  That’s reversing, with 12 bids placed by the four serious
buyers who’d registered their interest in the Neutral Bay home,
Buttel said.  Stronger Market  “We’re encouraging auctions because it’s a stronger market
place now,” Buttel said. “But the rate of growth we saw then,
we’ll probably never see again.”  Still, while the rising confidence makes auctions “much
more palatable,” buyers should approach them with caution, said
Christopher Koren, director at Melbourne-based buyers’ agent
Morrell & Koren.  “One of the problems is there’s been a lot of under-
quoting of properties, when the final sale price is considerably
more” than the price indication given to potential buyers by
property agents, Koren said in a telephone interview. “That’s a
great frustration to buyers.”  The RBA reiterated in minutes from its latest meeting on
April 2 that the inflation outlook gives it room to reduce
borrowing costs to a record to help the economy as a high
 exchange rate  cripples some industries, such as manufacturing,
and growth in mining investment slows.  “Additional easing will be required to sustain the
recovery at a pace sufficient to offset the drag that’s going to
come from the mining sector,”  Matthew Hassan , senior economist
at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , said in a telephone interview. “The
message from a range of indicators is that this is a recovery,
but not an all-systems-go upturn like we’ve seen in previous
cycles.”  Urban Crowd  Australia, the world’s sixth-largest country by size with a
land mass of 7.7 million square kilometers (3 million square
miles), is the driest inhabited continent, with more than 70
percent of land arid or semi-arid. The nation had  two-thirds  of
its population of  23 million  living in its eight state and
territory capitals, which occupy 0.5 percent of the total area,
according to government data.  In Melbourne,  auctions  accounted for about 30 percent of
all home sales in February, compared with 14 percent a year
earlier, figures from Sydney-based APM show. In Sydney, they
began regaining favor in September, with the level of auctions
remaining at or above 22 percent of sales in all months since
then except January, according to APM.  They’re less popular in Australia’s smaller capital cities
such as Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide. In Brisbane, the
proportion rose to 7 percent of all transactions in February, up
from about 2 percent a year ago, APM said.  “When the market saw the RBA continuing to cut, that
indicated that there was potentially another cut, so there was a
bit of a wait-and-see,” Matt Lahood, general manager for sales
at  McGrath Estate Agents , said in a telephone interview.  Record Sales  McGrath set a new  Australian record  in September 2008 with
the A$45 million sale of a waterfront home in Vaucluse, a high-
end eastern Sydney suburb, according to its website. Among its
current non-auction listings is the eight-bedroom, 10-bathroom
waterfront  Altona  estate in the eastern Sydney suburb of Point
Piper, which was last year reported by the Sydney Morning Herald
to have an asking price of A$54.5 million.  Australia’s housing market managed to avoid the steep
collapse seen in the U.S. and U.K., in part due to government
measures to boost demand in the wake of the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. Home-price declines in 2011 and
2012 followed surges of 11 percent in 2009 and 4.7 percent in
2010, according to Brisbane-based researcher RP Data.  Prices climbed an average 4.7 percent in Australia’s eight
biggest cities in March after they bottomed in May, according to
figures from RP Data. That followed a 7.4 percent drop from a
peak in late 2010, the group said.  Reaping Gains  As prices rise, more home sellers have reaped gains. Almost
32 percent of properties sold for double their original purchase
price in the three months to Dec. 31, up from 31 percent in the
third quarter of 2012, RP Data said.  House prices  will rise as much as 5 percent in nominal
terms in 2013, led by Sydney and Perth, John Meredith, real
estate analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report April 15.  Developers such as  Stockland (SGP) , which had a  loss  of A$147.1
million in the six months to Dec. 31, and cut its full-year
profit forecast, will benefit from the recovery, he wrote.  “The historical relationship between house prices and
multiples for Stockland and other developers remains intact,”
Meredith wrote. “New residential projects coming on-stream will
support an improvement in margins.”  Stockland  shares  have climbed 11 percent this year,
compared with a 9.8 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index.  Mirvac Group (MGR) , Australia’s second-biggest listed housing
developer, has advanced 19 percent this year.  Patchy Recovery  At  McGrath , the number of auctions in the Sydney
metropolitan area in the first three months of 2013 rose to 697
from 559 a year earlier, according to Lahood. About 70 percent
of properties that went to auction sold successfully, he said.  While vendor confidence is rising, the recovery is patchy,
with Canberra, Melbourne and Adelaide still seeing declines in
asking prices, Louis Christopher, managing director of Sydney-
based  SQM Research Pty , said in an e-mailed release.  Economic indicators too remain mixed. While  retail sales 
rose four times faster than economists expected in February and
 business confidence  improved in March, Australia’s  unemployment
rate  climbed unexpectedly to a three-year high of 5.6 percent in
March and a private  consumer confidence index  slipped 5.1
percent this month.  “Households still remain cautious in their spending and
borrowing behaviors,”  Alan Oster , chief economist at National
Australia Bank, said in the bank’s residential market confidence
survey report. “This is likely to keep demand for housing
somewhat contained.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  