-- Austria’s Kommunalkredit Returns to Profit Ahead of Sale
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-04-23T10:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/austria-s-kommunalkredit-earns-profit-awaits-eu-mandated-sale.html
Kommunalkredit  Austria  AG, the
nationalized municipal lender being sold, returned to profit
last year after losses from Greek assets didn’t recur.  Net income was 18.2 million euros ($23.6 million), compared
with a 148.7 million-euro loss in 2011, when Greek writedowns
weighed on profits, the Vienna-based bank said today in a
statement. Interest income dropped to 43.9 million euros from
48.5 million euros after the bank sold loans with a face value
of around 400 million euros.  Bids for Kommunalkredit, nationalized in 2008 following
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy and ensuing financial
crisis, are being reviewed by Austria and the European Union.
The EU has ordered the sale to be completed by the end of June.  The bids are “determined by the prevailing market
environment,” Chief Executive Officer Alois Steinbichler told
reporters in Vienna today. Banks trade at discounts to their
book value at the moment, which is about 200 million euros in
Kommunalkredit’s case, he said.  The sale, which is being managed by Morgan Stanley, would
leave Austria with KA Finanz AG, a so-called “bad bank” which
is winding down securities, loans and swaps that aren’t part of
Kommunalkredit’s main business. The lender reduced its risks by
4.9 billion euros to 14.5 billion euros at the end of 2012, and
by another 900 million euros in the first quarter of this year,
it said in a separate statement.  No Additional State Aid  KA Finanz, which received 1.9 billion euros by Austrian
taxpayers, won’t need additional state aid beyond the 250
million euros budgeted for this year to meet Basel III capital
rules, Steinbichler said.  “From today’s perspective, the capital requirement will be
clearly below this level,” he said.  The bank had written credit-default swaps guaranteeing a
net 6.18 billion euros by the end of last year, down from 6.98
billion euros six month earlier after some securities expired
and others were sold. It held CDSs worth around around 2.2
billion euros for cash-strapped countries on  Europe ’s periphery,
according to Bloomberg calculations. Most of the credit-default
swaps expire between 2015 and 2017.  It would cost 1.5 billion euros to close all positions and
shut down the bank immediately, according to Steinbichler. At
the same time, the 1.9 billion euros in state aid would be lost,
he said, adding “I don’t recommend this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  