-- East Australia Set for Wetter Three Months, Southeast Dry
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-04-23T07:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/australia-s-east-set-for-wetter-three-months-southeast-seen-dry.html
Australia , last year’s second-
biggest wheat exporter, is set for wetter-than-normal weather in
the next three months in parts of the country’s east, easing
concern that dry conditions may curb production.  The chances of above-median  rainfall  from May to July is
between 60 percent and 80 percent over southern Queensland and
northern New South Wales, last year’s biggest wheat-producing
state, the Bureau of Meteorology said on its website today. Most
of Victoria and southeast South Australia have a 60 percent to
70 percent chance of below-normal rain in the period, the bureau
said. Eastern Australia accounted for about 52 percent of last
year’s wheat harvest.  Australia’s wheat output may gain 13 percent this year to
24.9 million metric tons, according to the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences. Farmers begin
planting around the end of this month. The U.S. government
estimates global supplies will drop to the smallest in four
years. Farmers in the U.S., the top exporter, probably will
abandon 25 percent of their hard-red winter wheat, according to
the average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Much more rainfall is needed to ensure favorable seeding
conditions across the eastern states,”  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , wrote in
a report today. “The lack of soil moisture means canola planted
area will be pared back, and if it stays dry for another month
wheat acres might also be switched into barley.”  Western Australia, which dropped to the country’s second-
biggest wheat producer last harvest, has an equal chance of
above- or below-average rainfall, the weather bureau said. The
state’s southwest, the main producing region, had above-average
rainfall through summer and in March, the bureau said.  Western Australia’s planting outlook is “promising”
following good summer and autumn rainfall, according to Mathews.
Wheat for July delivery dropped 0.5 percent to $6.9925 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:50 p.m. in  Singapore .  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  