-- Automakers Urged to Simplify Behind-the-Wheel Technology
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-04-23T19:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/automakers-urged-to-simplify-behind-the-wheel-technology.html
U.S. regulators today issued
guidelines for automakers intended to limit distractions from
the use of Twitter Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  through in-vehicle
infotainment systems.  The Transportation Department, in non-binding guidelines,
asked automakers to bar the use of social media sites and
Internet browsing when a vehicle is moving. Automakers are also
urged to design navigation and other screen-based systems so
that drivers don’t need to take their eyes off the road for more
than two seconds to select an option, or for a total of 12
seconds to complete an entire task such as entering an address.  “We’ve already made good progress in getting cellphones
out of peoples’ hands when they’re behind the wheel,”
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said today on a conference
call with reporters. “Cellphones aren’t the only
distractions.”  The guidelines may be LaHood’s last action on distracted
driving, a phrase he put into the American lexicon after
becoming transportation secretary in 2009. LaHood announced in
January he plans to step down after a successor is named.  Automakers complained about the draft guidelines issued
last year, saying limiting the use of in-vehicle technology
would cause drivers to revert to using more dangerous handheld
devices. The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, whose members
include  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Toyota Motor Corp., said its own
guidelines were less restrictive.  Handheld Devices  The alliance, based in  Washington , said it’s concerned that
the government is only addressing equipment installed in
vehicles and that will lead to more use of handheld phones and
other devices.  “NHTSA data indicate that 98 percent of distraction-
related accidents are due to factors other than use of the
built-in system,” Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman, said today
in an e-mailed statement. “We urge NHTSA to move quickly with a
more comprehensive approach including mobile devices.”  The government guidelines say cars should be stopped and in
park to use things like social media while the industry version
allows use while driving at low speeds. NHTSA, in the final
version, clarified that scrolling displays of maps on navigation
systems are allowed after automakers complained that they’d be
prohibited under the first draft.  Safety Incentives  The guidelines, which apply only to equipment installed in
new vehicles, start in three years. The agency may eventually
use the guidelines to give incentives in its vehicle safety
ratings, which are being redesigned, National Highway Traffic
Safety Administrator David Strickland said on the call.  A study released today, funded with a Transportation
Department grant, found that hands-free texting distracted
drivers just as much as messaging with a device in one’s hands.
Participants in the study by the  Texas A&M Transportation
Institute  drove on a closed course while typing text messages
with their hands and sending them hands-free using  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
Siri and Vlingo system on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android phones.  Both methods slowed driver reaction times nearly two times
what they’d be when not texting, the study found, with drivers
taking longer to complete a text when speaking than when
manually typing.  NHTSA, part of the Transportation Department, on April 5
said about 660,000 drivers in the U.S. are using mobile phones
or other handheld electronic devices while driving at any time.
Citing data it collects, the agency said that in 2011 more than
3,300 deaths and more than 387,000 injuries in the U.S. were
linked to distracted driving.  LaHood last June said his agency might also draft
guidelines for mobile devices and voice-activated controls in
cars.  Texting while flying was linked to a commercial aviation
crash for the first time earlier this month when the National
Transportation Safety Board released its findings on the causes
of a 2011 medical-helicopter flight crash in  Missouri .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  