-- Lawmakers Call for Halt to Traffic Controller Furloughs
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-04-23T19:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/lawmakers-call-for-halt-to-traffic-controller-furloughs.html
Top U.S. lawmakers in both parties
are questioning the Obama administration’s decision to furlough
air-traffic controllers to comply with automatic budget cuts,
with some calling for congressional action to stem the resulting
wave of flight delays.  Leaders of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation
Committee sent a letter to Transportation Department officials
questioning whether the administration has no other choice but
to trigger staff reductions causing “substantial possible
disruptions.” Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia
Democrat, and Senator  John Thune  of  South Dakota , its ranking
Republican, also are demanding details about the impact on air
safety from the furloughs and shutting some control towers.  “The FAA’s plan to furlough air traffic controllers and
close so many contract towers raises serious safety and
operational issues,” the two wrote in a  letter  to
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Federal Aviation
Administrator Michael Huerta that was released today.  Others said Congress should approve legislation reversing
that cut, as well as the scheduled June 15 closing of 149
privately contracted air traffic control towers. Senator Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican who is leading a drive to prevent the
tower closures, accused the White House of using furloughs to
illustrate the impact of the across-the-board cuts at a time
when President  Barack Obama  seeks to replace those cuts with a
bipartisan deficit-reduction deal.  ‘Staffing Challenges’  “To me it certainly seems that politics is playing a
significant role in determining what actions the FAA is
taking,” Moran said at a news conference. He said “it emanates
from the White House.”  Airlines and passengers braced for more delays as the U.S.
government’s automatic budget cuts, triggered by a process known
as sequestration, furlough air-traffic controllers and slow
operations at some of the busiest hubs.  Some flights to  New York ’s La Guardia airport ran almost
two hours late as high winds exacerbated congestion at 8:30 a.m.
local time, the FAA said on its travel  website .  New Jersey ’s
Newark Liberty International Airport had arrival delays
exceeding 90 minutes.  The FAA said today that it was experiencing “staffing
challenges” nationwide and that controllers will space planes
further apart to manage traffic with current staff, according to
an e-mail from Justin Nisly, a Transportation Department
spokesman. More than 1,200 flight delays yesterday were
attributed to staff reductions tied to the furlough, he said.  Congressional Clash  The FAA said last week that delays may reach more than two
hours with fewer controllers on duty. An average of about 10
percent of controllers will be on furlough on any given day, the
National Air Traffic Controllers Association estimated.  The NATCA said that today’s delays are “just the beginning
of what promises to be a huge economic disruption,” and that
the FAA cuts also are forcing the agency to cancel training,
halt airport modernization work and even use budget-draining
overtime pay for remaining controllers at the busiest airports.  “It’s simply math -- furloughing controllers earning base
while paying others base pay plus an additional 50 percent will
not result in savings,” the controllers group said.  A clash between Congress and the administration has been
growing in recent weeks as the automatic cuts have been made,
with some of the most visible results occurring with FAA
operations.  Galvanized Opposition  The plan to close the 149 air-traffic control towers has
galvanized opposition like few other moves under the budget
cuts, uniting rural lawmakers, businesses, unions and advocacy
groups for aircraft owners and other users at the mostly smaller
airports affected.  The FAA, responding to criticism in Congress and lawsuits
by airports, delayed the closings earlier this month until June
15. LaHood told a House panel April 16 that the agency can’t
forestall the closures any further.  With the FAA furloughs now expanding the scope of passenger
inconvenience in agency cutbacks, calls for action are gaining
more immediacy.  Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat, today
called on the administration to postpone the controller
furloughs for 30 days to enable Congress to come up with a
budget solution that will cut the FAA’s budget elsewhere.  “Our authority certainly would permit a more-flexible and
constructive response to sequestration requirements,”
Blumenthal said.  War Funds  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
stepped in with his own proposal. He said he wants to advance a
plan to tap “a small part” of about $650 billion in unused war
monies to stop the cutbacks for five months. Some congressional
Republicans have opposed using those funds to replace other
budget cuts in the past, dismissing it as a gimmick.  Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell today said the FAA
failed to give the traveling public enough notice of the
magnitude of the furloughs. He said the agency can and must use
its existing budget authority to resolve the issue, and that the
administration didn’t support earlier efforts in Congress to
give it an even greater ability to shift budget-cut demands
within existing plans.  “If for some reason the President or FAA don’t believe
they have the flexibility to address this issue, they should ask
Congress for the flexibility they need,” he said on the Senate
floor. “Until then, however, they should use the flexibility we
all know they do have to ease the burden on passengers.”  Feeling Pain  In the Republican-led U.S. House, party leaders also are
looking to the Obama administration to replace the furloughs
with other budget cuts, without congressional action, said Rory Cooper, a spokesman for House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor .  Cooper said the FAA’s budget has “more than doubled” in the
last 15 years, so finding other cuts should be “doable.” One
option, he insisted, is for the agency to make any controller
cuts in less-congested airports, while leaving others fully
staffed.  “They can make a lot of decisions here so that Americans
don’t have to feel the pain, but clearly that’s their intent,”
Cooper said.  The FAA has no choice other than the furloughs if it must
cut $637 million from its $16 billion budget by Sept. 30, Huerta
told a Senate hearing April 16. The agency spends 70 percent of
its budget on its payroll and can’t cut enough in other areas to
reach the goal, he said.  Tower Closings  While the FAA plans to cut funding to the 149 towers run by
private contractors at small and mid-sized airports, it can’t
cut other contracts, he said. The agency’s largest contract is
for upkeep of its air-traffic communications system, which is
critical for running the system, he said.  When asked why the agency couldn’t furlough more
controllers in towers and radar rooms that weren’t choke points
in the system, Huerta said that it wouldn’t be fair to the
workforce to impose a heavier penalty on some workers than
others.  Huerta said at an April 18 press conference that he is
taking unpaid days equal to FAA employees. He will continue
working on those days, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  