-- Maxcom Suitor Ventura to Walk Away If Bond Swap Threshold Unmet
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/maxcom-suitor-ventura-to-walk-away-if-bond-swap-threshold-unmet.html
Maxcom Telecomunicaciones SAB (MAXCOMCP) ’s
takeover suitor, Ventura Capital Privado SA, plans to withdraw
its pursuit of the Mexican phone company if it can’t persuade
enough bondholders to exchange their debt by tomorrow, its
adviser on the deal said.  Ventura remains interested in pumping new capital into
Maxcom to help it expand, especially in the corporate market,
said Ricardo Cervera, a founding partner of Vace Partners,
Ventura’s adviser. Still, he said Ventura isn’t willing to stick
around to usher Maxcom through a bankruptcy filing, an outcome
the phone carrier has said it may be forced to pursue.  Maxcom is seeking to complete the 2.90-pesos-a-share
takeover offer, which would include an investment of $45 million
to use for network improvements, to better compete with  America
Movil SAB (AMXL) ,  Mexico ’s biggest phone company. Mexico City-based
Maxcom said this month it may have to file for bankruptcy and
may miss a June 15 coupon payment if enough debtholders don’t
agree to the bond swap by tomorrow’s deadline.  A Maxcom spokesman didn’t return e-mail messages, and no
one answered the phone of the company’s investor relations
office.  The company has asked to exchange notes due in 2014 for new
ones due in 2020, and Ventura has set a requirement that 80
percent of bondholders accept the swap. Ventura has the right to
reduce that threshold to 75.1 percent at its discretion.
Maxcom’s cash had dwindled to 102.9 million pesos ($8.4 million)
from 147 million pesos at the end of 2012, it said April 11.  Maxcom has climbed about 65 percent above Ventura’s offer
price as investors bet its future will be brighter under a law
Mexican Congress is reviewing to create more competition in
telecommunications. Its shares gained 1 percent to 4.85 pesos at
the close in Mexico City.  Ventura, which announced its offer for Maxcom in December,
is a Mexico City-based private-equity firm led by investors
including Enrique Castillo and Javier Molinar Horcasitas, former
executives of bank Ixe Grupo Financiero SAB. Ixe was sold in
2011 to Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  