-- Bad Banks in Germany, Austria Beat Goals as Crisis Eases
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-04-23T14:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/bad-banks-in-germany-austria-beat-goals-as-crisis-eases.html
Germany  and  Austria ’s biggest so-
called bad banks, formed to wind down the holdings of lenders
rescued during the financial crisis, sold more assets than
expected last year as financial markets rose.  FMS Wertmanagement, which is shedding the assets of Munich-
based  Hypo Real Estate  AG, a failed commercial real estate bank,
divested 23.8 billion euros ($31 billion) of its portfolio last
year, 57 percent more than in 2011. KA Finanz AG, winding down
securities, loans and swaps of nationalized Kommunalkredit
Austria AG, reduced its assets by 4.9 billion euros in 2012
compared with 3 billion euros a year earlier.  “We have profited enormously in the past year from the
improvement in the markets,” FMS Chief Executive Officer
Christian Bluhm told reporters at a news conference in Munich
today. “We were able to divest far more of our portfolio than
originally planned.”  European banks seeking to borrow or sell assets profited
from a market rally in the second half after the  European
Central Bank  stepped in to stem the continent’s debt crisis. The
ECB pledged to defend the euro and buy the bonds of distressed
nations provided they signed up to bailouts.  FMS, owned by the German government, said it managed 136.9
billion euros of failed bank assets at the end of last year.
That compared with the 176 billion euros of Hypo Real Estate
assets that it was mandated to wind down in 2010.  Narrower Spreads  KA Finanz has more than halved its original portfolio of 30
billion euros, faster than a schedule agreed with the European
Commission, CEO Alois Steinbichler told journalists in Vienna
today. The firm profited from lower spreads on credit default
swaps, which made them cheaper to divest, he said.  FMS took advantage of “good borrowing conditions” to sell
35 billion euros of long-term debt on  capital markets  last year,
10 billion euros more than initially planned, Bluhm said.  The assets of Hypo Real Estate, formerly Germany’s second-
biggest commercial property lender, were transferred to FMS
after its Dublin-based Depfa Bank Plc unit couldn’t raise
financing when the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
froze credit markets.  Losses at FMS are fully covered by the German state through
the Soffin bank-rescue fund, which paid 7.3 billion euros to FMS
in the first quarter. FMS posted a profit of 37 million euros
last year after a 9.96 billion-euro loss in 2011, when it took
losses on Greek bonds as part of the country’s rescue.  Both FMS’s Bluhm and KA Finanz’s Steinbichler said their
companies’ performance remains tied to macroeconomic
developments.  “If there is another debt conversion like the one in
 Greece , we will be hit,” Steinbichler said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  