-- Barclays May Follow U.S. Peers in Higher Investment Bank Profit
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-04-23T08:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/barclays-may-follow-u-s-peers-in-higher-investment-bank-profit.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the first U.K. lender
to report first-quarter results, may report a rise in profit at
its investment bank, helped by gains in the U.S. as Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis crimps income from the region.  Pretax profit at the unit, led by Rich Ricci, who will step
down in June, may rise 5.5 percent to 1.25 billion pounds ($1.9
billion) from the year-earlier period, according to the median
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company
reports earnings tomorrow at 7 a.m. in London.  The firm, which acquired Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
North American operation out of bankruptcy in 2008, is seeking
to target the U.S., where income from arranging takeovers and
stock offerings is rising, contrasting with a decline in  Europe .
The London-based bank last week said it plans to expand the
securities unit’s focus on the U.S., the firm’s largest source
of income after Britain, and named Skip McGee head of its
Americas operation.  “The U.S. massively outperformed Europe in the quarter”
in investment banking, said Chirantan Barua, an analyst at
Bernstein Research in London, who rates Barclays outperform.
“Anyone with a bias to the U.S. will do well.”  The investment-banking unit will this quarter account for
57 percent of Barclays’s total pretax profit, more than any
other division according to estimates by Jason Napier, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in London who rates Barclays a buy.
The bank’s consumer businesses, including Barclaycard will
contribute 33 percent and wealth management 5 percent.  Debt Swings  Group pretax profit probably declined 12 percent to 2.1
billion pounds from 2.4 billion pounds, according to the median
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That figure
excludes swings in the value of Barclays’s own debt. So-called
credit valuation adjustments require banks to book losses when
the value of their debt rises, and gains when it declines, on
the theory that a loss, or profit, would be realized were the
bank to repurchase that debt. It also excludes losses on
acquisitions and money set aside to compensate customers mis-
sold loans.  A spokeswoman for the bank declined to comment.  Fees for arranging U.S. mergers, equity, bond and
syndicated loan sales at investment banks climbed 16 percent to
$8.9 billion in the year to March 18, according to data compiled
by New York-based research firm Freeman & Co. By contrast, fees
dropped 15 percent to $3.4 billion in Western Europe in the
period, the data show.  M&A Ranking  Barclays is the third-ranked adviser on stock offerings in
the U.S. this year, advising on 70 deals valued at $8.67
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lender is
ranked third in mergers and acquisitions, advising on about $90
billion of deals. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is ranked second and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. fourth.  Among the U.S. banks, Goldman Sachs’s first-quarter revenue
rose 1 percent to $10.1 billion. Revenue at JPMorgan’s corporate
and investment-bank rose 9 percent to $10.1 billion.  Gains in income from mergers and acquisitions advisory and
corporate finance, and other investment-banking business may
outstrip an estimated 5 percent decline in revenue at fixed
income, currency and commodities business to 2.2 billion pounds,
 Mark Phin , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd., wrote in
a note to investors on April 21. He estimates investment-banking
revenue will rise 0.4 percent to 3.45 billion pounds in the
first quarter from the year-earlier period.  Unlimited Loans  FICC revenue is likely to decline because a gain from last
year’s decision by the European Central Bank to offer firms
unlimited three-year loans inflated the year-earlier period,
according to Barua. At that time, cheap loans meant banks could
value assets such as bonds higher.  Investors may look favorably upon the bank’s results
because earnings from advisory and equities are less capital-
intensive and therefore less risky than FICC, Barua said.  The bank’s shares have gained 11 percent this year, the
best performer among Britain’s five largest banks.  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  has gained 5.1 percent and Lloyds Banking Group Plc 3.7
percent in the period. Of the 33 analysts tracked by Bloomberg
who rate the stock, 22 have a buy rating, eight hold and three
sell.  Chairman David Walker and Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins , who took over after the lender was fined an
unprecedented 290 million pounds in June for rigging the London
interbank offered rate, are trying to cut costs by stripping out
layers of management and boost regulators’ confidence in the
company. An internal report this month criticized pay at the
investment bank and urged the company to boost transparency.  Ricci, 49, will be replaced by Eric Bommensath and Tom King
as co-CEOs of corporate and investment banking in May. Peter
Horrell, who joined the bank in 1990, will become interim head
of the wealth unit, replacing Tom Kalaris.  Barclays has reviewed 75 of its units to weed out those
that pose a reputational risk or don’t make profits under its
so-called Transform program. It will cut 3,700 jobs as part of
the overhaul, which will cost about 1 billion pounds in 2013,
according to Barclays. The lender may book between 250 million
pounds and 500 million pounds of that charge this quarter,
according to four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  