-- Bayern Routs Barcelona 4-0 in Opening Champions League Semifinal
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-23T23:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/bayern-munich-beats-barcelona-4-0-to-open-champions-league-semis.html
Bayern Munich  handed Barcelona its
worst European soccer defeat in 16 years to move to the brink of
its third Champions League final appearance in four seasons.  Thomas Mueller  scored two goals last night, and  Mario Gomez 
and Arjen Robben added one each, to lift Bayern to a 4-0 home
win in the semifinal opener between four-time winners of
Europe’s elite club competition.  “It’s amazing, I can hardly believe it,” Robben said in a
televised interview. “We can really be proud of what we
accomplished, but we still have the return leg to play and we
need to be careful.”  Barcelona, which had been the bookmakers’ favorite to win
its fourth European Cup title in the past eight seasons, will
host the return match in the two-game series May 1. The winner
advances to the May 25 final at Wembley Stadium in London
against Real Madrid or  Borussia Dortmund , who begin their
semifinal tonight in Germany.  Barcelona managed only two shots on target even with 63
percent of the possession last night. The defeat matched its
biggest in the competition after 4-0 losses to AC Milan in the
1994 final and against Dynamo Kiev three years later.  No team has overturned a four-goal deficit from the first
game in the  Champions League . Last month, Barcelona beat AC
Milan 4-0 at home in the round of 16 to advance following a 2-0
loss in Italy.  “We know that the situation is difficult, but as Barcelona
we have to compete in the second leg and try to win,” Barca’s
assistant coach Jordi Roura said on the website of tournament
organizer  UEFA . “We will give it our all.”  Seeking Sweep  Bayern is seeking an unprecedented sweep of three major
trophies this season. The Bavarian club already secured its 23rd
German league championship and has advanced to the final of the
domestic cup competition. No team from Germany has won its
league and cup and the Champions League in the same season.  “We have been displaying extraordinary football for the
entire season,” Bayern coach Jupp Heynckes said on UEFA’s
website. “Falling short of success in the past two years has
only made them more hungry to win this year.”  Robben had a chance in the opening two minutes as he
exchanged passes with Javi Martinez before sending a low shot
that  Victor Valdes  stopped with his legs. Bayern then had a
claim for a penalty kick turned down by referee Viktor Kassai
when Philipp Lahm’s shot hit the arm of defender  Gerard Pique .  Opening Goal  The German champion took the lead in the 25th minute as
Robben lofted a ball into the area that Dante headed back across
goal and Mueller nodded in at the near post.  Dante slid in front of his own goal to knock away  Pedro Rodriguez ’s pass for  Lionel Messi . Bayern had another appeal for
a penalty kick in the 32nd minute as Dante’s flicked header from
Robben’s corner kick hit  Alexis Sanchez ’s arm.  Bayern doubled its lead four minutes into the second half
as Mueller headed Robben’s corner kick to the middle of goal,
where an unmarked Gomez knocked the ball in. Barcelona’s first
shot on target came in the 69th minute as  Manuel Neuer  stopped
Marc Bartra’s effort after a corner kick.  Robben made it 3-0 in the 73rd minute when he shot past
Valdes from the right side. Barcelona players complained to the
referee for a foul as Mueller blocked off Jordi Alba, allowing
Robben to shoot.  Mueller had a clear chance at goal after getting by two
defenders in the 80th minute only to be stopped by Valdes. The
German international midfielder wasn’t denied two minutes later,
redirecting David Alaba’s cross to close the scoring.  “I had great ambitions for this game, but I wouldn’t have
thought that things would turn out the way they did,” Mueller
told UEFA’s website. “I was able to play my part.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 