-- Bharti to Provide Reliance Jio Cable Capacity for Overseas Link
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-04-23T08:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/bharti-to-provide-reliance-jio-cable-capacity-for-overseas-link.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest
mobile-phone operator, agreed to provide billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s competing broadband venture data capacity on its
submarine cable connecting India and  Singapore .  Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd., a Mumbai-based unit of Ambani’s
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , will use dedicated capacity on
Bharti’s i2i submarine cable to extend its network to customers
in the Asia Pacific region, the companies said in a joint
statement today. The two companies will consider other “mutual
areas of cooperation and development to leverage their
respective assets,” they said.  The deal signals Ambani is preparing to start his fourth-
generation network, after earlier in the month laying aside
differences with his younger brother Anil and agreeing to share
his  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) ’s fiber-optic network.
Billionaire Sunil Mittal may have agreed to provide capacity on
the cable to his rival because New Delhi-based Bharti has
surplus, according to Urmil Shah, an analyst at Kim Eng
Securities India Pvt. in  Mumbai .  “These submarine cables have significant spare capacity,”
said Shah. “If Bharti had not offered it, Reliance Jio could
have gone to Tata Communications as well.”  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM) , based in Mumbai, provides long-
distance telephone and Internet services. It owns and operates a
submarine cable system and data centers.  Bharti fell 0.3 percent to 299.80 rupees as of 1:14 p.m. in
Mumbai trading, compared with a 0.4 percent decline in the S&P
BSE Sensex. Reliance rose 1.5 percent to 801.55 rupees.  Telecom Re-entry  Mukesh Ambani  spent 48 billion rupees buying nationwide
broadband spectrum in 2010, marking his re-entry into the
telecommunications industry after a feud with his brother split
their father’s business empire.  The agreement with Bharti will allow Reliance Jio to use a
dedicated fiber pair on i2i’s cable that connects the southern
Indian city of Chennai with Tuas in Singapore, according to the
statement.  “Reliance should launch towards the end of the year --they
have not yet said whether they’ll be doing telecom
infrastructure sharing or whether they’re rolling out on their
own,” said Shah. “That remains an important factor for
launching services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  