-- Billabong Extends Talks With Sycamore for A$287 Million Bid
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-04-24T06:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/billabong-extends-talks-with-sycamore-for-a-287-million-takeover.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ,
 Australia ’s largest surfwear company, agreed to extend exclusive
talks with a group led by a former director and Sycamore
Partners Management for a A$287 million ($295 million) takeover
for a further 10 days.  The parties will continue talks until May 8 for a 60 cents-
a-share offer after Sycamore asked for more time to complete a
report on the quality of the company’s earnings, Gold Coast,
Australia-based Billabong said in a regulatory statement. There
is no guarantee the transaction will proceed.  “It is anticipated that the extension will be adequate for
the completion of the report and its consideration,” Billabong
said in the statement.  Billabong’s  market value  has fallen 68 percent over the
past 12 months as it recorded its first  loss  since a 2000
listing and turned down approaches from three other private
equity groups. Sycamore’s April 9 provisional offer allows an
exit for shareholders who may yet be asked to fund a capital
raising, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Hurt by a consumer spending slump and  competition  from
major retailers, Billabong has shut stores, fired employees,
written down its brands and sold inventory at below cost. The
company on Feb. 22 reported a record loss in the six months
ended Dec. 31 on A$567 million of charges, as it wrote off most
of the value of its main brand.  Billabong was unchanged at 48 Australian cents at the close
of Sydney trading, leaving this year’s decline at 42 percent. It
is now trading 20 percent below Sycamore’s offer.  Debt Terms  Billabong has posted 80 percent of its  assets  and 85
percent of its earnings as security to its lenders after
breaching terms on its debt.  Billabong’s founder Gordon Merchant said last February that
he’d turn down a A$1 billion offer for the business if TPG
Capital had proposed it.  Valued at A$3.84 billion at its peak in May 2007, Billabong
last February rebuffed an offer of about A$842 million from TPG
Capital. TPG and another bidder later made lower offers and
walked away after viewing Billabong’s accounts.  The string of takeover approaches have been “very
disruptive” and taken up all but five weeks of the 10 months
that Chief Executive Officer Launa Inman has been in the job,
she said April 10.  Naude Comeback  Former Americas director Paul Naude joined Sycamore in
making the offer. South African-born Naude won that country’s
championship as a professional surfer in the 1970s, according to
the book,  Greg Noll: the Art of the Surfboard . Sycamore, co-
founded by Stefan Kaluzny, agreed to buy U.S. teen fashion and
music store  Hot Topic Inc. (HOTT)  for $600 million March 8.  Under the proposal, Billabong founder Gordon Merchant and
former employee Colette Paull must exchange their combined
shareholding of about 16 percent for stock in a vehicle being
set up for the takeover.  Merchant started by cutting board shorts on his kitchen
table in 1973 and selling them to  Gold Coast  surf shops,
according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  