-- Biotechnology Draws Record Profit as Research Money Slows
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-04-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/biotechnology-draws-record-profit-as-research-money-slows.html
Biotechnology companies  worldwide
boosted profit by 37 percent to a record $5.2 billion in 2012,
partly by tempering growth in research-and-development spending,
according to Ernst & Young.  Drugmakers led by  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) 
increased R&D investment 5 percent last year, down from growth
of 9 percent in 2011, the London-based consulting firm said
today in its annual biotechnology industry report. At the same
time, revenue at companies across the U.S.,  Europe ,  Canada  and
 Australia  rose 8 percent to $89.8 billion.  The record profit doesn’t necessarily tell an encouraging
story about the industry, where R&D spending is the engine of
future growth, said Glen Giovannetti, Ernst & Young’s global
life sciences leader. While 2011’s boost in investment seemed to
signal a rebound from the economic downturn, the slower growth
last year means “we’re not completely out of this,” he said.  “There were higher sales on the one hand but lower R&D
costs -- that’s what’s driving the profitability,” Giovannetti
said in a telephone interview. “In 2009, immediately following
the crisis, that was the first year the industry showed
profitability, because they were cutting R&D costs. To me,
that’s not a sign of health.”  Increasing scrutiny of health-care costs in the U.S. and
abroad is adding another dynamic to the business of  drug
development , Ernst & Young said. It’s no longer enough to prove
a drug is safe and effective in order to expect potential
success; now, companies must demonstrate the value of a medicine
to the health system to attain reimbursement, said Giovannetti
and Gautam Jaggi, managing editor of the report.  Higher Standard  Genentech , the South San Francisco, California-based unit
of  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , takes that into consideration before even
bringing a medicine into the clinic, said James Sabry, vice
president of partnering.  “We only work where we can be first in class or best in
class,” Sabry said in an interview in  Chicago  yesterday at the
 Biotechnology Industry Organization  conference. Because
development of so many drugs is now driven by knowledge of a
disease’s genetic underpinnings, “you can start putting
together arguments before you even get into the clinic” that a
medicine will serve an unmet need and be more likely to receive
reimbursement from government health plans and  insurers .  Many smaller biotechnology companies -- those with less
than $500 million in annual revenue -- aren’t adequately
prepared to demonstrate the value of their new drugs, creating
what Ernst & Young calls an “implementation” gap.  Payers’ Perspective  “To succeed in the new world of health care, companies
will need to truly understand the experiences and needs of
payers and patients,” Giovannetti and Jaggi wrote. “The
question isn’t whether you can afford to act on this imperative,
but whether you can afford not to.”  In a survey of 62 companies with revenue of less than $500
million, almost two-thirds said they consider it very important
to prioritize products that may exceed what’s currently
available and to demonstrate the value of products to payers.
Yet half said they are unlikely to add people with reimbursement
expertise to their management, clinical development team or
board, the report showed.  These kinds of considerations may affect interest from
larger companies looking to make acquisitions or partnerships.
Sabry said Genentech only undertakes  deals  with companies that
have products with demonstrated potential value to the health-
care system, holding potential partners to the same standards as
internal projects.  New Approval  “It sounds like reimbursement is the new approval,” said
 Les Funtleyder , a health-industry analyst at New York-based
investment firm Poliwogg LLC. “It might be a consideration in
M&A, with big pharma waiting on reimbursement before they do a
deal or at least have that as a consideration in the deal.”  Mergers and acquisitions are increasingly important for
investors in early-stage biotechnology companies as the market
for initial public offerings remains unfavorable and
unpredictable, Ernst & Young said. Last year, the total value of
mergers and acquisitions involving U.S. and European
biotechnology companies increased 9 percent from 2011, adjusting
for two “mega-mergers” that year.  Total transaction value was $27.4 billion in 2012, the
highest “non-megadeal total” since 2008. The average deal size
was $566 million and premiums “remained strong,” with many
exceeding 50 percent, according to the report.  The two large deals of 2011 were Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN) ’s
acquisition of Genzyme Corp. for $20.1 billion and  Foster City ,
California-based Gilead’s purchase of Pharmasset Inc. for $11
billion.  In 2012, the biggest biotechnology deal was  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s purchase of Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. for $5.3
billion to gain diabetes drugs. Amgen, based in  Thousand Oaks ,
 California , was the most active buyer of the year with  purchases 
such as Micromet Inc., for $900 million, and Kai Pharmaceuticals
Inc., for $315 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  