-- BlackBerry Expects to Sell Q10 for $50 More Than IPhone
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-24T14:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/blackberry-q10-smartphone-to-go-on-sale-across-canada-on-may-1.html
BlackBerry (BBRY) , the Canadian smartphone
maker, expects to start selling its new Q10 keyboard-equipped
model in the U.S. by the end of May for about $249, a price
that’s $50 more than  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s top-selling iPhone 5.  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Wireless , Sprint Nextel Corp. and T-
Mobile USA Inc. -- the four largest U.S. carriers -- have all
confirmed they will sell the phone, Waterloo, Ontario-based
BlackBerry said yesterday. The suggested $249 price assumes that
buyers will also sign up for a two-year contract.  The move signals that BlackBerry won’t be competing with
Apple on price, even as it tries to claw back market share lost
to the iPhone and other smartphones. The iPhone 5 with 16
gigabytes of memory sells for $199.99 with a two-year contract.
Pricing the Q10 above that level is probably a deliberate effort
to target business users with deep pockets and expense accounts,
said Anil Doradla, an analyst at William Blair & Co. in  Chicago .  “They’ve decided this is not going to be a mass appeal
phone, but one targeted at road warriors,” said Doradla, who
has a neutral rating on BlackBerry shares. “It’s not the wrong
thing to do.”  BlackBerry’s stock  climbed 0.6 percent to $14.42 at 9:59
a.m. in New York. The shares have risen 21 percent this year on
optimism that the new BlackBerry 10 lineup can fuel a comeback.  Keyboard Model  The Q10 is the second phone in BlackBerry’s revamped
lineup, following the touch-screen Z10, which sells for $199.99.
The company is counting on the newer model to appeal to longtime
users who want to stick with a physical keypad, rather than an
iPhone-like screen.  The company, formerly known as  Research In Motion Ltd. (BB) , has
steadily lost ground over the past three years to Apple’s iOS
and Google Inc.’s Android operating system. Combined, those two
platforms accounted for 91 percent of global smartphone sales in
the fourth quarter, according to IDC. BlackBerry’s share dropped
to 3.2 percent.  BlackBerry also said yesterday that Canadian carriers will
begin selling the Q10 on May 1.  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  BCE
Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus Corp. (T) , the country’s largest carriers, plan to
offer the phone for C$199 ($194) on a three-year contract. The
Q10 also will be sold in Canada by retailers such as  Best Buy
Co. (BBY)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  