-- BMC Said to Get Separate Bids From KKR and Bain Buyout Groups
-- B y   J o d i   X u   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/bmc-said-to-get-separate-bids-from-kkr-and-bain-buyout-groups.html
BMC Software Inc. (BMC) , the software
maker that abandoned a sale last year, received separate bids
from two groups of buyout firms ahead of the final deadline
April 22, said people with knowledge of the situation.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital and Thoma Bravo LLC made an offer,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the process
is private. A group including Bain Capital LLC and Golden Gate
Capital also bid for the Houston-based maker of software that
manages corporate computer networks, they said. At least one of
the two bidding groups offered around $48 a share, said a person
familiar with the bidding.  BMC’s board will meet tomorrow to review the bids and may
make a decision on the sale by May 7, when its earnings are due,
one of the people said. The board may conclude not to sell after
reviewing the bids because the offers aren’t much higher than
where the shares are trading, two other people said. The stock,
which has climbed more than 11 percent this year,  rose  less than
1 percent to $44.13 yesterday, giving the company a market
capitalization of about $6.3 billion.  A representative for BMC declined to comment.
Representatives for New York-based KKR and Boston-based Bain
declined to comment, as did representatives for Chicago-based
Thoma Bravo, San Francisco-based Golden Gate and Fort Worth,
Texas-based TPG.  Cash, Debt  Each group of bidders is likely to invest about $2 billion
in equity and is planning to raise about $5 billion in debt to
help fund the buyout, people familiar with the situation said.
Part of the new debt would go to pay down $1.3 billion in
existing debt, they said, while the company would provide the
rest of the funding in cash.  BMC had $1.18 billion in cash and short-term assets on its
balance sheet at the end of last year, regulatory filings show,
and as much as $1 billion could be tapped to help finance the
deal, according to the people with knowledge of the matter.  BMC held talks last year with buyout firms amid pressure
from activist investor Elliott Associates LP before deciding to
buy back $1 billion in shares instead. BMC attracted renewed
interest in March stemming from the upcoming expiration of
Elliott’s standstill agreement, a person familiar with the
situation said then. BMC didn’t formally restart a sale process
and the talks may again fail to result in a deal, another person
said at the time.  Elliott is the second-largest shareholder in BMC, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, with a 9.6 percent stake as of
April 8.  BMC sells software that manages fleets of computer servers
and mainframes, configuring new machines and applying updates to
older ones. The company does business in two areas -- a unit
that makes software for managing server networks and the other
for mainframe products.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jodi Xu in  New York  at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  