-- BOE’s McCafferty Says He’s Cautiously Optimistic About Recovery
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-04-23T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/boe-s-mccafferty-says-he-s-cautiously-optimistic-about-recovery.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Ian McCafferty  said the outlook for inflation remains a concern and
he is “cautiously optimistic” about the U.K. recovery.  “On balance, I think the outlook is now looking more
encouraging than for some time,” McCafferty said in a speech to
the Coventry and Warwickshire Chamber of Commerce today. He said
he has “some hope for the U.K. economy in 2013 and beyond.”  The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee has split over the need
to provide more stimulus to an economy weakened by the debt
crisis in the euro area and an austerity program at home.
McCafferty is among the majority of six who voted against
Governor Mervyn King and two others not to add to the 375
billion pounds ($571 billion) of  bond purchases  already
undertaken by the central bank.  McCafferty said that the outlook for  inflation , which is
above the BOE’s 2 percent target, is “more concerning.” He
also noted that if the recent decline of the pound was a
reflection of the central bank’s credibility, then the “case
for accommodation is much weaker.”  Still, he said there is “little evidence that inflation
expectations have become de-anchored” and it remains
appropriate to look through current inflation shocks.  “There remain substantial risks that may still knock us
off course, not least from the challenges facing the euro area,
and if required, the MPC stands ready to respond,” he said.  Headwinds Easing  McCafferty said some of the headwinds to growth have faded,
with credit conditions improving, partly thanks to the impact of
the Funding for Lending Scheme, while business investment may
“start to show some recovery.” At the same time, the
international outlook is improving, he said.  On the FLS, McCafferty said while its effect on lending to
smaller companies has been “less marked” so far than on the
mortgage market, this was to be expected.  “The impact of the FLS is likely to be more marked in
coming months,” he said. “The bank’s latest Credit Conditions
Survey shows that the recent improvement in the availability of
credit, particularly in the household mortgage sector, is
expected to continue.”  “The economic recovery over the next year or so will
continue to be slow and difficult, but I hope I have provided
some reasons why the headwinds of the past may now be starting
to ease,” McCafferty said. “I remain cautiously optimistic
about the road ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  