-- BOE to Make Announcement on Credit-Boosting Program Tomorrow
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-23T14:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/boe-to-make-announcement-on-credit-boosting-program-tomorrow.html
The  Bank of England  will make an
announcement on its credit-boosting program tomorrow as
officials seek ways to strengthen the economic recovery by
increasing credit to small companies.  The London-based central bank plans an announcement for 6
a.m. on the Funding for Lending Scheme, set up with the Treasury
last year, it said today. The program allows banks to borrow
treasury bills from the BOE to fund lending.  The  International Monetary Fund , whose delegation will
visit London next month for an audit of the U.K., has called on
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to do more to aid the
economy. He may extend the FLS as soon as this week because the
U.K. economy remains weak, a person with knowledge of the plan
said on April 21.  Osborne’s growth offensive coincides with a renewed test of
his economic stewardship. Data on April 25 will show whether the
U.K. has escaped another recession, days after the country lost
its top credit grade at a second ratings company. On April 19,
 Fitch Ratings  cut Britain by one level to AA+ and predicted that
debt will peak above 100 percent of  gross domestic product .  While the  median forecast  of 37 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  is for the economy to have skirted a slump and
expanded 0.1 percent in the first quarter, Bank of England
policy maker  Martin Weale  said on April 18 that he wouldn’t be
surprised if GDP fell.  Osborne has been relying on BOE measures to aid the economy
during his austerity drive, saying his approach is “fiscal
responsibility, monetary activism.”  The FLS started in August and banks currently have 18
months to use the facility and as long as four years to repay.  The FLS extension might be used by Osborne to show the IMF
delegation that he is taking steps to aid growth without
abandoning his austerity plans. Osborne can also cite a separate
Help to Buy program, under which the government underwrites
downpayments on homes, as evidence that he is taking steps to
support the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  