-- Boeing Battery Approval Questioned by U.S. Investigators
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-23T22:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/boeing-787-battery-approval-examined-by-u-s-safety-board.html
U.S. aviation accident
investigators today will resume grilling officials from  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and the government over the approval of the 787’s batteries
that failed and led to the longest U.S. grounding of a
commercial plane in the jet age.  National Transportation Safety Board Chairman Debbie Hersman yesterday expressed concerns that a Boeing official was
providing incomplete information about how it calculated the
chances its batteries on the 787 Dreamliner would overheat.  “I think there is some obvious obfuscation here,” Hersman
said at the first session of hearings into the approval for the
plane’s lithium-ion batteries. The board resumes the second and
final day of hearings is today.  Hersman commented as the NTSB asked officials from Boeing,
its subcontractors and the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration 
about assumptions that the Dreamliner’s batteries were safe. Two
of the batteries failed in January, prompting U.S. officials to
pull the plane from service.  Hersman had been questioning Mike Sinnett, a Boeing vice
president and the 787’s chief engineer, about how the company
had calculated the odds that a battery would overheat and emit
smoke or gas. Sinnett said that a manufacturing or assembly
defect wasn’t included in the calculation.  The 787 will be returning to service soon after U.S.
regulators approved battery protections on April 19 that will
contain a fire and prevent fumes from reaching the cabin.  The European Aviation Safety Agency approved the same
battery fixes yesterday for carriers in that region, according
to an e-mailed statement.  Boeing Questioned  Boeing and the FAA were pressed on their assumptions that
battery failure was remote and on the testing methods it used to
try to trigger a short circuit.  “We used the state of the art in the industry at the
time,” Sinnett told the NTSB.  Boeing concluded in tests before the plane was certified to
fly that an internal short circuit in the battery system
couldn’t trigger a fire, according to NTSB preliminary reports.
The company shot a nail into a battery cell to simulate a short
and it didn’t burn.  “Cell performance during qualification testing will
substantiate the unique design that removes the possibility for
internal short failures,” Boeing wrote the FAA in a 2006 memo
on how it intended to show the battery was safe. The document
was released by the NTSB at the start of today’s hearing.  Boeing has since concluded that the nail test isn’t a good
way to simulate an internal short, Sinnett said.  Previous Failure  “In retrospect I believe we don’t feel that it was
conservative enough,” he said.  It’s impossible without establishing what triggered the two
battery incidents to know whether the FAA’s conditions for
battery safety were met, Steve Boyd, manager of the FAA’s
airplane and flight crew interface branch, said.  A 2009 battery failure at a company that made components
for the electrical system was caused by an internal short-
circuit. The NTSB says multiple shorts triggered a Jan. 7 fire
on a  Japan Airlines (9201)  787 on the ground in  Boston .  Details of the event at a Hamilton Sundstrand Corp. plant
in Rockford,  Illinois , which hadn’t previously been disclosed,
appeared in records released yesterday.  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674)  of Kyoto,  Japan , made the battery packs used
on the 787. The charger is manufactured by the Tucson, Arizona-
based Securaplane Technologies Inc. Both suppliers sell the
products to  Thales SA (HO) , which then provides them to Boeing.  Battery Redesign  The Japanese company redesigned the battery twice before
the 787 entered service to improve safety, including after the
2009 incident, Takahiro Shizuki, manager of GS Yuasa’s large
lithium-ion battery technical department, told the NTSB
yesterday.  The NTSB is still searching for the underlying causes of
the Boston fire. The reasons a battery aboard an  All Nippon
Airways Co. (9202)  overheated and released fumes in Japan during the
second incident on Jan. 16 also hasn’t been determined. The
airline changed its name to ANA Holdings Inc. this month.  The 787 received certification to fly from the FAA and the
European Aviation Safety Agency on Aug. 26, 2011.  Boeing, which has a backlog of more than 800 Dreamliners
with a list price starting at about $207 million, halted
deliveries while the plane was grounded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  