-- Bond Traders Drug-War Anxiety Wanes on Pena Nieto: Mexico Credit
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-23T18:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/bond-traders-drug-war-anxiety-wanes-on-pena-nieto-mexico-credit.html
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s bid
to reform tax and energy laws is directing investors’ attention
toward  Mexico ’s economic prospects and away from its six-year
drug war.  The cost to protect $10 million of Mexican debt against
losses for five years using credit-default swaps fell to 0.84
percent, or $84,000 annually, on April 11. That’s the lowest in
five years and compares with a price of $490,000 on March 2,
2009, when the drug violence intensified. Mexican credit-default
swaps are now 0.28 percentage point cheaper than contracts
protecting debt from  Brazil ,  Latin America ’s biggest economy, as
the nation’s borrowing costs fell to an all-time low.  While Mexico’s attempt to defeat its drug cartels with
military force has claimed more than 60,000 lives since December
2006 and the violence has shaved an estimated 1 percentage point
from economic growth each year, Pena Nieto’s push to open the
state-controlled oil industry and boost tax collection are
luring record foreign investment to the country’s debt
securities.  Standard & Poor’s  said March 12 it may raise
Mexico’s rating because the prospect of reforms that bolster
finances and fuel growth have improved under Pena Nieto.  “The perception of Mexico has been changing
significantly,” Claudio Loser, a former Western Hemisphere
director at the  International Monetary Fund , who is now chief
executive officer of research company Centennial Group Latin
America, said in an interview from  Washington . “There’s a
perception that there’s a better possibility of modifying things
to improve the economy. Not that the situation is much more
improved overall, but the perception of insecurity is not in the
headlines to the extent it was two years ago.”  ‘Positive Point’  Pena Nieto’s press office declined to comment about the
shifting views on security.  “Obviously, as you carry out a series of important
reforms, this will be a positive point about information and
perception,” Deputy Finance Minister  Miguel Messmacher  said in
an April 18 interview.  Pena Nieto, who took office on Dec. 1, has said he’ll crack
down on the most violent crimes and use more intelligence and
less confrontation to reduce the number of murders, kidnappings
and extortion. His administration also has “implemented a new
communications strategy on violence and security that’s reduced
the emphasis that had been given to the ‘war against crime,’”
the Interior Ministry said in an Apr. 13  statement , paraphrasing
a speech by Jose Carreno Carlon, an official from a government
cultural agency.  Drug War  Killings related to the drug war fell 14 percent in the
four months since Pena Nieto took office, from the same period a
year earlier, the  Interior Ministry  said April 10. Milenio
newspaper, which tracks drug violence in a monthly study,
reported a 2.5 percent drop over the same period, according to
data supplied by the newspaper in an e-mail.  Communities in parts of southern Mexico have armed
themselves and kidnapped law-enforcement officials, saying
police can’t protect them from cartels.  Pena Nieto’s efforts to break state-owned Petroleos
Mexicanos’s monopoly on the oil industry and senate passage of a
bill to boost competition among telecommunications companies
have prompted foreigners to boost holdings of government peso
bonds to a record $91 billion, according to central bank data.  Yields on government peso debt due 2024 have tumbled 84
basis points, or 0.84 percentage points, this year to a record
low 4.58 percent.  ‘Good Job’  “To give people security, you need to have a stronger
economy,” Alejandro Silva, who helps oversee about $800 million
in emerging-market assets at Silva Capital Management, said in a
telephone interview from  Chicago . “He’s doing a good job of
keeping the subject of the economy in the actual front page of
the agenda, as opposed to focusing on the negativity of
continued violence.”  Narcotics-related deaths more than doubled in 2009 as then-
President Felipe Calderon’s crackdown increased competition
between gangs for the best supply routes to the U.S.  In a report in December that year, the U.S. Joint Forces
Command said Mexico is “under sustained assault” from drug
cartels and listed the nation along with  Pakistan  as at risk of
collapse. In 2010, the same organization, which was created to
improve coordination among the military services and disbanded
in August, said stability in Mexico was central to U.S.
security, without repeating the failed-state warning.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on the nation’s debt surged in 2009 as
deteriorating security combined with a record low peso and
plunging exports to erode confidence in the country. The swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere
to its debt agreements.  Enrique Alvarez , the head of Latin-America fixed income
research, says that Mexico’s security risk hasn’t vanished and
an outbreak in violence in tourist areas could still push bond
yields up about 0.2 percentage point.  “You have an outright security concern,” Alvarez said in
a telephone interview from  New York . “This is not a trivial
issue. This is a fundamental issue at hand in the overall
outlook for Mexico.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points
to 174 basis points at 1:44 p.m. in Mexico City, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The  spread  hit 485 basis points in March
2009.  Growth Outlook  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 12.2641 per dollar.  Yields on interbank rate futures due in December, known as
TIIE, fell 7 basis points yesterday to 4.12 percent.  The drug war in Mexico has reduced the nation’s economic
growth by about 1 percentage point annually, Calderon’s
administration estimated. The national statistics agency said
violence including drug-related crimes slashed 0.8 percentage
point from growth, according to a Dec. 17 study.  The economy expanded 3.9 percent last year, and Pena
Nieto’s reforms may help boost growth as much as 1.5 percentage
points, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “There was definitely this cautiousness about doing
business in Mexico, and even traveling” a few years ago,
Roberto Sanchez-Dahl, who helps manage $1.6 billion in emerging-
market debt at Federated Investment Management Co., said in a
telephone interview from Pittsburgh. “Mexico seems to have a
much better outlook, because there’s growth and there’s dynamism
on the political side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  