-- Boston Victim Assistance Fund Rises to $20 Million
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2013-04-23T22:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/boston-victim-assistance-fund-rises-to-20-million.html
One Fund Boston, set up to aid
marathon bombing victims, has reached $20 million with donations
ranging from $5 by children with lemonade stands to $1 million
by companies, Mayor Thomas Menino said.  Kenneth Feinberg, who oversaw the September 11th Victim
Compensation Fund, will distribute money to people hurt by the
blast. He said today he will hold town hall meetings in early
May to listen to suggestions from the public on how to
distribute the funds.  “This is not the first time I’ve been asked to administer
a fund like this and every time I always hope that it’s the last
time,” Feinberg said at a press briefing today. “But bad
things happen to good people every day in this country.”  Claims from victims must be submitted by June 15, and funds
will be distributed starting June 30, with Bank of America Corp.
issuing the checks, he said.  “These funds have to be distributed quickly, with no
fuss,” Feinberg said. “Claimants are in desperate shape.”  Three people were killed and more than 260 were injured in
the finish-line bombing of the Boston Marathon on April 15.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was charged yesterday and his brother
Tamerlan, 26, was killed in a shootout with police. Law
enforcement officials say the brothers shot and killed a
 Massachusetts  Institute of Technology police officer on April 18
before that confrontation in Watertown, Massachusetts.  Corporate Millions  John Hancock Life Insurance Co., the sponsor of the Boston
Marathon, as well as  AT&T Inc. (T) , Bain Capital Partners, Partners
Healthcare System Inc., New Balance Athletic Shoe Co. and
Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. have pledged $1 million each, the
fund said in a statement.  “I never imagined after the tragedy of last Monday the
generosity of folks -- that we would reach $20 million in one
week,” Menino said.  Forty-eight people remained hospitalized citywide,
according to figures provided yesterday by six Boston hospitals
that dealt with most of the seriously injured. At least 13
survivors lost a limb, including some who had multiple
amputations, said the hospitals, which include Brigham & Women’s
Hospital, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Tufts Medical
Center, and Massachusetts General Hospital.  Five people lost seven limbs at Boston Medical Center,
medical officials said yesterday in a news conference. Already,
they are undergoing rehabilitation that includes some walking
and exercises to make them more mobile, doctors said.  Feinberg oversaw victim assistance funds last year after
the Aurora, Colorado, movie theater shooting, and in 2007 after
the shootings at the Polytechnic Institute and State University
in Blacksburg,  Virginia , known as the Virginia Tech massacre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  