-- Brazil’s Local Sugar Sales Profitability Rises After Crop Delays
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-04-23T11:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/brazil-s-local-sugar-sales-profitability-rises-after-crop-delays.html
Sugar sales within  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, were more profitable than exports last
week after rains delayed the start of the harvest, according to
Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo research group.  Sales of crystal sugar, which accounts for about 68 percent
of all the sweetener sold in the local market, were on average
5.1 percent more profitable than exports in the week ended April
19, Cepea said in a report dated yesterday. That compares with
an advantage of 0.8 percent the previous seven-day period.  Rains that delayed the start of the crop in Brazil’s center
south, the main growing region of the world’s biggest producer,
have eased since last week, helping accelerate harvesting. Dry
weather is set to continue this week, Sao Paulo-based forecaster
Somar Meteorologia said in a report e-mailed yesterday. That
will be beneficial for field works, it said.  “With favorable weather conditions to the sugar cane
harvesting, mills from  Sao Paulo  resumed crushing,” Heloisa Lee
Burnquist wrote in the report. “However, mills continue to
prioritize ethanol and VHP sugar production,” she said,
referring to the raw variety of sugar.  While crystal sugar prices advanced 3.9 percent to 45.26
reais ($22.52) a 50-kilogram (110-pound) bag last week, raw
sugar for May delivery fell 0.3 percent on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York , Cepea and exchange data showed. Supplies of crystal
sugar continue to be limited, according to Burnquist.  Crystal sugar sales were 7 percent more profitable last
week than anhydrous ethanol, the type blended into gasoline, and
9 percent more advantageous than sales of the hydrous kind, used
in flex-fuel cars, Cepea said. Both ethanol and sugar are made
from sugar cane in the South American nation.  Crystal sugar has an International Commission for Uniform
Methods of Sugar Analysis level of between 130 and 180,
according to the Cepea website. A lower level corresponds to a
higher degree of whiteness. Refined sugar futures traded on NYSE
Liffe call for an ICUMSA level of 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 