-- Bristol-Myers Hepatitis C Combo Therapy Blunts Disease
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/bristol-myers-hepatitis-c-combo-therapy-blunts-disease.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , the  New
York  drugmaker that gained 22 percent the past year, said its
combination of three experimental medicines for  hepatitis C 
successfully cleared the virus in 15 of 16 patients.  The results of the 24-week trial were released today before 
the start of the European Association for the Study of the 
Liver’s annual meeting in Amsterdam. The company plans to pick a 
dose for the treatment and move it into final-stage trials later 
this year.  Bristol-Myers’s pill combination doesn’t rely on yearlong,
weekly injections of interferon, nor does it use ribavirin,
which can damage the liver and cause anemia. The new drugs stop
the virus from copying itself, rather than boosting the body’s
defenses to fight off the liver disease. Drugmakers are seeking
pills that are easier to use and reduce side effects for the
 estimated 150 million  patients worldwide with hepatitis C.  “The great news with these oral combos is that it takes
less time to explain to patients how to take their medicine,”
said Doug Manion, the New York-based drugmaker’s head of
neuroscience and virology research. It spares patients self-
injection and the duration of treatment is shorter, he said.  Bristol-Myers is competing with  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,
 Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  among
others to develop new pills to eliminate the current therapy,
which calls for interferon and ribavirin. That standard
treatment can cause flu-like side-effects for as long as 48
weeks. The market for the new therapies is estimated at $20
billion by 2020.  Drug Failure  The company last year took a $1.8 billion charge and
stopped development of an experimental hepatitis C drug gained
in its February 2012 purchase of Inhibitex Inc. after patients
on the pill developed heart failure.  The three drugs in Bristol-Myers’s combination medicine are
daclatasvir, asunaprevir, and BMS-791325. Interim data from the
clinical trial was previously presented at the  American
Association  for the Study of Liver Diseases in  Boston .  The clinical trial studied patients who hadn’t been treated
before. The groups were given therapy combinations with
different doses of BMS-791325.  Of those given the combination with the 75-milligram dose
for 12 weeks, the virus was undetectable in 15 of the 16
patients when measured 24 weeks after stopping therapy. The 16th
patient didn’t stay in the trial long enough for investigators
to count the data as a success, the company said.  In a second group treated for 24 weeks at the same dose, 14
of 16 patients also cleared the virus from their blood 24 weeks
after stopping the therapy. Two patients left the trial.  Interim Data  Bristol-Myers also presented interim data in an arm of the
trial using a 150-milligram dose of BMS-79135. In one subgroup,
18 patients were on the drug for 12 weeks. The virus was
undetectable 12 weeks after the treatment ended in 16 of the 18.
The data on their viral response at 24 and 36 weeks wasn’t
available.  In another study group, patients were given the drug for 24
weeks. Four weeks after stopping the therapy, 15 of 16 had
cleared the virus. Data on the patients’ response 12 weeks after
treatment wasn’t yet available.  It’s not clear why the results from the 150 milligram dose
were different, Manion said.  The most common side-effect was a headache. Two serious
adverse events were reported, one of which was determined to be
unrelated to the study drug. The other was blood vessel
constriction in the brain.  Another study with the same design will be run to verify
the safety findings, Manion said.  The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has
recommended all  baby boomers , defined by the agency as those
born from 1945 to 1965, get tested for the liver infection.
Testing may prevent cirrhosis and liver cancer, both of which
result from hepatitis C infection, the health officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  