-- Broadcom Rises After Earnings Top Estimates Amid Boom
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-04-24T13:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/broadcom-sales-profit-beats-estimates-amid-mobile-device-boom.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , a maker of chips
that help mobile devices connect to the Internet, rose the most
since July after reporting first-quarter sales and profit that
beat estimates as orders for tablet and handset parts increased.  First-quarter net income rose to $191 million, or 33 cents
a share, from $88 million, or 15 cents, a year earlier, the
 Irvine , California-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Sales increased 10 percent to $1.95 billion, beating the $1.91
billion projection. Profit excluding some items was 65 cents a
share, topping a 56 cent estimate.  Broadcom’s chips provide the short-range wireless
connectivity in products such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad
and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy line of mobile devices.
Those two customers account for more than 30 percent of sales,
according to supply chain analysis by Bloomberg. Apple yesterday
reported better iPhone sales that beat some estimates.  “Most of investors had braced themselves for a very
challenging quarter in mobile and wireless at Broadcom and they
came in better than expected,” said  Patrick Wang , an analyst at
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  He has an overweight rating on Broadcom
shares and a $40 target price. “Apple wasn’t as bad as the
rumors had made them out to be.”  Broadcom rose 5.5 percent to $34.78 at 9:41 a.m. in New
York after climbing as much as 6.1 percent, the most intraday
since July 25. The  shares  had dropped less than 1 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with an 11 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Sales Forecast  Second-quarter revenue will be $2.02 billion to $2.18
billion, the company said. Analysts on average had projected
sales of $2.05 billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Broadcom’s wireless business had sales of $996 million in
the first quarter, up from $875 million a year ago. For this
quarter, the company expects revenue in that business to rise
sequentially, it said in a separate  statement .  Under Chief Executive Officer  Scott McGregor , Broadcom is
also moving into the market for so-called baseband chips used to
connect phones to cellular networks, an area dominated by
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  Broadcom has won Samsung as a customer for older
types of technology and is in a race with companies such as
 Intel Corp . to become a challenger to Qualcomm in the market for
the latest high-speed data connections, so-called long term
evolution, or LTE.  Apple reported yesterday that it sold 37.4 million iPhones
in the quarter, beating an average analyst estimate of 35.4
million. It sold 19.5 million iPads, compared with an estimate
of 18.5 million units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  