-- Caesars Forms Venture With $500 Million From Apollo, TPG
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   J a m e s   C a l l a n
-- 2013-04-23T20:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/caesars-forms-growth-venture-as-apollo-tpg-invest-500-million.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the
largest owner of U.S. casinos, said it’s creating a venture that
will raise as much as $1.2 billion to finance growth investments
and bolster the parent company’s balance sheet.  The venture, Caesars Growth Partners LLC, intends to buy a
stake in Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino in Las Vegas and
interests in the Horseshoe Baltimore casino project currently
under development, according to a statement today. Apollo Global
Management LLC and TPG Capital plan to invest $500 million in
the entity, combining the new investment with well-performing
holdings in a structure less constrained by debt. Caesars said
it expects to own a stake of at least 57 percent in the
venture’s earnings.  Caesars, burdened by more than $20 billion in debt after
the 2008 leveraged buyout by  Apollo (APO)  and TPG, has considered
moves to strengthen its capital structure for the past five
years. The Las Vegas-based company, which went public in 2012,
didn’t want to sell more stock because it would dilute
shareholders’ interests, and instead decided to sell growth-
oriented holdings to raise immediate cash while still retaining
a stake in those assets.  “The transaction is an important step in our ongoing
efforts to improve the company’s balance sheet and position
ourselves to make strategic investments,” Chief Executive
Officer Gary Loveman said in the statement.  Losing Money  Caesars  rose  27 percent to close at $15.90 in New York. The
stock has more than doubled in value this year.  Caesars, bought by Apollo and TPG for $30.7 billion, has
been losing money since the global credit crisis as a glut of
hotel rooms led to the biggest Las Vegas gambling slump on
record. The company earlier this year had its debt rating cut by
Moody’s Investors Service to Caa2, as little as two levels above
default. The casino operator may seek to extend its maturities
at the expense of lenders, the ratings company said, giving some
creditors a choice of immediate losses or the risk of default.  Today’s announcement had no ratings impact, Moody’s said in
a statement.  Caesars said in February that its fourth-quarter loss more
than doubled because of costs related to  Hurricane Sandy  and a
write-off at an Atlantic City, New Jersey, property. In Atlantic
City, where the company is the largest owner of casinos,
gambling revenue fell 28 percent in November after Sandy forced
casinos in the seaside resort to close for six days.  Apollo’s Loss  The new investment in the growth venture may increase to
$1.2 billion if Caesars stockholders opt to buy a stake in the
entity overseeing it, Caesars said. The company will receive the
option to buy back all of the venture’s assets in the future,
according to the statement.  Caesars was one of several jumbo-sized deals struck during
a debt-fueled buyout spree from 2004 to 2007. Many of them,
including Caesars, Texas utility Energy Future Holdings Corp.
and media company Clear Channel Communications Inc., struggled
with high debt and depressed earnings in the aftermath of the
financial crisis. Some, including hospital chain HCA Holdings
Inc. and retailer  Dollar General Corp. (DG) , have registered big
gains for the buyout firms.  Apollo’s sixth flagship fund was carrying Caesars at one-
fifth of its $1.34 billion investment as of Sept. 30, according
to a marketing document obtained by Bloomberg News. Caesars had
returned $158.8 million to the private-equity firm, the document
shows.  Online Gaming  While Caesars has dedicated $1.1 billion this year to
sprucing up its properties, including the construction of the
world’s second-biggest Ferris Wheel, the payroll tax increase
felt by many U.S. consumers is contributing to an estimated $300
million cash burn before capital expenditures, Moody’s said in
an April 5 statement.  A business in which Caesars stands to benefit is Internet
gambling, which in the past two years was legalized in New
Jersey,  Delaware  and  Nevada . Online gaming could generate as
much as $210 million in revenue for the company and $84 million
in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to Susan Berliner, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Mitch Garber, CEO of Caesars’s online gaming business, will
be CEO of the new growth venture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  