-- California Lawmakers Seeks to Buck Anti-Abortion Trend
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-04-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/california-lawmakers-seeks-to-buck-anti-abortion-trend.html
A California lawmaker, bucking a
trend in other states to restrict abortion, has proposed to
broaden access by permitting nurse-midwives and others to
perform procedures now done only by doctors.  The measure by Assembly Majority Leader Toni Atkins, a San
Diego Democrat, would allow abortions by midwives, physician
assistants and nurse practitioners in the first 12 weeks of
pregnancy. Atkins said the  bill  is aimed at women in counties
without abortion providers. The proposal goes before the
Assembly  Health Committee  today.  California  isn’t alone in its course.  New York  Governor
 Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, has vowed to decriminalize late-term
abortions when a woman’s health -- not just her life -- is at
risk. A Washington plan to require insurers to cover abortions,
backed by Democratic Governor Jay Inslee, passed the state House
only to be turned back in the Senate by a Republican-dominated
coalition.  “California has a history of forward-looking, innovative
solutions to problems, from technology to health care,” Atkins
said by e-mail. “Even though we are a strongly pro-choice
state, more than half our counties have no abortion provider.”  “It’s appalling,” said Camille Giglio, a lobbyist for
California Right to Life, an anti-abortion group. “They are
using the excuse of fewer abortion clinics to promote cheaper
abortions for the clinics by lesser-trained people who are using
abortions for their livelihood rather than a service to women.”  Democratic Control  While Democrats control both chambers of the California
legislature, a similar bill failed last year after some
Democrats said they were concerned that abortions performed by
non-physicians wouldn’t be as safe. The bill was amended to
allow nurse practitioners and other clinicians to perform non-
surgical abortions, and was signed by Governor  Jerry Brown , a
Democrat. Atkins’s bill would remove that restriction.  Researchers at the  University of California ,  San Francisco ,
in January published a  study  in the American Journal of  Public
Health  that said that complications from abortions conducted by
nurse practitioners, nurse midwives or physician assistants were
“clinically equivalent” to those performed by physicians.  If approved by lawmakers, California would be the fifth
state to permit non-physician abortions, joining  Montana ,  New
Hampshire ,  Oregon  and  Vermont , according to a UC-San Francisco
study. Thirty-nine states require a licensed physician.  New Restrictions  While the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade
struck down many state laws restricting abortion, statutes vary
across the U.S. A flurry of new restrictions have been added in
the past three years.  “States that are run by largely Republican and largely
pro-life legislatures and governors are looking to push out from
what they see as very substantial restrictions on their ability
to create what they believe is better policy in this area,”
said David Masci, a senior researcher with the  Pew Research
Center ’s Forum on Religion & Public Life, based in Washington.  In Kansas, Governor  Sam Brownback  signed legislation April
19 that bans abortions on the basis of fetal gender, declares
that life begins at fertilization and prohibits public funding
for abortions.  In North Dakota Governor Jack Dalrymple signed a law on
March 26 making it a felony for a doctor to perform a
nonemergency abortion once a fetal heartbeat can be detected, as
early as six weeks into a pregnancy, with no exceptions for
victims of rape or incest.  Legislators in 13 other states, including Alabama,  South
Carolina , Iowa and Mississippi, introduced similar legislation
in the first three months of this year, according to Guttmacher.  Close Clinics  Alabama lawmakers in April joined six other U.S. states to
require doctors performing abortions to have hospital-admitting
privileges, which the legislation described as a safety measure
and opponents said is an effort to close clinics.  The  California  legislation was praised by abortion-rights
advocates.  “We are excited to see positive, proactive legislation
moving,” said Tarek Rizk, director of communication for
Washington-based NARAL Pro-Choice America. “It’s inspiring to
see that some states are tackling these pro-woman maneuvers when
there are other states that have pushed very aggressive anti-
woman and anti-abortion laws.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  