-- Canada Dollar at 6-Week Low as Global Slowing Dims Export View
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-23T21:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/canadian-dollar-falls-on-signs-of-global-economic-growth-slowing.html
The Canadian dollar traded at an
almost six-week low against its U.S. counterpart on signs from
Europe and  China  that global economic growth is slowing,
undermining demand for  Canada ’s exports.  The currency pared losses against its U.S. counterpart
after a report showed Canada’s retail sales rose more than
forecast in February. Euro-area services and factory output
shrank for a 15th month in April as the currency bloc struggled
to emerge from a recession, adding to pressure on the  European
Central Bank  to do more to boost growth. A report showed Chinese
manufacturing expanding at a slower pace this month.  “We certainly expect the Canadian dollar to trend lower
this year because of the forecast weakening in the domestic
economy,” David Madani, an economist at  Capital Economics  Ltd.,
said by phone from Toronto. “As it becomes clearer the domestic
economy is weaker, I think there will be speculation at some
point of interest-rate cuts and that’s when the dollar will
start to move lower.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at
C$1.0257 at 5:01 p.m. in Toronto, after earlier dropping as much
as 0.3 percent to C$1.0285. One loonie buys 97.48 U.S. cents.
The currency reached C$1.0294 on April 17, the weakest level
since March 13.  Options Reading  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
was at the highest in a month. The three-month so-called 25-
delta risk reversal rate rose to 1.18 percent, the most since
March 12. Risk reversals measure the premium on options
contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts
that do the opposite.  Canada’s  benchmark  10-year government bonds dropped, with
yields rising two basis points or 0.02 percentage point to 1.72
percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 lost 19
cents to C$97.94.  The Bank of Canada will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2
billion) of 1.5 percent notes tomorrow. The securities mature in
August 2015.  Canadian retail sales registered the biggest two-month gain
since 2011, on increased purchases at gasoline stations and new
 car dealerships . Sales climbed 0.8 percent to C$39.5 billion
($38.4 billion),  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa,
following a revised increase of 0.9 percent in the prior month.
Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast a 0.3 percent
increase, based on the median of 21 projections.  Economic Data  “Better-than-expected retail sales has worked to the
benefit of the Canadian dollar but broader issues are still at
play,” Greg T. Moore, currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank, said by phone from Toronto. “Digging into the details of
that sales report, it still reflects a fairly weak economic
landscape.”  In volume terms, sales were little changed, suggesting gains
stemmed from higher prices. That measure more closely reflects
the industry’s contribution to real economic growth. Sales were
up 1.5 percent from a year earlier, Statistics Canada said.  “A hesitant consumer is just one of the legs of the
Canadian economy that presents obstacles to aggregate growth in
2013, with the recent soft patch in Chinese and U.S. growth
being major elements to an expected cooling in Canadian
growth,”  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategy at
GMP Securities LLC, wrote in a note to clients.  Reduced Outlook  Toronto-Dominion lowered its forecast last week for the
Canadian dollar to C$1.090 at the end of the year. The downgrade
came after last week’s Monetary Policy Report by the central
bank lowering its growth forecast for 2013.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  warned on April 17 that
“some modest withdrawal” of monetary stimulus “will likely be
required,” while saying the current lending rate will be
appropriate “for a period of time.” Canada’s so-called
tightening bias, which it has clung to since April 2012,
isolates it among Group of Seven nations undertaking
extraordinary asset purchases and monetary easing.  Cooling emerging-market energy consumption is triggering a
deeper slowdown than the government anticipated. The  Bank of
Canada  reduced its outlook for growth this year to 1.5 percent
from 2 percent because of lower business investment and
projected excess capacity in the economy at least into 2015.  “A weaker Canadian dollar is already reflecting the more
dovish Bank of Canada,” said Madani of Capital Economics.  The Canadian dollar has lost 0.9 percent during the past
six months against nine other developed-nation currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The
Australian dollar has risen 1.7 percent and the  New Zealand
dollar  has gained 6.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  