-- Canada Terror Suspect Jaser in Shock Over Charges: Lawyer
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-04-23T20:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/canada-terror-suspect-jaser-in-shock-over-charges-lawyer.html
Raed Jaser, arrested  yesterday  and
charged with planning to derail a passenger train in  Canada  with
the help of al-Qaeda, will defend the charges and is in a
“state of shock” over the allegations, his lawyer said.  Jaser, 35, who appeared in a Toronto court today, plans to
seek bail at the Superior Court, lawyer John Norris told
reporters outside the courthouse. Jaser, who lives in Toronto,
is a permanent resident in Canada and has been in the country
for 20 years, Norris said.  Canadian police charged Jaser and Chiheb Esseghaier with a
plan to derail a VIA Rail train in the Toronto area. The two men
took advice from al-Qaeda members in  Iran  in what is the first
al-Qaeda linked plot in Canada, police said. Esseghaier, 30,
appeared in a Montreal court today.  Jaser, of Palestinian decent according to his father
Mohammad Jaser, had three charges laid against him including
conspiring with a terrorist group to commit murder and
interfering with transportation facilities. He arrived at the
court in a police car, wearing a black skull cap and a brown and
charcoal-striped long-sleeve shirt.  Norris, who also defended former Guantanamo Bay inmate Omar
Khadr, said he’s confident they will put together a
“compelling” application for Jaser’s release.  “He intends to defend himself vigorously against these
charges and I look forward to assisting him in that,” Norris
said.  The announcement of charges yesterday came three days after
U.S. forces captured Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the 19-year-old suspect
in the bombings at the  Boston  Marathon.  Follows Boston  “For reasons only they know, the police in their press
conference thought it appropriate to raise the issue of my
client’s status in Canada,” Norris said. “It seems intended in
the current climate to simply demonize my client.”  “It’s surprising to say the least that this arrest would
be made now, close on the heels of the events in Boston,” he
added.  Jaser’s parents and other family members were at the
courthouse and declined to comment. The court ordered a
publication ban on the trial proceedings.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said the two arrests
are symptomatic of a global threat.  “These terrorist threats unfortunately are a part of the
global reality,” Harper told lawmakers today in Ottawa. He also
congratulated the Muslim community and police officers for their
assistance.  Iran View  Iran denied any link to the rail plot and to al-Qaeda.  “It’s the funniest thing I’ve heard in the 64 years I’ve
lived,” said Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi , according to
comments carried by state-run Iranian Students News Agency.  Esseghaier is a native of  Tunisia , the Globe and Mail
reported. Doug Best, RCMP Superintendent, said this appears to
be the first known terror plot in Canada supported by al-Qaeda.  “These arrests were the result of extensive cross-border
cooperation, which is the hallmark of our relationship,” U.S.
ambassador to Canada  David Jacobson  said in an e-mailed
statement. “We all need to remain vigilant in confronting
threats and keeping North America safe and secure.”  Canada’s national police said the public was not in danger,
and that the planned attack wasn’t imminent. They declined to
say what route the accused were targeting at Montreal-based VIA
Rail, which operates passenger trains across Canada. The Globe
and Mail reported the targeted route was Toronto to  New York .  Police were acting on a tip from the Muslim community, said
Hussein Hamdani, a partner with Simpson Wigle Law LLP in
Hamilton, Ontario, and a community leader invited to attend the
RCMP press conference yesterday.  “They told us if it was not for the involvement of the
Muslim community, they would not have been able to make an
arrest,” Hamdani said. “This was a way of reconnecting and
strengthening that partnership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  