-- Chelsea May Use Courtois as Lure in Falcao Bid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-23T07:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/chelsea-may-use-courtois-as-lure-in-falcao-bid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Courtois Carrot  Chelsea is prepared to include goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois
in its offer for Atletico Madrid’s Radamel Falcao as it tries to
beat Real Madrid,  Manchester United  and  Manchester City  to the
signing of the Colombian striker, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Courtois, 20, has spent the last two seasons on loan at
Atletico, which wants the Belgian international goalie again
next season, the Mirror added.  Apology Rejected  Chelsea defender Branislav Ivanovic rejected Liverpool
striker  Luis Suarez ’s apology for biting him in the teams’ 2-2
draw at Anfield two days ago, the  Guardian reported .  While Ivanovic appreciated Suarez’s phone call to say
sorry, he is said to have stopped short of accepting his
apology, the newspaper reported. Chelsea goalkeeper  Petr Cech 
said that Ivanovic was “not happy at all” about the incident,
the Guardian added.  Real Deal?  Real Madrid may try to tempt Tottenham Hotspur into selling
Gareth Bale by offering winger Jose Callejon, who is keen on a
move to the Premier League, in a player-plus-cash deal, the
 Mirror reported .  Bale is Real’s top off-season transfer target even though
Spurs Chairman  Daniel Levy  has said the Welshman isn’t for sale,
the newspaper added.  Keeping Kompany  Manchester City captain  Vincent Kompany , who’s been linked
with a move to Barcelona, said he has no intention of leaving
the club,  the Sun reported .  “I have no reason to go elsewhere,” the Sun cited Kompany
as saying. “I am happy here, I have five years left and if you
knew the plans for this team for the future. I consider that to
be a real objective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  