-- Chesapeake Assails BNY ‘Incoherent’ Reading of Bond Terms
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-23T16:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/chesapeake-s-trial-with-bny-will-examine-2019-note-issue.html
A Chesapeake Energy Corp. lawyer
attacked  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ’s assertion that the
energy company waited too long to redeem $1.3 billion in notes
early at par.  Chesapeake sued BNY Mellon, the bonds’ issuing trustee,
last month in federal court in New York after the bank said the
gas producer’s planned notice of early redemption, which it sent
to investors on March 15, would miss a deadline in the notes’
indenture paperwork allowing it to call the bonds six years
early at 100 cents on the dollar. BNY Mellon said the redemption
had to be completed by that date, with notification to investors
a month earlier.  “Like Caesar, Chesapeake was forewarned that March 15 was
a drop-dead date,” the lawyer, Stephen Ascher, said today in
his opening statement in a nonjury trial of the dispute. “ BNY
Mellon  said no, beware the Ides of February.”  Chesapeake, the second-biggest natural-gas producer in the
U.S., has said it would pay about $400 million in interest over
the life of the 6.775 percent notes due March 2019. At stake is
the Oklahoma City-based company’s bid to refinance the debt and
save about $100 million by tapping lower  interest rates .  U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer, who is overseeing the
case on an emergency basis, has said he’ll aim to rule on the
three-day trial by May 9, less than a week before the early call
is scheduled to be formally executed.  River Birch  Chesapeake on April 11 lost a pretrial request for BNY
Mellon and investor River Birch Capital LLC, which initiated the
challenge, to hand over e-mails showing the motive behind the
bid to block the notes’ early redemption.  Bank of  New York  Mellon initially agreed with Chesapeake in
February that the early redemption would meet the deadline. The
trustee changed its position after River Birch argued Chesapeake
had started the process too late, Chesapeake said.  Chesapeake made the early call after the lawsuit was filed
because Engelmayer said he didn’t think the investors had a
strong argument for a demand they made -- that the gas company
should make a “make-whole payment” of $400 million for the
notes if Chesapeake lost its lawsuit over the deadline.
Chesapeake said it will cancel the early call if it loses the
case, and BNY Mellon later dropped that argument.  Indenture Language  Chesapeake contends the March 15 deadline stated in the
indenture was for the notice of early redemption to be sent to
noteholders; BNY Mellon claims that the call should have been
formally completed by that date, and that the notice should have
been sent to investors a month earlier on Feb. 13. Both sides
argue the language in the indenture documents backs their
respective interpretations of the March 15 deadline.  “BNY’s interpretation is not only unreasonable, it is
incoherent,” Ascher said today.  Steven Bierman, an attorney for BNY Mellon, said that under
New York law, any ambiguity in a contract should be interpreted
against the party that drafted it and not against investors who
weren’t represented in negotiations.  “March 15 is a bright line between redeeming the notes at
par and redeeming at the make-whole price,” Bierman said.
Chesapeake’s view “is completely unsupportable,” he said.  Engelmayer in earlier hearings has called the language in
the indenture “ambiguous” and said he needed to see evidence
and hear testimony from people who worked on negotiations for
the notes and helped draft the indenture about how the language
was chosen to determine the meaning of the deadline.  CFO Testimony  Employees from the law firm Bracewell & Giuliani LLP, which
advised Chesapeake on the notes, and Morgan Stanley, which was
an underwriter, will testify at the trial, as will Chesapeake
Chief Financial Officer Domenic Dell’Osso, Richard Ziegler, the
company’s lawyer, said in a court filing on April 21.  The group “will testify that the special early redemption
provision includes an unusual sentence designed to give
Chesapeake the right to send notice until March 15, 2013,” the
company said in the filing. “Conversely, none of the drafters
or negotiators -- not one -- will testify that he intended
Chesapeake’s option to expire if Chesapeake did not give notice
by February 13.”  The judge has said he was particularly interested in
communications between Chesapeake and three Bracewell & Giuliani
lawyers as the gas company sought opinions on the meaning of the
deadline. The judge reviewed the e-mails in private to determine
whether they should be used in the case.  Hedge Fund  Last month, River Birch held $16.7 million of the
securities, some of which it bought Feb. 15 after it believed
Chesapeake had missed the window to redeem the notes at par,
said James Seery Jr., a lawyer at the hedge fund, in a March 12
letter to the court.  Bierman said today that investors were under the impression
the deadline was in February, bolstering BNY Mellon’s view that
its interpretation is the intended one.  The case is  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  