-- Chicago Wins Lowest Cost Since ’09 Making Cubs Pay: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-04-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/chicago-wins-lowest-cost-since-09-making-cubs-pay-muni-credit.html
Chicago  Mayor Rahm Emanuel’s
refusal to sell bonds for a $500 million renovation of Wrigley
Field is poised to help extend a debt rally that has pushed the
city’s relative borrowing costs to a four-year low.  The Chicago Cubs Major League Baseball franchise, which
hasn’t won a championship since 1908, would finance the upgrades
to the 99-year-old ballpark based on a plan the team and city
released last week. Cubs Chairman Tom Ricketts, who co-founded
bond underwriter Incapital LLC and tried to get Chicago and
Illinois to help pay for construction, said the team will win
the World Series if the proposal is approved.  Emanuel’s decision to withhold public money shows he’s
focusing on the strains of the city’s pension costs, said
Laurence Msall, president of the Civic Federation, a Chicago
nonprofit group specializing in government finances. The
Democratic mayor has warned retirement obligations may consume
about 20 percent of the budget within four years. The stadium
move may also extend gains that have shrunk the yield penalty on
some city obligations to the lowest since 2009.  “Chicago has to worry about how to fund essential parts of
city government -- this would have been a distraction,” said
Shawn O’Leary, senior research analyst in Chicago for Nuveen
Asset Management, which oversees about $95 billion of munis.
“It would have been an additional strain on their finances.”  ‘Precedential’ Deal  The third-most-populous U.S. city’s resistance to stadium
debt differs from municipalities including Miami. Voters there
will decide via referendum next month whether to support part of
a $350 million improvement to Sun Life Stadium for the National
Football League’s Dolphins.  Chicago’s deal has the potential to be “precedential”
because it wouldn’t be issuing bonds to support a privately
owned sports team, said Donald Haider, a former city finance
director. He was involved in negotiations with the Chicago Bears
that led to a revenue bond sale for sky boxes at Soldier Field
in 1979, backed by parking receipts.  Wrigley renovation plans provoked resistance from then-
Chicago Mayor Richard M. Daley and Governor Pat Quinn in 2010
because the Ricketts family was pushing for the state to sell
$300 million of tax-exempt bonds to finance the deal. Emanuel,
who took office in May 2011, repeatedly said he didn’t want
taxpayer money used.  Rating Threat  Tom Ricketts is a son of TD Ameritrade Holding Corp.
founder  Joe Ricketts . The family bought the team in 2009 from
the Tribune Co.  Emanuel, 53, a former investment banker, U.S. congressman
and President  Barack Obama ’s ex-chief of staff, faces pressure
from ratings companies as the city recovers from the 18-month
recession that ended almost four years ago. Moody’s Investors
Service put Chicago’s Aa3 bond rating on review for downgrade
last week, citing “large adjusted net pension liabilities.”
The grade is the company’s fourth-highest mark.  The Emanuel administration has warned that retirement
contributions will cost about $1.2 billion within four years if
the state legislature doesn’t restructure the system, up from
$476 million last year.  Deficit Dilemma  Chicago faced a deficit of $298 million before the approval
in November of the 2013 spending plan, which would eliminate the
projected gap without raising fees or taxes. Chicago Public
Schools said last month it intends to close 54 schools as part
of a plan to eliminate a $1 billion shortfall.  With municipal interest rates below their five-decade
 average , investors looking to pad returns have sought Chicago
debt for their relatively higher yields.  Buyers this month demanded as little as 0.24 percentage
point of additional yield to own tax-exempt Chicago general-
obligation bonds maturing in January 2032 rather than benchmark
munis due the same year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
the smallest spread since 2009. The bonds also traded this year
at the lowest yield since their 2007 issuance.  The ballpark deal isn’t complete yet, and any agreement may
yet add to the city’s burden, said Haider, a professor of
management at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of
Management, which is based in Evanston, Illinois.  Landmark Status  After the proposed renovation agreement was announced April
15, Ricketts said he wants a landmark status tax break and
doesn’t want to pay Chicago for expanding the venue onto public
sidewalks and streets. These concessions, if adopted by the city
council, would indirectly put part of the cost of renovations on
the backs of taxpayers.  The most important point was “having the flexibility to
run Wrigley Field and the Cubs like a business,” said Dennis
Culloton, a spokesman for the Ricketts family. “This comes
pretty close to achieving that.”  “Wrigley Field is a cherished institution in Chicago and
the Wrigleyville community, but it is not the taxpayers’
responsibility to rebuild this private venue,” Sarah Hamilton,
Emanuel’s communications director, said in an e-mail. “The
framework that we have reached allows the Cubs to restore the
Friendly Confines and pursue their economic goals.”  Chicago and  Illinois  have spent taxpayer dollars to build
or update stadiums for the Chicago White Sox and the Chicago
Bears, and this deal charts a new course because it recognizes
that neither the city nor the state can afford to commit funds
for sports teams, Msall said.  Taxpayer Hook  “This Wrigley Field renovation breaks from the precedent
of having the government on the hook for financing,” Msall
said.  States and cities are poised to sell about $7.8 billion of
bonds this week, the least since the period through April 5,
Bloomberg data show. They issued about $20 billion in the past
two weeks, the most this year.  Even with the supply wave, the yield on benchmark 10-year
munis has fallen about 0.2 percentage point since the start of
April. Municipal debt is set this month for its biggest return
since November, in its fifth-straight April rebound.  At  1.75 percent , yields on AAA munis due in 2023 are about
104 percent of the interest rate on similar-maturity Treasuries,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  ratio , a gauge of relative value, has been above 100
percent for seven straight trading days. The higher the
percentage, the cheaper local debt is compared with federal
securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  