-- China Said to Ask Bank Bond Traders to Check Histories
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-24T06:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/china-said-to-ask-bond-traders-to-check-transactions-amid-probe.html
China ’s central bank asked
participants in the nation’s $3.7 trillion  interbank bond market 
to examine trading histories as it cracks down on illegal
transactions, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The People’s Bank of China held a meeting last week with
participants including the China Foreign Exchange Trade System
and the National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors to discuss possible measures for tighter control over
trading, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the matter.  Chinese authorities are seeking to clean up a market that
has doubled over five years as they push companies to cut
reliance on state-bank lending and increase use of the  bond
market  to finance expansion. Fitch Ratings Ltd. this month cut
China’s long-term local-currency debt rating, citing risks from
a lack of transparency in local  government borrowing .  “The PBOC is probing as part of the government’s broader
efforts in clamping down on corruption and controlling
escalating credit risk,” said Zhang Zhiwei, the chief China
economist at Nomura in  Hong Kong . “It may have a negative
impact in the short run but setting the rules straight is
necessary if China wants to expand the market, and it’s good for
the economy in the long run.”  Inspection Teams  Chinese regulators are investigating illegal fixed-income
transactions in accounts typically used by senior traders at
financial institutions, the Shanghai Securities News reported
last week. The government has sent teams to inspect trading
records at companies in Shanghai, Beijing and Jiangsu province,
the newspaper reported, without citing anyone.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t immediately respond to
faxed questions seeking comment.  Some financial institutions, seeking to move bonds off
their balance sheets, have asked other institutions to hold
those bonds for them over a certain period and for a specific
fee, according to an April 22 China National Radio article.  Interest payments and gains from any price appreciation
continue to belong to the original owner of the bond, according
to the article. Because such transactions are outside of
regulated markets, they open the door to abuses like  insider
trading  and the use of client funds for trades generating
personal gains, China National Radio said.  Deep Reform  The central bank plans to meet with large lenders today and
will listen to their suggestions on improving the market, China
Business News reported, citing people it didn’t identify. The
topics may include “deep” reform of bond sales and trading,
according to the report.  China’s interbank market had 23.1 trillion  yuan  of
outstanding bonds at the end of March, according to Chinabond,
the nation’s bond clearinghouse. That compared with 522 billion
yuan on  stock exchanges , where retail investors are allowed to
trade, according to the clearinghouse.  The PBOC regulates the interbank bond market, while the
China Securities Regulatory Commission and the  National
Development and Reform Commission  also hold oversight for parts
of the domestic  debt market .  Ease Risks  The probe into illegal bond market transactions will help
ease risks in local government financing vehicle debt, according
to a commentary in the China Securities Journal by reporter Wang
Hui. China’s bond market should be regulated because then local
governments will issue more debt to support the economy, further
growing the market, Wang wrote.  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in
November the country will “vigorously” develop the bond
market. The central bank allowed note repurchase agreements for
the first time and opened the interbank bond market further to
foreign institutions such as the  World Bank  last year.  The China Foreign Exchange Trade System provides systems
for foreign exchange and fixed-income trading in the nation.
NAFMII, which counts banks, insurers and securities companies
among its membership, is an industry group that regulates the
 interbank market . Both operate under the auspices of the central
bank.  A self-regulating body to expand the interbank bond market
was also established by Zhou in 2007. That introduced medium-term notes, which became the most popular form of bonds in
China. Unlike other regulators,  NAFMII  doesn’t require companies
to get approval to issue debt.  The 20 biggest underwriters of corporate bond sales this
year in China are domestic financial institutions, with Morgan
Stanley and UBS Securities Co. the only overseas firms in the
top 40, the data show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  