-- Chinese Stocks Slump Most in Three Weeks as Manufacturing Slows
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-04-23T07:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/chinese-stocks-decline-before-release-of-hsbc-pmi-factory-data.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index down the most in three weeks, as a gauge of
manufacturing for this month slowed more than estimated.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. slid 5.9 percent and Sany Heavy
Industry Co. lost 3.9 percent, pacing declines by construction-
related companies.  China  Minsheng Banking Corp. slumped 4.7
percent as financial companies retreated. The preliminary
reading of a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 50.5 for April
from 51.6 in March, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics, compared with the 51.5 median forecast of economists.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  declined 2.6 percent to
2,184.54 at the close, the biggest loss since March 28. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  fell 3.2 percent to 2,449.47. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 1.8 percent in Hong Kong, taking
this year’s drop to 9 percent.  “Economic data is likely to continue to be weaker in the
second quarter,” said Mao Sheng, an analyst for Huaxi
Securities Co. in Chengdu. “The government’s current policy is
to be risk averse and focus on the restructuring of the economy,
so data like today’s PMI is acceptable for them. As such, our
recovery may be much weaker than we had hoped for and this will
drag stocks.”  The Shanghai Composite has slumped more than 10 percent
from a Feb. 6 high on concern slowing growth will hurt  earnings .
 China’s economy  expanded 7.7 percent in the first quarter,
missing estimates, as industrial production and fixed-asset
investments in March fell short of forecasts. Rising Chinese
 home prices  may limit scope for stimulus as President Xi Jinping
seeks to prevent a real-estate bubble.  ‘Normal’ Growth  In  Washington  last week, central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the pace of growth was reasonable and “normal.”  Anhui Conch tumbled 5.9 percent to 18.10  yuan , its biggest
drop since March 4. The company reported first-quarter net
income fell to 972 million yuan ($157 million) from 1.25 billion
yuan a year earlier. BBMG Corp. plunged 6.8 percent to 6.63
yuan. The cement producer said last week it expects a 60 million
yuan loss in the first quarter.  China’s industrial growth is facing downward pressure amid
slowing domestic and international demand, a Ministry of
Industry and Information Technology official said. The lack of
“efficient demand” and the unwillingness by companies to
invest are among challenges to the industrial economy, Xiao
Chunquan, a MIIT spokesman, said at a briefing in Beijing today.  Sany Heavy, China’s biggest construction equipment maker,
lost 3.9 percent to 10.02 yuan.  Spending Slowdown  “This has been a very narrowly based recovery,
predominantly driven by infrastructure investment, but now even
infrastructure investment is also apparently slowing down,”
said Tao Dong, head of Asia economics excluding  Japan  at Credit
Suisse Group AG in  Hong Kong .  Valuations on the Shanghai gauge fell to 9 times projected
12-month profits, compared with the seven-year average of 15.8,
 data  compiled by Bloomberg show. Trading volumes in the Shanghai
index were 4.6 percent higher than the 30-day average at the
close, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A  gauge  tracking financial companies retreated 3.9 percent,
the most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups. Minsheng
Banking slid 4.7 percent to 9.76 yuan. China Merchants Bank Co.
lost 3.6 percent to 12.14 yuan.  China’s local government financing vehicles will have to
repay about 3.49 trillion yuan of loans over the next three
years, China Business News  reported , citing the country’s
banking regulator.  Debt that will come due in that period accounts for about
37.5 percent of total loans to governments at the province,
county and municipal levels,  Shang Fulin , chairman of the China
Banking Regulatory Commission, told an internal meeting,
according to the newspaper. Two phone calls to the regulator’s
press office by  Bloomberg News  went unanswered.  A gauge of  property developers  on the Shanghai Composite
tumbled 3.6 percent. China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest, lost
3.5 percent to 11.28 yuan, even as the company reported a 16
percent increase in first-quarter profit. Gemdale Corp. sank 4.9
percent to 6.99 yuan.  -- Editors: Richard Frost, Allen Wan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  