-- Chocolatier Mondelez Pledges to Aid Women Farmers
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-04-23T15:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/chocolatier-mondelez-pledges-to-aid-women-farmers.html
Mondelez International Inc., (MDLZ)  the
world’s biggest chocolatier, has agreed to work to improve the
well-being of women cocoa farmers after an Oxfam International
report detailed corporate shortcomings in human rights and
sustainability.  Mondelez is the third company in the past two months to
pledge to assess the conditions of women in its supply chain and
address gender inequality since an Oxfam campaign rated 10 food
companies on their policies. The Deerfield, Illinois-based
company, spun off from Kraft Foods Inc. last year, joins  Nestle
SA (NESN)  and Mars Inc. in adjusting its practices since the Oxfam
report. The three companies together control  42 percent  of the
world chocolate market.  “An increased involvement of women in the supply base
leads to improved financial management by farmers, better
education for youth and more sustainable, thriving
communities,” Christine McGrath, vice president of external
affairs and cocoa life at Mondelez, said in a statement.  Greater corporate concern for human rights, endorsed by the
 United Nations  in 2011, has been urged by advocacy groups as
businesses expand operations in sub-Saharan Africa and other
developing regions. Companies including  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  have joined initiatives such as the
 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil  and created certifications
such as  Fair Trade  to monitor business practices and encourage
improvements.  Failing Grades  Oxfam, a humanitarian advocacy group, gave major food
businesses including  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  and  Kellogg
Co. (K)  failing grades in a  report  in February examining corporate
policies in seven areas: the land rights of small farmers;
exploitation of women, farmers and workers;  climate change ;
business transparency; and water use. Companies were rated on a
scale of 1 to 10.  Nestle, which had the highest overall score of 38 out of a
possible 70 in the study, scored 4 on women’s issues, while
Mars, fifth overall, received a 1. Mondelez scored 2 on women
and placed sixth overall. None of the 10 companies profiled at
the time knew or were trying to find out how many women farmers
are involved in their supply chains or what kind of farming
activities they are engaged in, Oxfam said.  UN Principles  As part of its efforts to improve the fortunes of women
farmers, Mondelez will sign the UN Women Empowerment Principles
by the end of this week, the company said. It is the first of
the three major chocolate producers to sign the UN document,
which outlines ways to help women in workplaces, markets and
communities.  The 10 businesses studied in Oxfam’s study are among the
top producers in the global  food-and-beverage  industry, which
Istanbul-based consultancy  IMAP Inc.  values at almost $7
trillion. Nestle, the world’s largest food company, last year
had revenues of $92.2 billion.  Cocoa, grown largely in West  Africa , rose to a four-month
high today in trading on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  on
speculation that the region’s selling will slow and supplies may
shrink. The price reached $2,355, the highest for a most-active
contract since Dec. 21, and was $2,325 a ton, up 0.6 percent, at
11:06 a.m. The price had risen 3.3 percent this year through
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  