-- Citic Pacific Says ‘Ludicrous’ to Avoid Palmer Royalty
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-04-23T06:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/citic-pacific-says-ludicrous-to-avoid-palmer-royalty.html
Clive Palmer , the Australian mining
entrepreneur planning to build a replica of the Titanic, is
using a dispute over A$400,000 ($409,500) to try to seize
control of an iron ore mine that  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267)  has spent
A$7 billion to build, the Chinese company’s lawyer said.  Palmer’s Mineralogy Pty sued in Western Australian state
court in Perth to terminate Citic Pacific’s Sino Iron unit’s
mining rights and site-lease agreements at Palmer’s Pilbara
property for failing to pay royalties.  “$7 billion has been spent on this mine,” Charles Scerri,
Citic Pacific’s lawyer, said at the start of a two-day trial in
Perth today, referring to the project that’s estimated to cost
$8 billion. “We’ll pay the royalty,” he said adding it would
be “ludicrous” to try and avoid it.  The dispute centers over a 2008 agreement giving Citic
Pacific the right to develop the biggest magnetite  iron ore 
project in Australia on Palmer’s land. Citic Pacific agreed to
start paying royalties when it had taken possession of the ore,
which it says occurs after it’s crushed and weighed. Palmer
claims the royalty is due when the ore is removed from the
ground.  Justice James Edelman, who is presiding over the dispute
and will make the final ruling, said he was struck “by the
unreality of these proceedings,” since Citic Pacific will pay
the royalty, the amount in dispute is only the outstanding
interest based on when the payments ought to have started.  “It’s more than that,” R. J. Lee, Mineralogy’s lawyer,
told the judge. “Mineralogy has the right to terminate them and
put other people on the site,” she said of the mining
agreements.  Separate Ruling  Edelman said he’d rule on whether Mineralogy has the power
to terminate the mining rights because of the nonpayment. He
said whether Palmer’s company can exercise those powers would
likely form the basis of another hearing.  The Citic Pacific development has been beset by problems
including a more than four-fold budget blowout and wrong
currency bets that cost HK$14.6 billion ($1.9 billion) in 2008.
Last week, the company said the mine, originally slated to begin
output in the first half of 2011, wouldn’t make its first
shipment of iron ore concentrate until the second half of May.  Citic Pacific slipped 5.8 percent in Hong Kong trading to
yesterday since the company said Nov. 19 it was fighting
Palmer’s attempts to terminate its mining rights. The  Hang Seng
Index  has risen 3.7 percent over the same period.  In a separate New South Wales lawsuit, Mineralogy claimed
it was owed a A$200 million royalty, which was due yesterday. A
hearing over whether the lawsuit should continue in Sydney or be
moved to Perth is scheduled for April 30 in Sydney.  Counter Claims  Citic Pacific, controlled by  China ’s biggest state-owned
investment company, has disputed Palmer’s claims saying in its
2012 annual report that changes in the iron ore market make it
impossible to calculate the amount owed under the contract with
Mineralogy. Palmer said last year he expected to eventually
receive $500 million a year in royalties from the mine.  The  Supreme Court  of Western Australia declined to provide
any documents related to the dispute and today’s trial.  Citic Pacific has blamed  Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd. ,
the contractor building the mine, for the delays and cost
overruns, spurring another dispute with Palmer who has sided
with the contractor, known as MCC. MCC agreed to contribute $858
million in January to cover some of the cost overruns.  “MCC has had to endure repeated changes to the project’s
scope of works and has at all times acted in the best interests
of their stakeholders, including Citic and Mineralogy,” Palmer
said in a March 27 statement.  Titanic Plans  Palmer has an agreement with Nanjing-based CSC Jinling
Shipyard to build a 21st-century replica of the Titanic. CSC
Jinling is also building four 64,000 deadweight tonne bulk
carriers for the Australian entrepreneur, whose investments also
include golf courses, hotels, a soccer team and a horse stud.  The Titanic II, scheduled to sail from  England  to  New York 
on its maiden voyage by the end of 2016, will likely cost at
least $500 million,  Greg Johnson , an analyst with Shore Capital
Group in  London , said last year. The original RMS Titanic, whose
popularity was underscored by the 1997 James Cameron movie that
won 11 Academy Awards, sank on its maiden voyage in 1912 after
colliding with an iceberg. The sinking caused the deaths of
1,502 people.  The mining magnate stopped short of calling his version of
the Titanic unsinkable, as the White Star Line had referred to
its original.  “Anything will sink if you put a hole in it,” Palmer told
a New York news conference in February.  The Western Australia case is Mineralogy Pty v Sino Iron
Pty. CIV 2338/2012, Supreme Court of Western  Australia  (Perth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  