-- Clearwire Sets May 21 Date for Vote on Sprint’s Takeover Offer
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/clearwire-sets-may-21-date-to-vote-on-sprint-s-takeover-bid-1-.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the money-losing
wireless-service provider, scheduled a shareholder meeting next
month to vote on  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s $2.97-a-share takeover
offer, a transaction it has urged investors to approve.  The meeting is set for May 21 at 10:30 a.m. in Bellevue,
 Washington , according to a  regulatory filing  yesterday. The deal
has been endorsed by the board, and it’s in the best interest of
shareholders, Clearwire said.  Sprint, which already owned just over half of Clearwire,
agreed to buy the remainder in December -- two months after a
separate deal with Tokyo-based  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  promised to
provide a cash infusion. SoftBank is buying a $20 billion stake
in Sprint to help the company expand into the U.S.  Clearwire also received a $3.30-a-share proposal in January
from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , though that offer is hampered by
Sprint’s majority stake in the company.  Before the takeover bid, Sprint and Clearwire had run a
joint venture with the goal of building a nationwide wireless
network. The effort struggled to gain traction over the past
four years, leading to billions of dollars in losses for
Clearwire. Sprint’s goal now is to use Clearwire’s wireless
airwaves to bolster its own network.  The deal is opposed by Crest Financial, a Houston-based
investment firm that has offered financing to Clearwire in an
effort to get it to retain its independence. Crest has argued
that the Clearwire spectrum is worth more than what Sprint is
offering.  Dish’s Move  Further complicating matters, Dish made a bid this month
for majority control of Sprint, offering $25.5 billion for 70
percent of the carrier. Dish wants to unify Sprint’s wireless
network with its satellite-TV service, letting it compete with
 Verizon Wireless  and AT&T Inc. SoftBank has argued that its bid
has “superior short- and long-term benefits” compared with
Dish’s “highly conditional preliminary proposal.”  Clearwire shares  rose 0.9 percent to $3.29 yesterday in  New
York . The stock has climbed 14 percent this year, suggesting
that at least some investors expect the company to accept a
higher offer than Sprint’s $2.97 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  