-- Clippers Beat Grizzlies in NBA Playoffs; Bulls Top Nets on Road
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-23T06:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/clippers-beat-grizzlies-in-nba-playoffs-bulls-top-nets-on-road.html
The Los Angeles Clippers beat the
 Memphis  Grizzlies 93-91 for a second straight win in their
National Basketball Association playoff series as Chris Paul hit
a driving bank shot with a tenth of a second remaining.  Paul scored 24 points last night in Los Angeles, including
the final eight for the Clippers, who seized a 2-0 lead in games
in their best-of-seven Western Conference matchup.  “It was a hard-fought game,” Paul, who added nine
assists, said in a televised interview. “We’ll take it, 2-
and-0, and now we’ve got to go to Memphis. You’ve got to protect
home court and after Game 1 we knew they were going to come in
hungry and try to steal Game 2.”  The  Chicago  Bulls yesterday became the first team to win on
the road in 10 games so far this postseason, holding on for a
90-82 victory against the Brooklyn Nets that ties their Eastern
Conference playoff series at one game apiece.  Home teams won the opening game in all eight first-round
playoff series.  Three more Game 2 matchups are scheduled for tonight, with
the New York Knicks hosting the Boston Celtics in their Eastern
Conference series and the defending-champion Miami Heat, the top
seed in the East, home to the Milwaukee Bucks. In the West, the
Golden State Warriors visit the Denver Nuggets.  The Clippers blew a 12-point fourth-quarter lead last night
before pulling out the win on Paul’s contested shot just before
time expired. Referees reviewed the play and the home crowd
celebrated when the basket was ruled good.  Clippers’ Griffin  Blake Griffin added 21 points for the Clippers, the fourth
seed in the West, while Mike Conley scored 28 points to lead the
fifth-seeded Grizzlies. Memphis will host the next two games,
starting with Game 3 on April 25.  The Bulls last night rebounded from a 17-point Game 1 loss
in  Brooklyn  as Joakim Noah scored nine of his 11 points in the
fourth quarter. Luol Deng scored 15 points to lead Chicago and
Carlos Boozer had 13 points and 12 rebounds.  Kirk Hinrich added 13 points for Chicago, which led by 14
points early in the final quarter before the Nets twice made
runs to get as close as four points.  “When the Nets made a run, we did a good job responding
with important shots,” Deng said.  The best-of-seven series now heads to Chicago for the next
two games, with Game 3 scheduled for April 25.  While the Bulls shot 48 percent in Game 2, the Nets were
held to 35 percent. Joe Johnson, Deron Williams and Gerald Wallace combined to miss 26 of 34 shots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  