-- McNabb Says Jets’ Sanchez Needs to Move on From Boos, Turnovers
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-23T16:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/mcnabb-says-jets-sanchez-needs-to-move-on-from-boos-turnovers.html
New York  Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez  can have a successful National Football League career if
he limits his turnovers and moves past criticism from fans,
according to six-time Pro Bowl quarterback Donovan McNabb.  Sanchez was benched twice last season, when he committed an
NFL-high 26 turnovers including 18 interceptions. He was booed
during the year, and again last week by fans at the New York
Knicks playoff game when he was shown on the Madison Square
Garden video screen.  McNabb, 36, helped the  Philadelphia Eagles  to eight
postseason berths and a Super Bowl appearance in 10 years as the
team’s starting quarterback. Booed by Eagles fans when the team
drafted him second overall in 1999, McNabb drew criticism later
in his career for his leadership and inability to deliver the
franchise’s first  Super Bowl  title, and was traded to the
 Washington Redskins  in 2010.  “You get booed, you just have to swallow it and move on,
and I think Sanchez understands that,” McNabb said today in an
interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “I’ve been
booed before, but it never affects what your goal is, to be the
starting quarterback and play at a high level. That’s the thing
he needs to focus on and if he’s able to do that, those boos
will turn to cheers.”  The Jets finished 6-10 last year, the team’s lowest win
total in five seasons. In his four years with the team, Sanchez
and the team reached the American Football Conference title
games in the 2009 and 2010 seasons, losing both.  The Jets, who acquired quarterback  Tim Tebow  before last
season, this offseason added veteran quarterback David Garrard
to compete for the starting job with Sanchez, who is guaranteed
$8.25 million this year. Jets General Manager John Idzik said he
was looking to bring in players to push Sanchez, 26.  New Coordinator  McNabb said the fifth-year quarterback will be helped by
new Jets offensive coordinator Marty Mornhinweg, who had the
same job in Philadelphia for McNabb’s final four seasons with
the team. McNabb said Mornhinweg will bring stability and big-
play capability to New York offense, which averaged 299.2 yards
per game last season, third-fewest in the 32-team league, and
help Sanchez limit his turnovers.  “Marty Mornhinweg is going to help him in so many ways,
being able to understand the game a little more and being able
to get the ball out of his hands quickly,” McNabb said.  New York has the No. 9 and No. 13 picks in the draft later
this week. The Jets open their 2013 season on Sept. 8, at home
against the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers .  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  