-- Coach Profit Tops Estimates as North American Sales Advance
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-04-23T20:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/coach-profit-tops-estimates-as-north-american-sales-advance.html
Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury
handbag maker, reported fiscal third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates, helped by demand in North America, and said
it may sell its Reed Krakoff brand. The shares jumped.  Net income rose 6.2 percent to $238.9 million, or 84 cents
a share, in the three months ended March 30, from $225 million,
or 77 cents, a year earlier, New York-based Coach said today in
a statement. Analysts projected 80 cents, the average of 30
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Coach is working to turn itself into a dual-gender
lifestyle brand by adding more shoes, jewelry, outerwear and
fragrances at its main stores amid increased competition from
 Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  and Tory Burch LLC. Coach’s new
footwear was well-received by consumers while men’s offerings
helped drive sales, Victor Luis, who will succeed Lew Frankfort
as chief executive officer in January, said in the statement.  “The quarter was really impressive,”  Liz Dunn , an analyst
at Macquarie Group in  New York , said in a telephone interview
today. The “two operational highlights” were a North American
comparable-store sales gain and an improvement in gross margin,
she said.  She rates the shares outperform, the equivalent of buy.  Coach  climbed  9.8 percent to $55.55 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day gain since October 2010. The shares
are little changed this year, compared with an 11 percent
advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  ‘New Era’  Coach said Reed Krakoff, president and executive creative
director, won’t renew his contract when it expires next year.
The company will explore options including a possible sale of
his namesake clothing and accessories brand to a group including
Krakoff. Coach also said it is looking for his successor.  “It is certainly a loss,” Dunn said. “He has been a real
architect of the brand. His departure ushers in a new era. The
company has a strong design aesthetic and heritage to draw from
and I’m sure as they look to find a new lead designer, they will
draw on that and not change direction entirely.”  Sales at stores open at least a year in  North America 
increased 1 percent in the quarter. Michael Binetti, an analyst
at UBS AG, and Faye Landes, at Cowen Group Inc., estimated a 1
percent drop. Both New York-based analysts rate the shares
neutral, the equivalent of hold.  Comparable-store sales in  China , meanwhile, grew at a
double-digit rate in percentage terms, the company said.  Total  revenue  increased 7.1 percent to $1.19 billion,
topping the $1.18 billion average of analysts’ estimates  Gross margin, the share of sales left after subtracting the
cost of goods sold, expanded to 74.1 percent from 73.8 percent a
year earlier.  Coach also increased its annual dividend 13 percent to
$1.35 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  