-- Coffee Fungus Spurs Central America Migration Plans: Jobs
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n ,   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-04-23T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/coffee-fungus-spurs-central-america-migration-plans-jobs.html
Coffee picker Hector Gonzalez says
he feels personal pain as he watches leaves stripped off plants
from a fungus infecting 70 percent of the crop on the Salvadoran
farm where he works.  “The hurt of losing this work is like losing your life,”
Gonzalez, 32, said in a phone interview. “The hills look like a
desert, like a fire came through.” His farm’s harvest, which
once employed thousands of workers, now requires about 100, he
said.  The International Coffee Organization estimates 437,000
workers in Central America will be jobless after an outbreak of
coffee rust this year and more will be affected next season.
From Guatemala to  Panama , governments are boosting aid to fight
the disease and keep workers from migrating to cities or north
toward the U.S. The fungus wiped out as much as 25 percent of
the region’s coffee crop this season, according to  World Coffee
Research , an industry association.  About 2 million of the 43 million inhabitants of Central
America are directly employed by the coffee industry, according
to the ICO. In his community of 90 households, Gonzalez said
nine unemployed coffee pickers have left for the U.S. since
January, and 15 have gone to the capital, San Salvador, to find
temporary work or join the army.  To discourage workers in neighboring Guatemala from
deserting the countryside, the government on March 11 announced
a  temporary employment  plan that provides work on highway
maintenance and reforestation projects. Those joining the
program earn 40 quetzales ($5.13) a day compared with the
minimum agricultural wage of 71 quetzales.  Falling Exports  Coffee provides 504,000 direct jobs in  Guatemala , according
to the ICO. Exports from the current harvest will drop to $350
million from $960 million from the 2011-2012 crop, said Nils
Leporowski, president of the country’s National Coffee
Association.  In Honduras, the region’s biggest coffee producer, the
government and national coffee institute are employing some
100,000 workers made jobless by rust to rehabilitate farms by
replacing damaged plants. The government has pledged $85 million
to fight the disease, which it says could shave 1.7 percent off
the country’s $17 billion annual gross domestic product.  “Our hope is that all the workers who lost their jobs will
be able to continue working in coffee,” said Victor Hugo
Molina, general manager of the Honduran Coffee Institute, in a
March 21 telephone interview. “By reconstructing damaged farms,
they remain in the coffee industry.”  Food Security  The outbreak can be contained through the use of
fungicides. Industry organizations are also urging local
governments to provide more food and aid to rural communities
affected by the disease.  “This is not just about whether you can make a profit this
year, we’re talking about food security in rural areas,”
Mauricio Galindo, head of operations at the London-based ICO,
said in a March 18 phone interview.  The financial impact of rust losses is exacerbated by a
drop in international prices as greater supplies flow to the
global market. The price of arabica beans, the most common
variety in Central America, has decreased by 18 percent since
July. Even with the outbreak, global supplies of the beans have
increased, led by  Brazil , which boosted exports 11 percent in
March from a year earlier.  Potential Shortage  Ric Rhinehart, the executive director of the Specialty
Coffee Association of America, said some buyers are concerned
that emigration will leave Central America without enough
pickers once output starts to recover. Major members of the
association, including  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ,
favor the use of arabica coffees and typically buy a sizable
portion of their beans from Central America, he said.  Representatives from Seattle-based  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and
Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain participated in a summit
on coffee rust held last week in Guatemala City.  “Our greatest fear is that farmers will be displaced and
that their livelihoods will remain uncertain,” Rhinehart said
in a March 25 interview from Long Beach,  California . “The
futures market in New York will continue to absorb the news
without reflecting the terrible situation, but cash prices will
soar for the coffees produced in the region. The keen impact
will be felt next year.”  In a region struggling with violent crime, the additional
insecurity of unemployment and increased poverty can undermine
stability. El Salvador and  Honduras  lead the world in murders
with rates more than 12 times higher than the U.S., the United
Nations said in its 2011 Global Study on Homicide.  Migrants Shelter  At the  Hermanos en el Camino  shelter for Central American
migrants in Ixtepec,  Mexico , 270 miles (430 kilometers) from the
Guatemalan border, Jose Alberto Donis Rodriguez compared the
coffee rust epidemic to the destruction of corn crops by
Hurricane Mitch in 1998 and Hurricane Stan in 2005. Recently
unemployed workers who have family or other connections with
workers who migrated to the U.S. after those disasters may get
help finding jobs there, Donis said in an April 1 telephone
interview.  “Most people go with the intention of returning,” Donis
said. “They want to stay two or three years to earn money. But
the conditions in their country of origin are the same so they
end up staying.”  Gonzalez, who says he understands why people leave for the
cities or the U.S., described his sadness at the rust outbreak
and its impact.  “When you’re on the farm, you take care of it as if it
were your own garden,” he said in an April 12 interview from
his plantation near the Guatemalan border. “I take pride in my
work. We take care of the coffee, because that’s what we live
by.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edgerton in Miami at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Gail DeGeorge at 
 gdegeorge@bloomberg.net  