-- College Football Playoff Will Replace Bowl Championship Series
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-24T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/college-football-playoff-to-replace-bowl-championship-series.html
College Football Playoff has been
selected as the name of the sport’s new four-school postseason
system that begins during the 2014-15 campaign.  It replaces the Bowl Championship Series, which has
determined college football’s national champion since 1998.  The new playoff system was given preliminary approval in
June 2012 and ratified in November by university presidents and
conference commissioners. Officials are meeting this week in
 Pasadena ,  California , to finalize details of the system, which
included selecting a new name.  “We decided to call the playoff what it is, the College
Football Playoff,” executive director Bill Hancock said
yesterday in a  news release . “We think the new playoff will be
the most dynamic improvement to college football in a
generation. Certainly it’s what the fans want.”  Still to be determined is the site of the new system’s
first national championship game, scheduled for Jan. 12, 2015,
and the makeup of the selection committee that will choose the
four participating playoff schools. The championship game site
is scheduled to be revealed today.  The  Rose Bowl  and the Sugar Bowl will host the first
national semifinals on Jan. 1, 2015. The No. 1 team will play
the fourth-ranked team, while No. 2 meets No. 3.  Under the new playoff plan, the national semifinals will
rotate among six bowl games, meaning there will be two playoff
games along with four other major bowls each season. The
location for the national title game will be up for bid each
year, similar to the process for the  National Football League ’s
Super Bowl.  Obama’s Demand  A playoff format has been in demand for years by many fans,
some lawmakers and even President  Barack Obama . Since 1998,
college football’s champion has been crowned by the BCS, which
uses a formula that incorporates rankings and computer polls to
decide the two schools that play for the title.  ESPN has reported that Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas,
probably will host the first championship game under the new
playoff system. The stadium has been the site of the Cotton Bowl
since 2010. Tampa,  Florida , was the only other city to bid for
the championship game, ESPN reported without saying where it got
the information.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN in November reached a 12-year
agreement to carry all of the postseason games tied to the new
college football playoff system. The Sports Business Journal has
reported the deal, which runs through 2026, is worth more than
$7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  