-- Commerzbank Sinks to Record as Executes Share Split
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-04-23T10:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/commerzbank-sinks-to-record-as-executes-share-split.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest bank, slumped to a record low as it carried out a
reverse share split, part of a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.2 billion)
capital increase plan.  The stock slid as much as 4.2 percent in Frankfurt trading
and dropped 2.5 percent to 1.063 euros at 12:23 a.m., valuing
the company at 6.2 billion euros.  Commerzbank reduced the number of shares to 583 million
from 5.83 billion in the reverse share split. The converted
share certificates will begin trading tomorrow, Commerzbank said
in a statement.  “The shares are caught in a downward spiral as there will
be no way around the capital increase,”  Christian Hamann  an
analyst with  Hamburger Sparkasse  who recommends selling
Commerzbank, said by telephone. “The dilution of the shares
will get worse and worse with the falling share price.”  Commerzbank, which is eliminating staff and shutting down
loss-making shipping and real estate units, got shareholder
approval for the capital raising plan last week to repay a
remaining 1.6 billion euros in state aid. The bank, which
reported a loss of 716 million euros in the fourth quarter,
hasn’t paid a dividend since the financial crisis erupted in
2008. Its shares have slumped 93 percent since.  “The capital reduction has no impact on the assets of the
shareholders or their individual stakes in the capital stock of
Commerzbank,” the bank said today. “It merely represents a
simple balance sheet measure.”  Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc. and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
agreed to underwrite the capital increase. They will buy
shares at a minimum of 1.1 euros apiece in the capital increase
should Commerzbank fail to sell the whole amount planned, the
company said last month.  The capital increase, which includes the trading of
subscription rights, will be completed between mid-May and the
start of June, Commerzbank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  