-- Bombing Investigators Probing Suspect’s Russia Trip
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-04-23T22:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/congress-to-ask-about-bombing-suspect-s-trip-to-russia.html
Federal investigators are trying to
piece together what Boston bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev did
during his six-month trip to  Russia  last year, senators said.  “His life is being reconstructed, literally day by day,
hour by hour,” Indiana Senator  Dan Coats , a Republican, said
today in  Washington  after Senate Intelligence Committee members
received a briefing from federal officials.  Authorities would want to determine “what he did when he
went to Dagestan,” a region of Russia, said Senator  Dianne Feinstein , the intelligence panel chairman.  “Did he sit in his family’s house for six months? Was he
out there talking to people,” said Feinstein, a California
Democrat. “Was he radicalized” and “if so, how?”  Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican, said there were
“increasing signals” that Tsarnaev became “radicalized”
through Internet sources.  Rubio said Tsarnaev and his younger brother, Dzhokhar,
became radical “over a period of time, radicalized by Islamist
fundamentalist terrorists basically, using Internet sources to
gain not just the type of philosophical beliefs that radicalized
them but also learning” how to build the bombs used in the
attacks.  Members of the Intelligence Committee were briefed today by
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  and Homeland Security Department
officials. House members also received a briefing on the April
15 bombings that killed three people and injured more than 200
near the Boston Marathon’s finish line.  Younger Brother  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, captured April 19 after a four-day
manhunt, is in a hospital, where his condition was upgraded to
fair from serious, according to the U.S. attorney’s office. His
26-year-old brother was killed during a gunbattle with police.  Senator  Saxby Chambliss , a Georgia Republican, said after
today’s briefing that investigators “got minimal information
from the individual in custody.”  Investigators want to know “did they have some sort of
training or inspiration or coaching inside or outside the  United
States ,” Chambliss said. “That’s all still under
investigation. We don’t have the answer to it yet.”  Coats said investigators are trying to determine if the
Tsarnaev brothers acted alone.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has told investigators that he and his
older brother alone were responsible for the bombings and were
motivated by extremist Islam, according to a U.S. official
briefed on the initial interrogation.  Tip From Russia  The FBI is under scrutiny by some members of Congress for
its handling of a tip from Russia that the older brother was
turning to Islamic extremism. The FBI said in a statement that
it investigated and closed its inquiry after finding no evidence
of terrorist activity.  Maine Senator  Susan Collins , a Republican, said after
today’s briefing that she “remained very concerned there still
seems to be serious problems with sharing information” between
government agencies and, in one case, within a single agency.
She didn’t give details, citing the secrecy of the briefing.  More than a decade after the Sept. 11 attacks “we still
have stovepipes that prevent effective information sharing,”
Collins told reporters.  Representative  Peter King , a  New York  Republican, told
reporters “there was no real ground broken” in the House
briefing. “It’s been a very thorough briefing but not all
questions have been answered,” he said.  Three-Month Review  Before the House briefing, the House Intelligence
Committee’s top Democrat, Representative Dutch Ruppersberger of
 Maryland , said lawmakers would question why Russian officials
notified the FBI in 2011 about the older Tsarnaev brother’s
activities and would try to find out “what else did they
know.”  The FBI, at the request of Russia’s domestic intelligence
service, conducted a three-month review of Tsarnaev’s activities
in 2011, according to two law enforcement officials who asked
not to be identified because the investigation is continuing.
They said the review included interviews with Tsarnaev and his
relatives, and a look into his communications and Internet use.  Russia didn’t cooperate with the FBI’s subsequent request
for more specific information, said Representative Mike Rogers,
a Michigan Republican and chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee.  ‘Learn Lessons’  Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  told the
Senate Judiciary Committee today that officials “will learn
lessons from this attack, just as we have from past instances of
terrorism and violent extremism.”  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, asked whether
authorities didn’t notice the elder brother’s trip to Russia
because the airline misspelled his name on the passenger
manifest. Napolitano said the system still indicated his
departure.  “Yes, the system pinged when he was leaving the United
States,” she said. “By the time he returned, all
investigations had been -- the matter had been closed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  