-- Congo, Angola Offshore Oil May Flow in 36 Months, Minister Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-04-23T16:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/congo-angola-offshore-oil-may-flow-in-36-months-minister-says.html
Sonangol EP,  Angola ’s state oil
company, and the Democratic Republic of Congo’s Cohydro may
begin production from a shared offshore oil block in 36 months,
Congo’s Oil Minister Crispin Atama said.  Angola and Congo will negotiate a new production-sharing
agreement for block 14c, a so-called zone of common interest in
the Atlantic Ocean, Atama said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Block 14c is known for its proven reserves and can enter
into active production phase within 36 months,” Atama said.
“This accord will open the way for a ‘super major’ of the oil
industry with the technical capacity to develop such oil
concessions in very deepwater zones.”  Congo pumps about 25,000 barrels a day and wants to expand
output. Angola produced 1.78 million barrels a day in March,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, making it Africa’s
second-biggest producer after Nigeria.  Companies including  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Total SA, Exxon Mobil
Corp. and  BP Plc (BP/)  already have projects in Angola’s Atlantic
Ocean oilfields. Angola and Congo have long-standing
disagreements over their maritime borders and access to the
lucrative oil blocks there.  Cohydro signed a production-sharing agreement in 2006 to
develop the zone of common interest with Nessergy Ltd., a
company controlled by Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler.  Sonangol will pay Nessergy to sell its rights in the
project, according to the statement. It did not mention the
price.  “Sonangol will be reimbursed in turn from future revenues
coming from production,” Atama said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  