-- Consumer Demands to Fuel Media Dealmaking, Report Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-04-23T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/consumer-demands-to-fuel-media-dealmaking-report-says.html
Consolidation in entertainment,
media and communications this year will be driven by consumers’
thirst for instant access to programming and bandwidth to
support it, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Consumer demand has set off a race among media companies to
obtain more content, and among distributors to expand pipelines
to deliver programs anywhere, anytime, according to the report
from PricewaterhouseCoopers, the New York-based accounting and
consulting firm. International broadcasters are also investing
in U.S.-based production companies to fulfill demand, according
to the report.  Licenses for radio waves are scarce and becoming more
expensive, as the Federal Communications Commission runs low on
new frequencies it can offer -- helping to trigger a bidding war
for Sprint Corp. Consumer demand for ubiquitous viewing is also
prompting acquisitions of content creators, according to the
report.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s estimated $100 million investment in “House
of Cards,” the original program shown exclusively on its $7.99-
a-month online service, was cited as an example of new demand
for shows. Walt Disney Co. spent about $4 billion on Lucasfilm,
underscoring the value of content creators.  Sprint Corp., the third-largest U.S. mobile-phone company,
is the subject of competing takeover bids from Dish Network
Corp. and Tokyo-based  Softbank Corp. (9984)  Dish Chairman Charlie Ergen
is looking to turn his satellite-TV provider into a wireless
juggernaut. Softbank’s Masayoshi Son seeks to create a cross-
border competitor to Verizon Wireless and AT&T Inc.  Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, offered $25.5 billion
for Sprint last week, topping a $20.1 billion bid by Softbank in
October.  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) , the provider of pay-TV service in
London, is being acquired by  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) 
for $18.3 billion.  Thinning Ranks  As they bulk up, media and communications companies are
getting rid of their less attractive businesses, according to
Pricewaterhouse, citing  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and Tribune Co.  Tribune, the Chicago-based company that emerged from
bankruptcy last year, said in February it hired JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Evercore Partners Inc. as financial advisers after
receiving interest in its newspapers. Time Warner, based in New
York, said in March it will spin off its Time Inc. magazine
operation.  The  S&P 500 Media Index (S5MEDA) , which includes Disney, Time
Warner, News Corp. and other large content companies, has
advanced 17 percent this year, and 42 percent in the past 12
months, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  As new technologies challenge media businesses, big players
such as Apple Inc. and Google Inc. will also keep investing in
entertainment, media and communications, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  