-- Silver Drops in Commodity Retreat as Chinese Manufacturing Slows
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-04-23T14:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/copper-oil-lead-commodity-decline-as-china-manufacturing-slows.html
Silver slumped, copper extended a
third day of losses and crude oil dropped after data showed
slower manufacturing growth in  China , the world’s biggest user
of metals and energy.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell
0.8 percent to 604.3 as of 3 p.m. London time, snapping three
days of gains and bringing this month’s drop to 7.8 percent.
Cash silver tumbled as much as 3.5 percent, copper for delivery
in three months fell 2.5 percent and West Texas Intermediate
crude lost as much as 1.1 percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
today cut its “near-term” outlook for commodities.  Commodities measured by the S&P GSCI are headed for the
worst month in almost a year on concern a slowdown in Chinese
growth will curtail demand. The preliminary reading of 50.5 this
month for a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index released by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics compared with a final 51.6 for March.
The number was below the median 51.5 estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 11 analysts. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  “Commodity indices were already suffering from a loss of
confidence,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Petromatrix
GmbH, a commodity researcher in Zug,  Switzerland , said today in
an e-mailed report. “The latest PMI numbers won’t help to turn
around that negative sentiment.”  Gold, silver and copper fell into a  bear market  this month
as China’s economic growth slowed to 7.7 percent in the first
quarter from 7.9 percent in the previous three months. The
country represented 41 percent of global copper consumption in
2012, according to Barclays Plc.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman reduced its forecasts for oil and coffee amid
prospects for weak demand from China to  Europe . The bank also
exited a bet on lower gold prices.  Silver pared losses, trading 2.3 percent lower at $22.8969
an ounce, taking this year’s decline to 25 percent, the most on
the GSCI gauge. Copper traded 0.8 percent lower at $6,882 a
metric ton in London and WTI for June was at $88.34 a barrel.  Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are among banks
that say declines in raw-material prices may be temporary.  “The commodity supercycle has a decade left in it,” said
Michael Camacho, JPMorgan’s London-based chief executive officer
of commodities for Europe,  Middle East  and North Africa, said on
April 16. The “mid-cycle pause” may last for 12 more months,
he said.  The “soft patch” in the global economy will pass as
growth prospects improve in the second half spurred by monetary
easing in developed economies outside Europe and resilient
demand in  emerging markets , Morgan Stanley said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  