-- Corzine Sued by Trustee Freeh Over MF Global Failure
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-04-23T20:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/corzine-sued-by-trustee-freeh-over-mf-global-failure.html
Jon Corzine , the former head of  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , failed to oversee the futures broker,
leading to the eighth-biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history,
according to a lawsuit filed by Louis J. Freeh.  Corzine, a former governor and senator from  New Jersey  and
once a co-chairman of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., was sued along
with senior executives Bradley Abelow and Henri Steenkamp in
U.S. bankruptcy court in  Manhattan  yesterday. Freeh, a trustee
for the failed holding company of the brokerage, alleged that
they failed to act in good faith and implemented strategies that
caused the company to fail.  During their tenure, the three executives “dramatically
changed the company’s business plan without addressing existing
systemic weaknesses that ultimately caused the plan to fail,”
Freeh said in the complaint.  The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages “to be determined
at trial,” as well as legal fees, according to the 61-page
filing. It follows a 124-page report published this month by
Freeh which blamed Corzine and his management team for bungling
an expansion of the company’s traditional business model while
ignoring deficiencies in its risk controls.  The parent company of brokerage MF Global Inc. filed for
bankruptcy on Oct. 31, 2011, after a wrong-way $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most-
indebted nations. The company listed assets of $41 billion and
debts of $39.7 billion.  Corzine Statement  There is no basis to the claim that Corzine breached his
fiduciary duties or was negligent, said Corzine spokesman Steve
Goldberg in an e-mailed statement.  “To the contrary, Mr. Corzine was recruited to revitalize
a troubled company, and during his entire tenure as CEO he
worked tirelessly with the Board, firm management and world
class consultants to improve MF Global’s operations and
performance,” Goldberg said. Freeh’s lawsuit ignores the
failure of counterparties to fulfill their obligations to MF
Global, he said.  Goldberg said that Corzine’s defense looks forward to
“proving the actual facts in court” and questions why the
lawsuit is filed while Freeh is “participating in court-ordered
mediation of these very claims.”  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission,  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation and other agencies had all analyzed events leading
to the bankruptcy, when as much as $1.6 billion in client funds
went missing. No criminal charges have been brought, and Freeh
has been in mediation with Corzine before today’s lawsuit.  Pay Creditors  The lawsuit may a “pressure point” that Freeh will use to
try and get more money for a settlement that would pay MF Global
creditors, said  Michael Weinstein , a former trial attorney with
the  Department of Justice  and chairman of Cole Schotz’s white
collar practice in Hackensack, New Jersey. Corzine is “out of
the woods criminally,” Weinstein said, as the time frame for
criminal investigations has come and gone.  When Corzine joined MF Global in March 2010, it was already
suffering as it depended on  interest rates  for revenues at a
time when rates were declining, Freeh said in the lawsuit. As
Corzine moved to convert it into a full service broker dealer
and investment bank, setting up a proprietary trading desk, he
didn’t improve already deficient controls, the complaint said.  Corzine engaged in risky trading strategies with European
debt that strained the company’s liquidity and couldn’t be
properly monitored by inadequate controls, according to the
lawsuit. Abelow and Steenkamp, his hand-picked deputies,
breached their fiduciary duties by failing to ensure that the
company’s controls were adequate for its new business plan,
Freeh said.  Stress Tests  For example, MF Global couldn’t determine its liquidity in
real time or stress-test it. It also couldn’t track intra-
company transfers from the broker dealer unit to the futures
unit, the complaint said.  The three executives also breached their fiduciary duties
by failing to inform the company’s corporate board about
liquidity challenges, and didn’t heed the chief risk officer’s
warnings about worsening market conditions in Europe, Freeh
said.  Freeh’s lawsuit comes five months after U.S.  House
Republicans  also faulted Corzine’s leadership in a report
released in November. That report, reached by majority
Republicans on a Financial Services subcommittee, described a
lack of coordination between the CFTC and the Securities and
Exchange Commission, primary regulators for MF Global’s U.S.
operations.  Freeh Unwinding  Freeh has been unwinding the company under Chapter 11
bankruptcy in an effort to repay creditors. James Giddens, a
separate trustee for the failed brokerage arm, is liquidating
assets to repay customers under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  “Our investigation showed potential causes of action
against Corzine and others in June 2012,” Giddens said in a
statement. “Last year, on notice to all creditors and approved
by the court, we joined the already filed class action lawsuit
because it was the most efficient way to get money to customers
and creditors.”  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn, overseeing the wind-
downs of the holding company and its operating unit, ruled in
April 2012 that Corzine and other former executives could use
insurance funds to cover “reasonable” defense costs, setting
an initial cap of $30 million.  Expensive Litigation  “It’s fair to assume that this litigation and defense is
probably very, very expensive -- likely that that cap will be
blown through,” Weinstein said.  Corzine and Steenkamp, the chief financial officer, knew
that the company’s controls were flawed as early as May 2010,
according to Freeh’s report.  “Being a steward of customer money is a super serious
responsibility,” CFTC Commissioner Bart Chilton said in an e-
mail commenting on the lawsuit. “Anyone who violates the law,
and particularly anyone at MF Global who used a billion bucks of
customer cash that should have been protected, should be
punished.”  Corzine testified before Congress that he asked for
overdrafts with JPMorgan to be corrected, and that he never gave
any instruction to misuse customer funds. He also said he didn’t
believe anything he said could reasonably have been interpreted
as an instruction to misuse customer funds.  Tunnel Vision  Freeh’s report painted Corzine as a tunnel-visioned leader,
insulated from criticism, who, although fully aware of the
limitations of the company’s system, pushed to transform MF
Global into an investment bank by taking on greater risk.  Corzine had unlimited power in his role at MF Global,
holding positions that were previously filled by two different
individuals, according to Freeh’s report. Corzine hired Chief
Operating Officer Abelow, who was once his chief of staff as
governor, and favored Steenkamp over then-CFO Randy McDonald.
Under Corzine, the board reduced its executive committee to four
members from five, according to the report.  To implement his strategy for the company, Corzine
handpicked traders with whom he worked and began trading on his
own, under minimal supervision, in June 2010 using an existing
Treasury Department account, according to the report. He
maintained his own portfolio for the company in accounts that
bore his initials JSC and was known to place trades in the
middle of meetings.  Driving Force  Corzine was the driving force behind MF Global’s European
trading portfolio and personally instructed traders “when to
enter and exit various positions,” Freeh said in the report.  The company’s problems were exacerbated by MF Global’s
method of accounting for its European trades, according to the
report. The so-called repurchase to maturity transactions
allowed MF Global to immediately recognize income while removing
the transactions from the company’s balance sheets, according to
the report.  Under Corzine, MF Global’s position in such investments
increased from $400 million in mid-September 2010 to $8.3
billion at the end of August 2011, according to the report.  The trades, which required a margin payment, “jeopardized
the company’s available liquidity and left the company highly
leveraged,” Freeh said in the report.  Hedge Exposure  In the summer of 2011, former Chief Risk Officer Michael
Stockman recommended that MF Global stop investing in the
European debt and start hedging its exposure, according to the
report. Management ignored the advice and searched for
additional sources of liquidity to support the trading strategy,
even debating how aggressively brokers could borrow on an
intraday basis customer funds that were required to be kept in
segregated accounts, Freeh said.  By the week leading up to its collapse, MF Global needed to
rely on its Operations, Risk and Treasury Department systems,
which were fatally flawed, Freeh found. The failure of Corzine
and other members of his management team, including Abelow and
Steenkamp, to address the deficiencies contributed to the
company’s demise, Freeh found.  Freeh estimates the losses to MF Global and its finance
subsidiary from $1.5 billion to $2.1 billion. Giddens, the
brokerage trustee, estimated a shortfall of $1.6 billion in
customer funds.  The SEC didn’t include the CFTC in several meetings in 2011
about the brokerage’s capital and business strategy that would
have been helpful for oversight, according to the Republicans’
report. The CFTC didn’t inform the SEC that the broker was using
an alternative method of calculating customer funds, the report
showed.  Freeh’s report didn’t focus on the causes for the shortfall
in customer funds because recovery of those funds is outside the
scope of his authority, lawyers for the trustee said in the
court filing.  The adversary case is 13-01333;  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The holding company’s
Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,
and the liquidation of the broker is In re MF Global Inc., 11-
bk-02790, both in the same court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  