-- Cosmetic Procedures Need Tighter Restrictions: U.K. Panel
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-04-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/cosmetic-procedures-need-tighter-restrictions-u-k-panel.html
Tougher restrictions on cosmetic
procedures are needed in the U.K. after at least 490 women had
their breast implants removed because of a manufacturing scandal
in France, an advisory panel told the government.  Botox, a wrinkle treatment sold by Allergan Inc., should
only be given by certified professionals and fillers, calf and
buttock implants should be classified as medical devices and
regulated, the committee of nine experts said in a  report  today.
The panel also said medical professionals should be registered
and insured for liability and that all procedures and their
outcomes be documented in a public database, as should any
cosmetic medical device coming onto the market.  The panel, convened by the U.K. Department of Health, wants
the government to adopt its recommendations before action by the
European Commission, which is reviewing the way medical devices
are approved in the region. The U.K. doesn’t expect the EC to
introduce new policy before 2018. The regulations are
“incoherent and frankly illogical,” said Bruce Keogh, medical
director of the state-run National Health Service.  “Anyone, anywhere, can give a filler to anyone else,”
Keogh, who led the review, told reporters at a press conference
in London. “That is bizarre.”  Dermal fillers, which are injected into the face to fill
out wrinkles and stimulate collagen production, should be
classified as a prescription-only medical device, the panel
said. In  Europe , there are 190 types of fillers compared with
only 14 in the U.S., where they are regulated as medical devices
by the Food and Drug Administration, Keogh said.  Advertising Specials  Health Education England  should establish training and
qualifications for providers of non-surgical procedures such as
Botox and fillers, and advertising promotions such as two-for-
one specials that “trivialize” such procedures should be
banned, Keogh said. Doctors should also receive records of their
patients’ procedures and the Parliamentary and Health Service
Ombudsman should be extended to take complaints, which would be
public, the panel said.  The British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons
favors creating training courses “more extensive than the many
widely promoted weekend courses currently available” for non-
surgical procedures, according to an April 1  statement .  The association wants laws tightened further so that
procedures are done only by medical professionals. A group
survey showed 69 percent of member surgeons saw complications
with temporary fillers and almost half saw problems with semi-
permanent or permanent fillers. Almost 9 out of 10 of those
patients who had complications from permanent fillers needed
corrective surgery or were deemed not treatable due to damage,
the survey found.  NHS Costs  The NHS had to cover the cost of removing breast implants
made by Poly Implant Prothese SA following reports that they
were leaking industrial-grade, non-medical gel. Had the PIP
breast implants been registered and recipients tracked following
their surgeries, problems would’ve been spotted much earlier,
Keogh said. The panel recommends a National Breast and Cosmetic
Implant Registry be set up within 12 months and that medical
device manufacturers not be given advance notice of inspections,
as was the case with PIP.  Jean-Claude Mas, PIP’s founder, continued to claim his
products are “impeccable” in testimony during a fraud trial
last week in  France , where the company was based. More than
5,000 women have registered as victims in the case, according to
Laurent Gaudon, a lawyer for 1,600 of them. Mas is on trial
alongside four of his former colleagues.  Growing Market  Even with the negative publicity about the PIP implants,
the U.K. market for cosmetic procedures will probably grow to
3.6 billion pounds ($5.5 billion) in 2015 from 2.3 billion
pounds in 2010, the panel said. Keogh expects the
recommendations to be considered in the parliamentary session
that begins in November as there is a “political will” to
pursue them, he said.  “The terrible stories that emerged from the PIP scandal
revealed some shocking examples of extremely bad practices
across the cosmetic interventions industry,” Health Minister
Dan Poulter said in a statement. “The independent panel has
made some far-reaching recommendations, the principles of which
I agree with entirely. We will consider the report carefully and
respond in detail in the summer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  London  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  