-- CP All Offers $6.6 Billion for Thai Retailer Siam Makro
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-04-23T10:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/cp-all-offers-6-6-billion-for-thai-retailer-siam-makro.html
Billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s
 CP All (CPALL)  Pcl, owner of  Thailand ’s 7-Eleven chain, offered to pay
about $6.6 billion for discount retailer  Siam Makro Pcl (MAKRO)  in the
biggest takeover announced in Asia this year.  CP All, controlled by Dhanin’s Charoen Pokphand Group,
agreed to pay 787 baht a share for the 64 percent of Siam Makro
owned by SHV Holdings NV, the company said today. It will also
make a tender offer to other shareholders at the same price, a
15 percent premium to Siam Makro’s share price of 682 baht
before it was suspended from trading yesterday.  The deal is the largest on record for Thai companies, which
have spent more than $31 billion on acquisitions in the past
year as the baht strengthened and after their cash holdings more
than quadrupled in a decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Dhanin alone accounts for half of that, including CP Group’s
purchase of a $9.4 billion stake in China’s Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co.  “Rising  cash flow  and the strong baht have given Thai
companies some advantages,” said Adithep Vanabriksha, chief
investment officer for Thailand at Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc, which oversees about $7 billion of Thai assets. “We expect
this trend to continue as acquisitions are a better way to
utilize cash flow and take advantage of a strong currency.”  The baht has appreciated 7.6 percent, the best performance
among Asia’s currencies, in the past year.  Biggest Acquisition  CP All’s acquisition of Siam Makro tops the $5.5 billion
purchase of PTT Aromatics & Refining Pcl by PTT Chemical Pcl in
2011 to become the largest on record in Thailand, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Siam Makro operates 57 Makro stores and five Siam Frozen
stores. It opened five new Makro stores in 2012, helping to
boost revenue by 15 percent to 112 billion baht last year, the
company said on Feb. 27. The Bangkok-based company’s profit rose
37 percent to 3.56 billion baht in 2012.  Big C Supercenter Pcl (BIGC) , Thailand’s second-largest
hypermarket operator, surged 7.4 percent to a record 232 baht
today amid speculation investors seeking retailers in the
country would prefer it to CP All. CP All, which suspended
trading of its shares today, slumped 6 percent yesterday.  “Some investors still wanted to stay invested in the Thai
domestic consumption theme, but have soured on CP All after this
deal,” said Athaporn Arayasantiparb head of research at UOB Kay
Hian Securities (Thailand).  Retail Multiples  The bid values Siam Makro at about 53 times its 2012
earnings per share of 14.82 baht. That compares with a median
multiple of 21 times profits paid in 22 takeovers of retailers
in emerging  Asia  announced over the last five years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  CP All arranged a $6 billion bridge loan from HSBC Holdings
Plc,  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB) , Standard Chartered Plc, Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp. and UBS AG, according to two people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the details are private. The loan will be refinanced within a
year through syndicated finance, bonds and potentially equity,
the people said.  “The price we paid is not expensive,” Korsak
Chairasmisak, chief executive officer of CP All, said at a media
briefing in Bangkok. He said the company will use Siam Makro to
expand in  Southeast Asia , starting with  Vietnam  and  Laos .  Corporate Cash   CP All and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  are adding retail outlets in Thailand
after the government raised minimum wages and introduced price
guarantees for farmers. Demand for personal loans jumped 22
percent in 2012, the biggest increase in seven years, as Thai
consumers took advantage of government incentives to buy new
cars and homes.  Total cash holdings of the 421 non-financial members of the
SET Index for which data is available stands at $21.4 billion,
compared with about $4.4 billion in cash at the end of 2002,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Dhanin and SHV founded Siam Makro in 1988, according to the
company’s website.  Charoen Pokphand was once Siam Makro’s largest shareholder
with a stake of as much as 47 percent in 1997, the same year
that the devaluation of Thailand’s baht triggered a financial
crisis that pushed many Asian economies into recession.  After the crisis, Dhanin sold stakes in companies including
Siam Makro and Lotus Supercenter, which was bought by Tesco. In
May 2005, a Charoen Pokphand unit sold 7 percent of Siam Makro
back to the company that controlled the retailer for 60 baht per
share.  CP All last year said it may open 7-Eleven stores in
southern  China  and Vietnam. Dhanin earlier this month said he’s
seeking more acquisitions in China.  “It’s really surprising that Siam Makro’s major
shareholder decided to sell,” said Adithep from Aberdeen, who
owns shares in Siam Makro and hasn’t decided whether to sell
them in the tender offer. “Siam Makro is a really good company
with strong earnings growth and niche market in the cash-and-
carry sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  