-- Credit Suisse Securities Sues to Block Finra Arbitration
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-04-23T21:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/credit-suisse-securities-sues-to-block-finra-arbitration.html
Credit Suisse Securities LLC sued
to block a Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration,
arguing that the investors who initiated the claim don’t fit the
Finra definition of “customer” required for the dispute-
resolution process.  The 29 investors named in the complaint bought exchange
traded notes, or ETNs, underwritten by Credit Suisse called
TVIX, on the secondary market, “through accounts or advisers
unaffiliated with Credit Suisse,” the company said in a
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Baltimore.  Finra rules act “as an agreement to arbitrate only between
Finra members and their ‘customers’” and defendants “have
never been customers of Credit Suisse,” according to the
complaint.  VLS Securities LLC, of Darien,  Connecticut , a marketing
agent for TVIX, also is a plaintiff in the suit and a
respondent, with Credit Suisse, in the arbitration claim.  The complaint was accompanied by a request for a
preliminary injunction.  “The individual investors sued by Credit Suisse and VLS
have already received a Finra ruling denying a motion to move
their cases outside of Finra,” said  Cynthia Moulton , of Moulton
& Arney LLP, an attorney for the investors. “We intend to
contest Credit Suisse and VLS’s efforts to obtain a different
result in federal court.”  Baltimore Venue  The suit was filed in Baltimore because that was the venue
selected for arbitration by the investors. Two other Finra
arbitrations involving TVIX are under way in Texas and
 California , according to Moulton.  TVIX is geared to investors seeking to trade volatility and
is supposed to track the daily performance of the S&P 500 VIX
Short-Term Futures Index, according to the investors’ Finra
arbitration claim, which was included in the suit filing.  “TVIX failed to track the VIX Futures Index and,
therefore, failed to perform as represented, resulting in
millions of dollars in losses to investors, including
claimants,” according to the Finra claim.  Drew Benson, a Credit Suisse spokesman in  New York ,
declined to comment on the Finra claim.  The court case is Credit Suisse Securities LLC v. Fesenko,
13-cv-1187, U.S. District Court, District of Maryland
(Baltimore).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Zajac  in  Washington 
at   azajac@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 