-- Crowd Helps Replace Boat Ruined in Tsarnaev’s Capture
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-04-23T15:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/crowd-helps-replace-boat-ruined-in-tsarnaev-s-capture.html
An online campaign to buy David
Henneberry a new boat has almost tripled its funds over the past
two days as people open their wallets to help those involved in
the  Boston Marathon bombings .  Police opened fire on a powerboat owned by Henneberry, a
65-year-old Watertown, Massachusetts, resident, after he called
in the tip that 19-year-old bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev
was hiding in it. Henneberry had noticed blood on the normally
pristine vessel trailered in his back yard. After officers
captured the suspect, the boat was left riddled with bullet
holes.  A campaign on the website Crowdtilt, a platform for so-called crowdfunding, has raised about $7,700 so far, compared
with $2,800 on April 21. The drive, titled “ Let’s Fix David
Henneberry’s Boat (That Got Ruined in the Boston Bomber’s
Standoff)! ” has “tilted,” meaning all proceeds will go to
Henneberry. Crowdtilt’s staff has stepped in to guarantee
delivery of the funds. The goal is $50,000.  The story of Henneberry’s punctured boat resonated with
Jeffrey Griffeth, 36, from Apex,  North Carolina . It inspired him
to promote the Crowdtilt campaign by starting a  Facebook group ,
which now has about 1,000 members.  “I enjoy fishing and being out on the water myself, and
for a guy to lose his boat, as minor as that is compared to
people losing their limbs and lives, I just thought to help a
guy out who potentially saved many more lives,” Griffeth said.  No Guts  Henneberry is so particular about his boat that he didn’t
use it for fishing -- only pleasure cruising, said Sean Finn,
42, a neighbor and fellow boater.  “I don’t think he liked getting fish guts all over his
boat,” Finn said in an interview. “We would joke about it.”  Henneberry, who didn’t return phone calls seeking comment
on the boat, would take his SeaHawk for day trips around Boston
Harbor, including the occasional jaunt to World’s End, a park in
Hingham, his sister, Claire Bransfield, 69, said in a telephone
interview.  Every year he would join a group at the Watertown Yacht
Club, a few blocks from his home, and take aboard disabled
people for a spin around Boston Harbor, she said.  Passengers included the blind and people who’d lost their
limbs.  “It was gorgeous,” Bransfield said of the boat. “It
sparkled.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  