-- Czech Policy Maker Says Koruna Intervention Unwarranted
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-04-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/czech-policy-maker-says-koruna-intervention-unwarranted.html
The  Czech Republic  doesn’t face a
deflation threat that would require the first koruna sales in a
decade to stimulate the recession-hit economy, central banker
Pavel Rezabek said, underscoring a split among policy makers.  The Ceska Narodni Banka, which cut  borrowing costs  three
times to effectively zero last year, is in uncharted territory
as its board considers currency intervention amid the longest
recession since at least 1997. The $217 billion  economy  is
shrinking as households and businesses spend less due to
 Europe ’s debt crisis and government austerity measures.  The decline in market interest rates assumed in the central
bank’s forecast is “relatively small” and isn’t a signal for
entering the foreign-exchange market now, Rezabek said in an
interview in  Prague  yesterday. Interventions should be used only
in extraordinary situations and, if conducted, the primary goal
would be to “solve a deflation problem,” he said.  “We’re not in a situation to realistically expect
deflation in the near future,” Rezabek said. “The risk of
deflation has significantly declined, and we can say it may have
even been fully eliminated, unless a major shock occurs. We
should be careful about using this instrument as long as
inflation on the policy horizon isn’t at risk.”  Rezabek’s comments add to signs of a split among board
members on the policy outlook after the bank said currency sales
would be the next tool should it need to further ease monetary
conditions. A weaker koruna would boost import prices and help
 exports , which make up 80 percent of the economy.  Koruna Losses  The koruna has lost 5.3 percent to the euro since Sept. 17,
the day before central bank Governor Miroslav Singer first said
the central bank may sell the currency to meet its inflation
goal. It was the fourth-worst performance in that period among
the 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
koruna weakened less than 0.1 percent to trade at 25.924 to the
euro yesterday.  The bank kept the two-week the  repurchase rate  at 0.05
percent for a third meeting on March 28, almost three-quarters
of a percentage point less than the euro-area benchmark.  Monetary authorities across the region are cutting
borrowing costs to boost growth as Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis drags on.  Hungary ’s central bank reduced the benchmark
for a ninth month yesterday to 4.75 percent, while Polish rates
have dropped by 150 points since November to 3.25 percent. Both
rates are record lows.  ‘Better Understanding’  The koruna “has shifted away from the appreciation trend
and the  exchange rate  is now reflecting the fundamentals of the
economy and the fiscal situation more realistically,” Rezabek
said. “Financial markets are now showing better understanding
of the Czech economy, taking into account not only the fiscal
consolidation but also the declining real economy.”  Czech  inflation  was 1.7 percent in March, unchanged from
February. The central bank had forecast annual inflation at 2
percent in March, the same as its target. Inflation relevant for
monetary policy, defined as price growth adjusted for changes in
indirect taxes, was 0.9 percent, below the central bank’s 1
percent to 3 percent target band.  Fourth-quarter  gross domestic product  shrank 0.2 percent
from the previous three months, marking the fourth consecutive
quarterly decline.  The central bank in February cut its economic forecast for
2013 as the government’s austerity measures continue to damp
demand. It projects GDP contracting 0.3 percent this year before
growing 2.1 percent in 2014. The inflation rate is seen at 1.7
percent in the first and second quarters of next year.  The next outlook, which the bank will present when it holds
its next policy meeting on May 2, shouldn’t bring major
revisions of the growth forecast, Rezabek said.  “The signals from the real economy are still weak to
indicate a significantly better outlook,” he said. “On the
other hand, I’m cautiously optimistic about the outlook for
manufacturing industries, especially for the second half of the
year, so that’s why there shouldn’t be a large revision toward a
deeper contraction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  