-- Delta Joins US Airways With Profit as Planes Fly Full
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-23T20:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/delta-joins-us-airways-with-profit-as-planes-fly-full.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  posted profits that beat analysts’ estimates in the
first quarter, traditionally the industry’s weakest period, as
they filled more seats on planes.  Earnings excluding certain items were $85 million, or 10
cents a share, Delta said today. Analysts had estimated 6 cents,
the average of 15 projections in a  Bloomberg survey . US Airways’
profit of $55 million, or 31 cents a share, topped the 28-cent
average estimate. The airlines led an industry rally.  Both carriers had paying passengers in more than 81 percent
of their available seats, and they wrung out more revenue from
each seat flown a mile, a benchmark gauge. Delta hadn’t reported
a profit in the first three months of the year since 2000, Chief
Financial Officer Paul Jacobson said in a memo to employees.  “It’s a rare occurrence for airlines to be profitable in
the first quarter,” said  Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital Group
LLC analyst in Stamford,  Connecticut . “It’s a sign of
structural change working -- consolidation, capacity
discipline.”  Delta surged 10 percent to $16.72 today in New York, the
most since April 2011. US Airways rose 5 percent to $16.30. All
10 carriers in the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL)  advanced.  Unit Revenue  Unit revenue, or revenue for each seat flown a mile, rose
4.1 percent at Delta and 2.4 percent at US Airways last quarter.
Delta said sales increased 1 percent to $8.5 billion, while US
Airways posted a 3.5 percent gain to $3.38 billion.  Delta said unit revenue will drop 2 percent to 3 percent
for April because of mandatory government budget cuts and a
“softening” in leisure flying that carried over from late
March. Federal spending accounts for about 3 percent of revenue,
and it was down about 20 percent when the cuts began, according
to Delta executives.  Derchin, who rates Delta and Tempe, Arizona-based US
Airways as buys, said in an interview that he expected that
airlines may keep paring available seating. Delta Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  made the same point in a
conference call with analysts, saying the airline is reviewing
whether to pull back after the peak summer travel season.  Weakness in the Japanese yen is hurting demand in that
region and also may spur Delta to shrink capacity there,
Anderson said.  US Airways  US Airways expects April unit revenue to fall 3 percent to
4 percent from a year earlier and to be unchanged to 2 percent
lower in May and June, President Scott Kirby said on a
conference call.  “Leisure demand is still good, and forward bookings are up
year over year for May and the rest of the summer. Business
demand remains volatile,” Kirby said. “As long as the
sequester remains in place, we expect government demand to
continue to remain depressed.”  US Airways estimates delays from air-traffic control
furloughs that are part of mandated government budget cuts would
cost the carrier $250 million annually. The  Federal Aviation
Administration  estimated that 1,200 flights were delayed
yesterday because of staffing shortages, and said New York and
 Los Angeles  are among the cities hit hardest.  Merger Planning  Integration planning for US Airways’ $11 billion all-stock
merger with  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  is “going well,” and
the deal should be final next quarter, CEO Doug Parker said in a
statement. He will lead the combined carrier, which will keep
American’s name and  Fort Worth , Texas, headquarters.  AMR said last week it had a first-quarter profit of $8
million excluding bankruptcy costs and other one-time items.
Analysts project  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  to be alone
among the seven largest U.S. carriers to post a quarterly loss
when it reports results in two days.  Including one-time charges for facilities and fleet and a
gain for fuel hedges, Delta’s net income fell 94 percent to $7
million, or 1 cent a share, from $124 million, or 15 cents, a
year earlier.  US Airways  said its net income slid 8.3 percent to $44
million, or 26 cents a share, from $48 million, or 28 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  