-- Democrat Seeks Transparency on Drones as White House Skip
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-04-24T16:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/democrat-seeks-transparency-on-drones-as-white-house-skip.html
Senator  Richard Durbin  faulted the
Obama administration for failing to participate in what he
described as the Senate’s first hearing on the use of unmanned
aircraft for targeted killings of suspected terrorists.  Durbin of  Illinois , the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat, called on
the administration yesterday to provide greater transparency
about its use of armed drones as the White House declined to
provide a witness for a hearing on the issue.  “I do want to note for the record my disappointment that
the administration declined to provide witnesses to testify at
today’s hearings,” Durbin said at a hearing by the Senate
Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution,  Civil Rights  and
 Human Rights , which he heads.  “In my view, more transparency is needed to maintain the
support of the American people and our international
community,” Durbin said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration should provide more
information “about its analysis of its legal authority to
engage in targeted killings and the internal checks and balances
involved in U.S. drone strikes,” Durbin said.  The White House has “been in regular contact with the
committee about how we can best provide them the information
they require,” Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the National
Security Council, said today in an e-mail.  Pressure has been building in Congress for the White House
to lay out the legal foundation and rules that apply in
conducting drone strikes, particularly against Americans
suspected of terrorism overseas.  Paul Filibuster  Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican, made headlines
last month by staging a 13-hour filibuster delaying the
confirmation of  John Brennan  to be CIA director to win a pledge
from the administration that it wouldn’t use drones to target
Americans on U.S. soil without an imminent threat. As Obama’s
former counterterrorism adviser, Brennan had been the architect
and manager of drone policy.  Obama pledged in his  State of the Union  address in February
to provide more information on drone policy.  “I recognize that, in our democracy, no one should just
take my word for it that we’re doing things the right way,”
Obama said. “So, in the months ahead, I will continue to engage
Congress to ensure not only that our targeting, detention and
prosecution of terrorists remains consistent with our laws and
system of checks and balances, but that our efforts are even
more transparent to the American people and to the world.”  ‘Drastic Expansion’  The panel’s top Republican, Senator  Ted Cruz  of  Texas , said
he was disappointed by the absence of an administration
participant at the hearing, particularly because the session had
been postponed a week to give the White House more time to
produce one. Cruz accused Obama of seeking a “drastic expansion
of federal power” in his use of targeted killings.  Retired Marine General James Cartwright, a former vice
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in prepared remarks
for the hearing that the administration should create an
interagency task force to evaluate covert drone operations,
while encouraging the Defense Department and Central
Intelligence Agency to establish a process for declassifying
those operations once they are completed.  “I am worried that we have lost the moral high ground,”
Cartwright said at the hearing. “The current drone policy has
left us in a position where we are causing more problems than
we’re solving.”  While drones, made by companies such as General Atomics, of
San Diego, and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , of  Falls Church ,
Virginia, have been effective in killing suspected terrorists in
places such as Pakistan and  Yemen , they have drawn criticism for
causing civilian casualties.  Yemeni Activist  Farea Al-Muslimi, a Yemeni youth activist and freelance
journalist who studied in the U.S. for a year in high school,
told the subcommittee his village in Yemen was struck by a U.S.
drone about a week ago.  “There is now an intense anger at Americans,” Al-Muslimi
said of his village. “The drone strikes are the face of America
to many Yemenis.”  Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University
School of Law in Arlington, Virginia, said Congress should
consider creating a specialized court to approve the targeting
of U.S. citizens, similar to the court used to authorize
intelligence surveillance warrants.  That proposal drew a rebuke from Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, who said it would amount to a
“breathtaking overstepping” by unelected judges over military
operations.  Rosa Brooks, a law professor at the  Georgetown University
Law Center  in  Washington , said the U.S. will pave the way for
other governments to begin using drone strikes inappropriately
unless it develops a clear set of rules to guide the policy.  Without clear rules and safeguards, “we’ve essentially
handed a playbook for abuse to oppressive governments around the
world,” Brooks said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  