-- Deutsche Bank Structured Notes Offering Worst Value, Scope Says
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-04-23T09:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/deutsche-bank-structured-notes-offering-worst-value-scope-says.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  structured notes
sold to German investors offered the poorest value, according to
a  Scope Ratings  analysis of eight of the country’s leading
issuers this month.  Germany ’s biggest bank sold so-called reverse convertibles
at prices furthest from their fair value, said Simon Ullrich,
managing director for Scope’s derivatives business in Berlin.
The securities suffer losses when a stock or index falls below a
pre-defined level and the Deutsche Bank notes were on average
0.8 percent above fair value, compared with zero percent with
other issuers, he said.  Buyers of structured notes typically pay above the fair
value price to cover expenses associated with underwriting,
distributing and marketing the securities. The U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission is pushing issuers to disclose the
notes’ estimated initial value, while European regulators are
also considering similar measures to improve transparency.  “If you know the fair value of a note then you have the
option to shop around,” said Ullrich. “You don’t need to buy
from Deutsche Bank, for example, when you could get a very
similar trade with a similar risk profile for a better price at
Vontobel.”  Sebastian Howell, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank in  London , declined to comment on Scope’s research.  Fair Value  Scope analyzed about 100 notes linked to the performance of
the  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  that were traded on Stuttgart-based
exchange Euwax from April 1 to April 15. It calculated their
fair value several times a day mainly by monitoring movements in
credit-default swaps for the issuers, a measure of
creditworthiness, and the  implied volatility  of options on the
Euro Stoxx 50 index.  Stuttgart-based Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and Zurich-
based  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN)  offered the best prices, with an
average deviation from fair value of zero, Scope said. The
ratings company also analyzed notes issued by  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , DZ
Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
UBS AG.  Scope was founded in 2002 and employs more than 70 people
in Berlin,  Frankfurt , Stuttgart, Amsterdam and Luxembourg,
according to its website. The ratings firm is seeking to
challenge Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings as it expands its coverage into European and global
banks.  Wolfgang Gerhardt, head of Vontobel’s German financial
products business, said fair pricing has helped the banks remain
among the top four issuers of structured notes. LBBW also aims
to offer fair value to investors in reverse convertibles, said
Fabian Blumer, retail product manager at the bank.  Biggest Issuers  LBBW was the second-largest issuer of reverse convertibles
in March, selling 23.2 million euros ($30.3 million), according
to Euwax. Vontobel was the fourth-biggest issuer in the month,
with 17.6 million euros of sales while Deutsche Bank was the
biggest seller, offering 31.2 million euros of notes, Euwax data
shows.  Scope also analyzed quote sizes, an important measure of
liquidity, according to Ullrich. He says larger sizes allow
investors seeking bigger trades to avoid being charged
repeatedly for making multiple smaller trades. Vontobel offered
investors the largest size of note at 500,000 euros, according
to the ratings firm.  Scope’s research showed RBS had the tightest bid-ask spread
for reverse convertibles at 0.05 percent, while Deutsche Bank
had the widest at 0.2 percent.  Investors in the German market are holding about 5 billion
euros of outstanding reverse convertibles, according to
Deutscher Derivate Verband, the country’s derivatives
association.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money. Derivatives are contracts whose value is based on stocks,
bonds, currencies and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  