-- Digi, Amazon.com, Facebook: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-23T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/digi-amazon-com-facebook-intellectual-property.html
Digi International Inc. (DGII) , a provider
of wireless products, has settled a patent case brought by U.S.
Ethernet Innovations, the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company
said in a statement.  U.S. Ethernet filed suit against Digi in federal court in
Tyler,  Texas , in May, claiming that the Minnesota company
infringed three patents related to network data transmission.
Initially in dispute were patents 5,732,094, 5,434,872 and
5,530,874, with a fourth patent -- 5,299,313 -- added in an
amended complaint filed in September 2012.  Tyler-based U.S. Ethernet is the successor to 3Com Corp.’s
Ethernet business, according to court papers. 3Com was acquired
by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in April 2010.  In its statement, Digi said it’s paying U.S. Ethernet
$1.525 million, with no further payment obligations.  The case is U.S. Ethernet Innovations LLC v. Digi
International Inc., 6:12-cv-00351-MHS-JDL, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  Amazon Seeks Patent on Device That Receives Power, Content  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s founder Jeffrey Bezos is a named inventor
on an application for a patent on a portable device that
receives both content and power wirelessly.  According to application  20130069865 , the device is a
display system that is remote from, and without a tangible
connection to, a primary station.  This would enable the device to be smaller and more
lightweight than many present-day devices that must incorporate
a large battery. Amazon.com said in the application that while
the size of batteries used in mobile devices are “continuously
getting smaller, the operational or functional time of these
smaller batteries is often insufficient for many users.”  The device covered by this application won’t need to be
recharged often and it won’t need a charging cord.  As content transmitted to the device is read -- it can be
replaced by new content, according to the application. The
device may also contain a detection element through which a user
can direct it to turn the page through a touch-sensitive panel,
a verbal command or an eye movement.  Seattle-based Amazon.com filed the application for this
patent in September 2012. Co-inventor with Bezos is Amazon.com
Vice President Gregory M. Hart.  VirnetX Files New Patent Suit Against Microsoft Over Skype  VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC) , which won a $200 million settlement
from Microsoft Corp. over patents related to private networks in
2010, filed a new lawsuit yesterday claiming it’s entitled to
more money.  VirnetX said Microsoft’s Skype unit, which allows instant
messaging and Internet calling, is infringing six patents.
Skype, which Microsoft bought in October 2011 for $8.5 billion,
wasn’t part of that earlier deal, the Zephyr Cove, Nevada-based
VirnetX said in a statement yesterday.  “Although Microsoft previously signed a patent license
with VirnetX, we believe they are infringing our patents in ways
that are outside the scope of the original license,” Kendall
Larsen, the company’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “We look forward to quickly resolving this matter.”  The complaint was filed in federal court in Tyler, Texas,
where VirnetX has had mixed luck. One jury in November awarded
VirnetX $368 million in a case against Apple Inc. over some of
the same patents, while a different jury in March decided that
Cisco Systems Inc. didn’t infringe the patents.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft and VirnetX reached the
earlier settlement after Microsoft lost a jury verdict against
VirnetX.  VirnetX, which relies on patent licensing for its income,
reported $412,000 in revenue last year.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, reported
$73.7 billion in sales in the last fiscal year.  The new case is VirnetX Inc. v.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , 13-cv-
00351, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Facebook Trial Over ‘Timeline’ Trademark Rights Postponed  Facebook  Inc.’s trial over its right to use the word
“timeline” to describe user profiles has been delayed at least
a day and possibly longer.  A  jury trial  in the trademark infringement case filed in
2011 by the operator of  timelines.com  was scheduled to start
yesterday at the federal courthouse in  Chicago .  More than 90 minutes after conferring with lawyers and
declaring a recess, U.S. District Judge John W. Darrah retook
the bench and said the matter would be taken up today or, if
necessary, would be postponed to May 7 for a status conference.  The judge offered no explanation for the delay. Douglas
Albritton, an attorney for Timelines Inc., declined to
immediately comment on the postponement. Lawyers for Facebook
also declined to comment.  Facebook is the world’s most-popular social networking
website. The  Menlo Park , California-based company has more than
a billion monthly users, according to its website.  Timelines’ website allows its users to create or add
content to historical chronologies documenting topics including
space exploration, political assassinations, wars and sporting
events.  Chicago-based Timelines sued Facebook a week after the
social network announced it was converting user-profile pages
previously known as walls to individual chronologies called
timelines.  The website Timelines, which has about 94,000 visitors a
month, contends it has held a U.S. trademark on the use of
“timelines” for user-created Internet chronologies since 2009.  The company is seeking an order barring Facebook from using
the word, according to its amended complaint. It’s also seeking
compensation equivalent to Facebook’s Timeline-derived ad
revenue, Albritton said in a phone interview earlier this month.  Facebook has filed papers asking Darrah to strike
Timelines’ request for a jury, arguing that the demands for
injunctive relief and wrongful profits are arguments for
equitable relief that should be decided by a judge.  The  California  company has also countersued, claiming the
trademark is too generic to warrant federal rights protection.
Darrah on April 1 denied a defense motion for judgment on the
issue, setting the matter for a jury trial.  The case is Timelines Inc. v.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , 11-cv-06867,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  POMWonderful Sues Malt-o-Meal Maker for Trademark Infringement  POMWonderful LLC , the juice company founded by billionaire
 Stewart Resnick , has sued a 94-year-old cereal company for
trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed April 19 in federal court
in  Los Angeles ,  MOM Brands Co.  of  Minneapolis  is accused of
infringing PomWonderful’s “POM” trademark.  MOM Brands, maker of Malt-O-Meal cereal, makes and sells
“Blue Pom Wheat-fuls” and “Blue Pom Tumble Wheats” in the
U.S. and “Blue Pom Bundles” in  Canada . PomWonderful claims
that the public is confused through MOM Brands’ use of “Pom”
and that the cereal company is intentionally causing this
confusion.  Minneapolis-based MOM is using “Pom” “to target
consumers who are familiar with the POM Brand by creating an
impression of an association” with the juice company, according
to court papers. POM claims it is losing sales and revenue from
potential “licensing and co-branding opportunities” because of
the cereal company’s actions.  The juice company asked the court for an order barring MOM
Brands’ use of “Pom,” together with an order for the recall
and destruction of all allegedly infringing products.
Additionally, the Los Angeles-based juice company seeks awards
of money damages, MOM Brands’ profits attributable to the
alleged infringement, and the money to pay for corrective
advertising, plus attorney fees and litigation costs.  Linda Fisher, a spokeswoman for MOM Brands, said in an e-
mail yesterday that the company’s attorneys are reviewing the
complaint.  The case is PomWonderful LLC v. Mom Brands Co., 2:13-cv-
02745-MRP-MAN, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Indian Copyright Agency Seeks Photocopying Fees From Schools  India ’s copyright licensing agency, the Indian
Reprographics Rights Organization, has begun collecting fees
from that country’s universities for photocopying text books
into course packs, India’s Economic Times  reported .  The IRRO has put 400 colleges on notice, demanding payment
and a licensing agreement that permits the copying of as much as
10 percent of a book, according to the newspaper.  Some Indian copyright experts are arguing that such
licenses are unnecessary because that country’s copyright law
grants exemptions for copyright related to educational research,
according to the Economic Times.  The demand from the IRRO follows a pending suit pitting
academic publishers  Oxford University Press , Cambridge
University Press and  Informa Plc (INF) ’s Taylor & Francis unit against
Delhi University over course packs prepared by its licensed
photocopying service, the newspaper reported.  Nigeria’s Copyright Agency Joins Forces With Crime Commission  In efforts to strengthen  Nigeria ’s copyright enforcement,
the  Nigerian Copyright Commission  and the  Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission  have signed a collaboration agreement, the
Nigerian Tribune  reported .  The agreement specifies that the two agencies will work
together on anti-piracy operations, according to the Tribune.  Model for the accord is an agreement between the copyright
commission and  the Nigeria Customs Service  that has yielded the
confiscation of 16 containers of allegedly pirated material with
a value exceeding 6 billion Nigerian naira ($38 million), the
newspaper reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 