-- Discover Rises as Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates: Chicago Mover
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-04-23T20:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/discover-profit-beats-estimates-as-credit-card-spending-climbs.html
Discover Financial Services (DFS)  rose
after the credit-card lender posted first-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates on increased consumer spending.  Discover advanced 1.7 percent to close at $44.33 in New
York after gaining as much as 4.6 percent, the most since Sept.
27. The Riverwoods, Illinois-based firm said net income climbed
3.5 percent to $673 million, or $1.33 a share, from $650
million, or $1.21, a year earlier, beating the $1.12  average
estimate  of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David Nelms is
repurchasing shares and increasing  dividends  as the bank, which
gets most of its revenue from credit cards, expands its mortgage
and student-loan businesses. The company also is extending the
reach of its global payments network as it plans to begin
processing transactions for customers of  EBay (EBAY)  Inc.’s PayPal unit
at brick-and-mortar stores in the U.S. this year.  Discover “reported a solid quarter driven by a beat on
both top-line and expenses,”  Sanjay Sakhrani , a KBW Inc.
analyst, wrote in a note to clients today. “Underlying trends
such as  credit quality  and receivables growth also came in
better than our expectations.”  The shares have advanced 15 percent this year, outpacing
the 12 percent  gain  of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials
Index of 81 U.S. companies.  Student Loans  Credit-card loans climbed 5 percent from a year earlier to
$48.7 billion with Discover card sales volume increasing 4
percent, the firm said.  Discover, one of the biggest U.S. student lenders, boosted
private  student loans  by $431 million, or 6 percent, according
to the statement. Personal loans increased by $578 million, or
21 percent, to $3.4 billion. Total revenue jumped 10 percent to
$1.99 billion.  Credit-card loans at least 30 days delinquent reached a
record low of 1.77 percent in the first quarter, the company
said.  “We may be at the bottom, but the bottom may be flat as
opposed to turning back up anytime soon,” Nelms, 52, said in a
phone interview. “From a credit perspective, the U.S. consumer
is great if you get outside of mortgages.”  Credit-card write-offs for Discovery were 2.36 percent,
according to the statement, the second-lowest among the six
biggest U.S. issuers, after New York-based American Express
Co.’s 2 percent.  ‘Favorable Territory’  Discover released $154 million from a reserve to cover
soured loans, which helped bolster profit. The accounting gain
amounted to about 19 cents per share, Sakhrani wrote.  Total operating expenses grew 12 percent, mainly because of
an increase in the number of employees, and higher compensation
and marketing costs, according to a presentation on the firm’s
website.  Retail sales in the U.S., where Discover gets most of its
revenue, dropped in March by the most in nine months, pointing
to a slowdown in  consumer spending  as the quarter drew to a
close. The data spurred economists to pare consumer-spending
forecasts from what had been projected to be the best quarter in
two years.  “I’m certainly hoping that it will pick back up a little
bit, but so far I’ve seen no signs that it is,” Nelms said.
“It would be good for consumers and businesses, and then
ultimately us, if consumer spending did grow.”  The deal with  San Jose , California-based EBay, announced in
August, will let PayPal’s more than 50 million U.S. customers
use their accounts at more than 7 million merchant locations
that already accept Discover cards. The partnership gives
PayPal, which seeks to transfer its online success to the
physical world, access to a network that reaches about the same
number of U.S. merchants as Visa Inc. and MasterCard Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  