-- Dubai Ruler Says Horses Won’t Race After Doping Scandal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-04-24T16:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/dubai-ruler-appalled-after-race-horses-test-positive.html
Dubai’s ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum said his Godolphin stables in Britain won’t
participate in races until all the horses pass drug tests after
11 of the thoroughbreds were barred because of doping.  “We will be locking down the Moulton Paddocks stables with
immediate effect, and I have instructed that I want a full round
of blood samples, and dope testing done on every single horse on
that premises,” he said today in an e-mailed statement. “I can
assure the racing public that no horse will run from that yard
this season until I have been absolutely assured by my team that
the entire yard is completely clean.”  Tests by the British Horseracing Authority found anabolic
steroids ethylestranol and stanozolol in 11 of 45 horses trained
by Mahmood Al Zarooni at the stables in Newmarket,  England , the
authority said in a  statement on its website.   Dubai’s ruler, who’s also the prime minister of the  United
Arab Emirates , is the world’s biggest owner of race horses. He
owns the Godolphin stables and stud farms in the U.K., Ireland,
the U.S. and  Australia . Dubai hosts the Dubai  World Cup , the
world’s richest horse race, and  Godolphin  has won 202 Group One
races in 12 different countries, according to its website.  In 2009, Sheikh Mohammed was banned from long-distance
racing for six months after his horse tested positive for banned
substances, the International Equestrian Federation (FEI) said
at the time. Sheikh Mohammed’s stable manager, Abdullah Bin
Huzaim, told an FEI inquiry that he had approved the drugs
without Sheikh Mohammed’s knowledge because he believed the
horse needed them, the FEI said in 2009.  Al Zarooni said he was responsible for the administration
of the prohibited substances and will attend a BHA disciplinary
inquiry tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  