-- DuPont Profit Tops Estimates on Record Earnings From Agriculture
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-04-23T20:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/dupont-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-as-seed-revenue-climbs.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the largest U.S.
chemical company by market value, posted first-quarter earnings
that exceeded analysts’ estimates as profit from crop seeds and
pesticides hit a record and pigment demand began to recover.  Profit excluding the auto-paint unit, which was sold in
February, and payments to settle claims that Imprelis herbicide
damaged trees was $1.56 a share, Wilmington, Delaware-based
DuPont said in a statement today. That beat the $1.53 average of
18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shares rose 4.1 percent
to $52.49 in  New York , the biggest gain since November 2011.  DuPont maintained its full-year forecast for operating
earnings of $3.85 to $4.05 a share, a gain of 2 percent to 7
percent. The average estimate of 20 analysts was $3.92. Higher
earnings won’t be realized until the second half, as DuPont said
first-half operating profit will drop 7 percent to 9 percent
because of a decline in its performance chemicals business,
which makes paint pigment.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman , who
agreed last month to pay Monsanto Co. at least $1.75 billion
over a decade to license new herbicide-tolerant soybeans, is
focusing on products that help meet demand for food, energy and
security. Sales at the  agriculture unit  rose 14 percent on corn
seed sales in  North America  and  Brazil , boosting operating
earnings in the unit 13 percent to a record $1.52 billion.  Corn Seed  “Agriculture was certainly a strong performer,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global Advisors who
rates the shares hold, said by telephone today. “Relative to
estimates, the beat came from better-than-expected results in
performance chemicals.”  DuPont also said today it raised its quarterly dividend to
45 cents a share from 43 cents.  First-quarter net income, which included a one-time gain
from the sale of the auto-paint unit, climbed to $3.35 billion,
or $3.58 a share, from $1.49 billion, or $1.58, a year earlier.
Sales rose to $10.4 billion from $10.2 billion.  Revenue was strongest in North America, where higher prices
and sales volumes contributed to an 8 percent gain, DuPont said.
Sales rose 4 percent in  Latin America  and fell 8 percent in the
Asia-Pacific region.  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa declined
1 percent.  DuPont’s first-half forecast implies profit growth of 13
percent to 21 percent in the second half, a seasonally weak
period for agriculture, Ahmed said. That means DuPont expects
titanium dioxide, which has dragged down results for several
quarters, will rebound in the second half, he said.  Titanium Dioxide  Sales volumes of titanium dioxide, the white pigment known
by its chemical formula TiO2, were “essentially” unchanged
from a year earlier and rose 8 percent from the fourth quarter,
DuPont said. The pigment business should “stabilize” by
midyear and improve after that, Kullman said on a conference
call today.  First-quarter operating profit at the  performance chemicals 
unit, the world’s largest maker of TiO2, fell 56 percent to $251
million as prices declined, the company said.  Corn seed producers such as DuPont and Monsanto are
benefiting as farmers prepare to sow what the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates will be 97.3 million acres, the most since
1936.  Items excluded from adjusted first-quarter profit include
$35 million to resolve Imprelis tree-damage claims and non-
operating pension costs. Imprelis charges now total $785 million
and may rise to $900 million, DuPont said.  DuPont, founded in 1802 to make gunpowder, produces
thousands of products from Corian countertops and Teflon
coatings to Tyvek weather barrier and Kevlar anti-ballistic
fiber.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  