-- Dutch Mortgage-Bond Market Threatened by Capital Rules, DSA Says
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-04-23T07:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/dutch-mortgage-bond-market-threatened-by-capital-rules-dsa-says.html
New bank capital rules risk
undermining demand in the 262 billion-euro ($342 billion) market
for Dutch residential mortgage-backed securities, according to
an industry body.  Banks and insurers, the biggest sellers and buyers of RMBS,
will have to match capital reserves with the perceived riskiness
of the assets they own, under regulations from the European
Commission. That will deter them from buying RMBS because most
lack the right tools to calculate risk weighting, according to
the  Dutch Securitisation Association .  “If investors have to keep much more capital because they
don’t have the instruments to make the correct assessment, they
won’t buy the securities anymore,” said Rob Koning, director of
the DSA in Amsterdam, which was set up by banks and insurers
last year to increase transparency in Dutch securitization
transactions.  Issuers in the Netherlands already face higher funding
costs because Dutch RMBS -- which have an average loan-to-value
ratio of 95 percent -- may not qualify as liquid assets under
new regulations capping the ratio at 80 percent. Koning says the
new capital rules will cause even more pain by deterring
investors from buying the securities altogether.  “The proposed liquidity rules are inconvenient but they
aren’t the biggest issue,” he said. “The biggest issue is
clearly the capital requirements. RMBS are an important funding
source for banks and insurers in the Netherlands.”  Funding Gap  Dutch banks are the second-largest issuers of RMBS in
 Europe , relying on sales of the securities to help fill a 452
billion-euro funding gap between deposits and loans, Dutch
central bank data show.  European banks may have to hold an extra 41 billion euros
of capital just to keep their investments in RMBS, according to
estimates by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Demand for Dutch RMBS has already shrunk, partly due to
“uncertainty about the future treatment of securitizations
under various regulatory regimes,” according to an April 16
 report  from the nation’s central bank. Investors bought 13.1
billion euros of Dutch packaged loans, mainly RMBS, in 2012,
about half the amount purchased in 2010, the report found.  Under the latest rules, which are designed to prevent a
repeat of the 2008 global financial crisis, financial firms must
hold more higher-quality capital against more conservatively
calculated risk-weighted assets.  Weighing Risk  The weighting depends on the likelihood of default and
losses that would be incurred as a result. While Dutch RMBS,
with their high underlying loan-to-value ratio, appear risky
they have proved to be among the world’s safest mortgage bonds.  Although Dutch home prices fell by more than 10 percent
last year and 19 percent since 2008, according to the national
statistics agency, cumulative defaults on loans packaged into
securitizations was 0.4 percent at the end of September, Moody’s
Investors Service data shows. That compares with 2.85 percent on
Spanish mortgages, where the average loan-to-value ratio is less
than 80 percent.  “The economic drivers that dictate asset performance vary
greatly across asset classes and jurisdictions,” according to a
March 15 letter addressed to regulators from the Dutch Banking
Association. “Especially mortgages have different risk
characteristics in comparison to other assets. Not
distinguishing between asset classes penalizes assets with below
average risk weights.”  Government Proposal  Dutch authorities are also seeking to protect mortgage
lending. A government-commissioned group led by Kees van Dijkhuizen, NIBC Holding NV’s chief financial officer who will
be joining ABN Amro Group NV in the same role in May, has
proposed packaging state-backed portions of home loans in a
national mortgage body funded through sales of covered bonds
guaranteed by the government. The securities would yield more
than government bonds and less than current securitizations,
boosting their appeal to buyers and reducing costs for issuers.  “The initiative may be supportive,” said Koning. “It
could mean the securities could be considered government paper,
eliminating the capital issue and the issue of how to assess the
mortgage portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  