-- Lebanese Clerics Call for Holy War in Syria as Hezbollah Warned
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-04-23T09:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/lebanese-clerics-call-for-holy-war-in-syria-as-hezbollah-warned.html
Two Lebanese clerics have called
for a holy war to defend  Sunni Muslims  in Syria, saying they are
coming under attack from Lebanon’s Shiite Muslim Hezbollah.  Syrian opposition groups have warned of Hezbollah
involvement in the country’s 2-year-old civil war, saying it
threatens to propel the bloodletting into neighboring Lebanon.
The Iranian-backed militant group, a major force in Lebanese
politics, denies it is fighting alongside the Syrian government
that once dominated Lebanon.  The two Lebanese Sunni clerics, Sheikh Ahmed al-Assir and
Sheikh Salem al-Rafei, called on supporters to embark upon a
holy war, or jihad, to help defend the Al-Qusair area in Homs
province in central Syria against Hezbollah fighters. Battles
have been raging for days in the area, which is strategically
placed near the highway linking the capital, Damascus, to the
coast.  Al-Assir called on “those who see themselves threatened by
Hezbollah to form cells made up of five people each to defend
themselves,” according to the official National News Agency.  Al-Rafei said by joining the fight in  Syria , Hezbollah has
violated the Lebanese government’s policy of distancing itself
from the Syrian conflict, according to a statement he issued
carried by An-Nahar newspaper. “The call for jihad will deter
Hezbollah from supporting the killers,” he said.  Declaration of War  Yesterday, the main Western-backed opposition group, the
Syrian National Coalition, warned that Hezbollah’s role in
fighting in Homs amounted to a “declaration of war against the
Syrian people,” according to the Lebanese Daily Star newspaper.  “The Lebanese president and the Lebanese government should
realize the danger that it poses to the lives of Syrians and the
future relations between the two peoples and countries,” the
coalition’s interim chief, George Sabra, said in Istanbul,
according to the  Daily Star .  The conflict has already inflamed sectarian tensions in
Lebanon and sparked clashes between supporters and opponents of
the Syrian government. Those skirmishes in turn reflect the
sectarian nature of the fighting in Syria. President Bashar al- Assad belongs to the Alawite sect, whose religion is an offshoot
of Shiite Islam. Syria’s insurgents are predominantly Sunni.  Hezbollah has denied it is backing Assad in the fighting,
saying it’s helping Lebanese Shiites living in border towns and
villages to defend themselves against rebel assaults. Syrian
government forces have attacked suspected rebel supply routes
inside Lebanon with artillery and warplanes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  