-- Medicare Rate Decision Came Two Weeks Before Announcement
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-04-23T16:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/medicare-rate-decision-came-two-weeks-before-announcement.html
The Obama administration decided
March 15 to scale back a proposed cut in Medicare payments to
health insurers, two weeks before the information may have been
tipped to stock traders, according to Senator  Charles Grassley .  Grassley, an Iowa Republican who has been investigating
whether lobbyists obtained confidential government information,
said events suggest the rate decision may have been known to
people outside of the Medicare agency long before an analytics
firm released an April 1 report speculating on the decision.  “A significant number of people likely knew what the
outcome would be long before the decision was announced,”
Grassley said in an e-mail today. “It seems unlikely that none
of them hinted at it to anyone else for more than two weeks.”  The timeline of events was pieced together after a Height
Analytics LLC report on April 1 told clients that the Obama
administration would reverse plans to cut payment rates for
Medicare Advantage plans sold by private insurers. The report
beat by more than 40 minutes the official government
announcement, sending the shares of  Humana Inc. (HUM) ,  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH)  and other insurers soaring.  Marilyn Tavenner , the acting administrator of the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services, described the government’s
timeline leading up to the payment decision in an April 19
letter that Grassley released today.  Mark Hayes, a  Greenberg Traurig  LLP lobbyist, discussed the
possibility of a rate change in an April 1 e-mail sent to Height
Analytics, a Washington-based investor firm that provides
analysis and information about government decisions. In turn,
Height advised its clients in a memo that day about the policy
change.  Height has said it did nothing wrong. Greenberg Traurig
said it, too, hadn’t found evidence of any illegal activity,
though it plans to stop doing work with so-called political
intelligence firms.  Medicare Advantage plans are those offered by private
insurers with different benefits and costs than the traditional
Medicare health coverage for the elderly and disabled. The
government sets the rates the insurers are paid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  