-- Edwards Lifesciences Cuts Forecast on Slower Sales Growth
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-04-24T20:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/edwards-lifesciences-cuts-forecast-on-slower-sales-growth.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) , the
biggest-maker of aortic  heart valves  implanted with a catheter,
plunged the most in a dozen years after the company cut its 2013
forecast on slower-than-anticipated sales.  Edwards fell 22 percent to $64.60 at the close in New York,
its biggest single-day decline since October 2000. The  Irvine ,
California-based company had gained 13 percent in the 12 months
through yesterday.  Earnings excluding one-time items may be $3 to $3.10 a
share this year, Edwards said in a statement yesterday. The
company had  projected  full-year profit of as much as $3.31 in
February. Sales of its traditional surgical heart valves and
critical care products fell in the first quarter, while a boost
from October’s expanded U.S. approval for Sapien was short of
expectations.  “Sometimes, the adage is simple: you can’t have a high
multiple stock miss, and it is worse if management guides
down,” said  Joanne Wuensch , a New York-based analyst at BMO
Capital Markets, in a note to clients today. “While we expect
the stock to take a beating here, we need signs of consistent
uptake of Sapien in the U.S. and outside the U.S. stabilization
for the stock to retake its upward trajectory.”  Edwards’s Competition  Edwards’s competitor for the less-invasive heart valves,
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , may have siphoned some sales from the Sapien
device as it tests CoreValve in the U.S., said Jason McGorman, a
Bloomberg Industries analyst in Princeton,  New Jersey . The U.S.
sales for Sapien, which is implanted using a catheter through an
artery or directly into the heart, were lower than expected and
Edwards cut its full-year guidance by $40 million, he said.  “As global sales this quarter across product lines were
below our expectations, we are lowering our 2013 guidance
primarily to reflect a slower start to the year and an updated
foreign exchange impact,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Mussallem said in the statement.  First-quarter earnings excluding one-time items were 72
cents a share, less than the average of 76 cents from 23
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue increased 8.2
percent to $496.7 million, missing the consensus analysts’
estimate of $518.9 million.  Sales Miss  U.S. sales for the Sapien valve were $83 million for the
quarter, missing expectations after 20 medical centers slated to
learn how to implant the devices postponed training. Mussallem
said the U.S. opportunity for the transcatheter aortic valve
replacement, or TAVR, remains unchanged, though it may take
longer to reach it.  “Edward’s initial 2013 guidance clearly proved to be
overly aggressive on U.S. TAVR sales as capacity constraints and
the complexities of bringing a 20+ person team up the learning
curve clearly tempered the adoption curve more than expected,”
said Danielle Antalffy, an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in
 New York .  Edwards’ studies of Sapien and next-generation valves
continue to generate positive results and the company is making
good progress on its pipeline of new products that will
strengthen its leadership position, Mussallem said.  Net income increased to $144.9 million, or $1.24 a share,
from $65.1 million, or 55 cents, a year earlier, Edwards said in
its statement. The quarterly income included $92 million from an
initial payment from Medtronic related to patent litigation and
a research-and-development tax credit, the company said.  Sales fell 2.7 percent to $198.1 million for traditional
surgical heart valves and dropped 3.9 percent to $128.9 million
for critical care products as the company reduced its inventory
held by distributors in  China , Edwards said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  