-- Egypt Plans to Cut Budget Deficit Next Year After Missing Target
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-04-23T15:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/egypt-plans-to-cut-budget-deficit-next-year-after-missing-target.html
Egypt  will exceed its budget
deficit target this year as a delay in enacting fiscal changes
raises pressure for spending cuts, a government official said.  The deficit may reach 11.5 percent to 11.7 percent of
economic output in the year that ends in June compared with 10.4
percent targeted earlier, Finance Minister El-Morsi Hegazi said
today in an address to the upper house of parliament televised
on state-run television. The government wants to reduce the gap
in the 2013 to 2014 fiscal year to 9.6 percent of gross domestic
product, according to a draft budget he presented.  Economic performance and growth “remain much below the
minimum level” needed to generate jobs, Hegazi said. Despite
“temporary positive effects” of increased  government spending 
on economic activity, “it has become very difficult to maintain
it” at the same level.  Egypt has been slow to implement reforms amid a political
struggle between the Islamist government and the mostly secular
opposition. That has depressed economic growth to about 2
percent annually compared with an average of 6.2 percent in the
five years before the revolution that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  in
2011. The unrest forced the government to amend an economic
program agreed upon with the  International Monetary Fund  in
November, stalling a $4.8 billion loan.  Next year’s budget was built on the assumption that
economic changes, such as widening the tax base and sales taxes
and restructuring subsidies, would be enacted on time, Hegazi
said. Not taking those steps may cause the government to exceed
its forecast with a deficit of about 15 percent of economic
output, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  