-- Emerging-Market Returns Unhinge From Developed: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-04-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/emerging-market-returns-unhinge-from-developed-chart-of-the-day.html
Emerging-market equities are ailing
in comparison to stocks in developed markets as gains in wages
outpace economic growth.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that from June 2010 through
2012, the positive correlation between developed and emerging-
market equities daily performance was 89.6 percent, according to
data from the global economic research unit of JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York. This year, the relationship has reverted to a
negative correlation of 60.3 percent as emerging-market stocks
slumped.  “ Emerging markets  could continue to get hurt because their
economies aren’t growing as fast as they were before but their
wages continue to rise,” said Andres Garcia-Amaya, a New York-
based global market strategist in JPMorgan’s investment
management unit, referring to a time frame of one to three
years. Commodities that have “taken a beating” since the start
of the year could also weigh on the emerging markets because
“in developed economies, their equity markets are a lot more
balanced when it comes to their sector composition.”  The U.S., Japan and nine other economies made up the
developed markets cited in the JPMorgan data, while the emerging
markets were 14 countries that included the so-called BRIC
nations --  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China .  The picture may be brighter for emerging-market equities
beyond the next three years, Garcia-Amaya said. Stabilization in
China could especially help staunch the slump in those
economies.  Economic growth in China slowed to 7.7 percent in the first
three months of this year, less than the 8 percent median
forecast, government data released April 15 showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  