-- Ethanol Mills Get Tax Breaks as Brazil Seeks Output Lift
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o ,   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-04-23T19:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/ethanol-mills-get-tax-breaks-as-brazil-seeks-output-lift.html
Brazil, the biggest ethanol
exporter, will give  tax deductions  and extend low-cost credit to
mills in a bid to lift output and reduce fossil-fuel imports.  The government will grant 970 million reais ($480 million)
in credits to offset a 0.12 real per liter tax on ethanol and
offer 4 billion reais in loans for crop renewal this year,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia today.
There will also be a 2 billion-real line of credit for ethanol
stockpiling and tax credits for the  chemical industry , he said.
Shares of energy and petrochemical companies rallied.  The plan comes as ethanol mills start processing a record
sugar-cane crop amid declining international prices for the
sweetener and rising gasoline imports by state-run  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)  The administration of President  Dilma Rousseff 
has reduced electricity rates and payroll and food taxes to tame
 inflation  while the central bank raised the benchmark  interest
rate  for the first time in almost two years last week.  “The ethanol sector is here to stay and, from time to
time, we need to revisit it to see what we can do to help our
producers,” Rousseff told reporters at a separate event.
“Sometimes the price provides returns, other times it
doesn’t.”  Cosan Gains  The objective of the measures that take effect May 1 is to
boost investments, increase production and partially replace
demand for gasoline, Mantega said. They can also help ease
inflation, he said.  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio (CSAN3) , which jointly controls the
world’s biggest cane processor with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , rose
as much as 5.3 percent to 47 reais as Mantega spoke. The stock
traded at 45.95 reais, up 2.9 percent, at 4:21 p.m. in Sao
Paulo.  “Mills started harvesting a record crop, and the incentive
will help in profitability,” Henrique Koch, an analyst at  Banco
do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.
“This incentive also helps to reduce ethanol prices at the
pump, easing inflationary concerns.”  The government incentives could prompt some investors to
plant more cane but won’t attract new companies into an industry
that’s still struggling with cost increases that haven’t been
offset by higher prices, said Alexandre Grendene Bartelle,
chairman of shoemaker  Grendene SA (GRND3) , who has stakes in two ethanol
refineries.  “Maybe some companies will expand plantations or mills,
but we won’t see companies making big investments in new
projects,” Bartelle said by telephone from  Porto Alegre .  Fuel Losses  Sugar has dropped 18 percent in the past 12 months in  New
York  as supplies from top producer Brazil may exceed demand.  Ethanol output in Brazil, where the fuel is made from
sugarcane, will rise to about 28 billion liters from 23 billion
last year, Mines and Energy Minister Edison Lobao said today.9.  Petrobras increased imports of fuel and other refined oil
products to 505,000 barrels a day in the fourth quarter, from
394,000 barrels a year earlier, and has sold the fuel at a
discount to international prices.  Shares in the state-run  oil company , which also produces
ethanol, climbed 2.7 percent to 19.28 reais in  Sao Paulo ,
heading for the highest closing price since March 14.  Brazil will raise the mandatory amount of ethanol mixed
into the gasoline blend sold at pumps to 25 percent next month
from 20 percent now. Most Brazilian cars can run on pure ethanol
or a mix with gasoline. The U.S., where ethanol is made from
corn and used as an alternative gasoline additive, is the
world’s largest producer and consumer of the biofuel.  Chemical Boost  Rousseff’s government will also grant credits to reduce the
so-called PIS and Cofins taxes on raw materials used in the
chemical industry to 1 percent from 5.6 percent now.  Brazil’s chemical industry, the world’s sixth-largest by
revenue, faces heightened competition because of cheaper shale-
gas feedstock in the U.S., Mantega said. The credit takes effect
immediately and will be gradually reduced from 2016 to 2018, he
said.  Braskem SA (BRKM5) , Latin America’s largest petrochemicals
producer, rose the most on Brazil’s benchmark index, surging 7.4
percent to a seven-month high of 16.05 reais. Petrobras is
Braskem’s second largest shareholder.  “The benefit is clear,” Henrique Kleine, head analyst at
Magliano SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “In the long run, it
will result in lower production costs and better margins.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  