-- MetLife Lifts Dividend First Time Since 2007
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-04-23T20:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/metlife-lifts-dividend-first-time-since-2007-after-bank-exit-1-.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, raised its dividend 49 percent in the first increase
since 2007, after its exit from banking limited oversight from
the  Federal Reserve . The company gained the most since January
in  New York  trading.  The quarterly dividend of 27.5 cents per share is payable
June 13 to shareholders of record as of May 9, the New York-
based insurer said today in a statement. The previous payout was
18.5 cents.  MetLife is returning  capital  to shareholders after scaling
back the U.S. oversight that had frustrated Chief Executive
Officer  Steven Kandarian ’s plans for buybacks and a  dividend 
boost. The insurer exited bank status in February after reaching
deals for the sale of deposits and reverse-mortgage and home-
loan units. Smaller rivals including No. 2  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU)  didn’t face the same restrictions and raised their payouts.  “This action by our board makes our dividend more
competitive,” Kandarian said in the statement.  MetLife advanced $1.95, or 5.5 percent, to $37.74 at 4 p.m.
in New York. The insurer has rallied 15 percent this year.  As one of the largest bank-holding companies, MetLife had
to submit its capital plans for Fed approval. Under the Dodd-
Frank law, the Fed oversees capital at the biggest lenders to
prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.  MetLife’s annual dividend has been 74 cents a share since
2007 and the insurer last authorized a buyback in 2008. The
company switched to a quarterly payment this year.  Systemically Important  The Fed last year rejected MetLife’s plans to repurchase $2
billion in shares and boost its annual dividend to $1.10 after
finding that it would fall short of U.S. capital standards in a
severe economic downturn.  MetLife has said banking rules aren’t a good fit for life
insurers, which often retain policyholder funds for decades
before paying benefits and may be less vulnerable to client
withdrawals. U.S. insurers are mostly regulated by states.  MetLife may eventually be regulated by the Fed as a non-
bank systemically important financial institution after exiting
bank status, Kandarian said in December.  Newark , New Jersey-
based Prudential and  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  have also
said the Fed may deem them systemically important.  AIG, which  discontinued  its dividend in 2008, jumped 5.2
percent to $40.62, the most since December. Prudential climbed
3.3 percent.  Robert Benmosche , CEO of New York-based AIG, has said that
the insurer’s ability to pay a dividend may depend on a Fed
review of capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  