-- EU Assembly Seeks Depositor Preference in Bail-In Law Deal
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-23T14:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/eu-assembly-seeks-depositor-preference-in-draft-bail-in-law-deal.html
Uninsured depositors would be
placed last in line for forced losses, or bail-ins, at failing
 banks  under draft plans agreed on by the European Parliament,
according to the assembly’s lead legislator on the measures.  Lawmakers from the “major political groups” included the
change in a draft accord on legislation aimed at shielding
taxpayers from having to rescue  banks , Gunnar Hoekmark, a
Swedish member of the EU parliament, told reporters in Brussels.
Unsecured debt with a maturity of less than one month and
deposits of as much as 100,000 euros ($130,000) would be
exempted from losses, he said.  There is a “broad majority” in favor of the proposals,
which must be negotiated with national governments, Hoekmark
said. A vote in the assembly’s Economic and Monetary Affairs
Committee will be scheduled “as soon as possible,” he said.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, proposed
creditor writedowns last year as part of a package of measures
to tackle too-big-to-fail lenders. National governments and the
EU Parliament are considering the plans against the backdrop of
last month’s rescue deal for Cyprus, in which the island nation
bowed to demands from creditors to shrink its banking system and
write down deposits of more than 100,000 euros.  Cyprus Losses  Cyprus’s parliament voted against an earlier accord that
would have also imposed losses on savers with less than 100,000
euros. Such so-called insured deposits are protected under EU
law, which requires nations to make reimbursements.  “My aim has been to achieve as much legal clarity as
possible” Hoekmark said. The example of Cyprus shows that “if
you don’t have very clear rules you can take decisions which are
questionable.” Deposits greater than 100,000 euros would be
“last” in line for losses, he said.  The parliament plans would also see varying treatment of
over-the-counter derivatives depending on whether the
instruments have been traded via clearinghouses, Hoekmark said.
Those that haven’t passed through central clearing would face
losses ahead of those that had, he said.  Secured debt, such as covered bonds, would be protected
from losses under the plans.  Once the parliament has voted on the plans, lawmakers will
negotiate with national governments on the final version of the
law.  Alternative Approach  Diplomats are weighing an alternative approach to bail-in
that would see regulators handed the power to exempt some
classes of creditors from losses on a case-by-case basis.
Nations are split on whether uninsured depositors should be
given preferential treatment over other unsecured senior
creditors.  The parliament will seek to revise proposals from Barnier
that would require nations to set up permanent bank-financed
resolution funds that could be tapped when a lender is in
crisis, Hoekmark said. The measure, opposed by the U.K., would
be amended to allow governments to put the money raised from
levies into their general accounts, rather than a standing fund.  Lawmakers have also agreed on provisions that would make it
clear that a government can temporarily nationalize a bank if
they think it’s the best course to preserve financial stability,
Hoekmark said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  