-- EU Nations Quell Expectations of Fast Carbon-Fix Solution
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-04-23T14:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/eu-governments-quell-expectations-of-fast-carbon-fix-solution.html
European Union governments damped
market expectations of a quick revival of a stopgap fix for the
world’s biggest carbon market after the bloc’s Parliament
rejected the rescue.  EU environment and climate ministers signaled they had
little scope to rejuvenate the plan to curb an oversupply of
emission permits as long as the European Parliament wavers over
the matter. The 27-nation assembly last week rejected the
proposal and then sent it back to its environment committee for
further debate of up to two months, reflecting concerns that
higher energy prices would deepen the euro-area recession.  Governments want to give the Parliament “the necessary
time to reflect upon the proposal,” Irish Environment Minister
Phil Hogan told reporters today in Dublin during a meeting with
his EU counterparts. Ireland, current holder of the bloc’s
rotating presidency, scheduled the next meeting of national
experts on the proposal for May, he said.  The refusal of EU nations to throw their weight behind the
rescue plan, which has divided policy makers and the industry,
raises the risk the proposal will fade. A week ago, permit
prices fell the most ever to a record low after the Parliament’s
rejection, which turned the spotlight onto this week’s meeting
of ministers for signs of fresh political support.  Rescue Plan  The rescue plan, designed by the European Commission, the
EU’s regulatory arm, aims to help bolster carbon prices by
delaying auctions of 900 million permits from 2013-2015 to 2019-
2020 in a process known as backloading. That would reduce a glut
of allowances aggravated by the economic slowdown, which has
curbed industrial output and cut demand for emission rights.  To be enacted, backloading needs support from both the
Parliament and governments in the Council of Ministers.  “Now the way forward is simply that the two institutions,
the Parliament and the Council, both have to come up with their
final say,” said EU Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard, who
first floated the idea of backloading a year ago. “Politics
does not always move forward as quickly as one would like to
see, but it doesn’t mean that we will not get there in the
end.”  EU emission allowances for delivery in December slumped 45
percent, the biggest drop ever, after the Parliament’s April 16
vote and extended their slide the next day, hitting an all-time
low of 2.46 euros a metric ton. They rose 5.2 percent to 3.04
euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 2:58 p.m. in
 London  today. The EU program doesn’t allow any price floors or
ceilings.  Life Support  With the commission’s rescue plan itself needing life
support, proponents including Denmark say the most they can do
at the moment is to urge the EU Parliament not to pull the plug.
Under EU rules, governments aren’t obliged to take a formal
position on draft legislation until the Parliament does so.  “What is important now is that a certain amount of
countries send a strong signal that, yes, we think that
something should be done,” Danish Climate Minister Martin Lidegaard said in an interview yesterday in Dublin. “But it’s
obviously also true that we’ll not be able to fix that signal on
a specific proposal because that could be counterproductive,
because they have to deal with that in the committee.”  The rescue plan for  Europe ’s 54 billion-euro ($70.3
billion) carbon market is meant to be a stopgap measure before
the bloc agrees on deeper changes to ensure that the emissions-
trading program stimulates investment in cleaner technologies.
The commission in November outlined six potential scenarios, or
so-called structural measures, to improve the system, which
imposes pollution caps on about 12,000 emitters in the EU.  Trading Program  French Environment Minister Delphine Batho said a May 22
meeting of EU government leaders in Brussels may be the best
occasion to try to revive the backloading proposal and affirm
Europe’s commitment to the trading program for emissions of
carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas.  “There’s an urgency to increase the price of CO2 in
Europe,” Batho said in an interview today in Dublin. “There’s
global competition today in green technologies.”  With the backloading measure in limbo, some ministers
stressed the importance of more fundamental steps to bolster the
emissions market.  “Backloading was only a temporary solution and now we have
a chance to see if we can find a structural way to solve the
problem in the emissions-trading system,” Dutch Secretary of
State for the Environment Wilma Mansveld, whose country supports
the stopgap step, said in an interview yesterday. “I hope we
can come to a solution in one or two years.”  Carbon Permits  The options to strengthen the emissions-trading system
floated by the commission include the cancellation of surplus
carbon permits, the introduction of mechanisms to support prices
and limits on imported credits. To be enacted, they too would
require approval by national governments and the EU Parliament.  Backloading is the first step toward an overhaul of the EU
greenhouse-gas market and can’t stand alone, according to
 Denmark ’s Lidegaard. The Parliament’s  rejection  of the proposal
threw a “small bomb into the process,” while German federal
elections in September are a political complication for the
ministers themselves, he said.  “It’s obvious to everyone that it would be hard to get a
clear position from Germany before the elections,” Lidegaard
said. “That, of course, doesn’t make it more easy for the rest
of the countries.”  Backloading  While most EU countries including the U.K. and  Sweden  are
in favor of backloading, they are short of the 255 out of 345
votes needed for the proposal to pass. That’s because some
nations including Germany,  Portugal  and the Czech Republic
remain undecided.  A potential abstention by  Germany  in a vote would
effectively mean a vote by the country against the plan. That
would put Europe’s biggest economy in one camp with  Poland ,
 Greece  and Cyprus, which oppose the plan.  The EU Parliament is unlikely to change its position on the
proposed market fix unless governments signal their support, Bas Eickhout, a Dutch member of the assembly, said on April 19.  Representatives of political groups on the EU assembly’s
environment committee will meet on April 25 for initial talks on
the future of the measure, said Matthias Groote, a German backer
of the proposal steering it through the Parliament. It’s too
early to say when another vote will take place on the measure in
the assembly, he told reporters today in Dublin.  Voting Records  Last week, the EU parliamentarians voted 334 to 315, with
63 abstentions, in favor of an amendment to block the carbon-
market fix. The next vote could be tighter after 10 out of 14
lawmakers who requested a change to their voting records said
they endorsed the anti-backloading amendment by mistake,
according to an updated protocol published by the assembly.  Ireland’s Hogan held out the possibility that Groote would
urge some changes to the carbon-fix plan to help salvage it in
the Parliament.  “There is, I’m sure, behind-the-scenes discussion taking
place to see what modest changes that would be required to
bridge the gap and to overcome whatever problems the European
Parliament had in the vote last week,” Hogan said. “So we’re
leaving it to them initially to come up with a solution to this
problem and we want to await the outcome of that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Dublin at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Dublin at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 