-- EU Oilseed Crushing May Drop on Tight Supplies, Oil World Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-04-23T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/eu-oilseed-crushing-may-drop-on-tight-supplies-oil-world-says.html
European Union crushing of oilseeds
including rapeseed, sunflower seed and soybeans will decline in
coming months as the bloc’s stockpiles shrink and imports
decline from  South America , Oil World said.  Rapeseed processing by the 27 countries of the EU may be
6.37 million metric tons in the four months through the end of
June, down 7.9 percent from the same time last year, with most
of the drop coming in Germany and  France , the Hamburg-based
researcher said today in an e-mailed report. In the first eight
months of the 2012-13 marketing year, which began July 1,
rapeseed crushing rose 5.4 percent from a year earlier to 15.54
million tons. EU rapeseed stockpiles in early March were 800,000
tons smaller than in 2012, it said.  “Crushings of the three major oilseeds are set to decline
in the European Union in the last four to five months of this
season,” Oil World said. “Crushings were frontloaded in the
first half of 2012-13. This is true primarily for rapeseed and
resulted in a reduction of rapeseed stocks.”  The EU is the world’s biggest producer and consumer of
rapeseed, used in biofuel and for cooking. It’s the second-
largest importer of soybeans, after  China , and the third-largest
producer and user of sunflower seed, after Ukraine and  Russia ,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  EU soybean crushing in February was 940,000 tons, down from
950,000 tons in the same month in 2012 and compared with a 12
percent annual jump in processing in January, Oil World said.
Lower supplies in South America, where logistical problems have
delayed shipments, “decimated” EU soybean crushing in February
and March and the trend may continue in April, it said.  Tight Supplies  “Soya meal supplies have tightened significantly, mainly
as a result of delayed arrivals of South American soya meal at
the European ports,” Oil World said. “Supply relief can only
be expected in the European Union from the end of May or early
June onward. Argentine and Brazilian soybean crushings were
unusually small until March but have reportedly started to
recover pronouncedly in April.”  Sunflower seed crushing totaled 1.05 million tons in
January and February in the EU, down 16 percent from last year,
bringing the total processed since August to 3.94 million tons,
10 percent less than the previous season, Oil World said. Lower
production and reduced stockpiles mean crushing from March
through July may be 2.2 million tons, 200,000 tons less than
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  