-- Leu Slips From Three-Month High on Commercial Demand for Euros
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-04-23T09:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/leu-slips-from-three-month-high-on-commercial-demand-for-euros.html
The leu retreated from its highest
level in three months as Romanians took advantage of a stronger
local currency to buy the euro, offsetting the benign effect of
an increased appetite for the nation’s debt.  The leu weakened for the first time in three days, after
advancing 0.3 percent yesterday to its highest level since
January 21.  Romania ’s borrowing costs sank to a record yesterday
at a sale of four-year bonds that were added to a JPMorgan Chase
& Co. emerging-market index on March 1.  “Decent volumes and the failure to firm beyond 4.35 per
euro imply resurgent commercial demand for hard currency,”
Mihai Tantaru, a Bucharest-based economist at ING Bank Romania
SA, wrote in a note today. “However, we expect the leu to
strengthen in the coming days, driven by the current strong
trend in domestic debt.”  The leu depreciated less than 0.1 percent to 4.3540 per
euro by 12:42 p.m. in Bucharest, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It has gained 2.1 percent this year, the best
performer among eastern European and African currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The Finance Ministry placed 300 million lei ($89 million)
in a reopening of securities due January 2016, one of the three
bonds added to JPMorgan’s GBI-EM index. The average yield fell
to 4.9 percent from 5.49 percent for similar-maturity debt
auctioned on March 7. Bids at 1.2 billion lei were four times
the offer at the sale yesterday.  “The good result of yesterday’s bond tender, coupled with
further dips in domestic debt yields to new all-time lows
suggest foreign players offered support for the leu yesterday,”
Tantaru said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 