-- Euro Near Two-Week Low Before German Confidence Data; Kiwi Rises
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-04-24T07:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/euro-near-2-week-low-before-german-business-confidence-kiwi-up.html
The euro was 0.2 percent from a
two-week low before a German report forecast to show business
confidence fell in the currency bloc’s largest economy, fueling
speculation the  European Central Bank  will cut  interest rates .  New Zealand ’s dollar climbed after central bank Governor
Graeme Wheeler said growth has picked up. Australia’s currency
slid versus all but two of its 16 major peers after data showed
inflation slowed. The yen swung between gains and losses as
investors speculated whether comments from the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
this week will weaken it to 100 per dollar for the first time in
four years.  “The euro is susceptible to downward pressure,” said
Masato Yanagiya, the New York-based head of foreign-exchange and
money trading at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of
 Japan ’s second-biggest financial group by market value. “As
economic data from Europe are very bad, expectations of a rate
cut by the ECB are rising gradually.”  The 17-nation euro traded at $1.2995 at 8:51 a.m. London
time after falling to $1.2973 yesterday, the lowest since April
8. The shared currency was little changed at 129.31 yen. Japan’s
currency was also little changed, at 99.52 per dollar.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index  for  Germany ,
based on a survey of about 7,000 executives, dropped to 106.2 in
April from 106.7, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before today’s report. A German
purchasing managers’  index  unexpectedly fell yesterday, while
the Bundesbank said in its monthly report this week that the
nation’s recovery may be delayed.  ECB Policy  The ECB may cut borrowing costs if data show a need for it,
Executive Board Member Joerg Asmussen said April 20 on a panel
in Washington. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the previous day
the economic situation in the euro area hasn’t improved since
the central bank’s last policy meeting on April 4. The ECB’s
benchmark rate is currently 0.75 percent.  In Australia, the so-called  trimmed mean gauge  of core
prices rose 0.3 percent in the first quarter from the previous
period, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today, compared
with the median forecast of economists of a 0.5 percent gain.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged today at 2.5 percent and signaled that the
“overvalued” local currency is hurting exporters.  The RBNZ “does not want to see financial or price
stability compromised by housing demand getting too far ahead of
supply,” Wheeler said in a statement.  RBNZ Disappoints  The central bank “has probably disappointed those in the
market expecting further emphasis on the high  New Zealand
dollar ,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  “The kiwi-dollar has minor resistance at 84.60
cents and 85 cents beyond is a major cap.” Resistance refers to
an area on a chart where analysts anticipate orders to sell may
be clustered.  Australia’s dollar fell 0.8 percent to NZ$1.2124 after
touching NZ$1.2111, the lowest since July 2010. The so-called
Aussie was little changed at $1.0253, while the kiwi gained 0.7
percent to 84.60 U.S. cents.  The BOJ will hold a policy meeting on April 26 when it
releases its outlook for the economy and inflation. It may raise
its forecast for price gains for fiscal 2014, according to
people familiar with the central bank’s discussions, after
unveiling a plan earlier this month to double its holdings of
 government bonds  in the next two years.  The dollar-yen rate is struggling to climb above 100 in
part because of “profit taking,” said Kengo Suzuki, a currency
strategist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. Even so, “the BOJ
report will show the central bank’s determination to achieve its
2 percent inflation target, so expectations for the BOJ’s action
are likely to result in yen weakness.”  Insurers’ Plans  The yen has plunged 20 percent against the dollar in the
past six months as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s  Liberal
Democratic Party  swept to power in December on a campaign of
expanded stimulus and he picked  Haruhiko Kuroda  to pursue
monetary easing at the BOJ.  Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. said today it expects the
yen to be at 96 per dollar and 124 against the euro by the end
of March 2014. The Tokyo-based company will “slightly”
increase investments in foreign debt with and without currency
hedges in the fiscal year started April 1, Japan’s third-largest
life insurer said today.  The company joined Nippon Life Insurance Co., which said on
April 22 that it may boost overseas bond purchases if yields in
Japan remain low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  