-- Euro Declines as Weak Data Fuel ECB Rate-Cut Bets; Krona Slides
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-23T21:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/euro-stays-lower-against-dollar-as-manufacturing-services-drop.html
The euro fell to a two-week low
against the dollar as a report showed weakening services and
manufacturing in the region, adding to speculation the  European
Central Bank  will lower  interest rates  to spur economic growth.  The yen erased gains versus the dollar as risk appetite
improved on chances for a rate cut. The euro dropped against
most of its major counterparts as a German purchasing-manager
index unexpectedly fell after the Bundesbank said yesterday the
nation’s recovery may be delayed. Sweden’s krona slid after the
nation’s  jobless rate  unexpectedly increased.  “These data were particularly important for ECB rate-cut
expectations,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview.  The euro declined 0.5 percent to $1.2996 at 5 p.m. New York
time and touched $1.2973, the weakest level since April 8. The
17-nation currency weakened 0.3 percent to 129.28 yen after
falling 0.2 percent yesterday.  Japan ’s currency lost 0.3 percent
to 99.48 per dollar after appreciating earlier as much as 0.8
percent to 98.49.  Stocks and European  government bonds  rose. The Stoxx  Europe 
600 Index climbed 2.4 percent, and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 1 percent. Italy’s two-year note yields fell to a
record-low 1.125 percent as prices rose.  “It’s really a rally on the hope of more liquidity and
more money printing than anything else,”  Sebastien Galy , a
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York,
said in a telephone interview.  False Report  U.S. markets sank and recovered over a span of seconds
after a false report on the Twitter account of the  Associated
Press  said there had been explosions at the White House. The yen
briefly climbed against the dollar before erasing the gain.  The Swedish krona dropped to a four-month low against the
dollar after  Statistics Sweden  said the  seasonally adjusted
unemployment  rate climbed to 8.4 percent in March, from 8.2
percent the previous month. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for the rate to stay unchanged.  The krona sank 1.8 percent to 6.6486 and touched 6.6518,
the weakest level since Dec. 18. The currency slid 1.3 percent
to 8.6418 per euro.  Sterling dropped to a two-week low against the dollar after
the  Confederation of British Industry  reported a U.K. factory
index unexpectedly fell this month to the lowest since October
2010. The gauge of orders fell to negative 25, from negative 15
in March. The pound fell 0.3 percent to $1.5240 and reached
$1.5197, the lowest level since April 4.  Key Level  The yen declined against the greenback after appreciating
0.3 percent yesterday, its first gain in five days. While
Japan’s currency weakened to 99.95 on April 11, it hasn’t
breached the 100-per-dollar level since April 2009.  The  Bank of Japan  said April 4 it will increase inflation
to 2 percent within two years through measures that also devalue
the yen. The central bank is scheduled to deliver its next
policy statement in  Tokyo  on April 26.  “We continue to think that the trend for the yen is for it
to weaken further, and we think that dollar-yen is going to
breach the 100 level, probably in the near term.”,” Sireen Harajli, a currency strategist in New York at  Credit Agricole 
SA, said in a phone interview.  The yen will trade at 100 to the dollar at year-end, and at
107 at the end of 2014, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 55 economists and analysts.  European Data  Europe’s shared currency fell after a euro-area composite
index based on a  survey  of purchasing managers in the services
and manufacturing industries was 46.5 in April, below the level
of 50 that separates contraction from expansion, London-based
Markit Economics said. A gauge of German factory output dropped
to 47.9 from 49, Markit said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had forecast no change.  The data “led markets to believe that a rate cut is
imminent by the ECB,” Credit Agricole’s Harajli said. “The
German PMI figures came in pretty weak. They pointed to a
contraction for the first time in a while.”  The ECB may cut borrowing costs if data show a need for it,
Executive Board Member Joerg Asmussen said April 20 on a panel
in  Washington . ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the previous day
the economic situation in the euro area hasn’t improved since
the central bank’s last policy meeting on April 4. The ECB’s
benchmark  rate  is currently 0.75 percent.  ‘Real Growth?’  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said investors should sell
the euro.  “Expect an ECB cut soon, but will it lead to real
growth?” Newport Beach, California-based Gross wrote in a
posting on Twitter. “Doubtful. Euro needs to go down.”  The 17-nation currency has still strengthened 2 percent
this year against nine developed-nation peers monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen slumped 11
percent, and the dollar gained 3.7 percent.  The dollar gained versus most major peers today after
 China ’s purchasing managers’ index fell to 50.5 in April,
according to a preliminary reading released by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics said, compared with a final figure of 51.6
for March.  Thailand’s baht dropped the most since July against the
dollar based on closing prices on speculation the central bank
will intervene to slow gains that may hurt exports.  The baht has started to move beyond its fundamentals,
central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said April 19,
while Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said yesterday
the currency has risen “too much and too quickly.”  The currency weakened 0.4 percent to 28.81 per dollar, the
biggest decline since July 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  