-- Evonik Risks Muted Stock Debut as Overhang Trumps Margins
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-24T08:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/evonik-risks-muted-stock-debut-as-overhang-trumps-margins.html
Evonik Industries AG, a German
chemical maker with a higher profitability than rivals  BASF SE (BAS) 
and  Solvay SA, (SOLB)  risks losing out in the competition for investors
when it lists shares tomorrow.  Any gain in Evonik’s share price in Frankfurt trading will
be an opportunity for owners CVC Capital Partners and RAG-
Stiftung to sell more of their stakes, putting off potential
investors, said MM Warburg analyst Oliver Schwarz. Evonik will
list a 12 percent stake already sold plus as many as 10.7
million shares at 32.20 euros apiece, it said today. That values
Evonik at about 15 billion euros (19.5 billion) though with only
14.3 percent of shares trading freely.  “I can’t currently recommend Evonik as an investment, tell
people to buy it and say that its share price will rise,” said
Schwarz, who is holding off publishing research on the Essen,
Germany-based company. “You have a huge share overhang. It has
nothing to do with business performance.”  Chief Executive Officer Klaus Engel has boosted Evonik’s
profitability more than 5 percentage points in five years,
focusing the company on higher-margin specialty chemicals and
new technologies such as battery cells for electric cars and
fiber membranes to make biogas. The company spends a higher
percentage of sales on research and development than German
peers BASF,  Lanxess AG (LXS)  and  Belgium ’s Solvay.  No Lock-Ups  Still, share price prospects look dim compared with
 Brenntag AG (BNR) , a German chemical merchant whose value has more
than doubled in the three years it’s been listed. Although
Brenntag’s value dropped each time owners BC Partners sold an
additional stake, investors benefited from lock-up periods where
owners agree not to sell any shares for a certain period.  No such guarantee has been offered by RAG and CVC for
Evonik. After conducting roadshows for prior IPO attempts, they
secured investors from Singapore to the U.K. for the private
transactions that occurred in February and March.  Today Deutsche Bank AG and MainFirst Bank AG, who are
managing the sale, are placing as many as 9.32 million shares
plus an over-allotment option of as many as 1.398 million shares
with institutional investors, Deutsche Bank said in a statement.
The bank may undertake measures to support the market price of
the shares when listed, it said.  Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment
company, agreed to buy 4.6 percent of the shares to be listed.
The sale to institutional investors valued Evonik at 14 billion
euros, a person familiar with the matter said last month.  The listing achieves a long-held ambition, while avoiding
the traumas of the past when three prior attempts for an initial
public offering failed, Engel said in March. Each time, the
company struggled to find a consensus between the owners’
valuation and what the market was willing to pay, he said.  Limited Free Float  While succeeding in taking Evonik public, Engel’s formula
for listing the company will limit the free float to an initial
14 percent. The company has said that level could rise to as
much as 75 percent later on, creating a distraction for
investors that may have been attracted by Evonik’s margins.  Excluding non-chemical operations, Evonik posted earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization equal to 21
percent of sales last year, beating BASF’s 13 percent  margin .
Solvay and Lanxess also failed to match Evonik’s profitability
with 2012 margins of 16 percent and 14 percent respectively.  Evonik is benefiting from demand for its amino acids,
originally intended for treatment of nutritional disorders after
World War II, and now used in animal feed. Changing eating
habits in Asia are boosting meat consumption and thus demand for
fodder.  BASF Rivalry  Evonik competes with BASF in chemicals used to make
plastics, amines, pharmaceuticals, flavors and fragrances. Both
make additives for paints and coatings as well as
superabsorbants for diapers and ingredients for cosmetics.  Like BASF, Evonik has exited commodities and is expanding
into chemicals that go into consumer goods and health products.
Engel sold a unit making carbon black used in tires after
oversupply and cost-cutting at tiremakers squeezed margins. BASF
has divested part of its fertilizer operations and transferred
styrene plastics operations into a joint venture.  “As a European company, it is sensible to move down the
value chain,” said Ulle Woerner, an analyst at Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg, who used to cover the company when it was
listed as Degussa. “Degussa, or rather Evonik, have always had
such a strategy. They have exited bits that didn’t fit. They
were busy for years with divestitures and some acquisitions.”  Evonik’s roots go back to 1843, when  Friedrich Ernst
Roessler  rented a precious-metal separating factory from the
Frankfurt senate to run his own business. In 1873, Roessler’s
sons converted the business into a stock company, which became
Degussa, to recycle the old Gulden and Taler coins of the
smaller German states for use in the new currency, the Mark.  Borussia Dortmund Deal  In 2007, the RAG foundation was established to steer the
development of chemical, energy and real-estate assets and the
chemical activities were given the name of Evonik Industries.
RAG-Stiftung sold a 25.1 percent stake in Evonik to CVC in 2008.  In a 10 million-euro-a-year  deal , Evonik boosted
recognition of its new name worldwide by sponsoring soccer club
Borussia Dortmund, which plays in  Germany ’s top league and will
face Real Madrid tonight in this season’s Champions League
semifinals. The company is also well-known to investors after
multiple IPO roadshows.  Investors should probably wait before they buy shares, said
MM Warburg’s Schwarz.  “It’ll be interesting in two or three years when the RAG
has sold the stake they want to and the big investors that were
there at the beginning have either sold their stakes for a
certain profit or kept it and are happy with it,” he said.
“Then there will be a normal market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  