-- Ex-Bankrupt Homeowners Entice on Spread Drop: Australia Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-04-24T02:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/ex-bankrupt-homeowners-entice-on-spread-drop-australia-credit.html
Sales of bonds backed by home loans
to self-employed or previously bankrupt Australians have passed
2012’s total, after yield premiums fell to the lowest since the
debt triggered the global financial crisis.  Offerings of so-called nonconforming mortgage bonds rose to
A$1.05 billion ($1.08 billion) this year, 17 percent more than
for the whole of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Pepper
Home Loans Pty paid 120 basis points more than swaps on its
biggest sale of the debt in five years, offering 40 basis points
more than  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  did on notes backed by
mortgages that met normal lending requirements.  Australia’s mortgage-bond market is recovering after being
an “innocent casualty of brand damage” from the U.S. subprime
collapse, Treasurer Wayne Swan said this month when he announced
the closing of a A$20 billion aid program for the industry.
Partly due to the nation’s unrivaled two-decade-long economic
expansion, arrears of more than 90 days on nonconforming loans
stand at 3.2 percent, compared with 16 percent in the U.K.,
Moody’s Investors Service data show.  “Recent deals have seen us getting involved,” said
Anthony Kirkham, Australian head of  investment management  at
Western Asset Management Co., which oversees $462 billion
worldwide. “The margin is good and pools are sound.”  More than 35 percent of U.S. subprime borrowers are at
least 60 days late with their loan payments, the Moody’s report
published March 28 show. While U.S. banks let loan standards
slip, Australian lenders kept them much stricter, according to
Kirkham.  Biggest Deal  Pepper sold A$350 million of mortgage-backed bonds on April
12, its largest non-conforming sale since March 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The lender, which specializes in
loans for the self-employed and others who find it difficult to
get mortgages from large banks, paid 65 basis points less than
11 months earlier to sell AAA rated debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Of the 1,123 loans backing its offering, 42 percent were to
self-employed homeowners and 39.4 percent of the pool comprised
mortgages to credit-impaired borrowers, with 6.2 percent made to
people with prior bankruptcies, according to a presale report
from  Fitch Ratings  on April 10.  Liberty Financial Pty has raised A$700 million from two
sales of nonconforming bonds this year, already the most
mortgage-backed bonds of any collateral type it has offered
since 2009, the Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Margin Driven  “Our mortgage-bond performance has been exemplary,” said
Peter Riedel, chief financial officer at the Melbourne-based
non-bank lender, adding that it has not been affected by rating
downgrades or a need to draw on liquidity reserves. “We’re
seeing new investors coming into our program and we’re seeing
the reemergence of investors who’ve supported our programs over
a long time. That might be driven by the difference in relative
value between prime and non-conforming margins.”  Financial institutions pay an average 4.17 percent to sell
debt in  Australia , 16 basis points less than at the end of last
month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
Benchmark 10-year government yields touched 3.10 percent in
Sydney today, the lowest since November, after government data
showed first-quarter inflation was slower than economists
forecast.  Rate Cuts  The steepest interest-rate cuts in the developed world have
bolstered demand for housing by reducing standard mortgage  costs 
to 6.45 percent as of March 31 from 7.8 percent two years
earlier. Home loan approvals rose 2 percent in February, beating
 estimates  with the first increase in five months, according to
data published by the statistics bureau this month.  Traders are pricing in a 52 percent chance the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia will cut the 3 percent benchmark interest rate
again next month to a record-low 2.75 percent. Australian
consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in the three months ended March
31, compared with the median forecast of 0.7 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists.  Commonwealth Bank reduced the cost of RMBS supported by
prime home loans to 80 basis points more than swaps in February,
the narrowest spread since 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. No other borrower has yet matched this premium on similar
debt and premiums are unlikely to fall much more, according to
 David Goodman , head of global  capital markets  worldwide at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   Narrowest Spread  Spreads may narrow further on notes further down the
 capital structure  on demand from more asset managers, he said.  “Where we’re seeing some juice is the AB and B tranches,”
Goodman said. “The investor base has really expanded. They love
the yield.”  Resimac Ltd., which first sold RMBS in 1988, last month
shaved 75 basis points off its cost of mezzanine notes, compared
to what it paid nine months earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The lender’s latest A$44.6 million of AB notes, which are
backed by prime mortgages and are neither first nor last in line
to be paid, have a 210 basis-point spread, the data show.  The Sydney-based issuer also sold A$26.3 million of B1
notes, the second-most subordinated class, at 340 basis points,
85 basis points less than similar debt sold in June.  Government Program  The Australian government this month ended a A$20 billion
investment program that has been running since 2008 to boost
competition between home-loan providers. The market is now
“healthy, competitive, securely operating,” Treasurer  Wayne
Swan  said on April 10. The government did not buy securities
backed by nonconforming loans.  Resimac last sold non-conforming debt in October when it
raised A$300 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
lender is hoping to sell more of the bonds this year, probably
in the third quarter, according to Mary Ploughman, an executive
director of securitization at the lender.  “Investors really buy into the  credit quality  of this
nonconforming paper,” said Sarah Samson, a director in the
securitization team at National Australia Bank Ltd. “They get a
good margin and it is pretty good credit quality. I think
investors are starting to understand that more now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  