-- Ex-Web Producer Pleads Not Guilty in Tribune Hacking Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J a r e d   G o y e t t e
-- 2013-04-23T21:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/ex-web-producer-pleads-not-guilty-in-tribune-hacking-case.html
Matthew Keys, a former Web producer
for a  Tribune Co (TRBAA) .-owned television station in  Sacramento ,
 California , pleaded not guilty to charges he conspired with
hackers who broke into a company news website.  Keys, of Secaucus,  New Jersey , entered the plea today in
federal court in Sacramento. He was charged in a March 14
indictment with providing log-in credentials for a Tribune
computer server in December 2010 to members of the hacker group
known as Anonymous, who used the information to make changes to
an online version of a Los Angeles Times news story.  Keys, formerly the Web producer for KTXL Fox 40 in
Sacramento, encouraged Anonymous members to disrupt the website
during a conversation in a online chat room, according to the
indictment. Tribune owns the Los Angeles paper. Keys was fired
from Fox 40 in October 2010. Keys, who joined  Thomson Reuters 
Corp. last year as a social-media editor, was fired by the
company yesterday.  He is charged with one count each of conspiracy to transmit
information to damage a protected computer, transmitting
information to damage a protected computer, and attempted
transmission of information to damage a protected computer.  The two latter counts each carry a maximum sentence of 10
years in prison and a $250,000 fine, prosecutors said.  Chat Room  “He was a journalist in that chat room, absolutely, but he
didn’t do the things he’s accused of doing,” Jay Leiderman, an
attorney for Keys, said in an interview outside the courtroom
before today’s arraignment.  After Keys entered his plea, U.S. Magistrate Judge Allison
Claire released him on his own recognizance and directed him to
appear June 12 for his next hearing.  KTXL learned that its e-mail contact list, located
on a company server in  Los Angeles , had been compromised in
December 2010, according to an FBI affidavit. The station’s news
producer began receiving unsolicited e-mails from someone
claiming to have the e-mail addresses of Fox 40’s customers.  The producer told the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation that
Keys, who had been let go a month before the hacking, was a
potential suspect, according to the affidavit.  Anonymous is a loosely affiliated group of computer hackers
who have claimed responsibility for computer crimes including
intrusions and denial-of-service attacks on the websites of
Amazon.com Inc. and PayPal Inc., among others.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News ,
competes with Thomson Reuters in providing financial news and
information.  The case is U.S. v. Keys, 13-cr-00082, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Jared Goyette in federal court in Sacramento, California, 
at  jaredmgo@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  