-- Texas Fertilizer Blast May Slow $22 Billion in Expansions
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-04-23T20:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/texas-fertilizer-blast-may-slow-22-billion-in-expansions.html
North American fertilizer
production projects totaling $22 billion may be at risk of delay
amid increased scrutiny from regulators and communities after
last week’s explosion at a Texas plant killed 14 people.  CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF) , the largest U.S. maker of
nitrogen fertilizer, and competitors including  Agrium Inc. (AGU) ,
 Mosaic Co. (MOS)  and Koch Industries Inc. are planning more than a
dozen new plants. The projects are among $100 billion in North
American manufacturing investments ranging from plastics to
steel spurred by the availability of cheap natural gas,
according to Dow Chemical Co.  “You wonder if there is going to be some kind of move
against ammonium nitrate,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based
analyst at BGC Financial LP, said by phone, referring to the
form of nitrogen fertilizer that may have been involved in the
Texas blast. “There could be some push-back.”  The April disaster occurred following a fire at a
fertilizer plant owned by closely held Adair Grain Inc. The
facility held 270 tons of ammonium nitrate as of Dec. 31,
according to state records.  The highly explosive chemical is responsible for some of
the most deadly industrial accidents and terrorist attacks.
Timothy McVeigh used it in 1995 to destroy  Oklahoma  City’s
Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building and kill 168 people. The Irish
Republican Army use it to attack  London ’s Canary Wharf in 1996.  Safety Rules  State and federal investigators are trying to find the
cause of the West, Texas, blast, whose victims include 10
firefighters and emergency medical personnel. The death toll may
be the highest for a U.S industrial catastrophe since April
2010, when 29 coal miners perished in Massey Energy Co.’s Upper
Big Branch mine in West Virginia.  The disaster may lead to more attention being paid to
ammonia production and storage safety procedures, P.J. Juvekar,
an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in an April 18
report.  Plant delays or cancelations may boost fertilizer company
prospects in the eyes of investors who are concerned about a
looming oversupply, said Kelly Wiesbrock, a portfolio manager
who helps manage $1.3 billion, including CF shares, at Harvest
Capital Strategies in San Francisco.  “If you’re on the local planning commission, you are
asking more questions, not less,” Wiesbrock said by phone
today. “The marginal projects are going to be slower and less
likely to come on line than they were a week ago.”  ‘Big Money’  Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, said during a
visit last week to West that he’s confident the blast will lead
to a review of the government’s chemical plant safety rules.  The West facility was more of a distributor than a
fertilizer producer, Mark Connelly, a New York-based analyst at
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said in a report.  “While it may be used by opponents to try to block a
permit here and there, the proposed new nitrogen plants mean big
money and big jobs in areas that mostly don’t have either,”
Connelly said.  Ammonium nitrate is the fertilizer most prone to explode
when ignited because it has a high concentration of nitrogen
atoms that harbor tremendous energy, said Ronald Smaldone, an
assistant professor of chemistry at the University of Texas in
 Dallas . Anhydrous ammonia, a gaseous form of nitrogen sprayed on
fields, is also a risk because a leaking container can create a
ground level cloud of toxic, corrosive gas, he said.  Safety Focus  A focus on fire safety and other “reasonable measures”
can help head off potential disasters at proposed fertilizer
plants, he said.  “There probably will be increased scrutiny, but it
probably won’t slow them down much,” Smaldone said by telephone
today.  Workers and safety advocates have been pushing the U.S. to
tighten federal oversight of chemical production and storage
facilities for decades. While they pressed for such proposals
after the September 2001 terrorist attacks, legislation they
advocated never passed Congress. The Environmental Protection
Agency considered regulations before dropping the idea under
President George W. Bush’s administration.  The nitrogen fertilizer industry is proposing about $20
billion of new plants and almost $2 billion of expansions in
North America, Gulley said. While chemical-industry investments
are concentrated along the coasts of  Texas  and  Louisiana ,
fertilizer projects are planned across nine states and three
Canadian provinces.  Most proposed plants are away from population centers, and
any that aren’t may be pressured to relocate, Gulley said.  Iowa Project  “Activists will ask a lot of questions, and that’s their
right,” Gulley said. “The states are eager for capital
investments, and these plants create jobs, generate taxes and
produce products used on farms.”  Among the planned projects is CF’s proposed $1.7 billion
expansion of its site in Port Neal,  Iowa . An explosion of
ammonium nitrate at the same Missouri River location in 1994,
when it was under different ownership, killed four workers and
injured 18.  In 1947, ammonium nitrate aboard the SS Grandcamp caught
fire and exploded at the docks in Texas City, killing more than
570.  “When it comes to running our facilities, we use world-
class operators,” Dan Swenson, a spokesman for Deerfield,
Illinois-based CF, said by phone. “There are layers upon layers
of safety interlock systems that can isolate, shut down or
redirect individual systems, or shut the whole plant down.”  Gas Costs  More production would lower farmers’ costs for nitrogen, an
essential plant nutrient that increases crop production. If
opposition delays new plants, the largest producers would
benefit as supplies tighten, Connelly and Juvekar said.  Nearly 107 million metric tons of nitrogen fertilizer were
used by farmers globally last year, making it the most popular
form of crop nutrient, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries. The proposed factories would nearly eliminate the
current need to import 50 percent of U.S. nitrogen fertilizer
demand, according to Gulley.  Gas accounts for 70 percent to 90 percent of the cost of
making ammonia, a precursor to nitrogen fertilizer. Lower gas
prices relative to producers in  Europe  and elsewhere makes the
U.S. among the lowest-cost fertilizer producers in the world,
CF’s Swenson said.  Anhydrous Ammonia  That’s partly why CF is spending $3.8 billion to build new
ammonia and nitrogen capacity by 2016, including the Port Neal
expansion, he said.  Canada ’s Agrium, Norway’s  Yara International ASA (YAR) , Plymouth,
Minnesota-based Mosaic and Wichita, Kansas-based Koch are among
companies planning expansions in Texas, Louisiana,  Georgia ,
 Tennessee , Oklahoma,  Illinois ,  Indiana , North Dakota,  Quebec ,
Saskatchewan and  Alberta .  Spokesmen for Agrium, Yara and Mosaic didn’t respond to
requests for comment on whether the Texas blast alters prospects
for industry expansion. Koch referred questions to The
Fertilizer Institute, an industry group, which declined to
comment.  CF’s plan in Port Neal calls for boosting production of
urea ammonium nitrate, a liquid nitrogen fertilizer that’s
predominantly water and so “very stable and non-volatile,”
Swenson said. CF, like all nitrogen fertilizer makers, also
produces anhydrous ammonia.  Mark Monson, a Woodbury County supervisor who represents
Port Neal residents, said none of his constituents have raised
concerns about CF’s plan to open more fertilizer plants.  “We all live around something that has potential danger,”
Monson said by phone. “We have assurances they are extremely
capable of handling the facility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  