-- Texas Instruments Forecasts Top Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-04-23T13:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/texas-instruments-forecasts-top-analysts-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog chips, forecast second-quarter sales and profit
that may top some analysts’ estimates, helped by increased
orders from makers of automotive and industrial-machine parts.  Profit in the current period will be 37 cents to 45 cents a
share on revenue of $2.93 billion to $3.17 billion, the Dallas-
based company said yesterday in a statement. Analysts on average
had estimated profit of 38 cents and sales of $3.04 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments is receiving more orders from industrial-
tool and auto-components makers, helping to make up for slowing
demand for personal-computer parts and communications
infrastructure, Chief Financial Officer Kevin March said. The
company’s  customer  list ranges from aerospace-equipment builders
to car-parts suppliers, making its results a harbinger of demand
across the chip business.  “We saw strength in the industrial and automotive
sectors,” March said in an interview. “Customers continue to
operate with very lean levels of inventory. We built order
backlog in the first quarter for the first time in a couple of
quarters.”  Texas Instruments  shares  2.2 percent to $35.59 at 9:34 a.m.
in New York. The shares had advanced 13 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 9.7 percent gain in the
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  First Quarter  First-quarter  net income  rose 37 percent to $362 million,
or 32 cents a share, from $265 million, or 22 cents, in the same
period a year earlier, Texas Instruments said. Sales fell 7.6
percent to $2.89 billion. Analysts had estimated a profit of 30
cents on $2.85 billion of revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Industrial-equipment makers in the U.S. and China provided
Texas Instruments with its strongest orders in that business,
Vice President  Ron Slaymaker  said on a conference call. Europe
and  Japan  lagged behind. In automotive, U.S. customers ordered
the most, he said.  “Right now the markets are growing, but they’re growing
slowly and are very patchy,” said  Cody Acree , an analyst at
Williams Financial Group. He recommends buying Texas Instruments
stock. “We’re not there yet.”  PC Components  Demand for PC components was the weakest area of the
computing division, Slaymaker said. Earlier this month, market-
research firm IDC said PC shipments fell 14 percent in the three
months that ended in March -- the steepest quarterly drop on
record.  Electronics-parts distributors such as  Avnet Inc. (AVT)  and  Arrow
Electronics Inc. (ARW)  are the company’s biggest customers, according
to a Bloomberg  supply-chain  analysis.  Texas Instruments is in the process of exiting the market
for digital chips used in smartphones and tablets, and the
company said on Nov. 14 that it would cut 1,700 jobs as part of
that shift. The staff reduction was estimated to pare expenses
by about $450 million a year by the end of 2013, Texas
Instruments said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  