-- Texas Blast Investigators Rule Out `Natural' Causes
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-04-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/texas-blast-investigators-rule-out-natural-causes.html
Investigators picking over the
scene of last week’s deadly fire and explosion at a fertilizer
plant in West,  Texas , ruled out a lightning strike and other
“natural” causes.  Debris is scattered across a 37-block area of town
following the April 17 disaster, Assistant State Fire Marshal
Kelly Kistner said yesterday at a press briefing in West.
Investigators are working from the outer edges of the scene
toward the center, he said.  The blast left a crater 93 feet (28 meters) wide and 10
feet deep, Special Agent Robert Champion of the U.S. Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms said at the briefing. Mayor Tommy Muska said he met with staff in the Texas Senate and Gov.  Rick
Perry ’s office to discuss whether the Legislature can
appropriate money to repair water, sewer and other
infrastructure that was damaged.  “We need some moneys now so we can get that put in,” he
said in an interview yesterday. “Without it, people aren’t
going to be able to rebuild.”  The explosion at Adair Grain Inc.’s West Fertilizer Co. was
the worst U.S. industrial accident since April 2010, when 29
coal miners died in Massey Energy Co.’s Upper Big Branch mine.
Firefighters were trying to control the blaze when the plant
exploded at 7:53 p.m. local time, destroying 50 homes, a nursing
home and an apartment complex, and leaving three of the town’s
five schools closed. The victims include 10 firefighters and
emergency medical personnel and two passersby who stopped to
help.  Witness Interviews  The fire wasn’t caused by a rail car at the facility,
Kistner said. Bryan Shaw, chairman of the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality, said that a rail car full of ammonium
nitrate may have caused the fire, the Houston Chronicle reported
yesterday.  About 70 investigators including engineers and chemists
from state and federal agencies are poring over the scene,
Kistner said. They’ve interviewed 60 to 70 witnesses, including
passers-by and emergency crews.  “We need to make sure the scientific process we adhere to
is followed,” Kistner said. “This is much like an
archaeological dig.”  The ATF has sent samples of chemicals to its laboratory for
analysis, Champion said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  