-- Facebook Upgrades Pages Service for Companies on Mobile
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-04-23T20:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/facebook-revamps-pages-service-for-companies-on-mobile-devices.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is overhauling its
Pages service with features for wireless devices that help users
quickly find business information, another sign the company is
ramping up efforts in mobile.  The revamp, the most extensive in a year, is the first
Pages upgrade to begin on mobile instead of the desktop version,
said Matt Idema, head of product marketing for Pages. The
updates, which highlight business information such as addresses
and hours of operation, will appear first on the applications
for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and mobile Web version, followed in May
by the app for smartphones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software.  Facebook, owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking service, is focusing more on mobile services and
advertising as users access its features from smartphones and
tablets, putting it more directly in competition with Google and
 Yelp Inc. (YELP)  Almost half of users visiting Pages do so on a mobile
device, Idema said in an interview.  “It is a mobile-first product,” he said. “Our user base
has rapidly adopted the mobile platform.”  Pages lets businesses use Facebook to communicate with
customers, showcase products and highlight special offers.
Before the upgrade, visitors to the pages may have had to make
an extra click or scroll down to get information they needed
about the businesses.  Company Information  The Pages upgrade displays key company facts, such as
location and contact information, near the top of the page. A
cleaner, more efficient design lets users easily “like” a
company’s page or call the business.  “We’re delivering on what people want when they’re getting
to the page, beyond just seeing a list of the page’s posts,” he
said. “It really allows people to take actions and connect with
those businesses.”  The upgrade borrows from a Facebook app called Nearby,
which uses a new layout for getting information on local
businesses. The app suggests businesses that are close by, based
on a user’s location.  Facebook, which boosted the speed of the Pages service,
will tailor pages to different types of companies, said Jasper
Hauser, who heads product design for Pages. For now, a few of
the categories include local businesses and retailers, and new
ones will be added in the future, Hauser said.  With the upgrades, businesses themselves also get more
tools for easily updating pages to highlight new products,
special offers and video clips.  Facebook rose less than 1 percent to $25.98 at the close in
New York, leaving the shares down 2.4 percent so far this year,
compared with a 15 percent climb in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  