-- FDIC Said to Join OCC in Plan to Curb Payday Loans by U.S. Banks
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-04-23T22:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/fdic-said-to-join-occ-in-plan-to-curb-payday-loans-by-u-s-banks.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency plan to issue
guidelines to banks this week aimed at curbing offerings of
short-term loans, according two people briefed on the plans.  The two agencies have developed guidance that bank
examiners will apply in supervising banks, according the people,
who spoke about the plan on the condition of anonymity because
it’s not public yet.  The regulators will express significant concerns about the
misuse of deposit-advance products and promise close scrutiny of
any bank offering the loans or proposing to do so, one person
said. The guidance will resemble rules from the early 2000s that
eventually forced banks to stop partnering with payday lenders
to evade state regulations.  The step could curb revenue at banks that started to offer
such loans as part of their search to replace money lost to
regulatory crackdowns after the financial crisis. Banks
including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) ,  U.S.
Bancorp (USB)  and  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  have offered some type of
deposit-advance loan.  The guidance concerns loans that resemble so-called payday
loans that are offered by storefront lenders and are secured by
a check post-dated to a borrower’s next payday. Lenders do not
typically gauge a borrower’s creditworthiness, and loans are
expected to be repaid in full with one balloon payment that
covers interest as well, usually after two weeks.  Banks sometimes call their loans deposit advance products,
and debit repayment directly from a checking account.  The new FDIC and OCC rules will require banks to measure a
borrower’s ability to repay the loans. They will have to
disclose an annual percentage rate for the loan, wait a full
billing cycle between loans and ensure that a customer pays off
any loan before getting another.  OCC spokesman Robert Garsson and FDIC spokesman  Andrew Gray 
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  