-- FedEx Counters UPS With New Personalized Home Delivery Options
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-23T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/fedex-counters-ups-with-new-personalized-home-delivery-options.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  is letting customers
specify when, where and how they want packages delivered to
their homes, matching a similar service offered by  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)   FedEx Delivery Manager notifies customers of pending
deliveries that they can monitor on a mobile device or computer
without a traditional tracking number. They can schedule a
delivery for a specific date, time and location, Raj Subramaniam, executive vice president of marketing and
communications at FedEx Services, said in an interview.  “The fastest growing marketplace in the U.S. and in many
markets around the world is e-commerce,” Subramaniam said.
“More shopping is going online, and the services required are
different. Our service is a very customer-centric offering.”  The number of U.S. online shoppers is expected to increase
to 192 million in 2016 from 167 million last year, Subramaniam
said. FedEx Delivery Manager and UPS My Choice may help both
shippers capture more online retail business, which is forecast
by Forrester Research Inc. to grow 13 percent to $262 billion
this year.  Sign-up for the FedEx service is free, although options
such as having a delivery made to a different address or at a
specific date and time incur a charge of $5. Customers can
request a free vacation hold for deliveries, or specify a
location for the package to be left, such as the back door.  Subramaniam declined to comment on potential revenue to be
gained by  Memphis , Tennessee-based FedEx through the new
service, which begins today. UPS My Choice was introduced in
September 2011 and had almost 2.5 million customers as of Jan.
31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  