-- Finmeccanica Seeks Profit Return After Graft Probe Fells CEO
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-04-24T11:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/finmeccanica-seeks-return-to-profit-after-graft-probe-fells-ceo.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  wants to return to
profit this year with the help of asset sales, a promise that
 Italy ’s largest defense company failed to deliver in 2012 amid
charges and a bribery probe that felled senior management.  The company, based in  Rome , reported a loss of 828 million
euros ($1.76 billion) last year because of 1.4 billion euros in
writedowns on assets, according to a statement yesterday after
markets closed. The loss compared with a deficit of 2.3 billion
euros a year earlier. Sales dropped 1 percent to 17.2 billion
euros, and new orders dwindled 4 percent, Finmeccanica said.  Finmeccanica was forced to delay publication of its 2012
results because of a fraud investigation into the sale of
helicopters to India, which cost Chief Executive Officer
Giuseppe Orsi his job in February after being jailed. Political
turmoil in Italy further delayed disposal plans that were
already behind schedule. Finmeccanica had sought to raise 1
billion euros to help repair a  credit rating  that’s below
investment grade at  Standard & Poor’s .  “This year is shaping up to be a year where we will
continue to go ahead with restructuring and relaunch of our
business,” Alessandro Pansa, the new CEO, said in an interview.
“We expect increases in industrial profitability and in the
capability to generate  cash flow .”  Finmeccancia fell as much as 19 cents, or 4.7 percent, to 4
euros, and traded at 4.05 euros as of 12:10 p.m. in Milan,
valuing the company at 2.35 billion euros.  Looming Cut  The maker of M346 military training jets and parts for
 Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliner airliners ended the year with 3.37
billion euros in debt, 70 million less than the year prior.
Moody’s Investors Service rates Finmeccanica at BB+, one level
above non-investment grade, also known as junk. The rating
company said yesterday that it may lower its grade.  “Current ratings may no longer be sustainable given
indications of weaker than anticipated financial performance in
recent periods and weaker prospects for several key defense
markets over the forward rating horizon,” said  Russell Solomon ,
Moody’s Senior Vice President and lead analyst for the company.  Sales will fall further in 2013, to between 16.7 billion
euros and 17 billion euros, with adjusted earnings projected to
be little changed at 1.1 billion euros, Finmeccanica said.  “There has been no tangible progress on asset disposals or
arguably on restructuring,” Jeremy Bragg, an analyst at London-
based Citigroup in  London , said in a note to clients. “Given
the bigger picture, the outcome could have been worse.”  DRS Provisions  Charges last year included a 993 million-euro impairment of
goodwill related to the purchase of DRS Technologies,
Finmeccanica’s U.S. defense electronics unit, and a 155 million
euro writedown in its European Selex activities. Restructuring
costs and charges on poorly performing contracts further hurt
earnings, the company said.  Restructuring costs this year are projected to reach 320
million euros across the defense electronics activities in
 Europe  and the U.S., the company said.  Finmeccanica has not taken any provisions for possible
costs linked to  India ’s suspension of the purchase of 12 AW101s
helicopters in the probe. The world’s second largest rotorcraft
maker denies wrongdoing in the deal, and Pansa, who was chief
operating officer under Orsi, said he expects no provisions from
the sale.  No Promises  Pansa said previous promises on asset disposal timing were
unrealistic and told analysts he would not make promises.
Efforts to sell units will continue, he said, including the
stake in the Ansaldo Energia business with bids in hand.  Finmeccanica may exit rail activities as it focuses on
aerospace and defense markets. The company has raised 260
million euros from the sale of a stake in engine maker Avio as
part of General Electric Co.’s purchase from majority owner
Cinven Ltd.  Profitability will increase this year, Pansa said, even
given difficult economic conditions.  “DRS’s profitability won’t change dramatically despite the
significant decline in expected revenue,” he said. The number
of job cuts could increase to 5,000 positions, he said. DRS is
not among the units for sale, Pansa said, with no plans to
divest its holding in a space joint venture with  Thales SA (HO)  or
the MBDA missile consortium.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  