-- Fischer Says Rate Differential Spurs Israeli Bond Buying
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-04-23T18:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/fischer-says-rate-differential-spurs-israeli-bond-buying.html
The gap between Israel’s benchmark
 interest rate  and those in major economies is spurring
investment in the country’s bonds, according to  Bank of Israel 
Governor  Stanley Fischer .  The benchmark rate of 1.75 percent is “very low,” he said
at a conference in Tel Aviv today. “Not low enough compared to
the international arena. All major economies worldwide -- the
U.S.,  England , Europe and Japan -- surely have a lower interest
rate compared to us, and this is causing people to invest in
Israeli bonds, even for weeks.”  The Bank of Israel has gradually reduced the  borrowing rate 
from 3.25 percent in 2011 in an effort to shore up the economy
amid the  European debt crisis . The monetary committee, led by
Fischer, 69, held the rate at 1.75 percent last month as policy
makers focused more on rising home prices than on the pace of
recovery in the global economy.  Israel can’t allow a large gap to develop with other
countries’ interest rates, because that would encourage capital
inflows and excessive shekel appreciation, Fischer said March
13. He predicted then that interest rates would begin to rise by
the beginning of 2015.  The shekel rose 0.2 percent against the dollar, trading at
3.6183 at 5:30 p.m. in  Tel Aviv , versus 3.6271 the previous
trading day.  The Bank of Israel said that it had “acted” in the
foreign  currency market  on April 8 for the first time since July
2011, after traders said the central bank bought about $100
million that day.  ‘Irregular Swings’  The Bank of Israel said that it took the steps in
accordance with a declared policy of operating in case of
“irregular swings in the  exchange rate  that aren’t in line with
fundamental economic conditions or when the foreign currency
market isn’t operating properly.” Reserves, which stood at $77
billion at the end of March, more than doubled as a result of
central bank purchases, which took place between 2008 and 2011.  Israeli growth may slow to 2.8 percent this year from 3.2
percent in 2012, excluding first time natural-gas revenues,
according to a central bank forecast. In 2011, the economy
expanded by 4.6 percent.  Fischer, who’s leaving his post in June, said yesterday he
supports Finance Minister Yair Lapid’s plan to raise the 2014
budget target to 3 percent of gross domestic product from the
previously planned 2.75 percent.  Defense Cooperation  Lapid yesterday presented Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
with his 2013-2014 budget proposal, which must be approved by
August.  The finance minister told that same Tel Aviv conference
that defense chiefs are cooperating with his efforts to cut
 defense spending , and offered to “roll out a red carpet” to
greet multinationals interested in setting up shop in Israel.  Defense outlays are the biggest part of the country’s
budget, accounting for about one-fifth of output. In the past,
Israeli defense officials have balked at spending cuts, citing
Israel’s many security challenges, but Fischer said today the
military is not “without redundancy and inefficiency.”  While pledging to work for the Israeli taxpayer, the
finance minister sought to reassure the business community that
he was “not anti-business.”  Should a large multinational corporation want to set up a
plant in  Israel , the government will not only give it every
possible tax break, “but I will personally go to Ben-Gurion
Airport and roll out a red carpet for them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  