-- Flug, Trajtenberg Said to Be Bank of Israel Candidates
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-04-23T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/flug-trajtenberg-said-to-be-bank-of-israel-candidates.html
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s
shortlist to succeed  Stanley Fischer  as  Bank of Israel  head
includes Deputy Governor Karnit Flug and  Manuel Trajtenberg , one
of the premier’s former economic advisers, said two people
familiar with the appointment process.  Each candidate is to meet separately this week with both
Netanyahu and Finance Minister Yair Lapid, one of the two people
said yesterday. They both spoke on condition of anonymity
because the selection process is confidential. While President
 Shimon Peres  has the formal authority to name the next governor,
the appointment is done at the recommendation of Netanyahu’s
government.  The post of governor unexpectedly opened in January when
Fischer, 69, announced he would leave at the end of June, midway
through his second, five-year term. Fischer, a former No. 2 at
the  International Monetary Fund , said he was stepping down for
personal reasons, mostly because his family is in the U.S. and
he has achieved many of the goals he wanted to accomplish.  Flug, who headed the bank’s research department for a
decade, was chosen by Fischer as his deputy in 2011. Born in
Poland, she holds a Columbia University doctorate and is the
only woman on the bank’s six-member monetary policy committee.
If appointed, she would be Israel’s first woman governor.  Policy Changes  Argentine-born Trajtenberg, 62, a former chairman of  Tel
Aviv  University’s economics department, headed the National
Economic Council from 2006 to 2009. Netanyahu appointed him to
head a committee to recommend economic policy changes following
popular protests in the summer of 2011. He holds a doctorate
from  Harvard University .  Flug, Bank of Israel spokesman Yossi Saadon and a
spokeswoman for Lapid, Nilly Richman, all declined to comment,
as did a government official who spoke on condition of anonymity
because he was not authorized to discuss the matter for the
record. Calls to Trajtenberg and his spokesman were not
immediately returned.  Trajtenberg said in March that he was “honored and
flattered” that his name had surfaced as a possible candidate.  Fischer has been credited with helping Israel weather the
global economic crisis better than most developed countries. He
told a conference in Tel Aviv yesterday that the state of the
Israeli economy was “very good” but “not excellent,” in
large part because of a 2012  budget deficit  that more than
doubled from the original forecast.  Bond Investment  The gap between Israel’s benchmark interest rate and rates
in major economies was spurring investment in the country’s
bonds, Fischer said.  The benchmark rate of 1.75 percent is “very low,” he
said. “Not low enough compared to the international arena. All
major economies worldwide -- the U.S., England, Europe and Japan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  