-- Ford Hybrid Owners Sue Over Fuel-Efficiency Rating Claims
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-04-23T22:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/ford-hybrid-owners-sue-over-fuel-efficiency-rating-claims.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the No. 2 U.S.
automaker, was sued by  Pennsylvania  car owners who said its
hybrid models don’t deliver on fuel-efficiency claims.  Ford’s 2013 Fusion Hybrid and C-Max Hybrid models provide
significantly worse fuel economy than the advertised 47 miles
per gallon, according to a complaint filed today in federal
court in Philadelphia. The inaccurate representations allowed
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford to falsely claim that those models
outperformed competing vehicles, according to the car owners.  “Plaintiffs are some of the tens of thousands of consumers
who purchased a Fusion Hybrid or C-Max Hybrid, only to be stuck
with under-performing, less valuable vehicles that inflict
higher fuel costs on their owners,” according to the complaint.  The Fusion, redesigned by Ford late last year, was the
sixth  best-selling  model in the U.S. through March. Last month
the model was selling from dealer lots faster and at higher
prices than Toyota Motor Corp.’s Camry and Honda Motor Co.’s
Accord. The hybrid version is advertised as having many of the
same features as luxury cars such as the Mercedes C350, with
double the fuel economy and a sticker price that’s about $17,000
less.  “Ford’s fuel economy labels are generated in accordance
with EPA procedures and protocols,” Todd Nissen, a Ford
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. He declined to comment
on the lawsuit, saying that the company doesn’t discuss pending
litigation.  ‘Driveability’ Facility  Ford knew or should have known that the hybrid versions of
the C-Max and Fusion don’t deliver advertised fuel ratings,
according to the complaint. The company uses a “driveability”
test facility to simulate real-world conditions and both cars
also come equipped with a SmartGauge on-board computer that
displays current fuel economy, according to the complaint.  Ford said in December that it’s talking to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency about how it tests fuel economy
performance on new vehicles amid reports that its hybrids fell
short of mileage promises. Nissen said today that the company
agrees with the EPA “that hybrid fuel economy performance
industrywide is far more variable compared to conventional
models.”  “We are open to a dialogue with the agencies to further
improve the process for generating fuel economy labels,” Nissen
said in the statement.  Mileage Test  The Fusion and C-Max models fell 17 percent to 21 percent
short of the promised 47 miles per gallon in tests by  Consumer
Reports . The Fusion hybrid achieved 39 mpg while the C-Max
hybrid averaged 37 mpg in tests of city and highway driving,
Yonkers, New York-based Consumer Reports said in December.  Estimates submitted by car owners to a fuel economy
tracking website have averaged 38.5 mpg, according to the
complaint. A 10-mpg difference can equate to about $1,800 in
additional fuel costs over five years, according to the
complaint.  The lawsuit, which seeks damages of at least $5 million,
accuses Ford of fraud and violating the state’s unfair-trade
practices and consumer protection laws.  The case is Huff v. Ford Motor Co., 13-02168, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  