-- Forint Drops for Fifth Day as Hungary Cuts Rate to Record Low
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-23T15:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/forint-drops-for-fifth-day-as-hungary-cuts-rate-to-record-low.html
The forint weakened for a fifth
day, the longest losing streak since January, as Hungary’s
central bank cut  interest rates  for a ninth month to a record-
low 4.75 percent.  The Monetary Council reduced its  benchmark rate  by 25 basis
points, matching the forecasts of all but one of 26 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. Policy makers will consider further cuts if
the inflation outlook remains in line with the bank’s 3 percent
target and the improvement in  market sentiment  is sustained,
according to a statement posted on the central bank’s website.  “Falling inflation and an economy struggling to escape
from recession mean that further interest-rate cuts are
likely,”  William Jackson , a London-based emerging-market
analyst at  Capital Economics , wrote in an e-mailed report.  Hungary’s currency retreated 0.2 percent to 299.54 per euro
by 5:47 p.m. in Budapest, paring its rally in the past month to
2.4 percent, still the best performance among 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on the government’s
five-year bonds slid 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point,
to 4.955 percent, a record low.  Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said policies
to help kick-start economic growth more effectively have only
just started, according to an interview with state news service
MTI on April 18. Inflation will remain below the bank’s target
in 2013 and will “settle close” to the goal in 2014, rate
setters said in today’s statement.  Services and manufacturing output in the euro area,
 Hungary ’s biggest trading partner, contracted for a 15th month
in April as the currency bloc struggled to emerge from a
recession, data from London-based Markit Economics showed today.  German factory and service company indexes also
unexpectedly dropped to show contraction.  “The worse-than-expected German PMI data is not helping
risk appetite, which may be negative for the forint,” Karoly Bamli, a Budapest-based trader at Commerzbank AG, wrote by e-
mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  