-- FracFocus Fails as Fracking Disclosure Tool, Study Finds
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-04-23T21:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/fracfocus-fails-as-fracking-disclosure-tool-study-finds.html
FracFocus , the website used by
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and other energy companies to disclose
chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, fails as a compliance
tool for the 11 states that rely on it, a Harvard Law School
study found.  Using the voluntary registry for compliance with state
disclosure requirements is “misplaced or premature” because of
spotty reporting, lack of a searchable database and an “overly
broad” allowance for trade secrets, according to the study
published today by the  Environmental Law Program  at Harvard.  The U.S. Bureau of Land Management should establish basic
requirements for disclosure and penalties should apply for
failure to report, according to the study. The online registry
was created in April 2011 to keep track of chemicals used in
fracking, in which producers shoot a mixture of water, sand and
chemicals underground to access oil and natural gas in dense
rock formations.  “Any state’s ability to make demands on FracFocus is
limited,” Kate Konschnik, Margaret Holden and Alexa Shasteen
wrote in the report. “The federal government should step into
this void and require minimum standards for the disclosure
registry.”  Of the 18 states that require companies to disclose
chemicals used in fracking, 11 require or allow the reporting to
be on FracFocus. The study cited reporting by Bloomberg News and
the  New York  Times.  FracFocus is operated by two groups: the  Ground Water
Protection Council , a group of state water officials; and the
Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission, an association of
states that produce the fuels.  “We believe the research done by the Harvard team fails to
reflect the true capabilities of the FracFocus system and
misrepresents the system’s relationship to state regulatory
programs,” the Ground Water Protection Council said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  