-- France Set to Pass Gay-Marriage Legislation Today Amid Protests
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 2013-04-23T07:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/france-set-to-pass-gay-marriage-legislation-today-amid-protests.html
 The French parliament is set to
vote today on same-sex marriage and adoption, with the bill
likely to sail through.  After several anti-gay-marriage protests -- many of which
turned into a lightning rod for anger over President  Francois Hollande ’s economic policies -- the bill will be voted on at
4:15 p.m. Paris time. It was put forward by Hollande’s Socialist
Party, which has a majority in the National Assembly. The French
Senate approved the bill on April 12.  Thousands of demonstrators have marched down the French
capital’s boulevards over several weeks, calling on Hollande to
drop the bill. The gay-marriage bill has proved controversial in
France, a predominantly Catholic country.  Although the demonstrations were called to protest proposed
“marriage-for-all” legislation that would give same-sex
partnerships equal status with heterosexual unions and allow gay
people to adopt children, signs carried by demonstrators showed
that anger on the streets has widened to other issues.  France  is suffering from its most severe economic
contraction since 2009, forcing Hollande to abandon his 2013
deficit target and find additional savings to appease the
nation’s European partners. Joblessness has surged to a 15-year
high as PSA Peugeot-Citroen SA and other manufacturers eliminate
tens of thousands of jobs.  Hollande, elected 11 months ago, has become the least-
popular French president ever so early in his term.  Divided Opinion  France’s National Assembly voted in favor of the law Feb.
12, before it was sent to the Senate for a vote. The bill is now
back before the National Assembly for a final vote.  Opinion polls show that a majority of voters favor giving
same-sex couples the right to marry, though they oppose giving
such couples rights to adoption or medically assisted
procreation.  Pollster BVA found that 58 percent of voters favor gay
marriage, while 53 percent oppose giving gay couples the right
to adopt, according to a survey published in January.   CSA, another polling company, found that 52 percent favor
gay marriage and the same proportion oppose adoption by same-sex
couples.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  