-- Freenet Slumps as Deutsche Bank Sees Rally End: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-04-23T08:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/freenet-slumps-as-deutsche-bank-sees-rally-end-frankfurt-mover.html
Freenet AG (FNTN) , a German provider of
phone and Internet services, fell the most in almost a year
after Deutsche Bank AG analysts downgraded the stock because
further gains would depend on acquisitions or a higher dividend.  The stock, which has rallied more than 40 percent over the
past year, is unlikely to move higher as the company probably
won’t grow without takeovers this year and is unlikely to
further increase shareholder payout, Deutsche Bank analysts
Benjamin Kohnke and Uwe Schupp said in a note to clients late
yesterday, in which they reduced their rating to Hold from Buy.  Freenet, based in the northern German town of Buedelsdorf,
fell as much as 4.8 percent to 17.71 euros, the biggest intraday
slump since May 16. The shares were down 2.9 percent as of 10:32
a.m. in  Frankfurt  on volume that was 76 percent of the daily
average for the last three months. Deutsche Bank raised its
share-price estimate to 18 euros from 17 euros.  “While we believe that visibility on operations as well as
on dividends remains good for the full year 2013, we note that
valuation levels appear increasingly rich,” the analysts said.
“A further re-rating would need a clear acceleration in the
retail strategy or aggressive leverage to pass on more cash to
shareholders. Both scenarios appear unrealistic.”  Freenet, which buys wireless capacities from network
operators and uses them to offer service to clients, in December
agreed to acquire Gravis, a German seller of Apple Inc.
products. The company last month increased its dividend payout
ratio to 66 percent after posting the highest net income in its
history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  