-- French Lawmakers Pass Gay-Marriage Bill With Protests Continuing
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-04-23T15:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/french-lawmakers-pass-gay-marriage-bill-with-protests-continuing.html
The French parliament passed a law
allowing same-sex marriage and adoption that has split public
opinion in the country.  After daily protests across France -- many of which turned
into a lightning rod for anger over President  Francois Hollande ’s economic policies -- the bill passed in a vote today
by 331-225. It was put forward by Hollande’s Socialist Party,
which has a majority in the National Assembly. The French Senate
approved the bill on April 12.  “I’m overwhelmed with emotion,” Justice Minister
Christiane Taubira said in the National Assembly after the vote.
“This is a very beautiful reform with a place in French
history. It’s the responsibility of the government to stop
discrimination.”  Thousands of demonstrators have marched on the French
capital’s boulevards the past several weeks, calling on Hollande
to drop the bill. While public opinion favors gay marriage, the
French by a small majority oppose same-sex adoption, polls show.  Daniel Fasquelle, a member of parliament from the
opposition Union for a  Popular Movement , said critics would seek
to have same-sex adoption repealed by the constitutional court.
While  France  already has civil unions for gay couples, such
unions don’t give the right to adoption.  “It’s a misguided and unbalanced law that undermines the
rights of children,” Fasquelle said in a televised interview on
La Chaine Parlementaire.  Catch All  Although the demonstrations were called to protest proposed
“marriage-for-all” legislation that would give same-sex
partnerships equal status with heterosexual unions and allow gay
people to adopt children, signs carried by demonstrators showed
that anger on the streets has widened to other issues.  France is suffering from its most severe economic
contraction since 2009, forcing Hollande to abandon his 2013
deficit target and find additional savings to appease the
nation’s European partners. Joblessness has surged to a 15-year
high as PSA Peugeot-Citroen SA and other manufacturers eliminate
tens of thousands of jobs.  Hollande, elected 11 months ago, has become the least
popular French president ever so early in his term.  Pollster BVA found that 58 percent of voters favor gay
marriage, while 53 percent oppose giving gay couples the right
to adopt, according to a survey published in January.  CSA, another polling company, found that 52 percent favor
gay marriage and the same proportion oppose adoption by same-sex
couples.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  