-- German Ifo Index Probably Fell as Winter Chilled Recovery
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-04-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/german-ifo-confidence-probably-fell-as-winter-chilled-recovery.html
German business confidence probably
fell for a second month in April after winter weather hindered
the recovery in  Europe ’s largest economy.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will fall to 106.2 from 106.7 in
March, according to the median of 44 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  A gauge of industrial output signaled contraction after the
coldest March in 25 years dragged on German growth, raising the
risk that the economy fell into a recession. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on April 19 he hasn’t seen any
improvement in economic data in the region as a whole, after
hinting at the beginning of the month he might cut interest
rates if the recovery faltered.  “While it’s too soon to declare it, there’s still the
possibility of a technical recession due to the effects of the
weather,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Belgium
SA in Brussels. “I’m still penciling in very slight growth for
the first quarter on the back of stable consumption. An ECB rate
cut would help, via a weaker euro.”  A measure of German manufacturing based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  fell to 47.9 from 49 in March, while a
composite indicator for factory and services output in the euro
area contracted for a 15th straight month. The German economy
shrank 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter.  ECB Forecasts  German investor confidence, as measured by ZEW, declined
more than forecast in April, as political turmoil in  Italy  and a
bailout in Cyprus threatened to derail an economic recovery.  The ECB predicts the euro-area economy,  Germany ’s largest
export market, will contract 0.5 percent this year before
expanding 1 percent in 2014. By contrast, the Bundesbank
forecasts German growth of 0.4 percent this year and 1.9 percent
next year.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on April 13 that he
“doesn’t share the pessimism” of those predicting stagnation
in the domestic economy. The ECB will only cut  interest rates  if
economic data worsen, he said last week.  Many German companies are compensating for falling sales in
Europe by exporting to faster-growing markets like Asia and the
U.S.  Outside Europe  Robert Bosch GmbH , Europe’s biggest car-parts maker,
predicts 2013 sales will increase as much as 4 percent as growth
outside the region makes up for a recession in its home market.
First-quarter sales were “subdued,” mainly because of the
deteriorating economy in Europe, the company said on April 18.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest automaker, plans to expand
its model line-up 29 percent by 2015 in  China . The company will
offer 90 cars, sport-utility vehicles, vans and heavy trucks in
the country compared with 70 models now,  Jochem Heizmann , who
runs the carmaker’s Chinese operations, said on April 19 at a
Shanghai press conference.  Still, evidence of an economic slowdown in China is
mounting, with a preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’
index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
yesterday falling to 50.5 from 51.6 in March.  “Global economic growth seems to be losing some pace going
into the second quarter,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro
research at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. For Europe, “we see
an excruciatingly slow recovery starting to take shape in the
second half of the year as global growth gains pace and fiscal
consolidation begins to ease.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  