-- Goldman Says Chinese Stocks Appeal as Valuations Bottom
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-04-24T08:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/goldman-says-chinese-stocks-appeal-as-valuations-bottom.html
Chinese stocks are becoming
attractive with the decline in equity valuations and corporate
profit growth poised to level out, according to Goldman Sachs
Asset Management.  “We are probably at the trough of the earnings and
valuation cycle,” Alina Chiew, head of Greater  China  equity at
the New York-based bank’s asset management arm, told reporters
in the city yesterday. “It’s a very interesting time to get
into it.”  While the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , which tracks
stocks trading in  Hong Kong , slumped 7 percent this year to
yesterday, member company earnings rose 1.7 percent in the three
months through March 29, the first uptick since June, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN) 
of 55 Chinese stocks in the U.S. has dropped to 12 times
estimated earnings, almost 50 percent below its valuation in
March 2012.  Profit growth will probably retreat to about 15 percent to
20 percent, from around 20 percent to 30 percent, Chiew said.  The Hang Seng China gauge gained 2 percent at the close
today. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese stocks
added 1.6 percent.  The Shanghai gauge has lost 0.8 percent this month after
the government reported economic growth slowed to 7.7 percent in
the first quarter, after rising to 7.9 percent in the last three
months of 2012. Quarterly expansion is down from as high as 12.4
percent in 2006, before the global financial crisis.  ‘Bumpy Ride’  “The market needs to wean itself off expectations of
double-digit growth out of China,” Chiew said. “Investors
should adjust the fair valuation that they are willing to pay.
The key to investing in China is being able to ride out the
cycle over the medium term and forget the bumpy ride in
between.”  Raw materials producers may be negatively affected as the
government reorients  China’s economy  away from investment and
exports and toward domestic consumption, she said.  Companies that are less dependent on economic growth for
earnings including technology, media, drug, environmental
protection and alternative energy stocks will outperform this
year, according to Du Meng, China’s best-performing fund manager
this year.  Du’s China International Emerging Momentum Fund has
returned 29 percent this year, ranked No. 1 among China’s 785
mutual funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Shanghai Composite trades at nine times estimated
earnings, from a valuation as high as 33 in September 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has
a multiple of 10 times forward profit, and has retreated 2.1
percent in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  