-- Goldman Sachs Alumnus Sze’s Hedge Fund Is Said to Return 8%
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-04-23T03:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/goldman-sachs-alumni-sze-s-azentus-hedge-fund-said-to-return-8-.html
Azentus Capital Management Ltd.,
led by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. proprietary trader Morgan
Sze, returned 8 percent before fees this year through yesterday,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Azentus’s assets stand at $1.6 billion, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the information is
private. Hong Kong-based Azentus manages a global multistrategy
hedge fund focused on  Asia . Roger Denby-Jones, Azentus’s chief
operating officer, declined to comment. The Eurekahedge
Multistrategy Hedge Fund Index, tracking the performances of 254
pools globally, returned 2.3 percent in the first three months.  Large hedge funds, which absorbed most of the new capital
added to the industry since the 2008 global financial crisis,
have been under pressure to deliver performances in a whipsawing
market driven by political events. Those with at least $5
billion of assets had more than $10 billion of net inflows in
the first quarter, accounting for 67 percent of the $2.4
trillion in industry assets, according to Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc.  “It has become very critical for larger funds to
perform,” said Stephane Pizzo, managing partner of Singapore-
based hedge-fund advisory company Lotus Peak Capital Pte,
without mentioning any managers’ performances. “Smaller funds
have been doing better as they can be more nimble.”  Growing Assets  Azentus’s assets grew to more than $1.9 billion by July
2011, three months after starting, as it benefited from investor
preference for the safety of large managers. It was  ranked 
Asia’s seventh-largest hedge-fund company last year by trade
journal Institutional Investor.  Asia hedge funds  returned  almost 6 percent in the first
three months, outperforming global peers’ 3 percent gain,
according to preliminary data from Singapore-based Eurekahedge
Pte. Managers investing across the region have been helped by a
more than 50 percent rally in the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  since
the end of October as  Japan ’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe expanded
stimulus to pull the country out of 15 years of deflation.  Azentus reversed earlier losses to post a gain of almost 1
percent last year, two people with knowledge of the return said
in January. Senrigan Capital Group Ltd., an Asia-focused event-
driven hedge-fund manager backed by Blackstone Group LP, has
seen its assets fall to $361 million from just over $1 billion
in April 2011 amid difficulties to generate returns in the
region’s merger market, according to an investor document.  Departing Partner  Edoma Partners LLP, led by Pierre-Henri Flamand, decided to
close down after it lost money and assets shrank in
“unprecedented market conditions,” he said in an e-mailed
statement in November.  Sze was once jointly responsible for the Goldman Sachs
principal strategies proprietary trading team with Flamand.
After Flamand’s departure in March 2010 to start his own hedge
fund, Sze was global head of the bank’s largest proprietary
trading unit, which at its peak managed $3 billion of Asia
investments, people familiar with the matter said in July 2011.  Azentus’s Partner Bruce Kirk left in March, according to a
posting on the website of the city’s Securities and Futures
Commission. Kirk, one of Azentus’s six founding partners who
specialized in Japan investments, left on good terms, Denby-
Jones said. Azentus has informed investors and brokers of his
departure, he added.  Kirk didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail sent to him
seeking comment on his departure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  