-- Ibovespa Futures After Morgan Stanley Iron Ore Forecast
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-04-24T12:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/ibovespa-futures-after-morgan-stanley-iron-ore-forecast.html
Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  futures gained as
speculation that central banks will take more steps to spur
economic growth sent commodities higher, boosting the outlook
for raw-material producers.  Natura Cosmeticos SA (NATU3) , Brazil’s biggest cosmetics maker, may
move after saying it plans to buy back as many as 2.5 million
shares. Petrochemicals producer  Braskem SA (BRKM5)  may be active after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. both raised their
recommendations to the equivalent of buy.  Ibovespa  futures contracts  expiring in June added 0.1
percent to 55,075 at 9:04 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real was little
changed at 2.0228 per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of 24 raw materials rallied 0.4 percent as speculation mounted
that the European Central Bank will cut its key  interest rate  to
a record low next week. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has more
room to cut rates, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said after inflation was
slower than estimated.  The Ibovespa has retreated 13 percent from this year’s peak
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and China
has lost 7.8 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.5 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 10.2 billion
reais ($5.04 billion) yesterday, which compares with a daily
average of 7.64 billion reais this year through April 22,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  