-- Liffe Sues Dutch Options Market TOM Over AEX Products
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2013-04-23T17:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/liffe-sues-dutch-options-market-tom-over-aex-products.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s Liffe derivatives
market sued  The Order Machine , saying the Dutch alternative
trading system that’s 25 percent owned by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) 
introduced equity-index options without a license.  TOM began offering options based on NYSE Euronext’s
benchmark  AEX Index (AEX)  for Dutch stocks in January 2013, the
companies said separate e-mailed statements today. A hearing is
scheduled for June 3, Amsterdam-based TOM said.  “We offered TOM a license in line with the industry
standards for index license fees for derivatives,” Ade Cordell,
executive director, head of equity derivatives at NYSE, said in
an interview. “They did not accept our reasonable offer and
chose to ignore rules and agreements, which violates our legal
rights under IP law, and is unfair to market participants. This
leaves us with no other choice than to ask the judge for a
ruling.”  TOM, which says it has about 20 percent market share in
Dutch options, is owned by  Nasdaq ,  BinckBank NV (BINCK) , Optiver, IMC
Group and ABN Amro Clearing Bank. The company said it expects to
take as much of 40 percent of the market by the end of 2013.  “We didn’t ask for a proposal because we think that using
a license is not applicable,” Willem Meijer, TOM’s chief
executive officer, said by phone. “It is common practice in the
options market that you create options on the underlying, and
you’re free to mention which underlying it is.”  Nasdaq is setting up a new derivatives market, called NLX,
in  London  to compete with Liffe. The New York-based exchange
will operate TOM’s market and has an eight-year contract to
provide trading technology.  NYSE owns Liffe, Europe’s second-largest derivatives market
and bourses in Amsterdam, Brussels, Paris and Lisbon in addition
to the  New York  Stock Exchange. The company has agreed to be
bought by Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  In February 2011, TOM sued Liffe for membership of the
derivatives exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  