-- Mike Brown Returns as Cavaliers’ Coach Three Years After Firing
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-24T13:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/mike-brown-agrees-to-return-as-cavs-coach-beacon-journal-says.html
Mike Brown  is back with the
Cleveland Cavaliers, returning as coach three years after he was
fired by the National Basketball Association franchise.  Brown previously coached in Cleveland for five seasons from
2005 through 2010, compiling a 272-138 record with teams led by
 LeBron James . He most recently coached the  Los Angeles Lakers 
and was fired in November, five games into the season.  “I am thrilled to return to Cleveland to coach the
Cavaliers,” Brown said in an e-mailed statement.  While the Cavaliers didn’t disclose terms of the contract,
ESPN reports Brown agreed to a five-year, $20 million deal,
citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Brown, 43, replaces  Byron Scott , who was fired by the
Cavaliers last week after recording a 64-166 record over three
seasons.  Cleveland  has had three straight last-place division
finishes since James left to join the Miami Heat.  The Cavaliers were 24-58 this year, losing their final six
games of the season and finishing 25 1/2 games behind the
Indiana Pacers in the Eastern Conference’s Central division.  Brown has a career record of 314-167 and his winning
percentage is the sixth-highest in NBA history among coaches
with at least 400 games coached. His teams have won at least one
playoff series in every full season he’s been a coach, including
a trip to the 2006-07 NBA Finals.  “Mike has done nothing but win in this league since he was
a first-year assistant many years ago,” Cavaliers owner  Dan Gilbert  said. “He is going to instill a much-needed defensive-
first philosophy in our young and talented team that is going to
serve as our foundation and identity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  