-- India’s Biometric IDs Put Its Poorest on the Map
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-04-23T22:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/india-s-biometric-ids-put-its-poorest-on-the-map.html
People who grew up in Britain in
the 1960s will remember a television program that built a cult
following: “ The Prisoner .” It was about an oddly luxurious
detention camp -- a kind of Guantanamo Bay by Four Seasons, spa
services and brainwashing included. Even if you wanted to,
trying to escape was pointless. A big balloon would chase you
and bring you back. The residents didn’t have names, just
numbers. The show’s tagline was: “I am not a number. I am a free
man.”  The phrase came to mind while I listened this week to
Nandan Nilekani, co-founder of  Infosys Ltd. (INFY)  and one of the
world’s most successful information-technology entrepreneurs.
Speaking at the Center for Global Development in  Washington , he
was  describing  India’s remarkable Unique Identification (UID)
project, also called Aadhaar, which he is leading.  Nilekani explained that since the program began in 2010,
more than 300 million Indians have acquired a unique ID number
associated with 12 biometric markers -- 10 fingerprints and two
iris scans. (Collecting that much data for each enrollee
minimizes errors.) At today’s stunning rate of progress,
reaching the goal of covering India’s population of 1.2 billion
will take less than five years. The audience listened
admiringly, and asked not a single hostile question.  Tremendous Benefits  That’s because it was an audience of development
specialists, and the benefits of universal ID in poor countries
are potentially huge. In advanced economies, proposals to gather
biometric data and associate them with universal ID numbers
immediately raise civil-liberties concerns. Not long ago the
U.K. abandoned plans for a national ID card, partly on grounds
of cost and partly because the idea was unpopular. This contrast
in attitudes is worth pondering.  In recent years many developing countries have embarked on
biometric ID programs. The Center for Global Development’s Alan Gelb and Julia Clark have surveyed 160 such projects and written
an indispensable guide: “ Identification for Development: The
Biometrics Revolution .” As they and Nilekani point out,  India ’s
project is unusual for its scale and scope, and because its aim
was to create a system of identification independent of the uses
to which it might be put -- a platform that can support many
uses, rather than one specific application (such as checking
eligibility for poverty relief).  India’s UID project isn’t just popular with the experts.
Take-up has been astonishingly quick not because participation
is compulsory (it isn’t -- yet) or because pressure (such as
denial of services) is brought to bear, but because so many
Indians appear to want an officially recognized identity. ID
cards are sometimes framed and hung on the wall.  People in rich countries take their possession of an
official identity so much for granted that they’re often unaware
they have one. Many of the world’s poorest people have no
documents to say who they are. In their dealings with employers
and the state, you could say, they don’t fully exist. For them,
a universal ID is an affirmation of personhood, a condition for
civil liberty rather than a threat to it.  In practical terms, the potential benefits are exciting.
Fighting corruption heads the list. Leakage of payments and
services intended for the poor is notoriously high in many
developing countries. Biometric IDs help to eliminate
“duplicates, ghosts and the deceased,” as Gelb and Clark put it.
In Nigeria, biometric audits reduced the number of pensioners by
almost 40 percent. India’s UID program already seems to be
saving far more than its cost of $3 or less an enrollee. A
recent  study  for India’s National Institute for Public Finance
and Policy found an internal rate of return of more than 50
percent.  Fighting Corruption  One less-obvious benefit emphasized by Nilekani is the
empowerment of people through increased competition -- not least
within the public sector. Without IDs, many Indians must deal
with specific local offices where they are known or with
particular officials who’ve dealt with them before. This puts
them at the officials’ mercy. With IDs and fast online
authentication, a central aspect of the project, people can go
elsewhere and push back against inefficiency or demands for
bribes.  Things can certainly go wrong, as Gelb and Clark make
clear. A lot of programs have been bungled in the
implementation. Some, like one in Malawi, have been too small
for savings to cover the setup costs. Others are too fragmented,
as in Nigeria, where multiple systems have operated alongside
one another. India’s application-independent, standards-first
approach avoids duplicating ID infrastructure and lets
competition among suppliers of hardware and software push down
costs.  To those concerned above all about civil liberties, of
course, greater efficiency isn’t a good thing; it only makes the
technology more sinister. Having an easily verifiable official
identity is an enormous asset -- try living without one -- but a
tyrannical government would no doubt find a project like Aadhaar
much to its liking. This is a powerful technology like many
others: It can’t be uninvented, and it can be deployed for good
or evil.  The crucial questions are what else gets bundled in the
file that carries your ID number and biometrics, and who has
access to it. Developing countries moving toward national ID
databases often lack laws to secure data and protect privacy. In
India, laws for Aadhaar -- whether they’re needed and what they
should say -- are still being debated, and despite its
popularity the program has critics. At this week’s lecture,
Nilekani was asked to share the secrets of his success with
other ID-system pioneers. He said, work quickly and quietly,
before opposition can crystallize. “Quickly and quietly” might
get you the system, and for a country like India the benefits
look irresistible. But it won’t get you the laws you need to
operate the system safely.  For many reasons, therefore, India’s universal ID project
deserves to be followed closely. In the U.S. and other rich
countries, concerns (or, if you prefer, paranoia) about
government misuse of ID information will hold things back. In
all likelihood, therefore, Nilekani’s Aadhaar will lead the
world. Exactly where it will lead, we’ll find out.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 