-- Indian Stocks Snap Two-Day Advance as Lenders, Automakers Drop
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-04-23T04:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/indian-stocks-snap-two-day-advance-as-lenders-automakers-drop.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks declined, with the
benchmark index snapping a two-day gain. Shares of lenders and
automakers led the decline.  The S&P BSE Sensex index fell 0.3 percent to 19,116.91 at
9:59 a.m. in Mumbai. The gauge climbed to a one-month yesterday
amid expectations slowing inflation and lower commodity prices
may prompt  India ’s central bank to reduce borrowing costs next
week.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , India’s second-largest private lender,
slid 1 percent ahead of earnings today.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the
owner of British luxury car brands Jaguar and Land Rover, lost
1.2 percent, ending a four-day rally.  Overseas funds  bought a net $292.1 million worth of Indian
equities last week, the biggest inflow in five, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That helped the Sensex advance 4.2 percent in
its biggest weekly gain since the period ended Nov. 30. The
rally pushed up the gauge’s valuation to 12.9 times  projected
12-month profits  from this year’s low of 12.3 times on April 12,
Bloomberg data show.  “The market has had a very good pop and I think we’ll see
some consolidation,” Ajay Bodke, head of investment strategy &
advisory at Mumbai-based brokerage Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.,
said in an interview with Bloomberg TV India.  HDFC Bank slid 1 percent to 691.6 rupees. The lender may
report fourth-quarter profit of 18.9 billion rupees, according
to a median of 37 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Tata
Motors lost 1.2 percent to 281.9 rupees.  India’s Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said a
further cut in interest rates by the central bank would help
revive economic growth. Chidambaram made the comments in an
April 19 interview from  Washington , where he was attending
meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.  Stocks also rose last week as data showed  wholesale prices 
slowed to a 40-month low, and slumping oil and gold prices
reduced import costs for the two commodities, which contributed
to a record current-account gap in the last quarter of 2012.  The Sensex has fallen 1.6 percent this year amid concerns
about the current-account deficit, slowing economic  growth  and
the highest  inflation  rate among major emerging nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 