-- India to Complete Procuring Land for Posco Mill in Two Weeks
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-04-23T22:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/india-to-complete-procuring-land-for-posco-mill-in-two-weeks.html
India ’s eastern state of Odisha
expects to complete procuring land needed for Posco’s steel
complex in less than two weeks as farmers relinquish their
opposition on the proposed $12 billion project.  About 200 acres (81 hectares) out of the total 2,700 acres
are left to be acquired from local residents, said Satya Kumar Mallick, the administrative head of Jagatsinghpur district, the
site of the project. The entire land could be handed over by
June to  South Korea ’s biggest steelmaker, which already has
about 1,700 acres in its possession, he said.  “We’re within touching distance,” Mallick said in an
interview. “Procurement has restarted and is proceeding without
any problem.”  Posco’s first factory in India, billed as the biggest
foreign investment in the nation, has been delayed by eight
years because farmers had refused to vacate government-owned
land they occupied for generations.  The company  and the Odisha
government in 2010 agreed to compensate the local population by
offering more money for land, jobs at the plant and allowances
to sustain livelihoods in the interim.  “The process has gained momentum as local people are
offering their land following initiatives to reach out to
them,” Mallick said. “The biggest hurdle for the project, at
least in terms of land procurement, seems to be getting over.”  Rising Demand  Posco (005490)  is betting on rising steel demand from India’s
burgeoning middle class and infrastructure initiatives of the
government, which is attempting to resuscitate an economy
growing at the slowest pace in a decade. The plant will
initially produce 8 million metric tons of steel, two-thirds the
quantity originally envisaged.  Still, some hostility to the project remains, said Prasanth
Paikare, a spokesman for opposition group Posco Prathirodh
Sangram Samiti.  “While some are now supporting the project, a large number
of villagers are still against it,” Paikare said in a phone
interview. “We plan to seek political support in scaling up our
opposition.”  Posco is awaiting a permit from the environment ministry
for the project. India’s  National Green Tribunal  in March 2012
suspended an earlier clearance from the ministry, asking for a
review of environmental concerns and recommendations to guard
against any adverse impact before final approval.  The company has also yet to secure an iron ore mine for the
proposed factory.  The federal government had challenged in the
 Supreme Court  a lower court’s order that the province’s
recommendation to allot the Khandadhar mines to Posco was
illegal. The court reserved its order after completing the
hearing last month.  Posco remains committed to its original plan of building a
factory with a 12 million-ton capacity, Posco India Deputy
Managing Director Ho-Chan Ryu said in March last year. Posco
India Chairman and Managing Director Yong-won Yoon said the same
day the seven-year delay could add 20 percent to the original
cost of the plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  