-- Iran Moves Away From Oil to Withstand Sanctions, Minister Says
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-04-23T23:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/iran-moves-away-from-oil-to-withstand-sanctions-minister-says.html
Iran’s finance minister says his
country’s economy is adapting to Western sanctions by finding
new markets for agriculture and mining products after oil
exports plunged by almost half.  “We had to make adjustments,” Shamseddin Hosseini, Iran’s
minister of economic affairs and finance, said in an interview
yesterday at Iran’s Mission to the  United Nations  in New York.
“We will work harder and find new ways and even change our
trading partners.”  The U.S. and allies are restricting Iran’s oil exports, the
country’s largest source of revenue, to pressure the government
in Tehran to stop enriching uranium. The sanctions have driven
the value of the Iranian rial down 80 percent in the past two
years.  While the country’s oil exports have fallen 50 percent in
the past year, the plunge in the rial’s value has helped
exporters who can sell other goods more cheaply, Hosseini said.
The Islamic Republic has increased exports of both agricultural
and mining products, he said.  “We have seen an increase of 20 percent in non-oil
exports,” Hosseini said. “We are making structural changes to
our economy to reduce the impact of sanctions.”  Big Negative  That’s only part of the story, said Djavad Salehi-Isfahani,
a professor of economics at Virginia Polytechnic and State
University in Blacksburg.  “The  currency devaluation  has helped Iranian exporters and
domestic producers to be competitive,” Salehi-Isfahani said in
a telephone interview. “However, sanctions are a big negative
because they prevent Iranian companies from transferring money
or get access to technology.”  The U.S. and its allies including  Israel  and the European
Union have accused Iran of seeking to develop nuclear weapons
capability. Hosseini said Iran is enriching uranium for peaceful
purposes and won’t back down from developing nuclear power.  “The development of peaceful civilian nuclear program is
one of our highest priorities,” Hosseini said.  Western pressure has intensified over the past two years,
subjecting Iran to dozens of sanctions including curbs on
financial transactions and crude oil exports that are its main
source of revenue.  “When you bring the central bank under sanctions, you are
bringing all banks and financial institutions of a country under
sanctions,” Hosseini said.  Exchange Rate  While the central bank’s official exchange rate is 12,260
rials per dollar, the currency trades on the street at about
37,000 per dollar.  Iran ’s inflation hit 30 percent last year
from 21 percent the year before, Hosseini said. Unemployment has
been around 12.2 percent in the past two years, he said.  In the fiscal year starting March 21, Iran projects a 40
percent  decline  in oil revenue, according to a draft budget
submitted to the Majlis, the national assembly. The country
expects to earn about 660 trillion rials during the fiscal year,
according to official news agencies Mehr and Fars.  Iran’s economy is deteriorating as the Islamic Republic
prepares for the June 14 presidential election. Hassan Rohani, a
former nuclear negotiator, who plans to run in the June
presidential race, said the country’s economy was in a
“critical” situation.  In March Iran exported 1.1 million barrels a day, down from
1.26 million barrels in February, the  International Energy
Agency  said in a report. Iranian exports are down from an
average of 1.5 million barrels a day last year and 2.5 million
in 2011, before sanctions intensified, according to estimates
from the Paris-based IEA.  Patrick Clawson, an Iran analyst at the  Washington 
Institute for Near East Policy, said in a report dated April 2
that the role of oil in Iran’s economy had declined as the
country is reorienting its exports to focus on agriculture,
mining and industry.  Hosseini said he wanted to reform the government budget to
reduce the reliance on oil revenue. Last year, the government
froze prices of basic food ingredients such as wheat and other
grains.  Contradictory Forecasts  Hosseini who had visited Washington for a joint session of
 International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank  said Iran’s
economy grew last year and he expected it to grow again this
year. He declined to provide figures.  In contrast, the IMF says Iran’s  economy  shrank 1.9 percent
in 2012 and is expected to decline another 1.3 percent this
year. The IMF expects inflation to rise by 27 percent this year.  Hosseini said the country hasn’t been hurt by the drop in
 gold prices . Iran began buying gold four years as a hedge
against U.S. sanctions. Gold futures have fallen 15 percent this
year.  Iran’s foreign currency reserves remain healthy, Hosseini
said. The National Development Fund, which receives at least 20
percent of the oil revenue to be used to develop the company has
$48.5 billion.  “Economic sanctions have strengthened the economy,”
Hosseini said. “They will not deter us from pursuing nuclear
technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  