-- U.S. Sees No Hard Evidence of Syrian Chemical Weapons Use
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-04-24T10:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/israeli-intelligence-says-syria-using-chemical-weapons.html
U.S. officials said they haven’t
seen conclusive evidence supporting an assertion by  Israel ’s top
military intelligence analyst that Syrian government forces have
used chemical weapons against rebels.  Secretary of State  John Kerry  and spokesmen from the White
House and the Pentagon said investigations haven’t produced hard
proof that Bashar al-Assad’s regime has used toxic chemicals --
a step that President  Barack Obama  has said would cross a “red
line.”  “We have not come to the conclusion that there has been
that use,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters in
 Washington . “It is precisely because of the seriousness of the
use of chemical weapons -- and the seriousness with which the
president made clear that that use would be unacceptable -- that
it is incumbent upon us and our partners to investigate
thoroughly and validate or verify allegations of chemical
weapons use.”  Israeli Brigadier General Itai Brun, chief of research and
analysis for the army’s military intelligence division, cited
photographic and other forms of evidence today indicating  Syria 
used chemical weapons last month near Damascus and Aleppo.  “To the best of our professional understanding, the regime
used chemical weapons against fighters in a series of incidents
in recent months,” Brun said at a conference at Tel Aviv
University’s Institute for National Security Studies, according
to a transcript of his remarks provided by the army.  ‘Apparently Sarin’  “The dilated pupils, the frothing at the mouth and other
signs testify, in our view, to the use of liquid chemical
weapons, some kind of liquid chemical weapons, apparently
sarin,” Brun said.  Still, a senior researcher at the Tel Aviv institute
expressed doubt about Brun’s assertion.  “I know how it looks when chemical weapons attacks take
place and what is happening in Syria doesn’t look like that,”
said Shlomo Brom, a retired general and former chief of the
Israeli army’s strategic planning division. “The number of
casualties is too low and the sources of information are not
credible.”  The evidence cited by Israeli military intelligence “can
be orchestrated,” Brom said. “It’s quite clear that the rebels
have a strong interest to show the world because that will bring
international intervention, which is what they want.”  Conclusive Evidence  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry told reporters that
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  had been unable to
confirm the reports in a phone call today.  “I talked to Prime Minister Netanyahu this morning from
here,” Kerry said at a gathering of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization in Brussels. “I think it’s fair to say he was not
in a position to confirm that, so it’s up to him and their
process as to when and how they do that.”  “I don’t know yet what the facts are,” Kerry said. “I
don’t think anybody knows what they are yet.”  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said U.S. officials
“believe Syria’s chemical weapons stockpile remains under
Syrian government control.” The U.S. will work with allies to
“monitor, investigate and verify any credible allegations,”
Little said.  Crowd Control  American intelligence agencies studying Syria agree that
there is little or no credible, verified evidence that the Assad
regime has used chemical weapons other than crowd-control agents
that aren’t classified as weapons of mass destruction, said two
U.S. officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to
discuss classified matters.  The officials said some analysts consider it unlikely that
Assad would cross Obama’s red line except as a last, desperate
measure, perhaps to clear a path to exile for his Alawite elite
or in a last redoubt in the sect’s homeland in northwestern
Syria.  The differing U.S. and Israeli assessments, one of the
officials said, may reflect varying estimates of how close the
regime is to collapse, the likelihood that Islamic extremists
could fill the resulting vacuum and the prospects that Sunni
fighters tied to al-Qaeda or Iranian ally Hezbollah could
inherit some or all of Assad’s chemical and biological weapons.  The U.K. and  France  also have alleged that Assad’s troops
have used chemical weapons against rebel fighters.  More than 70,000 people have been killed in the uprising
against Assad that has lasted more than two years, according to
a United Nations estimate.  Changing Calculations  Obama said when he visited Israel last month that proof
Syria used chemical weapons would change U.S. calculations in
dealing with the conflict, without specifying what actions he
would take. U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, during his visit
to Israel this week, reaffirmed that stance.  Hagel told the House Armed Services Committee on April 11
that the U.S. had “not detected the use of chemical weapons”
in Syria. He said contingency plans were being made for U.S.
military options in the country.  The U.S. ambassador to Israel, Daniel Shapiro, told the  Tel
Aviv  conference today that Israel, Jordan and  Turkey  are all
involved in the Obama administration’s contingency planning over
Syria.  Brun said Israel has to be “very troubled by the
possibility that chemical weapons might fall into the hands of
less responsible actors.”  “It is certainly possible that there will be other attacks
on Israel by other organizations that obtain different types of
weapons,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Brussels at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  