-- Mississippi Barges Slowed by Flooding Following Record Drought
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-23T16:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/mississippi-barges-slowed-by-flooding-following-record-drought.html
Barge traffic on a stretch of the
 Mississippi River , slowed early this year by shallow water
during a drought, now is being hindered by flooding, according
to the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers.  The Corps on April 20 closed locks in Clarksville and
Winfield,  Missouri , both north of St. Louis, in anticipation of
high water, the Army said yesterday in a  statement . The towns
are upstream from the confluence of the  Illinois  River and
Mississippi, America’s busiest waterway. Heavy rains have led
the Corps to close seven locks further north on the river,
blocking barge and other traffic.  “Barge traffic isn’t going to move north of the Illinois
until the locks reopen,” Mike Petersen, a spokesman for the
Corps in  St. Louis , said today in a phone interview.  Low water levels on river in December and January, caused
by the worst drought since the 1930s, forced barge companies
including AEP River Operations LLC of St. Louis to idle boats
until contractors cleared rock obstructions in the river in
southern Illinois. Carriers transporting grain, coal, fertilizer
and crude oil now are being slowed by too much water.  The Corps shut the locks, used to help boats navigate past
impediments, to prevent components of the facilities from being
damaged during a flood, Petersen said.  Flood Proof  “We basically flood-proof them,” using equipment
including sandbags as protection from rising waters, he said.
The water level at each lock and dam is different, he said. The
Army on April 20 also closed a lock on the Kaskaskia River,
which joins the  Mississippi  south of St. Louis.  The Mississippi River at St. Louis reached a level of about
35 feet (10.7 meters) this morning, according the  National
Weather Service . Flood stage is 30 feet. In January, the river
was near the minimum 9-foot depth for navigation.  “The river has crested and is expected to remain at that
level for a short period of time but then should recede,” Debra
Colbert, senior vice president for the Waterways Council Inc.,
said in an e-mail. The Arlington, Virginia-based public policy
group, which includes shippers and ports, has been working with
the Corps and the U.S. Coast Guard to manage conditions and is
“not sure there will be too many significant economic impacts
from this,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  