-- Mitsubishi Recalls Almost 4,000 Hybrid SUVs on Possible Fault
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-04-23T07:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/mitsubishi-recalls-almost-4-000-hybrid-suvs-on-possible-fault.html
Mitsubishi (7201)  Motors Corp. recalled
almost 4,000 of its Outlander plug-in hybrid sport-utility
vehicles in  Japan  because of a possible defect with the auto’s
motor controls computer program.  The automaker called back 3,839 of the SUVs because the
vehicle’s computer control system may not function properly,
Namie Koketsu, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Mitsubishi, said by
telephone today. No injuries or accidents have been reported,
she said.  Today’s recall adds to the hybrid’s woes after Mitsubishi
in March reported flaws in lithium-ion batteries used in the
model. The company said it is investigating and hasn’t announced
a recall over battery malfunctions.  In addition, Mitsubishi also is recalling 18 of the plug-in
Outlanders in Japan because a components supplier said the parts
may not have been properly inspected to be safe, said Koketsu.
Fourteen of the cars may have a defect with their generators,
while four may have an malfunction with the front motor, she
said, declining to identify the parts supplier.  Today’s recall doesn’t relate to the plug-in hybrid’s
 lithium-ion batteries , Koketsu said. The batteries were produced
at a factory that the carmaker owns jointly with  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) 
and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)   Mitsubishi Motors fell 1.9 percent to close at 105 yen in
Tokyo trading. The stock has added 18 percent in 2013, compared
with a 30 percent gain for Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Plane Batteries  Kyoto-based GS Yuasa makes lithium-ion batteries at the
same plant that were used in  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 jets. GS Yuasa and
Boeing have said the Mitsubishi vehicle batteries are different
from those used in the 787s.  The global fleet of 49 Dreamliners was grounded Jan. 16
after lithium-ion batteries on two separate planes overheated
and melted, causing flights to be canceled.  Mitsubishi Motors on March 27 asked customers not to charge
the plug-in hybrid Outlander externally until it identifies the
cause of the malfunctions. One battery caught fire while being
tested at a factory and another melted in an electric car, said
the company, which stopped producing and shipping the model
after these problems were reported.  The carmaker hadn’t issued a recall because it didn’t know
what caused the battery malfunction, Masao Omichi, a senior
executive officer at Mitsubishi, told reporters in  Tokyo  on
April 10.  The plug-in hybrid Outlander went on sale in Japan on Jan.
24. Mitsubishi Motors sold 4,305 of the model as of the end of
March, according to company figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  