-- Littoral Combat Ship Network Can Be Hacked, Navy Finds
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-04-23T20:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/littoral-combat-ship-network-can-be-hacked-navy-finds.html
The computer network on the U.S.
Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship is vulnerable to hacking, according
to findings by Navy cybersecurity specialists.  A “red team” assigned to test weaknesses in computer
systems found major deficiencies last year on  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ’s USS Freedom, said a government official familiar with
the findings who asked not to be identified because the Navy
report hasn’t been made public. The Freedom, the first of the
new ships to be deployed, sailed to Singapore last month for
eight months of testing of its manning and logistics operations.  The concern about cybersecurity adds to previous questions
about the $37 billion program to build ships intended to perform
missions in littoral waters, those close to shore. The estimated
price to build each vessel has doubled to $440 million, and its
ability to survive to fight after an attack has been questioned.  Michael Gilmore , the Pentagon’s director of weapons testing
“provided Navy leadership an assessment of information
assurance vulnerabilities testing revealed in LCS” and
“recommended those vulnerabilities be remediated without
delay,” Defense Department spokeswoman Jennifer Elzea said in
an e-mailed statement.  The Navy hasn’t yet responded to the testing office’s
concerns, according to Elzea, who said Gilmore’s assessment was
classified. She said he also will include his concerns in a
classified LCS Early Fielding Report next month.  Battle Network  The Littoral Combat Ship depends for its combat capability
on communicating with better-armed vessels through its “Total
Ship Computing Environment,” a maritime battle network linked
by computers and sensors. The Navy and the Pentagon’s weapons
testing office declined to say whether the vulnerabilities would
affect operations of the ship or coordination with other
vessels.  The threat of cyberattacks has become an even greater
concern than terrorism,  James Clapper , the top U.S. intelligence
official, told the House Intelligence Committee during an April
11 hearing. The Chinese army may be behind the hacking of at
least 141 companies worldwide since 2006, according to a Feb. 19
report from Alexandria, Virginia-based Mandiant Corp. Chinese
officials have rejected that finding.  Defense Security Chuck Hagel told a House panel last week
that the potential for “silent and destructive” cyberattacks
is “the greatest threat to our security.”  The Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship program office said in a
statement that the vulnerability assessment of the Freedom has
been reviewed with Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, the
world’s largest defense contractor.  Evolving Ability  “The LCS program has worked with the Navy and industry
subject-matter experts to implement mitigation plans,” the
office said. “As information assurance threats continue to
evolve, so too will the LCS’s ability to counter them.”  Asked why the Navy didn’t delay the Freedom’s  Singapore 
deployment, the program office said it determined the vessel
“was capable of fulfilling the assigned mission.”  “As with every other ship assessment, findings are
provided to program management for awareness and action where
required,”Lieutenant Rick Chernitzer, a spokesman for the
Navy’s Pacific surface forces, said in a second e-mailed
statement.  The Navy’s Operational Test and Evaluation Force conducted
the vulnerability assessment, he said.  Four More  The Navy is requesting $1.9 billion to buy four additional
Littoral Combat Ships for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, the
same number purchased this year.  The program may face added scrutiny this year, starting
tomorrow with a hearing on Navy ship programs convened by the
House Armed Services Committee’s seapower panel. The U.S.
Government Accountability Office also is working on a review
that may be published in June.  The vessel “has lots of possibilities but also has a
number of challenges,” Representative Randy Forbes, a Virginia
Republican who heads the seapower panel, said in a phone
interview today.  “I do think it is something we are going to continue to
monitor, look at very carefully, but we are going to give the
Navy a little bit of flexibility” to use the Singapore
deployment to put the Freedom through its paces, he said.  “I would not put me down as a skeptic,” he said. “I’ve
got a lot of questions.”  Mission Modules  The LCS depends on mission modules that are supposed to be
swapped out depending on the duty at hand. The GAO said last
month that the Navy plans to purchase 30 of a planned 52 vessels
by 2018, before the first fully combat-capable modules for
surface warfare, counter-mine operations and anti-submarine
patrols are ready.  The modules the Navy has accepted so far “do not yet meet
requirements,” GAO said.  Two versions of the Littoral Combat Ship are being built
simultaneously. A steel-hulled vessel is being made in
Marinette,  Wisconsin , by a team led by Lockheed, and an aluminum
trimaran is being built in Mobile,  Alabama , by a group led by
 Austal Ltd. (ASB)   Four of the vessels have been built, and the Navy has
agreed to buy 20 more through 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  