-- Jana Says Rockwood Worth $80 a Share in Possible Takeover
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-04-23T17:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/jana-says-rockwood-worth-80-a-share-in-possible-takeover.html
Jana Partners LLC, the $5 billion
activist hedge fund run by  Barry Rosenstein , said  Rockwood
Holdings Inc. (ROC) , the specialty chemicals maker seeking to exit
businesses, may be worth $80 a share in a takeover.  Rockwood, which seeks to focus on its lithium and surface-
treatments businesses, could attract bids from larger chemicals
makers after selling other units, Jana said in a first-quarter
letter to investors. Rockwood shares climbed 1.2 percent to
$64.01 at 11:42 a.m. in  New York  trading, bringing the gain this
year to 30 percent including reinvested dividends.  “We believe a ROC made up of lithium and surface
treatments could make a very attractive takeover candidate for
large multinational chemical names” such as BASF SE, Albermale
Corp. and Soc. Quimica y Minera de Chile SA, Jana said in the
letter, referring to Rockwood by its ticker symbol.  Rockwood Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Seifi Ghasemi
said in February he hired Lazard as he’s exploring options for
three of his five units. The company, based in Princeton,  New
Jersey , may sell its additives unit as well as titanium-dioxide
operations and a German ceramics business. Permira Advisers LLP
and Blackstone Group LP are among bidders who made it into the
second round to buy Rockwood’s ceramics unit, three people
familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  Bain Capital , Cinven Ltd., TPG Capital LP and BC Partners
Ltd. are also still in the running for CeramTec, the people
said.  Jana held 2.77 million Rockwood shares at the end of
December, a 3.5 percent stake, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Jana has trimmed its position after the stock gained
following the announcement of the company’s intention to exit
businesses, it said in the letter.  Fifth & Pacific  Charles Penner, a partner at Jana, declined to comment on
the letter, as did Nahla Azmy, vice president of  investor
relations  and communications at Rockwood.  Fifth & Pacific (FNP)  Cos., the fashion retailer that owns labels
including Kate Spade, could be worth as much as $28 a share
after it sells its Lucky and Juicy brands, Jana said in the
letter.  Fifth & Pacific has received expressions of interest from
potential bidders including apparel maker VF Corp. and buyout
firm Leonard Green & Partners LP as it explores sales of Lucky
and Juicy, together or separately, for a combined value of about
$700 million,  Bloomberg News  reported April 12, citing people
with knowledge of the matter.  ‘Enormous Runway’  Jana purchased 3.29 million shares of Fifth & Pacific, a
2.8 percent stake, in December, according to the letter and data
compiled by Bloomberg. Jana reduced its position after the stock
rose following reported bids for the brands, it said in the
letter. Fifth & Pacific rose 0.8 percent to $20.49 at 11:52 a.m.
in New York trading.  “The  Kate Spade  brand has enormous runway for top line
growth and for margin expansion,” Jana said in the letter.
“This opportunity was not at all reflected in our purchase
price of FNP as Kate Spade’s potential was obscured by the
weaker Lucky and Juicy brands. We believed focusing investors on
Kate would lead to a major re-rating of the shares,” it said,
referring to First & Pacific by its ticker symbol.  Jane Randel, a spokeswoman for First & Pacific, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  