-- Abe Vows to Protect Isles as Shrine Visits Hurt Japan-China Ties
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-04-23T08:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/japan-lawmakers-visit-war-shrine-after-china-s-korea-protest.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
vowed to use force if necessary to defend islands also claimed
by  China  as tensions rose over visits by his fellow lawmakers to
a Tokyo shrine seen in  Asia  as a symbol of wartime aggression.  China and Japan each issued formal protests today over the
presence of each other’s vessels in waters around the islands,
which lie in an area rich in resources including fish and oil.
Abe today told a parliamentary committee that the government
would not allow any Chinese boats to land on them.  “In the unlikely event that they were to land, it would be
natural to expel them by force,” he said.  His comments came as 168 Japanese lawmakers visited the
Yasukuni Shrine, a day after China and  South Korea  complained
about a weekend visit by Finance Minister Taro Aso. Aso sought
to downplay the significance of the visits, saying they would
have no bearing on foreign relations.  Japan’s purchase of the islands in September sparked
protests across China, harming a $340 billion trade relationship
that has yet to recover for companies such as Toyota Motor Corp.
The Yasukuni visits and competing patrols imperil efforts to
repair a relationship that may be at the lowest point since ties
were normalized in 1972.  “Relations between China and Japan are at their worst
since diplomatic ties were established,” said Rumi Aoyama, a
professor of Chinese studies at  Waseda University  in Tokyo. “At
this point, it’s about maintaining lines of communication to
make sure things don’t get worse. Sovereignty and understanding
of history are problems on which neither  Japan  nor China wants
to compromise.”  ‘Always Open’  Abe said today the presence of the Chinese boats was
“regrettable,” while reiterating that “the door is always
open to talks with China.”  Eight Chinese vessels were in waters administered by Japan
as of 3 p.m., the Japanese Coast Guard said. China’s official
Xinhua News Agency said Chinese surveillance ships “drove
away” Japanese fishing boats in the waters, citing the State
Oceanic Administration.  The East China Sea islands are known as Senkaku in Japan
and Diaoyu in China. A group of Japanese activists are scheduled
to take a regular fishing trip to waters around the islands by
April 25, according to a statement on the activists’ website.  Today’s visit to Yasukuni was made by the largest group of
politicians to go since records were first kept in 1989,  Kyodo
News  said. The shrine is viewed in China and  Korea  as a symbol
of military atrocities during Japan’s occupation of much of Asia
in the first half of the 20th century. Yasukuni commemorates
Japan’s war dead, including World War II leaders convicted by an
international tribunal of  war crimes .  Trip Canceled  South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se yesterday
canceled a trip to Tokyo where he was to have met his
counterpart Fumio Kishida, without giving reasons. The ministry
released a statement expressing “deep concerns” over Aso’s
visit to the shrine, while China also lodged a protest.  “There has been a reaction from abroad, but I don’t think
this is likely to have any particular effect on foreign ties,”
Aso told reporters this morning.  Japan’s trade with China has failed to recover since the
Chinese street protests, in which demonstrators attacked
Japanese businesses and boycotted their products. Japanese
 exports  to China fell in nine of 10 months through March.
Exports dropped almost 16 percent in February and December.  Toyota (7203) , Japan’s largest automaker, this week said it
doesn’t expect China sales to fully recover before autumn.  Hindering Coordination  Yun’s cancellation could impede efforts by Japan and South
Korea to coordinate their response to threats by  North Korea ,
which has warned of attacks in the region as it expands its
nuclear weapons program.  The shrine visits by Aso and other officials at the weekend
were the first by members of Abe’s government since his  Liberal
Democratic Party  regained power in December. While Abe didn’t
visit the shrine, he sent an offering, and China filed a formal
protest, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said
yesterday.  “How Japan views history and deals with the Yasukuni
shrine issue is an important benchmark for its Asian neighbors
and the international community,” Hua told reporters in Beijing
today. “No matter in what capacity or form Japanese leaders
visit the Yasukuni shrine, in essence it is an attempt to deny
Japan’s history of aggression by its militarism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  