-- Juniper Declines After Missing Some Estimates
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-04-24T16:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/juniper-forecast.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  fell after
the second-biggest maker of computer-networking equipment
forecast profit and sales that were below some estimates amid
weak sales to telecommunications providers and big companies.  Juniper’s stock declined 8.6 percent to $15.87 at 12:51
p.m. in New York, and earlier touched $15.62 for the biggest
intraday decline since January 2012. Through yesterday, the
shares had declined 12 percent so far this year, compared with
an 11 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Profit excluding some items will be 22 cents to 26 cents a
share, on sales of $1.07 billion to $1.1 billion during the
second quarter, Sunnyvale, California-based Juniper said in a
statement yesterday. Analysts on average had predicted earnings
of 27 cents on sales of $1.11 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  An uncertain economic outlook has led to companies delaying
expensive network upgrades even as they experience surging
traffic from smartphones and tablets. Juniper’s results show the
company is being hurt by lower spending as it faces “aggressive
competition,” according to Jason Ader, an analyst at William
Blair & Co. in  Boston .  “Things are weaker, carrier spending has not come back the
way they hoped and enterprise spending isn’t getting any better
based on what we’ve picked up,” said Ader, who has a market
perform rating, the equivalent of hold, on the stock.  Telecommunications Providers  First-quarter net income rose to $91 million, or 18 cents a
share, from $16.3 million, or 3 cents, a year earlier. Profit
excluding some items was 24 cents, topping analysts’ 22 cent
prediction.  Sales rose 2.6 percent to $1.06 billion, missing analysts’
$1.07 billion average estimate.  Juniper’s reliance on the capital-intensive
telecommunications industry makes the company dependent on big-
ticket purchases by customers such as  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , which supply more than 20
percent of Juniper’s revenue, according to supply-chain  data
 compiled by Bloomberg.  Spending by telecommunications-service providers in the
U.S. and parts of Europe rose in the latest quarter while demand
from financial-services firms and government agencies weakened,
Juniper Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Johnson  said in an
interview.  “The fact is we’re seeing some increasing pickup on the
service provider side, and that’s offset somewhat by the
enterprise and financial services,” Johnson said.  Juniper’s service-provider sales rose 4 percent to $712.9
million, while enterprise sales were mostly unchanged at $346.3
million.  Tepid Spending  Verizon Chief Financial Officer Francis Shammo said April
18 that Verizon’s capital expenditures was $3.6 billion in the
first quarter, unchanged from the year before.  More than half of Juniper’s revenue comes from the U.S.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The European financial
crisis has curtailed spending by government agencies.  Cisco, based in San Jose, California, said in February that
weakness in China and Europe, along with lackluster  government
spending  on networking equipment, has slowed sales.  On March 19 Juniper shares were downgraded by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analyst  Simona Jankowski , who wrote that the
company’s sales and profitability are being threatened by
Cisco’s  Nexus 6000 switches ,  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW) ’s security
firewalls, and Alcatel-Lucent SA’s Internet routers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  