-- Kathryn Wasserman Davis, Head of Investing Family, Dies at 106
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-04-23T16:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/kathryn-wasserman-davis-head-of-investing-family-dies-at-106.html
Kathryn Wasserman Davis, a
globetrotting philanthropist who provided the startup funds that
her husband, Shelby Cullom Davis, used to become one of
America’s most successful investors, has died. She was 106.  She died today at her home in Hobe Sound,  Florida , her
family said. No cause was given.  Davis’s father, Joseph Wasserman, was the longtime chairman
of the Artloom Corp. of Philadelphia, a maker of Wilton rugs.
His fortune survived the market crash of 1929 because he was
“part of a canny minority who kept their money in  government
bonds .” John Rothchild wrote in his  2003 book , “The Davis
Dynasty: Fifty Years of Successful Investing on  Wall Street .”  In 1947, Davis dipped into her share of that fortune to
provide  seed capital  to her husband, who had quit his post in
New York Governor Thomas Dewey’s administration to form Shelby
Cullom Davis & Co., investing mostly in insurance stocks.  The family says she gave him $100,000; Rothchild wrote that
it was $50,000. Either way, by his death in 1994, Shelby Davis
had turned that initial stake into an $800 million fortune,
making Forbes magazine’s annual list of 400 richest Americans
from 1987 until his death. He served as U.S. ambassador to
 Switzerland  from 1969 to 1975.  Davis inherited her husband’s  New York  Stock Exchange seat
and held it for a number of years until it was sold about 12
years ago, according to Christopher C. Davis, her grandson and
the chairman of Tucson, Arizona-based Davis Selected Advisers
LP.  Invoking Gandhi  On her 100th birthday in 2007, Davis pledged $1 million to
carry out the ideas of 100 college students on how to promote
peace. She provided additional $1 million grants in 2008, 2009
and 2010 for what became known as the Davis Projects for Peace.  “I think Gandhi was very smart because he said what people
need is to talk more not to their friends, but to their enemies,
and that will bring about peace,” Davis said in a biographical
video on the project’s  website . “And that’s what I’m hoping to
do.”  Last May, the  American Museum of Natural History  in New
York  dedicated  the Kathryn W. Davis Science Teaching Classroom
in recognition of her donations to its master’s degree program
for science teachers. She told the Wall Street Journal that her
philanthropy was guided by the notion that it’s more fun “to
live in a world that you are helping to get better.”  Kathryn Stix Wasserman was born on Feb. 25, 1907, in
Philadelphia, one of five children of Joseph Wasserman and the
former Edith Stix. She attended Miss Madeira’s school for girls
in Washington, then  Wellesley College , graduating in 1928.  Horseback Ride  Her adventurous nature and global view were in evidence a
year after she graduated college, when she traveled with her
sister to Russia and took a horseback trip into the Caucasus
Mountains.  A few years later she met her future husband on a train
from Paris to Geneva, where they were both attending summer
school. They married after completing their master’s degrees at
 Columbia University  in 1931.  She went on to earn a Ph.D. in political science from the
University of Geneva in 1934, writing her thesis on “The
Soviets at Geneva: The USSR and the League of Nations, 1919-
1933.” It was in Geneva that she refined her lifelong belief in
the need for what she called a global “peace force.”  During their doctoral studies in Geneva, “Shelby and I saw
firsthand the workings of the very first world disarmament
conference,” she said in 2006 in videotaped remarks to the
Woodrow Wilson International  Center  for Scholars in Washington.
“We heard all the right words, but what Shelby and I saw was a
relentless preparation for war -- by Germany toward its
neighbors, by  Italy  toward  Ethiopia , and by Japan, panting to
take Manchuria.”  Foreign Relations  Back home, Davis worked briefly at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in  New York City  before the couple bought a house in
Tarrytown, New York, and began raising a family. She became
active in the League of Women Voters.  Davis was an honorary trustee of the  Heritage Foundation ,
which runs the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for
International Studies. The couple’s philanthropic efforts
supported the  Davis Museum  at Wellesley College and the Kathryn
W. and Shelby Cullom Davis ’30 International  Center  at
Princeton, among other organizations.  Survivors include her daughter, Diana Davis Spencer of
Washington; her son, Shelby M.C. Davis of Jackson,  Wyoming , the
founder of Davis Selected Advisors; eight grandchildren and 11
great-grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  