-- Kenya Refinery Explores $1 Billion Funding Options for Upgrade
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-04-23T04:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/kenya-refinery-explores-1-billion-funding-options-for-upgrade.html
Kenya  Petroleum Refineries Ltd. is
weighing its financing options as it seeks to raise $1 billion
of debt and equity for a planned upgrade of its facility built
half a century ago.  Standard Chartered Plc, which is helping raise the funds,
will hold consultations this week on possible financial
arrangements and a decision should be taken by the end of May,
Oscar Ngaiza, KPRL’s manager of large projects, said.  “By the end of next month we should know how much we want
to raise as debt and how,” Ngaiza said in an interview on April
19 in Kenya’s capital, Nairobi.  Renovations at the Mombasa-based refinery will increase
processing output to 4 million metric tons by 2019 from 1.6
million tons now and improve efficiency, leading to lower prices
for its refined petroleum products, Ngaiza said. The work was
originally slated for completion in 2015-2016.  Kenya may become an oil producer after  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and
 Africa Oil Corp. (AOI)  last year discovered the country’s first crude
deposit, which is still being tested for commercial viability.
All of the country’s fuel consumption is currently met through
imports.  KPRL, the East African nation’s sole oil processor, began
operating under the so-called merchant refinery model last year,
in which it sources its own crude, rather than buying from oil-
marketing companies. Refining the crude at KPRL costs 6 percent
more than purchasing imports, Ngaiza said, citing outdated
technology at the plant and other inefficiencies.  KPRL is jointly owned by  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  of  India  and the
Kenyan government. The country has plans to build a second
refinery at the planned port of Lamu connected by a 2,000-
kilometer (1,243-mile) pipeline to oil-rich, neighboring  South
Sudan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  