-- Kerry Tells NATO It Must Plan for Syrian Violence Spillover
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-04-23T19:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/kerry-tells-nato-to-plan-for-possible-syrian-violence-spillover.html
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
called on NATO to plan for the possibility that Syrian violence
might affect an alliance member and decide how to respond if
 Syria  uses its stock of chemical weapons.  “We need to continue to consider NATO’s role as it relates
to the Syrian crisis,” Kerry told the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s council today in Brussels.  Describing “planning regarding Syria” as “an appropriate
undertaking for the alliance,” Kerry said member countries
“should also carefully and collectively consider how NATO is
prepared to respond to protect its members from a Syrian threat,
including any potential chemical-weapons threat.”  The prospect of any NATO intervention or involvement could
create tension with Russia, which is opposed to a repeat of
NATO’s creation of a no-fly zone in Libya, a step that led to
the fall of Muammar Qaddafi. In addition to its opposition to
externally imposed regime change,  Russia ’s last Middle East
naval outpost is in the Syrian port of Tartus. It has defended
Syria against United Nations censure and continues to arm the
government of President Bashar al-Assad.  The issue of NATO’s role is sensitive enough that, soon
after Kerry told NATO partners that “planning” is
“appropriate,” a State Department official sought to narrow
the scope of Kerry’s remarks.  ‘An Extrapolation’  The official avoided all mention of planning, telling
reporters that Kerry doesn’t think there is a role for NATO in
Syria at this time. Kerry was referring to the importance of
taking firm and unanimous action to ensure defense of allies
such as Turkey, said the official, who asked not to be named
discussing the issue.  Kerry, when asked to clarify the comment, said, “It’s sort
of an extrapolation to suggest that I’m suggesting planning.”  Kerry said he “didn’t ask for additional planning. I think
it might have been secretary general or somebody who commented
that we may need to do some additional planning. But there’s no
specific request.”  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said that the
28-member organization isn’t discussing any active role in the
conflict, which began in March 2011. He emphasized the way that
the Syrian conflict could affect members’ security. NATO member
 Turkey  shares a border with Syria and the alliance has deployed
Patriot missiles near the Syrian border to protect it from
possible air strikes.  NATO Role  “There is no call for NATO to play a role,” Rasmussen
said at a press conference. “But if these challenges remain
unaddressed they could directly affect our own security so we
will continue to remain extremely vigilant.”  “We can all see that the situation in Syria is getting
worse,” Rasmussen said. “We cannot ignore the risks of a
regional spill-over, with possible implications for allied
security.”  The uprising against Assad, which began in March 2011, has
killed “well over” 70,000 people and displaced millions,
according to a UN estimate last month.  Kerry and the 27 other NATO foreign ministers also
discussed the alliance’s post-combat mission in  Afghanistan ,
talks with Russia on missile defense, and the unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa, beyond Syria’s borders.  Foster Stability  Kerry urged members to consider ways to foster stability
and democratic development in the region.  “The greatest threats we face today may not be right at
our borders or even in the neighborhood,” Kerry said.
“Violence and instability in any region may have negative
implications for our collective security. Nowhere is that
clearer than in the Middle East and North Africa.”  North Korea was also on the agenda because of the threat it
poses to the U.S., according to a State Department official who
wasn’t authorized to comment by name. The ministers condemned
North Korea’s development of ballistic missile and nuclear
weapons programs, saying they “seriously undermine regional
stability” and “threaten international peace and security.”  The Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Organization said today
that a Japanese monitoring station made a “significant
detection” of gases emitted by North Korea’s Feb. 12 nuclear
test. “Two radioactive isotopes of the noble gas xenon were
identified, xenon-131m and xenon-133, which provide reliable
information on the nuclear nature of the source,” the
organization said on its website.  Russia, U.S.  The foreign ministers had a separate meeting with Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov to discuss joint projects,
including the training of Afghan helicopter maintenance crews.
At the start of that meeting, Lavrov pulled Kerry aside briefly
and handed him an envelope of photos from their last meeting,
earlier this month in  London .  Russia and the U.S. pledged to intensify their engagement
on a range of issues when National Security Adviser Tom Donilon
visited Moscow last week, according to the State Department
official.  The two countries have missile defense and non-
proliferation issues to resolve. They work together on the
challenges posed by Iranian and North Korean nuclear programs.
And the U.S. sees Russia as key to a political solution to the
civil war that has raged in Syria for more than two years.  The full slate of issues is driving Kerry and Lavrov to
develop a closer working relationship. They have met twice this
month. They conferred in Berlin in February and plan to see each
other again in June, before a Group of Eight meeting in the U.K.  Meets Lavrov  Kerry held a 20-minute bilateral meeting with Lavrov,
before the two dismissed their staff and spoke privately for
another 20 minutes. During the group meeting, they discussed
economic cooperation, coordination on nuclear proliferation and
on the Arctic.  During their meeting, the two foreign ministers focused on
Syria and finding a political solution to the violence based on
the Geneva framework, a structure for Syrian political
transition that both their countries back, according to a State
Department official.  Kerry thanked Lavrov for Russian President Vladimir Putin’s
expression of support for the families of the victims of the
Boston attack. That bombing, Lavrov later said in public
remarks, was evidence that it was too early to say terrorism had
been beaten.  Kerry also signed a joint action plan on combating illicit
trafficking of nuclear and radioactive materials and related
technologies with the Lithuanian foreign minister. The agreement
expresses the intent to work together to enhance to prevent,
detect and respond to nuclear smuggling.  “This will keep nuclear materials out of the hands of
terrorists, out of bad actors, it’s a very important step,”
Kerry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Brussels at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  