-- Keystone Foes Say 1 Million Comments Show Grassroots Power
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-04-23T15:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/keystone-xl-foes-say-1-million-comments-show-power-of-grassroots.html
Keystone XL critics said they
amassed more than 1 million comments against the pipeline to
carry oil from Canada, showing what they called grassroots
opposition to the $5.3 billion project.  Keystone will “contribute dramatically” to global warming
and pose an “unacceptable risk to water,” according to a
letter posted on the website of environmental group 350.org that
visitors could electronically sign and submit to the State
Department, which is reviewing the comments.  The department collected comments through yesterday on its
draft environmental analysis that is seen favoring project
supporters. Keystone foes said the level of opposition should
give President  Barack Obama  cover to reject  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
pipeline, which is backed by  oil companies  and labor groups as a
source of jobs and greater U.S. energy security.  “The president said that he needed a movement to compel
him to act,” Daniel Kessler, a spokesman for 350.org, said in
an e-mail. “People are more fired up about this issue than any
other enviro issue in a generation.”  The  Sierra Club , Friends of the Earth,  League of
Conservation Voters ,  Natural Resources Defense Council  and other
environmental groups also encouraged their members to submit
comments opposing Keystone. The State Department plans to post
all comments, although none were on its website yesterday.  Social Media  Social media tools make it easier to rally on a particular
issue, and therefore the effect of mass mailings is diminished,
said  Julian Zelizer , a history and public affairs professor at
 Princeton University  in New Jersey.  “That said, it still gives some measure of sentiment
outside the Beltway and can at least cause legislators to think
twice before casting a vote,” Zelizer said in an e-mail.  An administration rejection of Keystone would probably be
challenged by Republicans in Congress who support the pipeline.
Last month, 17 Democrats joined every Senate Republican in
voting for a non-binding resolution endorsing Keystone XL. The
House Energy and Commerce Committee last week voted 30-18 to
approve and send to the full House a bill that would allow the
pipeline to be built without the administration’s approval.  While the State Department’s March draft environmental
impact statement makes no recommendation about building
Keystone, it found that the pipeline from  Alberta  to the U.S.
Gulf Coast presented no significant environmental risks.  EPA Criticism  Its effect on  climate change , for example, would be minimal
because Alberta’s oil sands would be developed anyway.  Tar sands 
mining and processing releases more  greenhouse gases  than
drilling and refining conventional oils.  Environmentalists dispute the State Department assessment
on the climate-change impact. Their position appeared to receive
a boost in comments the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
submitted yesterday to the draft analysis.  The State Department needs to conduct a more complete
economic review to show that railroads and other transport
options existed to carry Alberta oil sands to refineries if
Keystone was rejected, the EPA said. It also said the State
Department’s final environmental analysis should “more clearly
acknowledge” that cleaning up oil sands crude is more difficult
than conventional oil.  Oil Groups  Polls by an analyst at the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, a research group based in Washington, found
that 74 percent of Americans support approving the project,
compared with 68 percent of Canadians in a separate survey. Most
Americans said they care more about North  American energy 
independence than reducing greenhouse gases contributing to
climate change.  “It is in the best interests of all Americans to build the
pipeline to ensure our long-term energy security, a dependable
supply of Canadian oil to state of the art U.S. refineries and
the creation of thousands of American jobs,” the  American
Petroleum Institute , the Association of Oil Pipe Lines and 13
other groups said in comments to the State Department.  API also led a mass mailing effort through the website
energycitizens.org that encouraged visitors to sign electronic
letters encouraging Secretary of State  John Kerry  to approve the
pipeline.  “Every day we continue to delay this important piece of
U.S. energy infrastructure inhibits our economic growth and
weakens American security,” the letter states.  Eight Agencies  Sabrina Fang, a spokeswoman for the Washington-based oil
group, whose members include  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , said the campaign generated about 230,000 comments to the
State Department.  State Department officials will review the comments
submitted since the draft analysis was issued March 1. Eight
agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and the
Energy Department, will advise the State Department as it weighs
whether Keystone is in U.S. interests.  The State Department has said it will also accept
additional public comment during the next phase of the review
before issuing a national interest determination.  Besides environmental risks, the review includes an
evaluation of what Keystone means for U.S.  energy security , the
economy and foreign policy.  Since TransCanada applied to build the pipeline across the
U.S.-Canadian border four years ago, the project has galvanized
groups including 350.org and the Sierra Club in  San Francisco 
that view Obama’s decision as a sign of his sincerity in meeting
a second-term pledge to tackle climate-change risks.  ‘Glaring Error’  The “most glaring error” in the State Department analysis
is its “assertion that the tar sands will be developed at the
same rate regardless of whether Keystone XL is built,” the
Sierra Club, National Wildlife Federation, and 14 other groups
critical of Keystone wrote.  The State Department is reviewing the project because it
crosses an international border. Paul Bledsoe, a former White
House aide to President  Bill Clinton , said on issues like
Keystone that become high-profile ultimately the decision rests
with Obama.  “While various departments and agencies have technical
authority over different regulatory matters, the political
reality is on major issues the White House has the final say,”
Bledsoe, who is now a senior fellow on energy at the  German
Marshall Fund , said in an e-mail. “In the White House-centric
modern executive branch, everyone knows where the buck stops.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  