-- Korea Won Steady as Yen Gains Curb Intervention Bets; Bonds Fall
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-04-23T01:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/korea-won-steady-as-yen-gains-curb-intervention-bets-bonds-fall.html
The won was little changed, after
sliding as much as 0.7 percent yesterday, as overnight gains in
the yen curbed speculation South  Korea  will intervene to weaken
its currency and protect exports.  Government bonds  declined.  The yen strengthened for the first time in a week yesterday
after traders failed to push the currency through 100 per
dollar, a level it last declined to in 2009. Japanese policies
that have weakened the yen by 13 percent against the dollar this
year are helping  Japan ’s electronics manufacturers and carmakers
gain an edge over Korean rivals such as Samsung Electronics Co.
and Hyundai Motor Co. in global markets.  “Investors are closely tracking the yen movement and
taking a breather from yesterday’s decline in the won and the
yen,” said Lee Dae Ho, a currency analyst at Hyundai Futures
Corp. in  Seoul . “Still, there is a prevailing expectation the
yen will weaken to beyond the 100 per dollar level and that’s
keeping the won from rising further.”  The won traded at 1,118.89 per dollar as of 10:20 a.m. in
Seoul, from 1,119.05 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency earlier declined as much as 0.2 percent.
Overseas investors cut their holdings of Korean shares today,
adding to net sales of $2.35 billion this month through
yesterday, exchange data show.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.40 percent.  Yen Impact  South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said earlier
this week there is a “lot of impact from the falling yen” and
urged advanced nations to prepare for an orderly exit from
monetary easing and low interest-rate programs. The won fell 4.8
percent versus the dollar this year and gained 9.7 percent
against the yen.  Bonds dropped today, after  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim
Choong Soo said yesterday at a parliament session that he’s
cautious about further interest-rate cuts after two reductions
last year. The Bank of Korea left its benchmark rate at 2.75
percent for a sixth month on April 11, resisting pressure from
the government to lower borrowing costs.  The yield on  South Korea ’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due March 2018 rose one basis point to 2.69 percent, according
to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  