-- KPN Cancels Dividend as 3 Billion-Euro Stock Sale Planned
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-04-23T09:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/kpn-cancels-dividend-ahead-of-3-billion-euro-share-sale.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone
operator partly owned by  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL) ,
canceled its dividend for 2013 and 2014 as the company prepares
for a share sale.  The decision stems from plans to sell stock to existing
investors and “it would be weird to firstly raise capital from
our shareholders, and after that return a part of that money to
them,” Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok said on a conference
call. KPN will save as much as 45 million euros ($58.4 million)
annually this year and next by dropping the payout, Chief
Financial Officer Eric Hageman said.  Blok won shareholders’ backing earlier this month for the 3
billion-euro stock sale as part of an effort to invest in
operations and reduce debt. Today’s move cancels KPN’s plan
announced in December to offer a dividend of 3 euro cents a
share for 2013 and 2014, a cut of 91 percent from earlier
projections, after KPN bought mobile-phone frequencies.  “Scrapping the dividend is bad news for shareholders, and
on the other hand the company is doing what they need to do,”
said Jos Versteeg, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Theodoor
Gilissen Bankiers. “They need to invest in the business to
survive in the longer term.”  Stock Rises  KPN  fell  as much as 3.7 percent to 2.61 euros, the lowest
intraday price since April 9, and was trading down 0.7 percent
at 11:44 a.m. in Amsterdam. The stock has fallen 27 percent this
year, the  worst performance  by a telecommunications company in
the Stoxx 600 index, valuing the phone operator at about 3.86
billion euros.  The carrier is seeking to strengthen its balance sheet
after spending 1.35 billion euros on wireless spectrum in the
fourth quarter to serve consumers seeking faster mobile networks
amid growing use of smartphones for surfing the Web, downloading
music and watching videos. KPN faces a new challenge from
 Sweden ’s  Tele2 AB (TEL2B) , which bought frequencies to enter the Dutch
market.  KPN spent 979 million euros paying dividends in 2012, an 18
percent drop from the 1.2 billion-euro cost of the payouts a
year earlier, according to its annual report. The company
scrapped a planned second-half 2012 dividend of 12 cents a share
in December when it rearranged the payment strategy. It was
originally planning a  payout  of 35 cents a share for 2012 and at
least that amount for 2013.  ‘Clumsy’ Announcement  “Apparently the company underestimated the  dilution  of the
share sale,” said Jasper Jansen, an economist at investor lobby
group VEB, which represents holders of about 1 million KPN
shares. “It’s a bit clumsy, announcing that they’re skipping
the dividend two weeks after the annual shareholders meeting.”  The rights offer follows hybrid-bond  sales  in March that
included $2 billion of debt denominated in euros and pounds and
$600 million denominated in dollars.  To stay ahead of the competition, KPN began the rollout of
high-speed 4G technology in the first quarter in the Netherlands
and is targeting coverage of about 65 percent of the country by
the end of this year.  First-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization before restructuring costs fell 12 percent to
1.01 billion euros, KPN said today. That beat the 997 million-
euro average of 11 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue and other income declined 4.3 percent to 2.91
billion euros on an underlying basis, as sales in  Germany  and
the consumer mobile business were under pressure because of
competition in wireless operations and the continued decline of
traditional phone services, KPN said.  In the Netherlands, underlying sales dropped 6.1 percent,
while mobile revenue abroad on that basis declined 2.2 percent
in the first quarter. KPN reiterated that it expects business in
the Netherlands to stabilize “toward 2014.” A strategy in
Germany to focus on postpaid subscriptions and higher commercial
investments will lead to service revenue growth combined with a
lower Ebitda margin this year, KPN said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  