-- N.Z.’s Reserve Bank Leaves Key Interest Rate at 2.5% (Full Text)
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-23T21:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/n-z-s-reserve-bank-leaves-key-interest-rate-at-2-5-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement released on the website of the  Reserve
Bank  of  New Zealand , which today left its official cash rate at
a record-low 2.5 percent.  “The Reserve Bank today left the Official Cash Rate (OCR)
unchanged at 2.5 percent.  Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said: “The outlook for
monetary policy remains consistent with that described in the
March Monetary Policy Statement.  “Despite continued strains in  Europe  and disappointing data in
some countries most recently, global financial  market sentiment 
remains buoyant and the medium-term outlook for New Zealand’s
overall trading partner GDP growth remains firm.  “Growth in the New Zealand economy has picked up.  Consumer
spending  has increased and rebuild activity in Canterbury is
gaining momentum.  House price inflation is high in some regions,
despite prices already being elevated. The Bank does not want to
see financial or price stability compromised by housing demand
getting too far ahead of supply.  “Fiscal consolidation is constraining aggregate demand.  In
addition, drought has lowered agricultural production and will
likely also negatively affect farm output in the coming season.
International dairy prices have spiked higher in response to the
drought, but these price gains could prove temporary.  “The  New Zealand dollar  remains overvalued and is higher than
projected in March. Further appreciation has occurred partly in
response to the announcement of a substantial quantitative
easing programme in Japan.  The high New Zealand dollar
continues to be a significant headwind for the tradables
sector, restricting export earnings and encouraging demand for
imports.  “The CPI increased 0.9 percent in the year to the March quarter
and is expected to remain close to the bottom of the target
range this year. Weak near-term inflation prospects need to be
balanced against our projection for inflation to gradually rise
towards the 2 percent target midpoint.  “At this point, we expect to keep the OCR unchanged through the
end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  