-- Napolitano Set to Decide on Mandate for Italian Premiership
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-24T09:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/napolitano-set-to-decide-on-mandate-for-italian-premiership.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano is poised to announce his selection for prime
minister after completing a round of talks with parliamentary
leaders.  “We will adhere to the choices made by the president,”
Enrico Letta, a representative of Italy’s Democratic Party, said
late yesterday after meeting Napolitano at the presidential
palace in  Rome . An announcement is due as soon as today, the
president’s office said.  Napolitano asked Letta, 46, for a meeting at the
presidential palace in Rome today at 12:30 p.m., signaling he
may have emerged as the top choice for prime minister. Former
Prime Minister Giuliano Amato, 74, remained a candidate, la
Repubblica reported today on its  website  and the possible
candidacy of Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi, 38, was rejected by
ex-Premier Silvio Berlusconi, leader of the second-biggest party
in parliament, newspaper Corriere della Sera reported.  Napolitano’s pick will have to unite the disparate forces
in Italy’s divided parliament to give the country a government
after an eight-week deadlock. This will be Napolitano’s second
attempt at resolving the impasse after his first choice, ex-
Democratic Party head Pier Luigi Bersani, failed last month to
win support from a majority of lawmakers.  Coalition Possible  Parliament needs a deal to replace caretaker Prime Minister
Mario Monti and provide  Italy  with a government capable of
passing economic stimulus and defending the country from bond-
market speculation. A governing alliance may be easier to pull
together since Bersani last week relinquished leadership of the
Democratic Party, the biggest group in parliament.  The yield on Italian 10-year government bonds fell 2 basis
points to 3.93 percent, the lowest in more than two years, while
the two-year bond was at 1.17, hovering near a record low.  The Democratic Party, or PD, and Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty demonstrated a willingness to work together after
Bersani’s departure. The two parties united on April 20 in a
parliamentary vote that gave Napolitano a second seven-year term
as head of state. Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the third-
biggest group in parliament, has reiterated its refusal to enter
into an alliance.  Letta, a former industry and European affairs minister,
worked under Bersani as the PD’s deputy secretary beginning in
2009. He is the nephew of Gianni Letta, an adviser to Berlusconi
who served as deputy prime minister in the billionaire’s last
government. Amato, a Deutsche Bank AG adviser, was premier in
1992-1993 and 2000-2001 and has had stints at the head of the
Interior and Treasury Ministries.  ‘Strong Government’  Berlusconi, 76, pushed for an alliance after his meeting
with Napolitano yesterday, telling reporters at the presidential
palace that his party wanted “a strong government that can take
important decisions and that won’t be short-term.”  Napolitano, 87, needs an agreement or he may be forced to
break the stalemate by dissolving parliament and calling snap
elections. Even if Napolitano strikes a deal to create a
government spanning the PD and PDL, the next prime minister may
struggle to keep the coalition together over time.  “The president may hope for a government to last one to
two years,” Peter Ceretti, an analyst with Eurasia Group in New
York, said yesterday in a report. “A more realistic shelf-life
for such an arrangement would more likely be five to 13
months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  