-- NATO Condemns North Korea as Nuclear Evidence Emerges
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-04-23T13:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/nato-condemns-north-korea-as-nuclear-evidence-emerges.html
North Korea ’s continued pursuit of
ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons threatens international
security and “seriously undermine regional stability,” the 28
foreign ministers of the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  said
in a statement today.  North Korea is on the agenda at the meeting in Brussels
because of the direct threat it poses to the U.S., a State
Department official said. The Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty
Organization said today that a Japanese monitoring station had
made a “significant detection” of gases probably emitted by a
North Korean nuclear test on Feb. 12.  “Two radioactive isotopes of the noble gas xenon were
identified, xenon-131m and xenon-133, which provide reliable
information on the nuclear nature of the source,” the CBTO said
on its website. The NATO foreign ministers urged North Korean
leaders to abide by its UN Security Council obligations, abandon
its ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programs and begin
denuclearization.  The ministers will also discuss the situation in  Syria , the
wider Middle East and North Africa regions, as well as relations
with  Russia .  Today in  Seoul , the won fell for second day, dropping 0.2
percent to 1,120.93 per dollar at the local market close. South
Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said North Korea
is ready to conduct another nuclear test “at any moment,” and
has been ready since February.  Meanwhile, North Korea vowed to speed up its nuclear
program after a U.S. State Department report found the country
guilty of “egregious and pervasive” human rights abuses,
including arbitrary detention, arrests of political prisoners,
torture and extrajudicial killings.  The nation will continue to strengthen its nuclear weapons
program against “hostile” U.S. actions, such as the State
Department report, an unidentified spokesperson for the
country’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement carried by the
official Korean Central News Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  