-- New Zealand Stocks Supported by Profit Outlook, AMP Capital Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-23T02:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/new-zealand-stocks-supported-by-profit-outlook-amp-capital-says.html
New Zealand ’s stock market will be
supported by growing earnings as the economy recovers and more
mergers and acquisitions boosts prices, according to the
country’s biggest non-government fund manager.  Company revenue is likely to rise 3 percent this year from
2012 and earnings per share by at least 6 percent, Guy Elliffe,
head of New Zealand equities at AMP Capital Investors, told
reporters in Wellington today. AMP Capital manages about NZ$1
billion ($840 million) in stocks.  “We’re in an environment where we’ve got increasing
earnings,” he said. “Earnings expectations are realistic.
Companies will mostly meet the forecasts that investors and
analysts expect.”  AMP Capital forecasts the New Zealand economy will grow 2.8
percent this year and the central bank will leave its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record-low 2.5 percent until late 2013. Low
borrowing costs, economic growth and investor confidence will
support mergers and acquisitions, Elliffe said.  “Because investors are getting confident, corporate buyers
and sellers are more confident, too, so they are likely to make
acquisitions,” he said.  The benchmark  NZX-50 (NZSE50FG)  index has gained 11 percent this year,
matching the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  and outpacing the 7.6
percent gain in neighboring Australian stocks.  More Stocks  An increased supply of stocks into the market may have an
offsetting effect, Elliffe said. Investors have had to absorb
large issues such as News Corp.’s sale of 44 percent of Sky
Network Television Ltd. last month, and the government is
seeking at least NZ$1.6 billion from the sale of as much as 49
percent of Mighty River Power Ltd.  “The total amount of capital raisings is at a level the
New Zealand market hasn’t had to absorb before, so there’s
definitely a digestion issue,” Elliffe said. Still, investors
will be looking for higher yield offering by stocks as compared
to the low interest rates available, he said.  Elliffe declined to comment on the merits of the Mighty
River share offer. His team is putting a lot of effort into
analyzing the risk of regulatory and structural change to the
industry after opposition political parties proposed a radical
change if they win the 2014 general election, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  