-- NHL’s Jets Pull Within One Point of Rangers in Playoff Race
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-23T05:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/nhl-s-jets-win-pull-within-one-point-of-rangers-in-playoff-race.html
The Winnipeg Jets pulled within one
point of the New York Rangers and Ottawa Senators for the final
two playoff spots in the National Hockey League’s Eastern
Conference by defeating the Buffalo Sabres 2-1.  Antti Miettinen’s goal midway through the third period
snapped a 1-1 tie in Buffalo, New York, and helped the surging
Jets improve to 6-0-1 in their past seven games.  Winnipeg (24-19-3) has 51 points with two regular-season
games left, while the Rangers (24-17-4) and Senators (23-16-6)
have 52 points apiece with three games remaining and currently
hold the seventh and eighth playoff spots in the East.  The Senators lost 3-1 yesterday to the Pittsburgh Penguins,
who already have locked up the top playoff seed in the Eastern
Conference.  The Jets, with yesterday’s win, also pulled within one
point of the Southeast division-leading  Washington  Capitals.
Winnipeg visits Washington today in a game that could help
decide the division winner, which automatically earns a berth in
the Stanley Cup playoffs. The Jets have missed the postseason
the past six years.  The Detroit Red Wings pulled within one point of the
Minnesota Wild and Columbus Blue Jackets for the final two
playoff spots in the Western Conference with last night’s 4-0
shutout of the Phoenix Coyotes. Johan Franzen scored two goals
for the Red Wings (21-16-8), who are seeking to make the
postseason for the 22nd straight year.  The Anaheim Ducks won the Pacific Division title for the
first time in six years with a 3-0 win at the Edmonton Oilers.
Rookie goaltender Viktor Fasth made 24 saves for his fourth
shutout for the Ducks, who captured their last division title in
2006-07, when they also won their only NHL title.  The Vancouver Canucks secured the Northwest Division title
for the fifth straight year by beating the  Chicago  Blackhawks
3-1. The Canucks are locked into the third seed in the Western
Conference playoffs, while the Blackhawks have clinched the top
seed. With 73 points, Chicago is three ahead of the Penguins for
the NHL’s best record. Both teams have three regular-season
games remaining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  