-- Nigeria to Probe Military Actions in Clash With Islamists
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2013-04-23T16:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/nigeria-to-investigate-military-actions-in-clash-with-islamists.html
Nigerian authorities said they will
investigate whether the military complied with the rules of
engagement in a clash with Islamist militants that a local
official said left 185 people dead, mostly civilians.  Preliminary briefings given to President Goodluck Jonathan
“indicate that the casualty figures being reported by the
foreign media may be grossly exaggerated,” presidential
spokesman Reuben Abati said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
The military said today that only six civilians were killed in
the fighting.  International rights groups such as  Human Rights Watch  and
 Amnesty International  have criticized the Nigerian security
forces for using excessive force as they battle the Islamist
group, Boko Haram. The militants have carried out gun and bomb
attacks in the north of  Africa ’s top oil producer that have
killed hundreds of people since 2009.  The fighting in the northeastern town of Baga in which one
soldier died started on April 19 after a military patrol was
attacked near a mosque where Boko Haram fighters hid weapons in
the past, Brigadier General Austin Edokpaye said on a visit to
the area on April 21. Militants “came out with heavy
firepower” including rocket-propelled grenades, he told Borno
state Governor Kashim Shettima.  Baga residents buried at least 185 bodies, while more
people sustained injuries and were in the hospital, Lawan Kole,
a local government official in the Kukawa council area, said the
same day.  Bullet Wounds  Edokpaye said today that as well as the six civilians who
lost their lives, 30 Boko Haram fighters and one soldier were
killed in the fighting. Five soldiers and 10 civilians were
injured, while five Boko Haram members were arrested and many
others escaped with bullet wounds, he said in a statement handed
to reporters today in Maiduguri, Borno state capital.  “Contrary to media speculation that hundreds of houses
were burnt, instead it was the explosion from Boko Haram
terrorist rocket propelled grenade bombs, anti-aircraft guns and
sophisticated improvised explosive device materials that
triggered fire to about 30 thatched houses in the predominantly
fishing community,” said Edokpaye.  Senator Maina Ma’aji Lawan, who represents Borno North, put
the death toll between 180 and 200. Speaking before the Senate
today, he said violence will only end when the root causes of
the insurgency are addressed.  Dead Buried  The National Emergency Management Agency couldn’t confirm
the number of people killed in the clash because many of them
were already buried in compliance with Muslim teachings, Ibrahim
Farinloye, a spokesman for the agency, said today by phone from
Lagos. More than 2,000 houses were burned down, he said.  Edokpaye denied the military was to blame for the deaths,
saying that Boko Haram members used civilians as human shields.
He rejected allegations by residents that the shootout was
unprovoked.  The senate passed a resolution today for the committees on
defense, police and national security and intelligence to
investigate the issue and report back to the senate in two
weeks.  The U.S. believes  Nigeria  needs to address “legitimate
northern grievances” in the fight against Boko Haram, State
Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell told reporters yesterday
in  Washington , according to an e-mailed transcript.  ‘Legitimate Needs’  “The response should be to address some of those
legitimate needs and concerns of the people in the north so that
that’s not being exploited by this group, who clearly has
perpetrated some very awful violence,” he said.  The country’s two biggest opposition parties also condemned
the incident.  This type of excessive use of force “falls far short from
internationally accepted rules of engagement for internal peace
enforcement,” the Congress for Progressive Change, headed by
former military ruler  Muhammadu Buhari , who won a majority of
votes in the north in the 2011 elections, said today in an e-
mailed statement, calling the incident a “massacre.”  The Action Congress of Nigeria, which controls six states
in the southwest, including Lagos, the commercial capital, said
the military must adhere to rules of engagement in its
operations.  “No matter what defense the military may put forward, the
mass deaths and destruction in Baga during the Joint Task Force-
insurgents’ clash portray the Nigerian military as having little
or no respect for human rights and the sanctity of lives,” the
ACN said in a statement. “This is not a flattering portrayal
for a military that has made its mark in global peacekeeping.”  Jonathan said April 17 that he set up a committee that will
draft a plan to grant amnesty to Boko Haram and disarm the group
in a 60-day period. The announcement came less than a week after
Boko Haram’s leader, Abubakar Shekau, said the group won’t
accept a government amnesty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  