-- Nokia Is Said to Strike Deal With Verizon for New Smartphone
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-04-23T11:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/nokia-is-said-to-strike-deal-with-verizon-for-new-smartphone-1-.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone
maker trying to win back users from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung
Electronics Co., struck a deal to get  Verizon Wireless (VZ)  to sell
its new smartphone, said two people familiar with the plan.  The largest U.S. wireless carrier is set to unveil a plan
next month to offer Nokia’s Lumia 928, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the deal hasn’t been made
public. The phone has a metal body, 4.5-inch touch screen, 8-
megapixel camera and wireless charging, said one of the people.
It runs on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows software like other Lumias.  The device marks the first time a high-end Lumia will be
sold by Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based  Verizon Wireless , which
has about 100 million customers. Nokia, based in Espoo, Finland,
has struggled to turn around its plunging smartphone market
share in the U.S. since it peaked in 2001.  Nokia  shares  gained as much as 2 percent, erasing earlier
losses, and were little changed at 2.39 euros at 2:08 p.m. in
Helsinki. They have tumbled 19 percent this year, headed for the
sixth straight annual drop.  James Etheridge, a Nokia spokesman, and  Brenda Raney , a
Verizon Wireless spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Microsoft Bet  Phone shipments to North America fell 33 percent to 400,000
devices in the first quarter, Nokia said April 18.  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
the No. 2 U.S. wireless carrier, added Nokia’s flagship  Lumia
920  to its portfolio last year and sells it for $99.99 with a 2-
year plan, and Verizon Wireless currently offers the Lumia 822.  Lumia sales globally rose to 5.6 million units from 4.4
million in the fourth quarter as Nokia added versions, and the
company predicted at least 7.11 million Lumias sold this quarter
as more models roll out around the world.  Still, Apple and Samsung dominate the global market with
combined smartphone sales topping 100 million a quarter. Apple’s
iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system, led by Samsung models, account for more than 90 percent
of the market. Nokia’s stock has declined about 90 percent since
the iPhone and Android were unveiled in 2007.  Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, who joined from
Microsoft in 2010, is into the third year of a bet that his
former employer’s software will help revive Nokia’s sales. He
abandoned Nokia’s homegrown software after it fell out of favor
among consumers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  