-- Norway Bond Trustee Creates Pricing Service to Foster Growth
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-04-23T10:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/norway-bond-trustee-creates-pricing-service-to-foster-growth.html
Norway ’s Fund and Asset Management
Association and the country’s main trustee are setting up a
pricing service for bonds to foster transparency and growth in
the Nordic region’s largest junk bond market.  The group and the Norwegian Trustee, which acts as an agent
for investors, have established a company called Nordic Bond
Pricing that will publish independent prices on bonds, the Oslo-
based group said in a statement.  “The establishment of Nordic Bond Pricing will make life
easier for our members and help all investors,” Lasse Ruud,
chief executive officer at the group, said in the statement.  Norwegian corporate bond issuance has surged over the past
years in part as investors seek higher returns and as companies
seek to fund record investments offshore Norway. Western
 Europe ’s largest oil producer has emerged as a haven from
Europe’s debt crisis.  The group said that among the members that will promote the
bond pricing service are Government Pension Fund Norway and
other pension funds. At first the pricing will be done on a
weekly basis, with a goal of expanding it to a daily service. It
will only provide closing prices.  Corporate issuance jumped last year to a record 96 billion
kroner ($16 billion), surpassing the previous record year of
2007 when companies sold bonds for 83 billion kroner, according
to  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)  Sales of investment-grade debt surged to 44
billion kroner in 2012, up from 15 billion kroner the previous
year, while high-yield bond sales climbed to 52.1 billion kroner
from 31 billion kroner, the bank’s data show.  Bond Indexes  The pricing service comes after Nordea and  DNB ASA (DNB) ,
Norway’s biggest bank, also this year started new daily
Norwegian bond return indexes to also foster transparency.  Nordea’s Norwegian aggregate bond index has returned 1.39
percent this year, as of yesterday, while DNB’s High Yield Total
Return Index is up 3.95 percent.  There were 105 corporate bond issuers in the Norwegian
market last year, second only to 2007 when there were 114, 39 of
which were new to the market, according to Nordea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  