-- NYC Livery Car Groups Lose Smartphone-Hail Program Bid
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/nyc-livery-car-groups-lose-challenge-to-smartphone-hail-program.html
New York  livery car groups lost
their lawsuit seeking to stop a pilot program that would enable
people to hail and pay for a ride in one of the city’s 13,000
yellow taxis using location-based smartphone applications.  The measure adopted by the  New York City Taxi & Limousine
Commission  in December would run for 12 months and exempt areas
such as airports that have provisions for taxi lines. While all
licensed city cab drivers would be eligible, their participation
would be optional.  The Livery Roundtable, Black Car Assistance Corp. and
several car-service firms sued the TLC in February, claiming the
program violates city codes and may let drivers discriminate
against racial minorities based on their names or locations, as
well as the elderly, who are less likely to own smartphones.  “At least on its face, the program appears better aimed at
avoiding discriminatory passenger selection,”  Manhattan  state
court Justice Carol Huff said in a ruling yesterday that lifted
her March 7 order blocking the program and dismissed the case.  “The driver must accept an e-hail without knowing the
passenger’s identity or destination,” Huff said, adding later,
“there is no clear evidence that the program will have a
potential disparate impact on the elderly.”  Taxi Competition  Radio-dispatched livery cars compete with the city’s
medallioned taxis for fares, although they can’t be hailed on
the street. Lawyers for the city and state, joined by attorneys
for a group of livery organizations, are scheduled today to ask
the state’s highest court to overturn an August ruling by a
lower court that blocked a plan to allow street hailing of
livery vehicles outside the borough of Manhattan.  “The decision is so fundamentally wrong in so many
respects that we are contemplating an appeal,” Randy Mastro, an
attorney for the livery cab companies with Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP, said in an e-mail.  “We are very pleased,” New York City Corporation Counsel
Michael A. Cardozo said in an e-mailed statement. “The ruling
confirms our position that the pilot was completely proper. The
TLC must be able to pilot new technology like e-hail apps to
stay on the cutting edge of industry and to best serve the
public.”  South of Manhattan’s 59th Street, the program would be
restricted to pick-ups within a half-mile range, according to
yesterday’s decision. Elsewhere in the city, the range would
extend to 1 1/2 miles.  Smartphone application providers would be subject to New
York City Taxi and Limousine Commission approval, Huff said.  “The market will ultimately decide which apps rise or fall
and we have an obligation to give the riding public that
choice,” TLC Commissioner David Yassky said in by e-mail.  The case is Black Car Assistance Corp. v. The City of New
York, 100327-2013,  Supreme Court  for the State of New York,
County of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  