-- NYC Proposal to Raise Tobacco Purchase Age Misguided
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-04-23T16:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/nyc-proposal-to-raise-tobacco-purchase-age-misguided-gro.html
A  New York  City proposal to raise
the age to purchase tobacco products to 21 from 18 won’t stop
young people from smoking and will instead drive them to the
black market, a retail trade group said.  Many underage smokers now get their cigarettes from peers,
family members or the Internet, and lifting the purchase age
wouldn’t change that, said Jim Calvin, president of the New York
Association of  Convenience Stores  in  Albany .  “All that we would be doing by no longer allowing 18, 19,
20-year-olds to not buy cigarettes in our stores is encouraging
those smokers to go somewhere else,” said Calvin, whose group
has 1,600 members across the state.  City Council Speaker Christine Quinn’s proposal, announced
yesterday, would make New York the first major city to lift the
minimum age to purchase tobacco above 19. The council’s move
complements efforts by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  to lower smoking
rates. Last month, Bloomberg proposed requiring stores to hide
tobacco products from view.  “Too many adult smokers begin this deadly habit before age
21,” Quinn said in a statement. “By delaying our city’s
children and young adults access to lethal tobacco products,
we’re decreasing the likelihood they ever start smoking, and
thus, creating a healthier city.”  Changing Course  The mayor, who is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, has worked with the council
to raise tobacco taxes and ban smoking in restaurants and bars.
He previously opposed a higher purchase age. He reversed course
after reviewing data from the U.K. showing it can have an
impact, said Samantha Levine, a spokeswoman.  Twenty thousand public high-school students smoke in New
York, and the youth smoking rate has remained at 8.5 percent
since 2007, Quinn said. By one estimate, raising the threshold
to 21 could reduce smoking among 18-to-20-year-olds by as much
as 55 percent, said Quinn, a Democrat who is running for mayor.
Bloomberg is barred by law from seeking a fourth term.  A 2006 study by the Health Department found that 37 percent
of smokers purchases low-tax or untaxed cigarettes regularly
from Indian reservations, the Internet or out of state. Those
venues don’t enforce the city and state regulations about
purchase age and drain tax revenue from government, Calvin said.  Reynolds Responds  “The way to stop teen smoking is to stop teens who are
smoking, but the city council doesn’t seem interested in passing
a law that makes it illegal for minors to possess tobacco,” he
said in a phone interview.  Municipalities should do a better job of enforcing existing
tobacco regulations instead of adding new restrictions,  Reynolds
American Inc. (RAI)  Chief Executive Officer Daniel Delen told analysts
today on a conference call. The Winston-Salem, North Carolina-
based maker of Camel cigarettes is the second-largest seller of
tobacco in the U.S.  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , the largest U.S. tobacco seller, plans
to review the New York legislation and has no immediate comment,
said David Sutton, a spokesman for the Richmond, Virginia-based
maker of Marlboro. Newport cigarette maker  Lorillard Inc. (LO) 
declined to comment, said Robert Bannon, a spokesman for the
Greensboro, North Carolina-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  