-- Obama Ricin-Letter Charges Dropped for Mississippi Man
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r t y   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-04-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/obama-ricin-letter-charges-dropped-against-curtis-lawyer-says.html
The U.S. dropped criminal charges
against an Elvis impersonator in Mississippi accused of sending
a letter tainted with ricin, a deadly poison, to President
 Barack Obama  and U.S. Senator  Roger Wicker .  Paul Kevin Curtis, 45, was released from custody yesterday
and all charges against were dismissed, according to an order
signed by U.S. Magistrate Judge S. Allan Alexander in Oxford,
Mississippi.  “It just wasn’t him,” Christi McCoy, a lawyer for Curtis,
said at a press conference outside the courthouse. “They were
quick and faithful in discharging him.”  McCoy raised the possibility in court on April 22 that
Curtis was being framed for the mailings by a man from Tupelo,
Mississippi, who had been arrested on child molestation charges
and who had engaged in a long-running e-mail feud with Curtis.
McCoy said at yesterday’s press conference that she was told
that authorities are investigating the Tupelo man as a possible
suspect.  Curtis was arrested last week after envelopes allegedly
sent to Obama and Wicker, a  Mississippi  Republican, were
intercepted April 16 and found to contain “a suspicious
granular substance” that tested positive for ricin.  Home Search  Assistant U.S. Attorney Chad Lamar in Oxford said in an e-
mail that he couldn’t comment on the dropped charges and
referred an inquiry to a public information officer.  An FBI agent testified at the April 22 preliminary hearing
that searches failed to turn up any trace of ricin at Curtis’s
home, as well his vehicle and the homes of his ex-wife and
parents. A preliminary analysis of his personal computer also
found nothing related to ricin, agent Brandon Grant said.  The letters to Obama and Wicker were postmarked April 8 and
both read in part: “No one wanted to listen to me before. There
are still ‘Missing Pieces’ Maybe I have your attention now Even
if that means someone must die” and were signed “I am KC and I
approve this message,” according to the criminal complaint.  Ricin is made from castor beans, according to the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s harmful and
potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, according to the CDC  Curtis was charged with using the mail to convey threats to
people including Obama. Prosecutors had said he would face a
maximum of 15 years in prison if convicted.  ‘Eat Rice’  “I don’t even eat rice,” Curtis said at yesterday’s press
conference. “I have contempt for rice, anything that sounds
like rice, even mice.”  Dressed in his brother’s suit and wearing shoes he said
didn’t fit very well, Curtis said he loves his country and would
never do anything to threaten the president.  “I hope my incarceration days are over, I’m not a
criminal,” Curtis told reporters. “I don’t want to miss
anything else with my children. I don’t want to miss a play, a
band rehearsal.”  McCoy said the idea that her client was framed is “very
diabolical, very frightening.”  “I believe they found a link that will exonerate Kevin”
and show the true perpetrator, McCoy said of the dismissal
order, which says “the ongoing investigation has revealed new
information.”  ‘Missing Pieces’  Curtis said he intends to return to performing, aiding his
favorite charity –- the Save A Life Foundation –- and finding a
publisher for his book, “Missing Pieces,” a novel that he said
exposes a black-market in human body parts.  He said he’s probably finished with his Internet presence.  “I’m going to sell all my computers,” he said. “I’m
very, very nervous about Internet activity.”  McCoy suggested in Curtis’s court hearings that his very
public activism on the Internet may have led someone to
appropriate his writings into the ricin scheme.  In 2007, Curtis was reported by his wife to the Bonneville
Police Department, Grant and Victor Dickerson of the U.S. Secret
Service said in an affidavit supporting the criminal complaint.
They said she told them he was “extremely delusional, anti-
government, and felt the government was spying on him with
drones.”  ‘Missing Pieces’  Inquiries with Wicker’s staff turned up previous letters to
his Washington office with the sign-off “this is Kevin Curtis
and I approve this message,” according to the affidavit.  A third, similar letter with a suspicious substance was
sent on April 8 to a judge in Lee County, where Curtis lives,
the agents said.  All three letters were on yellow paper and bore  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , postmarks, the agents said. Letters sent from
northern Mississippi, usually bear a Memphis postmark, according
to the affidavit.  Ricin poisoning symptoms depend on the purity, route of
exposure and the dose. Initial symptoms from inhalation occur as
early as four to six hours after the exposure, and include
difficulty breathing and a cough, according to the CDC.  The symptoms can progress rapidly to fluid within the lungs
and eventually respiratory failure. Deaths from the poison
usually happen within 36 to 72 hours. While no antidote exists,
doctors can counteract the effects of the poisoning by helping
victims breathe or giving them fluids.  The case is U.S. v. Curtis, 13-mj-00019, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Mississippi (Oxford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net :
Marty Russell at the federal courthouse in Oxford, Mississippi,
at  marty.russell56@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  