-- Mobius Says Macau Casinos to Expand On Family Push
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-04-23T09:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/mobius-says-macau-casinos-to-expand-on-family-push.html
Casino companies in Macau, the
world’s biggest gambling hub, will gain from expanding family
entertainment as the city seeks to become China’s top leisure
spot, said Templeton Emerging Markets Group’s  Mark Mobius .  The growth outlook for the gaming industry is promising
while valuations are “undemanding,” said Mobius, the group’s
executive chairman, after a visit to the Chinese city. Templeton
will continue to hold and buy Macau gambling stocks, he said in
an e-mail response to questions, declining to give specific
recommendations.  Casino operators in the former Portuguese colony have been
adding shopping malls, spas and shows to woo middle-class
family-oriented visitors who provide wider margins. Casino
revenue in Macau, the only place in China where casino gambling
is legal, jumped 14 percent to $38 billion last year.  “We see continued growth in view of the gradual
transformation from an emphasis on only gaming to an emphasis on
general entertainment for the family,” Mobius said in the e-
mail. “Macau and its surrounding areas will become China’s
premier destination for leisure and entertainment.”  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282) , the Macau casino venture between
 MGM Resorts International (MGM)  and a daughter of gambling mogul
 Stanley Ho , jumped 3.9 percent to HK$17.78 at the close of  Hong
Kong trading.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  closed 2.2 percent
higher at HK$59.50. The benchmark Hang Seng Index dropped 1.1
percent.  Middle Class  More than 28 million  people  visited Macau last year, with
60 percent of them from China. More middle-class Chinese
tourists are expected to go to Macau, as China’s high-speed rail
linking major cities including Beijing and Wuhan makes it easier
for them to travel, said Karen Tang, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG.  An increase in hotel room supply and the expansion of
border facilities will also help drive growth, Mobius said.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Macau gaming operator controlled by
billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , added its fourth casino resort last
year. The company has 9,210 hotel rooms, accounting for about 40
percent of the city’s supply.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) ,
controlled by Hong Kong billionaire Lui Che Woo, has more than
2,700 rooms.  Expanding profit margins and expectations that gross gaming
revenue will continue to grow at least 10 percent annually are
among the factors helping to drive research interest from
Templeton Emerging Markets, Mobius said.  MGM China is the latest operator to join Sands China and
Galaxy in expanding into the Cotai strip, a slice of reclaimed
land used for new gambling resorts. The company broke ground in
February on its first Cotai resort, which will have 1,600 hotel
rooms, as many as 500 gaming tables, shopping and dining options
as well as entertainment shows.  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , Macau’s former casino monopoly, won a
land grant for a 70,000 square meter site in October to build
its first resort in Cotai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  