-- Billionaire Batista OGX Penniless by ’14 Fuels Cash Hunt
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-23T16:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/ogx-s-sub-60-cent-low-fuels-batista-cash-hunt-brazil-credit.html
The race is on for billionaire  Eike Batista  to find the money he needs for OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, the oil producer that’s on course to exhaust
its $1.65 billion cash hoard  by year-end .  OGX’s $2.56 billion of notes due 2018 rallied yesterday,
after reaching a record-low of 57.2 cents on the dollar on April
18, as Folha de S. Paulo newspaper reported Batista is in talks
to sell a 40 percent stake to OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s second-
largest producer. The bonds, the year’s worst-performing
emerging-market securities with more than $500 million
outstanding, fell last week by the most since they were sold in
May 2011 as a slump in crude output in March intensified concern
that Rio de Janeiro-based OGX is facing a cash crunch.  While OGX called the Lukoil speculation “groundless,” it
came a week after a person with direct knowledge of the matter
said Batista is trying to raise $1 billion by selling an oil-
field stake to Malaysian state-owned producer Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. Last month, OGX shut two of the three wells at its only
active field, where output was already as little as 19 percent
of original estimates. That helped erase a rally in OGX bonds
from early March, when billionaire  Andre Esteves ’s Grupo BTG
Pactual signed on as a strategic adviser.  “Where does OGX get more money if the sales to Petronas or
Lukoil do not materialize?” Cornel Bruhin, a money manager at
MainFirst Schweiz AG, which oversees $4.5 billion in assets,
said in a telephone interview from Zurich. “The bonds might
trade quite a bit lower in a few months. Even if sales are just
delayed, there are not that many people out there that have much
patience with Mr. Batista.”  20% Yield  OGX’s press office declined to comment on the performance
of the company’s bonds. The 2018 securities yield 19.88 percent,
almost  triple the 6.87 percent  for speculative-grade emerging
market company debt globally, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
index data.  OGX bonds and shares slumped to record lows last week as
the  company reported  crude production fell 26 percent in March
to 8,300 barrels a day. The company also said the two wells that
were shut down would remain offline until as late as June to
repair pumps damaged by unstable power supplies.  Lukoil, Petronas  Speculation that OGX is on the verge of selling fields or a
stake in the company itself helped the bonds rebound yesterday.
The notes due 2018 rose after Folha reported that Lukoil is in
advanced talks to buy a stake in OGX. Vladimir Semakov, a
spokesman for the Moscow-based company, declined to comment when
contacted by text message on April 21.  OGX is also negotiating a separate sale of a 40 percent
interest in its Tubarao Martelo field to Petronas, as the Kuala
Lumpur-based oil and natural gas producer is known, a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said last week. Petronas
said it hasn’t agreed to buy any oil blocks in  Brazil  in an e-
mailed statement on April 17. OGX said the same day it doesn’t
comment on market speculation while adding that it’s always
looking for new business opportunities including possible sales
of stakes in fields.  The company’s  cash holdings  fell 43 percent last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its $1.65 billion of
cash and equivalents is set to run out by year-end at its
current burn rate. Trailing 12-month free cash flow fell to
negative $1.77 billion last year, the data show.  Batista said in October that he would pump $1 billion of
his own money into OGX if the company needs additional capital
and can’t find more favorable alternatives.  Fortune Plunges  Batista’s fortune dropped $24.6 billion in the past year to
$6.9 billion as the market value of his companies, which also
include miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA and logistics company
 LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) , plunged. As local lenders demand more
collateral for loans, Batista must act to keep OGX afloat,
according to Klaus Spielkamp, a fixed-income trader at Miami-
based brokerage Bulltick Capital Markets.  “Investors aren’t betting on promises anymore,” Spielkamp
said by telephone. “Confidence won’t come back easily. It will
only come back with some measures effectively being taken.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut OGX’s ratings on April 9 to
B2, five levels below investment grade, citing the lack of
production and cash flows. OGX’s rating, on review for further
downgrades, may be slashed further if it’s unable to build a
stronger liquidity cushion in the next six months, Moody’s said.  ‘Attractive Carry’  OGX bonds are more likely to rally than fall in the coming
months, according to Christopher Buck, a corporate credit
analyst at Barclays Plc in New York. The company’s $1.06 billion
of 2022 securities pay 17 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We continue to see possible funding options as a positive
catalyst,” Buck wrote in an April 19 report. “OGX 2018s and
2022s now offer attractive carry, and given our view that
funding is likely in the near term, investors will be able to
capture this for the foreseeable future.”  Batista said March 23 on Twitter that people betting on
declines at his companies will regret their wagers and that
short sellers, who borrow securities and sell them in order to
profit from buying them later at a lower price, will be “caught
with their pants down.”  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 173 basis points at
12:55 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell two basis points to 117 basis points. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real gained 0.1 percent to 2.0189 per dollar. Rate
swaps due in January declined two basis points to 7.8 percent.  OGX’s 2018 notes have declined the most this year among 614
dollar and euro-denominated emerging-market corporate bonds with
more than $500 million outstanding, according to Bank of America
Corp.  While OGX still has funding sources to tap and time to
raise the capital, production setbacks may continue to spur
creditor losses, according to Bulltick’s Spielkamp.  “I’m afraid that when we see the production numbers for
this month, and the capital necessity of the company for the
year, the market will be stressed again,” Spielkamp said.
“This can get worse before it gets better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  