-- Oliver Says Canada Won’t Extend State-Owned Takeover Ban
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/oliver-says-canada-won-t-extend-state-owned-takeover-ban.html
Canada  probably won’t extend limits
on takeovers by state-owned enterprises beyond the  oil sands 
unless the target resource is deemed “strategic,” Natural
Resources Minister Joe Oliver said.  The Canadian government said in December it would approve
acquisitions of control of oil-sands businesses by state-owned
firms only under “exceptional circumstances.” The new rules
were put in place after the government approved the takeovers of
Calgary-based oil and gas producer Nexen Inc. by  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  of
 China  for $15.1 billion and the C$5.2 billion ($5.1 billion)
purchase of Calgary’s Progress Energy Resources Corp. by
Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd.  Oliver said Canada has a wealth of resources other than oil
and gas, including as potash, uranium and diamonds. Still, he
said the government doesn’t plan to expand the constraints on
state-owned firms to other sectors.  “Unless there’s a very unique strategic interest, I don’t
see that being extended,” he said in an interview today in  New
York . “We need foreign capital.”  The government automatically  reviews  all foreign takeovers
of companies with asset values of more than C$344 million to
determine if they are in the national interest.  Oliver said Canada has about 600 resource projects that
will require C$650 billion in investment over the next decade to
develop.  “We don’t have that capital in Canada,” he said. “We’re
open for business and we’re open for investment.”  The government felt the need to shield the oil sands partly
because most of the world’s oil reserves are controlled by
state-owned enterprises, said Oliver. “The oil sands are unique
in one respect, and that’s ownership.”  ‘Strategic Resource’  The government blocked  BHP Billiton (BHP) ’s $40 billion hostile
takeover of  Potash Corp of Saskatchewan  Inc. in 2010. At the
time, Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall called potash a “strategic
resource” to the province.  Wall said last month Canada should eliminate foreign-
ownership limits for uranium companies such as  Cameco Corp. (CCO) ,
except in cases where a state-owned company is the bidder.
Current rules  limit  most foreign ownership of uranium projects
to minority stakes.  “Right now, we’re not planning on any change in that
regard,” Oliver said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  