-- Horace Mann Sexual Abuse Deserves Independent Probe, Allred Says
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-04-23T01:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/horace-mann-sexual-abuse-deserves-independent-probe-allred-says.html
Horace Mann , the New York City prep
school at the center of sexual-abuse allegations by former
students, should conduct an “independent and transparent”
probe into the alleged crimes, attorney  Gloria Allred  said.  Allred joined some of the former students as they related
their experiences at a news conference today in New York. She is
representing 22 men and three women who said they were victims
of crimes including anal and vaginal rape by more than a dozen
teachers and administrators at the elite school from the 1970s
to the 1990s.  “We are here today to urge Horace Mann School in New York
to conduct an immediate, independent and transparent
investigation into the worst case of child sexual abuse in an
American school in recent history,” Allred said. “The report
at the end must be made public.”  Allred appeared with four men and one woman whom she
referred to as “adult survivors” of the crimes allegedly
committed by the former headmaster, Inslee Clark, and several
teachers. Clark and the teachers mentioned today are all
deceased.  A partner in the Los Angeles law firm Allred Maroko &
Goldberg, Allred said she hasn’t filed any lawsuits on behalf of
her clients. She declined to say whether she would. She said 20
of her clients had reached settlements with the school, though
declined to give additional details about them.  Thomas Kelly , the head of  Horace Mann , didn’t respond to
calls and e-mails seeking comment. Calls to the main office as
well as the alumni office were referred back to Kelly.  Years Later  Allred also called on the New York State legislature to
pass a bill that would give victims of sexual crimes a one-year
window to report their claims no matter how long ago they
occurred. At present, the state’s statute of limitations would
prevent any of the perpetrators from being criminally charged.  The scandal was disclosed in a June 2012 New York Times
Magazine article written by a former Horace Mann student.  The abuses took place at the school, at the teachers’ and
administrators’ homes and on school-sponsored trips, according
to the students.  Jon Seiger, 51, a professional musician, gave the most
graphic account today of the abuse he said began when he was 14.  After a glee club concert, headmaster Clark invited him to
his home, Seiger said. A history teacher, Stanley Kops, was also
there. Seiger said they plied him with alcoholic drinks. Then
they drove him to a Manhattan nightclub that he said was filled
mostly with males over 50 and under 20.  Vulnerable Teens  The men picked up two prostitutes at the club and brought
them back to Clark’s house, Seiger said. The men forced Seiger
to have oral and anal sex with the prostitutes while they
watched. After the prostitutes left, Clark and Kops forced him
to have oral sex with them, he said. The abuse continued after
that night, he said.  The victims were described by Allred as children who were
vulnerable to sexual predators because of broken homes and other
family stresses.  Some alumni are conducting their own investigation.  Robert Boynton, who graduated from Horace Mann in 1981, is
a spokesman for an alumni group, Horace Mann Action Coalition.
He said he’s skeptical about any probe by the school itself.  “It’s unlikely as snow in August,” said Boynton, a
journalism professor at  New York University  who said he wasn’t a
victim of sexual abuse while attending the prep school.
“They’ve never cooperated.”  The alumni group hired retired New York State Supreme Court
Judge Leslie Crocker Snyder to lead its investigation. Snyder
also worked as a prosecutor in the Manhattan District Attorney’s
office, where she headed investigations of sex crimes.  “I’m going to reach out to them and hope for their
cooperation,” Snyder, who attended the news conference with
Boynton, said of the school.  While Allred said it was important that the school conduct
an independent investigation because it possesses the records
and documents, Snyder said it was “questionable” whether such
documents would be forthcoming. Horace Mann has said many of its
files were destroyed in a fire, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  