-- Osborne Says Music and Sermon Made Him Cry at Funeral
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-23T08:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/osborne-says-music-and-sermon-made-him-cry-at-funeral.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said he cried during  Margaret Thatcher ’s funeral
last week after being overcome by a combination of the Bishop of
London’s sermon and the choral music.  “Weeping is putting it a bit strongly,” Osborne told BBC
Radio 4’s “Today” show, when asked about television pictures
that showed tears on his cheeks. “I welled up a bit because I
thought it was very emotional and moving and at times
overwhelming.”  The former Conservative prime minister’s funeral in St.
Paul’s Cathedral on April 17 featured troops lining the route of
her coffin through London and music by Brahms, Purcell and
Parry.  Richard Chartres , the Bishop of London, focused in his
address on Thatcher’s faith and marriage, rather than her
politics.  “The sermon and the music made for a very, very powerful
and emotional moment,” Osborne said, before making light of the
issue. “Occasionally I get a tear in my eye. Sometimes just
when I listen to the ‘Today’ program headlines.”  The Conservative chancellor’s opposite number in the House
of Commons,  Ed Balls  from the  Labour Party , has said he’s given
to crying during the BBC television program “Antiques
Roadshow.”  “You know, when someone comes in with some family heirloom
and it’s often the last bit in the program,” Balls was cited as
telling Total Politics magazine in 2011. “And the expert says:
‘Do you know how much this is worth? It’s valued at X thousand
pounds.’ And they say, ‘I’m amazed it’s worth that much, but it
means more to me than money.’ Incredibly emotional.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  