-- Toshiba Buys Chip-Production Assets From LED Startup Bridgelux
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-04-23T02:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/toshiba-buys-chip-production-assets-from-led-startup-bridgelux.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the Japanese maker
of flash-memory chips, elevators and nuclear reactors, is buying
the chip-production assets of Bridgelux Inc., a producer of
energy-sipping light-emitting diodes.  The deal expands a licensing and manufacturing partnership
the companies signed last year, Toshiba and Bridgelux said
yesterday in a statement. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Bridgelux is getting out of the chipmaking business, where
costs are prohibitive for a startup, to focus on research and
development and marketing of LED products designed for
industries seeking to adopt more efficient lighting systems. The
company is on pace to record more than $100 million in sales
this year and won’t lose revenue by divesting the production
unit, Chief Executive Officer Bradley Bullington said.  “This is a very attractive deal for us,” Bullington, 39,
said in an interview. “It gives us a tremendous amount of
freedom to invest in hardcore R&D, build out our channel and
brand and not need to raise more money.”  Venture capital  and private equity investors last year
provided $2.2 billion to companies developing so-called smart
energy technologies, including  energy storage , LEDs and other
efficiency products for consumers and the  power grid , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That accounted for 38 percent of
venture capital and private equity funding in all clean energy
technologies, up from 15 percent in 2008, the data from
Bloomberg New Energy Finance shows.  $250 Million Funding  Bridgelux,  founded  in 2002, has raised about $250 million
in private financing from investors including DCM, VantagePoint
Capital Partners, El Dorado Ventures LP, and Kaistar Lighting
Xiamen Co., a joint venture of two Chinese manufacturers.
Toshiba invested in Livermore, California-based Bridgelux last
year, part of an agreement to jointly develop LED chips to meet
growing demand for liquid-crystal displays and lighting systems.  As part of today’s deal, 40 of Bridgelux’s employees, or 15
percent of its total workforce, will join Toshiba, though they
will stay at Bridgelux’s plant in Livermore, said Bullington,
who became CEO in February. Toshiba, based in  Tokyo , can use the
acquired technology in products like LCD panels, which Bridgelux
doesn’t sell.  The transaction “will position both companies for strong
growth in our respective LED businesses,” Toshiba Vice
President Makoto Hideshima said in the statement.  Bridgelux’s sales are split evenly across the U.S., Europe
and  Asia , and the company’s products are commonly used for
street lights, manufacturing plants and department stores,
Bullington said. Customers include  Zumtobel AG  and Cooper
Industries Plc, a unit of  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , he said.  Bullington, like his predecessor Bill Watkins, joined
Bridgelux in 2010 after working at disk-drive maker  Seagate
Technology Plc (STX) , where Watkins was CEO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  