-- House Republicans’ Benghazi Report Faults Administration
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/house-republicans-benghazi-report-faults-administration.html
Republicans renewed criticism of
the Obama administration’s handling of a 2012 terrorist attack
on U.S. compounds in  Libya , saying officials “willfully
perpetuated a deliberately misleading and incomplete
narrative.”  In the days following the deadly attacks, White House and
senior State Department officials “altered accurate talking
points drafted by the intelligence community in order to protect
the State Department,” according to the interim report on the
Sept. 11 Benghazi assault issued yesterday by Republicans in the
U.S. House of Representatives.  The report faults President  Barack Obama  and former
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in the latest round of a
politically charged argument over the circumstances of the raid
and its aftermath. Congress must keep pressure on the
administration to ensure that it takes all needed steps to find
the Benghazi attackers, the Republicans said in the report.  “The failure to respond more assertively to the attacks
and to impose meaningful consequences on those who planned and
perpetrated them has contributed to a perception of U.S.
weakness and retreat,” according to the report released by five
Republican committee chairmen.  ‘Sacrificing Accuracy’  Clinton said in January that congressional hearings on the
attack showed the increasingly polarized nature of  Washington 
politics, and Democratic lawmakers issued a letter yesterday
objecting that Republicans who control the House were
“sacrificing accuracy in favor of partisanship” by issuing a
report that hadn’t been vetted by lawmakers from both parties.  “You are unnecessarily politicizing our national security
and casting aside the system used by the House for generations
to avoid making obvious mistakes, errors, and omissions,” said
the top Democrats on the five committees. Among them were
Representatives  Adam Smith  of Washington, who serves on the
Armed Services Committee, and Dutch Ruppersberger of  Maryland ,
from the intelligence panel.  The Republican report said the State Department, under
Clinton’s leadership, had overruled security requests from U.S.
diplomats in Libya, including Ambassador Chris Stevens, who was
one of the four Americans killed in the attack.  The report said that Obama, “as commander-in-chief, failed
to proactively anticipate the significance of September 11 and
provide the  Department of Defense  with the authority to launch
offensive operations beyond self-defense.”  Oversight Needed  House Republican leaders said the report shows “the need
for continued examination and oversight by the five House
committees.”  previously, Republicans criticized the administration’s
conduct before, during and after the attack in Benghazi, where
an independent review panel appointed by Clinton concluded that
security was “grossly inadequate.”  Before the raid, repeated requests for additional security
in Benghazi were denied at the highest levels of the State
Department, according to the 45-page Republican report.  The department has been implementing a list of
recommendations from the Clinton review panel to improve
security at U.S. diplomatic facilities in high-risk locations.  Obama has said that the U.S. is seeking to bring to justice
those responsible for the attack. FBI Director  Robert Mueller 
visited Libya in January for talks with officials there about
the continuing investigation. Then-Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  testified earlier this year that there wasn’t time to
deploy forces to Libya to defend the Benghazi locations once the
assaults had started.  Political Angle  The Benghazi attack was a flashpoint in last year’s
presidential campaign, and Republicans have criticized
officials, such as the U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations ,
 Susan Rice , for their early accounts of the circumstances.  In presenting “misleading” talking points after the
attack, the administration removed references to the threat of
extremists linked to al-Qaeda in eastern Libya, including
information about at least five other attacks against foreign
interests in Benghazi, according to the Republican report.  Rice said on five Sunday television talk shows on Sept. 16
that the Benghazi attack grew out of a “spontaneous” protest
against an anti-Islamic video that was “hijacked” by
militants.  ‘Terrorist Attack’  Shawn Turner, a spokesman for Director of National
Intelligence  James Clapper , issued a statement Sept. 28, 12 days
after Rice’s appearances, saying the intelligence community had
revised its initial assessment and concluded the assault was “a
deliberate and organized terrorist attack.”  The Republican chairmen signaled they want to look further
at actions by Clinton. While she testified before Congress on
the incident, Clinton wasn’t interviewed by the accountability
review board, or ARB, that she established.  While Clinton “claimed she accepted ‘responsibility’ for
Benghazi, the committees remain concerned that the ARB neglected
to directly examine the role that she and her deputy secretaries
played in overseeing the gross mismanagement or the ‘systemic
failures’ within the department,” according to the report.  The report was issued under the names of Republican
Representatives Howard “Buck” McKeon of  California , chairman
of the Armed Services Committee; Ed Royce of California,
chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee; Bob Goodlatte of
 Virginia , chairman of the Judiciary Committee;  Darrell Issa  of
California, chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform
Committee; and Mike Rogers of Michigan, chairman of the House
intelligence committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net . 