-- Patriot Coal Reaches Accord on Nonunion Worker Benefits
-- B y   J o e   W h i t t i n g t o n   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-04-23T18:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/patriot-coal-reaches-accord-on-nonunion-worker-benefits.html
Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ) , the bankrupt
mining company, reached a settlement resolving how it will
reduce benefits for nonunion retirees, a lawyer said.  Patriot will pay $4 million into a plan administered by a
trustee to pay benefits for nonunion workers, Brian Resnick, a
lawyer for Patriot, said today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  St.
Louis . The payment would consist of $250,000 in cash plus stock
in a reorganized company, he said. Life insurance will be capped
at $30,000 and current benefits will stay in effect until July
31 under the settlement.  “The deal we cut with the nonunion employees is
encouraging,” Marshall Huebner, another lawyer for Patriot,
told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kathy Surratt-States. The company is
“moving forward” talks with unionized employees, Huebner said.  Patriot filed for bankruptcy in July, citing falling demand
for coal and obligations to pay $1.6 billion in lifetime health
care for its 8,100 retirees. The St. Louis-based company is
scheduled to go before Surratt-States April 29 with a motion to
change agreements with the United Mine Workers of America, which
represents about 42 percent of Patriot’s 4,000 employees.  The company today is asking Surratt-States for permission
to probe former parent  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and for more time to
control its bankruptcy. Patriot is also arguing against a motion
to have an independent trustee oversee its case.  The company said April 3 that it needed to save money by
reducing or ending benefits for nonunion retirees that may cost
it about $51.3 million.  The case In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-bk-51502, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Whittington in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in St. Louis;
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  