-- Philippine Stock Trading Drops as Valuations Surge to Record
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-04-24T02:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/philippine-stock-trading-slumps-as-valuations-surge-to-record.html
Philippine  stock  trading volumes
are sinking to the lowest level in two months and volatility is
picking up as the benchmark index’s jump above 7,000 for the
first time spurs concern that shares have become too expensive.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 0.6 percent to
7,025.07 as of 10:36 a.m. in Manila today. It sank 1.9 percent
yesterday, the most since June 4, after the measure closed at an
all-time high of 7,120.48 on Monday. An  average  of 259.5 million
of the gauge’s shares traded in each of the past 30 days, the
lowest level since Feb. 22, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
index’s 50-day  volatility , a measure of price swings, climbed to
17.4, the highest level since July 31.  The Philippine gauge has surged 21 percent this year as
fourth-quarter economic growth data beat estimates, the central
bank kept  interest rates  at a record low and Fitch Ratings
assigned the nation its first investment-grade debt rating. The
rally drove  valuations  to an all-time high of 20.4 times
projected 12-month profits April 22, or twice the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index multiple, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Volume is lower because share prices have gone up and
become expensive,” Junie Banaag, who helps manage about $1.1
billion in equities at Manila-based Philamlife AIA, said by
phone. “Over-valuation is the overriding reason behind the rise
in volatility. Selling pressure is coming from those who realize
that this over-valuation isn’t sustainable.”  Peak Valuation  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index has surged 318 percent
since October 2008, at least 164 percentage points more than
measures for every other  bull market  in emerging and developed
nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have gone beyond the correct valuation,” Banaag said.
“For us to achieve a valuation higher than we are today,
earnings will have to run much faster. If consensus earnings
growth is 14 percent, then it has to run four times faster and
overnight rates have to fall 100 basis points simultaneously.”  The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has kept the benchmark
overnight  rate  at a record low 3.5 percent after cutting it four
times by a total of 100 basis points, or 1 percentage point, in
2012. The bank has trimmed interest rates on special deposit
accounts twice this year.  ‘Natural Correction’  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index is trading at 3.3 times
the value of corporate assets, more than double the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index’s (PCOMP)  price-to-book ratio of 1.5, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Valuations have always been an issue,” Marvin Fausto,
who helps manage about $20 billion as chief investment officer
at Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc., said by phone yesterday.
Yesterday’s decline “is a natural correction.” BDO Unibank is
the nation’s largest bank by assets.  The  Philippines  is susceptible to corrections because it is
“expensive,”  Christopher Wood , equity strategist at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets, said April 15. Wood is overweight on the
nation’s stocks, citing improving economic prospects and
domestic demand.  Philippine equities may fall as much as 30 percent and
rebound quickly, Wood said. Investors “should buy into the
correction” as stocks may remain overvalued for some time, he
said.  International investors have bought a net $1.29 billion of
Philippine  equities  this year through April 22, compared with
$2.55 billion of inflows in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Foreign investors have purchased a net $282 million in
April, poised for a sixth month of net buying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  