-- Polish Retail Sales Grew Less Than Estimated in March
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-04-23T09:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/polish-retail-sales-grew-less-than-estimated-in-march.html
Polish  retail sales  grew less than
economists estimated in March as unemployment at a six-year high
damped consumer spending, adding to arguments for more interest-
rate cuts.  Sales rose 0.1 percent from a year earlier, compared with a
0.8 percent drop in February, the  Central Statistical Office  in
Warsaw said today. That compared with a median forecast for a
0.3 percent increase in a Bloomberg survey of 29 economists.
Retail sales grew 16.8 percent from the previous month.  Polish central bankers are open to further monetary easing
after leaving rates at a record low as they assess whether a
recovery has begun, Governor  Marek Belka  said on April 10. The
reports this month showed inflation slowed to the weakest pace
in more than six months and industrial output shrank in March,
signaling the rebound hasn’t begun.  Today’s “data confirm weakness in internal demand, which
is being curtailed by tough conditions on the labor market,”
 Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief economist at Bank Millennium SA in
Warsaw, said in e-mailed comment today. “From the monetary-
policy standpoint, the data should support those policy makers
who favor more interest-rate cuts.”  The zloty depreciated more than 0.5 percent to trade at
4.1291 per euro after the report at 11:02 a.m. in Warsaw, the
weakest level since April 9. The nation’s two-year government
bond yield declined four basis points to a record low of 2.81
percent, according to generic data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jobless Rate  Poland’s  unemployment rate  fell to 14.3 percent last month
from 14.4 percent in February, which was the highest since March
2007, the statistics office said in a separate report today.
That was less than the median estimate of 14.4 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of 29 economists.  The Finance Ministry yesterday cut its forecast for
economic expansion this year to 1.5 percent from 2.2 percent,
saying the euro-area recession was hurting exports and  consumer
spending . Individual consumption, which accounts for 62 percent
of gross domestic product, fell for the first time since 1996 in
the fourth quarter.  “Nothing suggests that we could see a breakthrough in the
first quarter,” Halina Dmochowska, deputy head of the
statistics office, said at news conference in Warsaw today. “We
are still in a slowdown, growth is weak and we can’t talk about
any turnaround just yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  