-- Power Plant Capacity Payments Inevitable in Germany, UBS Says
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-04-23T10:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/power-plant-capacity-payments-inevitable-in-germany-ubs-says.html
Payments from the German government
rewarding hard coal and natural gas-fed power plants for
operating during hours of high demand or low renewables output
are inevitable by 2017, according to Swiss bank  UBS AG. (UBSN)   An increasing number of gas and hard coal plants will no
longer be able to recover operating costs by producing and
selling electricity at market rates as prices and operating
hours shrink, Patrick Hummel, an analyst at UBS, said in an e-
mailed report dated today.  Germany gives priority grid access to renewable energy and
a surge in supplies has pushed down electricity prices and the
number of hours thermal generation is needed to meet demand. The
plant payment system would create a so-called capacity market
that would allow utilities to fix prices for guaranteeing backup
power supply in advance.  “Politics and the regulator have to create an additional
source of income, which remunerates the availability of the
plant rather than the actual output,” Hummel said.  The  German next-month clean-spark spread , a measure of the
profit utilities can get from selling electricity after
accounting for the cost of natural gas and emissions permits,
fell 1.5 percent to minus 21.45 euros (minus $27.87) a megawatt-
hour today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
has been negative since February 2012.  Capacity payments would stabilize profits of hard coal and
gas plants just above break-even level, rather than creating
“meaningful profitability,” Hummel said. Widespread closures
aren’t a viable option because of security-of-supply concerns,
he said.  Shutdown Warning  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government is considering a
mandate for power-station operators to inform authorities of a
shutdown one year in advance and may block plans in return for
compensation payments.  A capacity market in  Germany  may cost 1 billion euros a
year in 2017 and cut current forward electricity prices by 10
percent, Hummel said. German 2014 power declined as much as 0.9
percent to 38.85 euros a megawatt-hour today, according to
broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lignite, nuclear and hydro plants do not need capacity
remuneration until power prices fall below 30 euros a megawatt-
hour, Hummel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  