-- Prokhorov’s Onexim Keen on Marshall’s Stake in Rostelecom
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-04-23T07:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/prokhorov-s-onexim-keen-on-marshall-s-stake-in-rostelecom-1-.html
Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s
Onexim Group said it may consider buying a 10.7 percent stake in
fixed-line operator OAO Rostelecom from Marshall Capital after
the fund annulled its deal with Arkady Rotenberg.  “We were interested in buying the stake from Konstantin Malofeev, but talks were stopped by the deal with Rotenberg,”
Dmitry Razumov, Onexim’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview last week. “We may still consider it if the
opportunity presents itself.”  Malofeev’s Marshall canceled the sale of its stake in
state-run operator Rostelecom to Rotenberg April 10 after the
parties failed to agree on final terms of the deal announced in
February. Malofeev was in talks with Onexim over the stake sale
before turning to Rotenberg,  Vedomosti  said in February.  Rostelecom fell as much as 4.8 percent today and traded
down 4.4 percent at 110.95 rubles at 11:10 a.m. in Moscow.  Onexim’s other assets, including lender OOO Renaissance
Credit and media holding OAO RBC, which operates internet assets
and runs a TV channel and other media businesses, “could have
synergies with Rostelecom,” Razumov said.  RBC has held talks to acquire business daily  Vedomosti  from
its owners including  Sanoma OYJ (SAA1V) , Razumov said, confirming
earlier media reports, though he doesn’t see the deal happening.  Julia Emm, a spokeswoman for Marshall Capital, declined to
comment on the interest from Onexim.  Robin Janszen, a spokesman for Sanoma, said in an e-mail
the Helsinki-based company doesn’t comment on rumors. “We would
like to underline that Sanoma is and remains firmly committed to
doing business in  Russia ,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  