-- Fixing the Broken Proxy System
-- B y   J a m e s   K .   G l a s s m a n   a n d   J . W .   V e r r e t
-- 2013-04-23T22:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/proxy-firm-debacle-can-be-reversed.html
Proxy season has  begun , and it’s
expected to be a hot one. More than half of publicly listed U.S.
companies will hold annual meetings between now and the end of
June. There will be votes on more than 200,000 questions,
ranging from approving auditors to disclosing political
contributions.  Proposals directly from shareholders will increase, and,
with the implementation of the  Dodd-Frank  Act, every company has
to subject its executive compensation plan to an up-or-down
vote, nicknamed “say on pay.”  If you think all this voting constitutes something akin to
democracy, think again. Two small firms -- and one in particular
-- will have an inordinate impact on how votes are cast. Few of
their shareholders know it, but mutual funds and other
institutions pay these firms to advise them, in effect
outsourcing proxy decisions. The two companies -- Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc., with more than 60 percent of the
market, and  Glass Lewis  & Co., with almost all the rest -- have
become the most powerful arbiters of corporate governance in the
U.S. today.  Between them, ISS and Glass Lewis influence the votes of
one-fourth to one-half of the shares of a typical mid- or large-
cap company. A Stanford University  study  found that opposition
by a proxy adviser to a management proposal results in a “ 20%
increase  in negative votes cast.” That figure actually
underestimates the power of ISS and Glass Lewis because
corporations trying to avoid a negative recommendation from a
proxy advisory firm will shape their policies accordingly.  Rule Interpretation  The firms gained their exalted position because of a staff
interpretation of a  Securities and Exchange Commission  rule
adopted in 2003, which itself followed a Labor Department ruling
15 years earlier. Mutual funds are now required to set up a
transparent process for proxy voting and to vote on all proxies
-- tens of thousands of them in the case of large funds.  The simple solution for the funds was to hire ISS or  Glass
Lewis  and enjoy virtual immunity from liability if they follow
these advisers’ recommendations. Meanwhile, the SEC gave the
proxy advisers protective treatment not granted to similar
financial gatekeepers, such as auditing firms.  The system isn’t working. Proxy advisory firms lack the
resources to examine questions in depth and with regard to the
nuances inherent in the management of specific corporations.
Instead, they use “one size fits all” rules that have produced
such absurdities as recommending a vote against  Warren Buffett 
as a director of  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  because, as an audit committee
member, he lacked independence. Why? Some of the subsidiaries of
Buffett’s holding company,  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  -- including
International Dairy Queen Inc. -- bought Coca-Cola products,
thus creating what ISS guidelines consider a conflict of
interest. Berkshire bought Coca-Cola shares in 1988 and had
amassed $10 billion worth of stock, making Coca-Cola, at the
time, its single-largest investment. Buffett was re-elected to
the board anyway (he stepped down from the post in 2006).  The proxy advisers also have incentives that aren’t aligned
with those of investors -- not to mention corporate directors,
who themselves own shares and risk lawsuits as well as
diminished reputations for poor decisions.  In addition, proxy advisers suffer from conflicts of
interest. Some of their largest  clients  are giant pension plans
run by unions and politically motivated individuals, with strong
social, labor and environmental agendas that are often reflected
in ISS recommendations. Other clients are public corporations --
“issuers” -- themselves. ISS, for instance, advises issuers on
governance policy (including how to get proxy questions
approved) and at the same time counsels institutions on how to
vote.  Flawed Advice  As a result, the advisers’ advice isn’t very good. A lack
of transparency makes research difficult, but studies of say-on-
pay and exchange offers (also called options repricing) show
that ISS’s recommendations, which favor strong limits on
compensation, deplete the value of shareholdings to a
significant degree.  The July 2012 Stanford Graduate School of Business  study 
titled “The Economic Consequences of Proxy Advisor Say-on-Pay
Voting Policies” looked at ISS and Glass Lewis recommendations
on compensation policies and issued these stark  conclusions :  “First, proxy advisory firm recommendations have a
substantive impact on say-on-pay voting outcomes. Second, a
significant number of firms change their compensation programs
in the time period before the formal shareholder vote in a
manner consistent with the features known to be favored by proxy
advisory firms apparently in an effort to avoid a negative
recommendation. Third, the stock market reaction to these
compensation program changes is statistically negative. Thus,
the proprietary models used by proxy advisory firms for say-on-
pay recommendations appear to induce boards of directors to make
choices that decrease  shareholder value .”  Specifically, the researchers found that, in their study of
more than 2,000 companies, the “average risk-adjusted return”
on the implementation of the recommendations “is a
statistically significant -0.42%.”  ISS also backs other governance policies -- such as
independent chairmen and “golden parachutes” -- for which
 support  in the academic literature is  mixed , at best.  In a classic case of unintended consequences, the 2003 SEC
rule led to a result that was almost precisely the opposite of
what many of its supporters, including Chairman  Harvey Pitt , had
wanted. Instead of eliminating conflicts of interest, the rule
simply shifted them to the advisory firms. Instead of
encouraging funds to assume more responsibility for their proxy
votes, the rule pushed them to assume less. Instead of providing
informed, sensitive voting on proxies, the incentive has been to
outsource decision-making to two small organizations that most
investors have never heard of.  Reasonable Solutions  The good news is that this broken proxy system can be
 fixed .  First, let mutual funds and other institutions themselves
decide when it makes sense to spend resources analyzing and
voting on a proxy question. The test should be whether the vote
enhances the value of a fund’s investment to a significant
degree and whether the benefits of the voting process exceed the
costs.  Second, end the preferential regulatory treatment that
proxy advisers currently enjoy in the law. Institutional
investors would remain free to purchase proxy advisory services
if those services are valuable on their own merit.  Finally, end extraneous proxy requirements such as say-on-
pay votes. Let shareholders and directors decide the matters
that should be put to votes, if any, beyond those already
required under state corporate law.  All three  steps  are reasonable, nonpartisan and relatively
easy to accomplish. They will return efficiency to the system
and put the authority for shaping corporate governance where it
belongs -- in the hands of corporate directors, managers and
shareholders.  (James K. Glassman, a former undersecretary of state, is a
member of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Investor
Advisory Board and executive director of the George W. Bush
Institute.  J.W. Verret  is an assistant professor of law at
 George Mason University  and a senior scholar at the school’s
 Mercatus Center . This article is adapted from their study, “How
to Fix Our Broken Proxy Advisory System,”  published  on April
16. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
James K. Glassman at  jglassman@bushcenter.org 
and J.W. Verret at  jverret@gmu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 