-- Publicis CEO Focuses on Emerging Markets as Revenue Grows
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-04-23T12:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/publicis-focuses-on-emerging-markets-as-revenue-grows-ceo-says.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  Chief Executive
Officer  Maurice Levy  said he will focus on takeovers in  emerging
markets  rather than digital expansion as he forecast growth for
the advertising company this year.  Revenue, stripping out effects from takeovers, acquisitions
or mergers, could grow at least 3.4 percent, Levy said in an
interview today. Last week, the Paris-based company forecast
annual growth between 3.2 percent and 3.6 percent.  Levy presented a five-year plan at Publicis’s investor day
targeting operating margins of 18 percent to 20 percent by 2018,
from 16.1 percent in 2012. Improved margins will come from a
“better digital margin, scale effect on operations and the
development of tools to contain costs,” Levy said at the London
event.  Publicis, the third-largest ad company, has between 400
million euros ($520 million) and 600 million euros to spend on
acquisitions this year and is close to buying more agencies in
India and  China , according to Levy, though 2013 won’t be a
“massive investment year.” The owner of  Leo Burnett  and
Saatchi & Saatchi ad agencies posted first-quarter revenue
growth of 1.3 percent on April 15, missing analyst estimates, in
part on lagging European economies.  “Most advertisers are suffering from the  Europe  situation,
which will lead to further unemployment and difficulties in
Europe,” Levy said. The U.S. could make up more than the
current 50 percent of revenue at Publicis this year, he said.  First-quarter revenue was 1.56 billion euros.  Succession Committee  “It’s sad because Europe is not a preferred region of new
investment,” he said. “Most clients are investing in new
markets or re-investing in the U.S.”  Levy said he’s also “pushing” to step down from the CEO
role at Publicis, though the supervisory board “doesn’t feel
the same kind of urgency that I do.” Levy, who joined the
company in 1971, said a succession committee has already been
formed and an internal candidate will probably be selected.  Publicis’s Starcom MediaVest Group is working with Twitter
Inc. to “find the way to monetize their audience,” Levy said
in today an interview on Bloomberg Television with Francine
Lacqua. “This could be pop-ups, this could be video, this could
be new formats so we are working very hard with Twitter to find
the right way to commercialize their space.”  The deal with San Francisco-based Twitter may involve
spending $400 million to $600 million over a period of three to
four years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  