-- Public Bank Profit Rises on Malaysian Growth Spurs Loan Demand
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-04-23T06:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/public-bank-profit-rises-on-malaysian-growth-spurs-loan-demand.html
Public Bank Bhd. (PBK) , Malaysia’s third-
biggest lender by market value, reported a 4.1 percent increase
in first-quarter profit as economic growth spurred domestic
demand for loans.  Net income  climbed to 968.3 million ringgit ($317 million),
or 27.65 sen a share, in the three months ended March 31, from
930.2 million ringgit, or 26.56 sen a share, a year earlier, the
lender said in a stock exchange filing today. It didn’t declare
a quarterly dividend.  Malaysia’s  economy  has expanded by more than 4 percent for
six straight quarters and is projected by the government to
expand as much as 6 percent this year. This should benefit Kuala
Lumpur-based Public Bank, which derived more than 90 percent of
 operating income  last year from the Southeast Asian nation.  The bank “is expected to maintain its earnings momentum
for the rest of 2013,” Chairman Teh Hong Piow said in a
separate statement today. Growth in  Malaysia ’s economy this year
will be “anchored by the continued resilience of domestic
demand and supported by gradual improvement externally.”  Public Bank fell 0.1 percent to 16.30 ringgit before
announcing its earnings during the midday trading break. Its
 shares  have climbed 0.1 percent this year, underperforming a 0.7
percent advance in the  benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.  The Malaysian gauge is worst performer in  Southeast Asia 
this year ahead of a tightly-fought general election early next
month that could potentially see the first change in government
in more than five decades.  The bank’s net interest income, the difference between what
it makes from lending and pays on deposits, climbed 6.5 percent
last quarter to 1.35 billion ringgit, according to the statement.  Net income from Islamic banking dropped 2.1 percent to
207.3 million ringgit, the filing showed. Allowances for
impairment on loans more than doubled to 81.4 million ringgit,
it said.  Malaysians will go to the polls on May 5. Prime Minister
Najib Razak’s National Front coalition is seeking to extend its
55 years of unbroken rule in the face of a resurgent opposition
led by  Anwar Ibrahim .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji in  Hong Kong  at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  