-- Quantum Seeks to Remove Intrepid Directors for Indonesia Fiasco
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-04-23T05:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/quantum-seeks-to-remove-intrepid-directors-for-indonesia-fiasco.html
Quantum Pacific Investment Ltd.,
which represents a group that owns 5 percent of  Australia ’s
 Intrepid Mines Ltd. (IAU) , wants to remove some directors at the gold
explorer after it lost control of a key asset in  Indonesia .  “We have lost confidence in the board and are leading in
requisitioning a general meeting” to remove five of seven board
members and appoint four new directors, Greg Mazur, a founding
partner at Hong Kong-based Quantum Pacific, said today in a
phone interview. The group the private equity investor
represents is Intrepid’s third-largest shareholder, he said.  Intrepid entered into an agreement with Indonesia’s PT Indo
Multi Niaga in 2008 for an 80 percent stake in the Tujuh Bukit
deposit in East Java, which may contain 25 million ounces of
gold and 15 billion pounds of copper, according to an initial
assessment. Last year, the owners of Indo Multi, Andreas Reza
Nazaruddin and Maya Miranda Ambarsari, sold the company to a new
owner, who transfered the mining license to a separate entity,
dishonoring the agreement with Intrepid, which has spent $100
million to develop the project.  Intrepid, with a market value of A$125 million today, or
about 10 percent of its worth two years ago, shouldn’t have
spent that much without having “adequate legal protection,”
said Mazur. Work on the project has been suspended since July.  Intrepid’s Chief Executive Officer Brad Gordon didn’t
return calls seeking comment or respond to voice messages left
on his mobile phone today.  Fraud, Embezzlement  In a bid to recover the asset, Intrepid gave Surya Paloh,
an Indonesian media magnate and politician, a 5 percent stake.
Paloh will help the company recover the asset, the Australian
company said in a statement in August. Intrepid has also filed
complaints with the Indonesian police alleging fraud and
embezzlement by the original shareholders of Indo Multi and
associated parties, it said in a stock exchange filing Feb. 26.  PT Bumi Sukses Indo, the new holder of the project license,
is controlled by businessman Edwin Soeryadjaya. Mazur said today
he has contacted Soeryadjaya, “who has given us comfort that a
negotiated solution is possible.”  Taurus Funds Management is Intrepid’s biggest shareholder
with 8.7 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
followed by Van Eck Associates with 7.5 percent.  “The significant decline in our company’s share price and
continued negative news surrounding the project have made it
self-evident that a change in board and new corporate path is
required to steer our company out of this crisis and reposition
it for future success,” Quantum Pacific said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  