-- Trafigura Profit Rises as Increased Oil Volumes Boost Revenue
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2013-04-23T06:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/trafigura-profit-rises-as-increased-oil-volumes-boost-revenue.html
Trafigura Beheer BV, a commodities
trader that listed a $500 million bond earlier this month and is
disclosing financial statements for the first time, said first-
quarter profit rose 3.2 percent as oil revenue increased.  The closely held company, which listed its first perpetual
subordinated bond on the  Singapore  stock exchange at a fixed
rate of 7.625 percent this month, reported that profit in the
first three months of the financial year ending Sept. 30, 2013
rose to $216.1 million from $209.5 million in the same period
the previous year. Revenue climbed 7.9 percent to $31.2 billion.  “Oil and bulk both made significant contributions to the
group’s results, with oil delivering higher volumes than in the
previous quarter,” according to a company filing on the
Singapore exchange website.  Trafigura, which plans to to use proceeds from the bond
offer to boost infrastructure investments, will also seek to
increase funds under management at its Galena Asset Management
unit to $3 billion by the end of 2013 from $2.5 billion as of
January, according to the filing. The trading of physical
commodities such as crude and oil products forms Trafigura’s
main business, while Galena operates independently and deals in
derivatives and equities, according to the company’s website.  Galena, which is investment manager to 10 funds, including
Galena Metals Fund and Galena Private Equity Resources Fund,
will grow its funds through returns and “limited additional
investment,” according to the filing by Trafigura.  Bond Tool  “The bond for us is a tool that is very useful,” Chief
Financial Officer Pierre Lorinet said in an interview at the
Financial Times Global Commodities Summit in Lausanne,
 Switzerland , on April 16. “We do see a lot of opportunities for
organic growth and investments,” he said, without giving
details of specific projects.  Trafigura owns oil terminals, mines and metal warehouses.
Its Puma Energy unit bought 230 fuel stations in  Australia  this
year to become the country’s largest independent retailer.  Full year profit fell to $991.9 million in the 12 months
ended Sept. 30 from $1.12 billion a year earlier. Net sales
dropped 1 percent to $120.42 billion. The company’s sales from
oil and petroleum products trading, which made up about 70
percent of total revenue, slid 4.1 percent to $84 billion in the
year ended Sept. 30, the filing showed.  Petroleum and oil trading sales from  Latin America  declined
34 percent in the year, while Africa recorded an 8.3 percent
decrease, according to the filing. The company has trading
offices in Singapore and Geneva and employs 8,445 people in 56
countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  