-- Range Can Pursue Claims Against Landowner, Court Rules
-- B y   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-04-23T00:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/range-can-pursue-claims-against-landowner-court-rules.html
Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  can pursue
defamation and business disparagement claims against a Texas
landowner who accused the company of fouling his well by
hydraulic fracturing, an appeals court said.  In a ruling today, the Texas Second Court of Appeals in
Fort Worth let stand two of Range’s claims against Steven
Lipsky, who filed suit against the company in 2011 after the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency issued an administrative
order saying the gas driller was responsible for contaminating
Lipsky’s water with dangerous levels of methane and benzene,
which can cause cancer.  Range countersued, alleging in court papers that Lipsky,
his wife Shyla and a consultant, Alisa Rich, conspired to
persuade the EPA, which later dropped its order, to intervene.  The company is seeking $3 million in damages. Rich and the
Lipskys asked trial court judge Trey Loftin of Weatherford,
 Texas , to throw out the countersuit on the grounds that it
violated a Texas law prohibiting so-called Strategic Lawsuits
Against Public Participation, or SLAPPs, which bans litigation
meant to stifle public protest.  The judge rejected that argument in February 2012 and the
case was appealed. The appeals court ruled in August that it
lacked jurisdiction to overturn the judge’s ruling. The panel
instead said it was would hear a petition for an order blocking
the lower court from enforcing the ruling.  Specific Evidence  “We conclude that the trial court did not clearly abuse
its discretion by determining that Range had presented clear and
specific evidence to establish a prima facie case for each
essential element of its defamation and business disparagement
claims against Steven Lipsky,” the appeals court wrote in its
opinion.  The appeals panel ordered the trial court to dismiss all
Range’s claims against Shyla Lipsky and Rich, the consultant. It
also set aside claims of aiding and abetting and civil
conspiracy against Steven Lipsky.  Brent Rosenthal, a lawyer for the Lipskys, declined to
comment on the ruling.  Matt Pitzarella, a Range spokesman, said in an e-mail that
the company is pleased with the ruling that it has a “valid
claim against Mr. Lipsky and we look forward to the opportunity
to present our case in court.”  The case in Texas state court is Lipsky v. Durant, 11-cv-
0798, 43rd District Court of Texas, Parker County. The appeal is
In re Steven and Shyla Lipsky and Alisa Rich, 02-12-00348-cv,
Court of Appeals, Second District of Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@texaswordworks.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 