-- Treasury Yields Won’t Rise Until Year-End, Standish Mellon Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-04-23T15:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/treasury-yields-won-t-rise-until-year-end-standish-mellon-says.html
Treasury yields will “trend
sideways”  through September amid tepid economic growth before
rising at year-end as the  Federal Reserve  begins scaling back
its debt buying, according Standish Mellon Asset Management
Company LLC.  An increase in the  payroll tax  at the start of the year and
automatic, across-the-board cuts in federal spending that began
taking effect March 1 pose risk to growth in the U.S. gross
domestic product, the firm said in a client note today.  “We continue to be concerned about the risk of a mid-year
slowdown resulting from the tax hikes and spending cuts
amounting to 2.2 percent of GDP, which went into effect over the
past few months,”  Thomas Higgins , global macro strategist in
 Boston  at Standish, the debt management group of Bank of New
York Mellon, with $167 billion of fixed-income assets under
management, wrote in the note. “We expect the Federal Reserve
to stay the course with its $85 billion per month quantitative-
easing program until late this year, when we are projecting a
pickup in economic activity.”  Treasury 10-year note  yields  touched the lowest level since
December today after data from  China  and the euro area added to
evidence that global growth is faltering and spurred demand for
the safest assets. The benchmark yields reached 1.64 percent,
the lowest level since Dec. 12, before trading little changed at
1.7 percent.  “We expect Treasury yields to trend sideways during the
second and third quarters before rising toward year-end,”
Higgins wrote.  Fed Purchases  The Fed cut its benchmark  rate  for overnight loans between
banks to between zero and 0.25 percent in December 2008 as
credit markets froze in the wake of the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion
of securities between November 2008 and June 2011, and currently
buys $85 billion of mortgage-backed securities and Treasuries a
month to combat deflation and stimulate investment in risk
assets.  A much more “transparent” Fed that will “telegraph its
message to investors well in advance of any change in policy”
means yields will only rise gradually, as they did in 2004 when
the central bank was increasing rates, Higgins wrote in the
note.  “We remain bullish on the  U.S. dollar , given political
uncertainty in Europe and the Bank of Japan’s aggressive policy
stance,” Higgins wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  