-- Record Carbon Plunge Means Pain for Europe’s Utilities: Energy
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-04-24T16:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/record-carbon-plunge-means-pain-for-europe-s-utilities-energy.html
European utilities, which have lost
investors money for the past three years, can expect nothing but
more pain after the European Parliament rejected a proposal to
support prices in the world’s largest carbon-credit market.  Germany ’s EON SE,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA of  France  and  CEZ AS (CEZ)  from the
 Czech Republic  are among power suppliers whose earnings will
drop because a majority of their energy comes from wind, natural
gas and uranium, meaning they will be undercut by coal-fired
plants,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said. Burning coal benefits most
from cheaper carbon permits because the fuel emits about twice
as much carbon dioxide as natural gas.  The European Parliament on April 16 rejected a proposal to
delay the issuance of some carbon credits, or allowances,
triggering a record 35 percent drop in permit prices and sending
the stocks of utilities down. Falling carbon prices weaken the
incentive to invest in low-emission technologies such as wind,
solar and nuclear power.  “The competitiveness of our gas plants is seriously
undermined by coal,” GDF Suez Vice Chairman Jean-Francois Cirelli said at a shareholder meeting in Paris yesterday. “CO2
is a major difficulty for us, and it’s a major failure of
European policies.”  The continent’s biggest utilities, already struggling to
increase revenue amid a stagnant economy, have to contend with a
new damper on electricity prices because the market is tethered
to coal, one of the most commonly used fuels for generation.
Forward electricity prices, which give an indication of future
earnings, dropped 3.7 percent since the April 16 decision.  Weak Price  “Lower carbon prices will tend to reduce long-term
earnings,” said  Chris Rogers , utility analyst at Bloomberg
Industries in  London . “The weak power price environment may
require writedowns at utilities.”  Every 1 euro drop in the cost of carbon permits cuts
earnings per share 2.3 percent at CEZ, 1.8 percent at EON and
1.5 percent at GDF, JPMorgan estimated. Hedging means the full
impact is likely to be felt from 2015, the bank said. Prices
have fallen 1.50 euros since the vote not to delay permit
issuing, called backloading.  “The failure of backloading is a clear negative for CO2
prices, power prices and northern European generators,”
JPMorgan analysts led by Vincent de Blic said in a note. The
vote left the European carbon trading situation “very messy and
uncertain.”  Economic Slump  Europe ’s cap-and-trade program was designed to make
investing in low-carbon generation profitable. Instead it has
presided over sliding CO2 prices after a recession curbed
industrial output and demand for pollution rights. Also,
utilities such as  Italy ’s  Enel SpA (ENEL)  and  Endesa SA (ELE)  of  Spain 
invested in emission-reduction projects in  developing countries 
that generated new supply of credits to Europe.  Europe’s economic slump aggravated a growing oversupply of
permits that swelled to about 1 billion metric tons last year,
or half the average annual pollution limit in the EU emissions
market. A permit to emit 1 ton of carbon dioxide cost about
34.90 euros in 2008, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. Today, it’s trading at 3.06 euros after falling 35
percent on April 16, the day of the European Parliament vote.  The slide in permit prices has come in tandem with European
power prices. German power prices for the year ahead, a
benchmark for the region, have dropped from 90 euros a megawatt-
hour in 2008 to a record 38.85 last week.  Bitter Setback  The impact of the European Parliament’s decision isn’t just
financial. The vote shows European policy makers are becoming
less interested in curbing emissions of gases that cause global
warming, EON said.  “The decision of the European Parliament is a bitter
setback for European climate protection,” said Fabienne
Twelemann, a spokeswoman at EON in Dusselsdorf. There would be
no impact on earnings in the short-term, she said.  The parliament’s decision isn’t final and plans to fix the
carbon trading system have been sent back to its environment
committee for further dicussions. Tomorrow a group of European
parliamentarians is set to have their first meeting to discuss
new proposals.  In Germany, EON will probably suffer more than  RWE AG (RWE) ,
which generates 62 percent of its power from coal, said Thomas Deser, a portfolio manager at Union Investment GmbH, which is a
top-10 holder of both utilities. Cheaper carbon costs reduce the
penalty for burning coal, he said.  “The competitive disadvantages of gas-fired  power plants 
compared to coal-fired power plants continue to widen,” Sven Diermeier, an analyst at Independent Research GmbH, said by
phone from  Frankfurt . “For EON it is negative because they have
a high share of power from gas-fed plants.”  Three Years  The Stoxx 600 Utility Index, which includes 26 of Europe’s
largest power generators, dropped 2.1 percent on the day of the
vote, the most since July. It has fallen in each of the past
three years, a streak not seen since at least 1987.  The index gained 0.5 percent today.  Less income from carbon trading and low power prices may
hurt profits at Czech utility CEZ from next year, Trading
Director Alan Svoboda said in an interview on April 19. As an
eastern European utility, CEZ still receives a portion of carbon
credits free of charge during a transition period that will last
until 2020.  The drop in carbon prices may also prompt utilities to
review investment programs.  New Reactors  CEZ’s plan to build two new nuclear reactors at its Temelin
power plant could be one casualty as the emissions-free power
now looks less attractive versus coal-generated power, according
to J&T bank analyst Michal Snobr. The company may revise
investment plans, Svoboda said without giving details.  EON said in March it will lower clean-energy investments to
less than 1 billion euros in 2015 from 1.79 billion euros ($2.3
billion) last year. RWE will cut annual renewables spending in
half to about 500 million euros in the next two years.  “The failure to pass this resolution does not bode well
for the future of the carbon market,” Rogers said. “There’s
widespread concern that the failure to deliver backloading
reduces the chances for any kind of broader, long-term reform of
the carbon market that’s so vital for prices to recover.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  