-- Renewables Tapping Partnership Tax Plan Backed by Big Oil
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-23T18:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/renewables-tapping-partnership-tax-plan-backed-by-big-oil.html
Renewable energy companies moved a
step closer to accessing a tax financing structure that’s worth
more than $350 billion as the  American Petroleum Institute  said
it would back Congressional plans to expand the program.  Allowing wind farms and solar-power plants to organize
under a corporate structure known as master-limited partnerships
would help wean them from federal subsidies,  Jack Gerard ,
president of the oil industry’s main lobby group, said today at
the Bloomberg New Energy Finance Summit.  MLPs already offer tax breaks to fossil-fuel producers and
pipeline companies. Expanding their use to include renewables
would provide an incentive for investors and spur development of
wind and solar power, he said.  “MLP is a perfect example of an investment vehicle that
can facilitate renewable energy,” Gerard said during a panel
discussion in New York today.  Alaska Senator  Lisa Murkowski , the top Republican on the
energy committee, said yesterday there’s bipartisan support for
allowing renewable-energy companies to use MLPs and she’s
working on legislation that Delaware Senator  Chris Coons , a
Democrat, intends to introduce this week.  MLPs let companies raise funds like a corporation and pay
taxes as a partnership. They are traded on public exchanges and
the market value of U.S. MLPs exceeds $350 billion, according to
data on Coons’s  website .  ‘Big Impact’  “The fossil fuel industry is moving in the right
direction,” Bill Richardson, a former governor of  New Mexico 
and Energy Secretary under President  Bill Clinton , said today in
an interview at the conference. “It will have a big impact if
it results in deeds and not just words.”  Renewable-energy producers want to follow  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in tapping the Reagan-era tax break when
U.S. renewable energy tax credits expire at the end of this
year. Support from the oil and gas industry could help win votes
for the measure, said Ethan Zindler, an analyst at New Energy
Finance.  “If it means it’s not a zero sum game between renewables
and oil that’s a good thing,” Zindler said. Politically, “it
could provide cover for anyone who was on the fence.”  Murkowski said fossil-fuel producers support the plan.  “Many of these oil and gas companies have substantial
interests in renewable energy, and the ones I’ve talked to don’t
see it as competition,” Murkowski said yesterday in an
interview at the conference. “There may be some conservatives
that see renewables as ‘pie in the sky,’ but I haven’t seen any
real opposition from the oil industry.”  Providing Certainty  Revamping the  tax code  is a “hugely important issue,
especially when it comes to energy,” she said during a speech
at the conference.  “Our goal must be to provide certainty as far out as
possible,” Murkowski said. “That doesn’t mean subsidies should
continue to grow more expensive even as the costs of
technologies fall, but, hopefully, we can provide at least a
three-to-five year window where investments can be made without
a material shift in policies,” she said in remarks prepared for
the conference and released by her office in  Washington .  She also said she’s promoting an “advanced energy trust
fund” that would use a share of revenue from energy production
on lands that are now off limits to fund energy research.  “It offers a chance to reduce our costly dependence on
foreign oil, to keep energy affordable and abundant and to boost
R&D without raising taxes or increasing the deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  