-- Renzi’s Candidacy for Italy Premier Considered by Parties
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-23T20:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/renzi-s-candidacy-for-italy-premier-considered-as-accord-sought.html
Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi’s
candidacy for the Italian premiership is being taken into
consideration across the political spectrum as parties seek a
compromise to form a new government.  Renzi, 38, was promoted by a member of his Democratic Party
late yesterday and labeled a credible candidate today by an ally
of former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi. Politicians are
signaling their preferences as President Giorgio Napolitano
seeks a leader capable of uniting a majority in  Italy ’s
fractious parliament.  “A government that signals a decisive and complete change
in generation and mentality would be evaluated with greater
attention,” Ignazio La Russa, a lawmaker and Berlusconi ally,
said today after meeting with Napolitano. “Certainly Renzi is
one of the people who would be included in this type.”  Renzi’s appeal has grown as the political impasse, now in
its ninth week, demonstrated the inability of national lawmakers
to build consensus for a government. Matteo Orfini, a lawmaker
with the Democratic Party, or PD, said yesterday in an interview
on the La7 television network that he will push for Renzi.  PD representatives led by Enrico Letta, a member of the
lower house of parliament, met with Napolitano and said they
were ready to support a the president’s choice. Napolitano
wrapped up his talks with political leaders today and is due to
announce his decision as soon as tomorrow.  “We will adhere to the choices made by the president,”
Letta said after his meeting with Napolitano.  Bonds Gain  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell 11 basis points to 3.94
percent, the lowest since November 2010, on signs of progress in
forming a government and expectations that the European Central
Bank will cut interest rates.  Renzi had the trust of 55 percent of voters in a March 29
SWG Institute opinion poll, ranking first ahead of national
leaders including PD leader Pier Luigi Bersani with 30 percent,
Berlusconi with 26 percent and Prime Minister Mario Monti with
19 percent.  Napolitano, strengthened by his reappointment yesterday,
met each of the major political groups to decide who will get
the mandate. Talks began at 10:30 a.m. with the speakers of both
chambers of parliament and ended at 8:30 p.m. after meetings
with the leaders of the three biggest parties, the Five Star
Movement, Berlusconi’s People of Liberty and the PD.  Napolitano will probably find political parties more open
to compromise than last month, when his first round of talks
after inconclusive elections failed to yield results. The PD and
People of Liberty, or PDL, set the stage for a possible
coalition government by coming together to give Napolitano a
second seven-year term.  Relieving Monti  A deal would relieve Monti of his caretaker role and give
parliament the majority it needs to pass stimulus measures and
shield the country from bond-market speculation. Parliament has
been deadlocked since elections Feb. 24-25 split the Senate into
three blocs, making it hard to respond to the country’s longest
recession in more than two years.  Renzi has pushed for the premiership in the past. His
campaign to represent the Democratic Party in the general
election ended in December when he lost to Bersani in a primary
ballot. Bersani stepped down from the leadership of the PD last
week after a string of failures, starting with his inability to
convert a lead in opinion polls before the election into a
parliamentary majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  