-- Richemont Says Full-Year Profit Rose 30% on Currencies
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-04-23T07:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/richemont-says-full-year-profit-rose-30-on-currencies.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the
maker of Cartier jewelry and IWC watches, said full-year net
income rose about 30 percent, more than analysts expected, as
the dollar’s strength against the euro boosted sales growth.  Sales advanced 14 percent, the Geneva-based luxury-goods
maker said in today in an unscheduled statement ahead of the
scheduled May 16 results. Analysts expected a 25 percent gain in
net income, according to the average of 17  estimates . The stock
rose as much as 6.2 percent, the biggest gain in eight months.  “This is a respectable outcome,” as Richemont was
dealing with weakness in sales of its lowest-priced steel
Cartier watches and as  China  cracks down on the practice of
giving luxury goods as improper gifts,  Thomas Chauvet , an
analyst at Citi, wrote in a note to clients.  Currency shifts, including a stronger dollar against the
euro, boosted sales growth by 5 percentage points, helping damp
the effect of a weaker market for Swiss watches. Richemont got
more than half its sales in the prior full-year from the
Americas and the Asia Pacific region, where countries such as
China have currencies linked to the dollar. Still, net income
rose at the slowest pace in three years.  “There is clearly a slowdown in demand for watches from
China, and Richemont is especially exposed to watches,” Mathew Menezes, an analyst at Avior Research, said by phone from
Johannesburg. “Even so, the slowdown is very broad-based and
Richemont has positioned themselves uniquely in the high end-
range, so I think their top line growth is doing O.K.”  Hermes, LVMH  The stock traded 5.4 percent higher at 71.80 Swiss francs
as of 9:45 a.m. in Zurich, bringing the gain in the past year to
33 percent. Richemont shares touched a record 81.45 francs on
Jan. 18.  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA said yesterday that sales of
timepieces declined 5.3 percent, excluding currency shifts, as
the Chinese market slowed.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
the world’s largest maker of  luxury goods , said last week that
retailers bought fewer watches than expected in the first
quarter.  The dollar was on average 6.9 percent stronger against the
euro during Richemont’s fiscal year. The owner of the Dunhill
accessories brand said Swiss stock exchange rules required the
announcement because of how much the results differ from last
year’s. Operating profit rose 18 percent, matching analysts’
estimates.  Declining Exports  Switzerland ’s watch exports rose 0.6 percent in March as
shipments to China dropped 31 percent, the fourth monthly
decline, the Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry said today.
First-quarter export growth slowed to 2.4 percent after the 11
percent expansion in 2012.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said
last month the industry needed to “calm the spirits” on
expectations. Growth in the market will probably be 5 percent to
10 percent this year compared with rates of as much as 30
percent in the past, Hayek said at the time. Swatch’s brands
include Omega and Longines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  