-- Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for April (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2013-04-23T14:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-april-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s manufacturing sector
activity survey for April.  Overview
Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region pulled
back in April after growing at a slower pace in March, according
to the Richmond Fed’s latest survey. The index of overall
activity landed in negative territory, driven by weak readings
for factory shipments and volume of new orders. Employment,
however, remained in positive territory but grew at a pace below
March’s rate. Other indicators also suggested weaker activity.
Capacity utilization and backlogs fell further, while the gauge
for delivery times was unchanged. In addition, inventories grew
at a slightly slower rate.  Looking forward, manufacturers in April were less optimistic
about their future business prospects. An increasing number of
contacts anticipated slower growth across the board for all
indicators of activity six months from now.
Survey participants indicated that raw materials prices grew on
par with March’s pace, while finished goods prices grew at a
slower rate than a month ago. Over the next six months, however,
respondents expected both raw materials and finished goods
prices to grow at a slightly quicker rate than they had
anticipated last month.  Current Activity
In April, the seasonally adjusted composite index of
manufacturing activity -- our broadest measure of manufacturing
-- lost nine points, settling at −6 from March’s reading of 3.
Among the index’s components, shipments fell seventeen points to
−9, the gauge for new orders moved down four points to end at−8,
and the jobs index subtracted six points to end at 3.
Other indicators also suggested weaker activity in April. The
index for capacity utilization fell further, losing fifteen
points to settle at −18, and the index for backlogs of orders
dropped seven points to finish at −21. The delivery times index
was unchanged at −2, while gauges for our inventories were
somewhat lower in April. The raw materials inventory index
decreased four points to finish at 18 and the finished goods
inventories moved down one point to end at 9.  Employment
Hiring activity at Fifth District plants was mixed in April. The
manufacturing employment index moved down six points to 3 and
the average workweek indicator lost thirteen points to end at
−3. In contrast, the wage index gained eight points to finish at
12.  Expectations
In the current survey, contacts were less optimistic about their
future business prospects than they reported a month ago. The
index of expected shipments lost six points, ending at a reading
of 25, and the new orders index fell five points to finish at
26. The index for backlogs slipped two points to a reading of
10, while the gauge for capacity utilization declined eight
points to 15. The indicator for vendor lead-time eased one point
to 0 and the index for planned capital expenditures lost nine
points to finish at 18.  Fifth District manufacturers’ hiring plans were also less
optimistic in April. The index for expected manufacturing
employment sank sixteen points to finish at a reading of 0 while
the average workweek indicator dropped thirteen points to end at
−2. However, the index for expected wages added five points to
30.  Prices
District manufacturers reported that raw materials prices
increased at an average annual rate of 1.27 percent, virtually
unchanged from last month’s 1.28 percent pace. Finished goods
prices rose at a 0.15 percent pace, slightly lower than March’s
reading of 0.54 percent.  Looking ahead six months, respondents expected that the prices
they pay will advance at a 1.85 percent pace, somewhat above
March’s outlook of 1.77 percent. Contacts looked for finished
goods prices to increase at a 1.26 percent annual rate, also
slightly above last month’s 1.14 percent pace.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ainhoa Goyeneche in Washington at 
 agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  