-- Rio Unlikely to Develop Guinea Iron Mine, Former Minister
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-04-23T09:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/rio-unlikely-to-develop-guinea-iron-mine-former-minister.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  is unlikely to
develop its $10 billion iron ore project in Guinea in the
foreseeable future as the African state struggles to fund
transport links, the country’s former mines minister said.  The Simandou project has been “effectively frozen,”
 Mahmoud Thiam , Guinea mines minister between 2009 and 2010, said
in an interview from New York yesterday.  “I see it being
frozen for the foreseeable future,” he said. The London-based
mining company said plans for mining were proceeding.  Rio has spent $2.3 billion on Simandou, which will be one
of the largest mines in  Africa , Chief Executive Officer  Sam Walsh  said in London last week. Progress in the venture relies
on the West African country’s government coming up with $5
billion to fund half of the planned infrastructure, which it
said last month said it would succeed in doing.  Thiam said he doubted Guinea’s ability to make the
investment. “They’ve been trying to get funding for the past
two and a half years.”  Guinea ’s $5.1 billion economy is forecast to grow 5 percent
this year as it seeks to put two years of military rule until
November 2010 behind it, Budget Minister Mohamed Diare said on
Dec. 6. In September, the country got $2.1 billion in debt
relief from the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank 
after it reached the so-called completion point of the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries Initiative.  Simandou is due to start production in 2015 and Rio in June
allocated $501 million to building railways and ports for the
project.  U.S. Probe  “The current priority is finalizing the investment
framework and for the government of Guinea to secure its
financing,”  Illtud Harri , a spokesman for Rio, said in an e-
mailed response to questions yesterday.  The rights to part of Simandou are at the heart of a U.S.
probe into whether BSG Resources Ltd., the mining company
controlled by Israel’s richest person Beny Steinmetz, paid
bribes to win licenses. Thiam is tied to the investigation, a
person familiar with the matter said last week. That link
discredits the former minister’s views on the project, a Guinea
government spokesman said.  “Thiam is not a good source,” Moussa Cisse, the director
for press affairs at the office of Guinea’s president, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “He has also been identified in this
probe. He no longer has any credibility.”  Thiam said he hasn’t been contacted by U.S. or Guinean
authorities in connection with the investigation.  Military Junta  BSGR acquired rights to part of the Simandou project, one
of the world’s richest iron-ore deposits, in 2008 after  Rio
Tinto  was ordered by the government to give up a section of its
license area. BSGR subsequently sold 51 percent of its Simandou
stake to Brazil’s  Vale SA (VALE)  in 2010 for $2.5 billion.  After a military junta took control of Guinea following the
death of Lansana Conte in 2008, BSGR regularly made payments to
senior members of the military through Thiam, the Guinea
government alleged in an Oct. 30 letter to BSGR’s local joint
venture. BSGR denies any wrongdoing, as does Thiam.  A former Merrill Lynch and  UBS AG (UBS)  adviser, Thiam said he
wasn’t in Guinea when BSGR obtained its rights.  “I don’t know how physically I would have been involved,”
Thiam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  