-- Rolls-Royce to Sell Military Helicopter-Engine Stake to Safran
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-04-23T07:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/rolls-royce-to-sell-military-helicopter-engine-stake-to-safran.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  said it
will receive 293 million euros ($382 million) in cash from the
sale of half of a military helicopter-engine joint venture to
partner  Safran SA (SAF)  as it cleans up its holdings.  The sale will close before year-end and the work will
transfer to Safran’s Turbomeca unit over three years, the
London-based engine maker said today.  Rolls-Royce Chief Executive Officer John Rishton said he’ll
continue honing the portfolio that has already led to the sale
of its share in the International Aero Engines joint venture to
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  building V2500 engines for Airbus SAS
A320s last year. Rolls-Royce has also disposed of tidal-power
generation and fuel-cell activities.  “Our partners didn’t want to continue to invest in the
development of a line of product that’s outside their core
strategy,” Safran Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Herteman
told journalists on a call to discuss earnings. “We wanted to
develop the position.”  The RTM322 engine powers helicopters such as the EH101
troops transport chopper and British Apache attack helicopters.
Herteman said the business is “a promising sector,” especially
with growth in heavy helicopters used in the oil and gas
markets.  “This allows Safran to strength Turbomeca’s position in
high-power engines whereas until now, their expertise was really
in smaller turbines,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo
Securities in Paris.  Safran said it will add about 85 million euros in annual
revenue by acquiring the Rolls-Royce share.  The two companies will continue to cooperate on the Adour
engine powering the Hawk jet trainer aircraft. Rolls-Royce said
its other helicopter activities, including the joint venture
with Honeywell building the LHTEC CTS800 for AgustaWestland
AW150 Wildcat helicopters, are unaffected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  