-- Rooftop Solar Seen Protecting U.S. Power Grid From Attack
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-23T21:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/rooftop-solar-seen-protecting-u-s-power-grid-from-attack.html
The U.S.  power grid  is vulnerable
to terrorist attacks, and the growing use of rooftop solar
panels will provide protection against lengthy blackouts, the
chairman of the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission said.  “It wouldn’t take that much to take the bulk of the power
system down,” FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff said today at the
Bloomberg New Energy Finance summit in  New York . “If you took
down the transformers and the substations so they’re out
permanently, we could be out for a long, long time.”  Distributing generation units more widely on the grid, such
as by deploying fuel cells and rooftop solar panels will help
consumers avoid blackouts. The trend also threatens to cut into
revenue that utilities count on to maintain the transmission
system, he said.  “A more distributed system is much more resilient,” he
said. “Millions of distributed generators can’t be taken down
at once.”  Consumers are increasingly taking control of their own
reliability and power consumption as they become more aware of
the vulnerability of the grid, Wellinghoff said. Those
weaknesses became more visible after a gunman damaged a
transformer in  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s service area April 16, triggering
power shortages in Silicon Valley.  FERC, which regulates the interstate transport of
electricity, natural gas and oil, estimates that the
transformers that alter the voltage of electricity can take as
long as three years to build.  “Consumers are starting to understand they want control,”
Wellinghoff said. “They want some ability to keep their lights
on when that next storm comes along.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  