-- Ropes & Gray, Sidley, Cleary, Gibson Dunn:Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/ropes-gray-sidley-cleary-gibson-dunn-business-of-law.html
Ropes & Gray LLP added four new
corporate partners. Bracewell & Giuliani LLP lawyers Jonathan Gill and Robb Tretter join the firm in  New York  as partners in
the private-equity practice, focusing on distressed investing.
Mark Wesseldine, previously of  Fried Frank , Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson LLP will be joining the firm as a finance partner in
 London . Victoria Lloyd, a capital markets and mergers and
acquisitions lawyer also from Fried Frank, is joining Ropes &
Gray in its Hong Kong office.  Gill and Tretter have worked together for more than 10
years, advising private investment firms, corporations and
financial institutions on transactions, primarily as part of
leveraged buyouts, restructurings or recapitalizations, the firm
said.  Wesseldine has more than 10 years’ experience focusing on
the European leveraged finance market on complex cross-border
financings and restructurings, the firm said.  Lloyd’s practice focuses on advising clients, including
issuers and underwriters, on equity capital market and M&A
transactions.  Ropes & Gray has more than 1,100 lawyers at 11 offices in
the U.S., London and  Asia .  Sheppard Mullin Expands New York Office With Labor and Finance  Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP hired three New
York partners including Jack Kiley, chairman of the labor and
employment practice group at Kelley Drye & Warren LLP. He brings
along a six-attorney labor and employment group. John R. Hempill, a former co-chairman of the emerging companies and
venture capital group at Morrison Foerster LLP also joins the
firm, along with MaryJeanette Dee, formerly of Richards Kibbe &
Orbe LLP.  Hempill has experience in private and public finance. He
also has experience with mergers and acquisitions for both
public and private companies.  Kiley represents management in labor and employment law,
including with advice and counseling, litigation and collective
bargaining.  Dee concentrates on internal investigations and regulatory
and white collar criminal defense.  Sheppard Mullin has 630 attorneys in 16 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Global Sourcing and Technology Partners Join Kilpatrick  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP announced that
attorneys Jon Neiditz and Amanda Witt have joined the firm’s
Atlanta office as partners on the global sourcing and technology
team. Both lawyers were previously partners at Nelson Mullins
Riley & Scarborough LLP, where Neiditz was co-leader of the
firm’s information management practice.  “Jon and Amanda bring a dynamic, diverse practice
encompassing big data, privacy, and information
security: headline-grabbing topics that are increasingly faced
by the world’s corporate community,” Jim Steinberg, chairman of
Kilpatrick Townsend’s GST team said in a statement.  Neiditz’s practice includes management of responses to data
security breaches. He assists companies with the strategic
development of privacy, security and incident response programs
and is often called first to assist when a security breach
occurs, the firm said.  Witt focuses her practice on  information technology ;
information security and privacy; e-commerce; outsourcing; and
intellectual property protection among other matters.  Kilpatrick Townsend has 17 offices in the U.S. and
internationally.  Stephen Ross to Head Sidley Austin LLP London Funds Group  Former Man Group Plc group general counsel Stephen Ross
will join Sidley Austin LLP as a partner, where he will co-head
the London investment funds group, part of the firm’s global
investment funds practice.  Ross spent 10 years at the Man Group, the world’s second
largest hedge fund manager. He became Man’s first general
counsel in 2007. In 2010, after Man acquired global investment
manager GLG, Ross also took over regulation/compliance function
responsibilities and was appointed chairman of the firmwide risk
committee, the firm said.  “Given his broad experience at Man, Stephen will bring to
our clients a specialized knowledge of the asset management
business that very few lawyers in private practice have,”
George Petrow, managing partner of the firm’s European region
said in a statement.  Before joining Mann in 2004, Ross was co-head of the
private funds group at Clifford Chance LLP.  Sidley has 1,750 lawyers in 18 offices worldwide.  Deals  Cleary Gottlieb Advises ABB on $1 Billion Power-One Purchase  Cleary Gottlieb  Steen & Hamilton LLP advised  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) ,
which agreed to acquire  Power-One Inc. (PWER)  for about $1 billion,
giving the world’s biggest electricity-networks builder
inverters that allow solar power to be fed into grids. Power-One
was advised by law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP.  Cleary Gottlieb’s lawyers for ABB include partners Neil Whoriskey and David Leinwand, as well as Arthur Kohn on
benefits.  The Gibson team is led by Los Angeles partner Jennifer Bellah Maguire; as well as partners Paul Issler, tax; David
Kennedy, IP; and Adam Di Vincenzo and Peter Alexiadis,
antitrust.  Shareholders of the Camarillo, California-based company
will get $6.35 a share, Switzerland’s ABB said in a statement
yesterday. Power-One shares  surged  as much as 59 percent to the
equivalent of $6.34 in German trading yesterday.  ABB is looking to tap a market forecast to grow by more
than ten percent annually, driven by a need for affordable
energy and declining costs of producing solar power. The 7.7
times Ebitda that ABB is paying for Power-One is lower than the
median multiple of 8.5 paid for alternate energy companies in
the last three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Sprint Board Forms Special Committee to Review Bid From Dish  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S. wireless
carrier, said its board has formed a special committee to
evaluate a takeover bid from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , which is
seeking to counter an offer from  SoftBank Corp. (9984)   Shearman & Sterling LLP will be the legal counsel, led by
New York mergers and acquisitions partners  Peter Lyons  and
Robert Katz.  Larry Glasscock, James Hance, Janet Hill, William Nuti and
Rodney O’Neal will serve on the committee, with Glasscock acting
as chairman,  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint said yesterday
in a statement. Bank of America Merrill Lynch will act as its
financial adviser.  Dish, the satellite-TV company controlled by billionaire
 Charlie Ergen , offered $25.5 billion for Sprint last week,
topping a $20.1 billion bid by Tokyo-based SoftBank in October.
The Japanese company has argued that its bid has “superior
short- and long-term benefits” compared with Dish’s “highly
conditional preliminary proposal.”  Sprint shares fell less than 1 percent to $7.16 at 9:42
a.m. in New York. The stock has climbed 26 percent this year,
suggesting that investors expect the bidding to go higher.  For more, click here.  Government Lawyers  Canellos and Ceresney Named Co-Chiefs of SEC Enforcement  George Canellos and Andrew Ceresney have been named
co-directors of enforcement at the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the agency said yesterday.  Canellos has been acting director since January following
the departure of  Robert Khuzami , who held the post for the
previous four years. Ceresney, a former prosecutor, has been a
partner at law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in New York.  The two men will lead the enforcement unit as it shifts
from investigations tied to the 2008 credit crisis toward areas
such as high-frequency trading and accounting fraud. Canellos,
48, and Ceresney, 41, both previously worked as federal
prosecutors for SEC Chairman Mary Jo White when she was U.S.
Attorney for the Southern District of New York.  “George and Andrew will be a formidable team and I am
grateful to both of them for taking on this extremely important
responsibility,” White said in a statement.  Canellos joined the SEC in 2009 as director of the New York
office, where he oversaw the work of about 400 enforcement
attorneys, accountants, investigators and examiners. Prior to
joining the agency, he was a prosecutor in New York for nine
years and a litigation partner at law firm Milbank, Tweed,
Hadley & McCloy LLP, for more than six years.  At Debevoise, Ceresney has represented some of Wall
Street’s biggest companies and executives -- including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and former Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive
Officer  Ken Lewis  -- in regulatory probes of their conduct
during the financial crisis.  For more, click here.  News  Okada Review Finds Freeh’s Wynn Resorts Probe ‘Deeply Flawed’  An independent review commissioned by Kazuo Okada’s lawyers
found that  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s investigation that cost the
Japanese billionaire his 20 percent stake in the casino operator
was “deeply flawed.”  The review by former Homeland Security Secretary  Michael Chertoff , who is a senior counsel at law firm Covington &
Burling LLP, found that Wynn Resorts’ independent investigation,
conducted by former FBI Director  Louis Freeh , was “structurally
deficient, one-sided, and seemingly advocacy-driven,” Okada’s
 Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  said yesterday in a statement.
Freeh is chairman of law firm Pepper Hamilton LLP.  “This confirms what I have maintained since the day the
Freeh report was issued and the Wynn Board moved to strip me of
my stake in a company I helped found,” Okada said in the
statement. “It’s obvious that the biased report was part of
 Steve Wynn ’s campaign to eliminate me as a rival to his power
within Wynn Resorts.”  Wynn Resorts last year forcibly redeemed the shares of its
largest shareholder for $1.9 billion, about $800 million less
than what Okada says was their market value. Las Vegas-based
Wynn Resorts, citing the Freeh report, alleged Okada was
“unsuitable” as a controlling shareholders because of “prima
facie violations” of U.S. anti-bribery laws.  The review by Chertoff found that Freeh’s law firm “viewed
itself as an advocate first and an impartial investigator
second” in preparing the report. Freeh and his colleagues
“cherry-picked evidence and stretched to reach conclusions that
would be helpful to the Wynn Resorts Board,” according to
yesterday’s statement.  Okada, 70, is the chairman of Tokyo-based Universal
Entertainment. He helped Steve Wynn finance the casino operator
that went public in October 2002 and was its largest individual
shareholder until February of last year. He has said Steve Wynn
wanted him out because he opposed a $135 million gift to the
University of Macau.  Okada, who resigned from Wynn Resorts’ board of directors
ahead of a shareholders vote to oust him earlier this year,
faces a U.S. criminal investigation of possible bribery related
to his Philippine casino project, according to an April 8 filing
by the  Justice Department  in   Nevada  state court in  Las Vegas .  The Justice Department asked the judge to halt the lawsuit,
in which Wynn Resorts accuses Okada of breach of fiduciary duty
and Okada seeks to undo the redemption of his shares, in so far
as it pertains to the same allegations that are under
investigation, according to the filing.  The U.S. is also investigating Wynn Macau Ltd.’s donation
to the University of Macau Development Foundation.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Okada, A-12-656710-B, Clark
County District Court, Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 