-- Ruble Weakens as Bond Yields Drop Toward Record on Rate Cut Bets
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-04-23T15:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/ruble-falls-bond-yields-trade-near-record-low-on-rate-cut-bets.html
The ruble weakened against the
Russian central bank’s target basket of currencies and
government bonds extended gains for a fourth day on speculation
the central bank will cut its main  interest rates .  The ruble depreciated 0.3 percent against the basket to
35.9743 by 6 p.m. in Moscow, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on bourse data. It lost 0.4 percent versus the dollar to
31.6700. The yield on OFZ bonds due February 2027 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to within 10 basis
points of a record-low of 6.84 percent on January 10.  Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said yesterday that
interest rates may fall should inflation slow. The “trend”
toward a decline in rates will probably continue after some
secondary market rates were cut on April 2, he said. Crude slid
1 percent to $99.44 a barrel in  London , retreating for the first
time in four days. Revenue from sales of crude and natural gas
comprise about 50 percent of  Russia ’s state budget income.  “Oil is down, and in general the external market
conditions aren’t very stable,” Alexei Egorov, an analyst at
OAO Nomos Bank, said by phone from Moscow. “Given the bond
yields, the investors appetite is still there, but it doesn’t
help the ruble.”  Currency trading  was halted today from 3:50pm to 4:40pm in
Moscow because of a software malfunction, the Moscow Exchange
said in a website statement.  Slowing Inflation  As the annual inflation rate fell to 7 percent in March,
from 7.3 percent in February, the central bank cut rates on
gold-backed loans and some longer-term Lombard operations by 25
basis points. Bank Rossii will lower the refinancing rate 25
basis points this quarter to 8 percent, according to the median
forecast of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The ruble’s performance has decoupled from the ruble-
denominated debt, as investors hedge their exposure to OFZs by
using short-term non-deliverable forwards to benefit from bond
gains, according to Maxim Korovin and Anton Nikitin, analysts at
VTB Capital in Moscow.  “Many investors view OFZs more like a rate story,” they
said in an e-mailed note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  