-- Rutgers Hires Eddie Jordan as Successor to Fired Coach Mike Rice
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-24T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/rutgers-hires-jordan-as-successor-to-fired-basketball-coach-rice.html
Los Angeles Lakers assistant coach
Eddie  Jordan  is moving to Rutgers University to succeed Mike Rice, who was fired as the school’s men’s basketball coach after
video showed him physically and verbally abusing players.  Jordan will join the Scarlet Knights with a five-year
contract that guarantees him $6.25 million, Rutgers said
yesterday in a statement.  Rice was dismissed April 3, a day after video broadcast on
ESPN showed him pushing players, hurling balls at them and
yelling expletive-laden homophobic insults during team
practices. The handling of the scandal also led to the
resignation of Athletic Director Tim Pernetti, General Counsel
John Wolf and assistant basketball coach Jimmy Martelli.  “There’s a healing process that has to be done,” Jordan
said during a news conference at the New Brunswick, New Jersey,
school. “I’m glad my team is here. We’ve got enough talent to
exceed expectations.”  Calling it a “great challenge,” Jordan acknowledged many
of his players are considering transferring to other schools and
that recruits have decommitted in the aftermath of the Rice
scandal. Junior guard/forward Mike Poole is among those leaving,
having been granted his release, Jordan said.  “We still have hope for some other guys,” Jordan said.
“I’ve mentioned to them, ‘If you’re 50/50 on coming back, don’t
come back, but I’m going to try to make you 100 percent.’”  Point Guard  Jordan, 58, played point guard for the Scarlet Knights from
1973-77. He was on the team the last time the school reached the
Final Four in 1976, and is the school’s career leader in assists
and steals. Jordan was an assistant to Bob Wenzel when Rutgers
last visited the National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament in 1991.  “We’ve all come to a point where we have to regain our
pride and our dignity and our integrity to our university,”
Jordan said.  Jordan’s appointment followed two days of talks with school
officials including President Robert Barchi, the Star-Ledger of
 Newark , New Jersey, reported April 14. Barchi resisted pressure
from professors and state politicians to step down for his part
in the scandal.  The hiring marked “a new day for Rutgers,” Barchi said
yesterday. “This is the most fun I’ve had in front of TV
cameras in the last month.”  Jordan secured his first head-coaching role in the National
Basketball Association in March 1997 and went 33-64 over two
seasons before being fired by the Sacramento Kings.  Jordan’s Record  Following four seasons as an assistant with the New Jersey
Nets, Jordan in 2003 took charge of the Washington Wizards and
led the team to the playoffs four times before being fired in
his sixth season with a 197-224 mark. He spent the 2009-10
season with the Philadelphia 76ers, when they went 27-55, and
joined the Lakers in 2012.  Jordan also had stints as an assistant coach at Rutgers,
Boston College and Old Dominion.  Rice was fired three months after being fined $50,000 and
suspended for three games by Pernetti for his behavior toward
players during team practices from 2010-12. Pernetti was forced
to step down two days later following criticism for not firing
Rice when evidence of his behavior was first brought to his
attention.  Jordan said that he had the “same reaction as everyone”
to the practice video and that he didn’t want to rehash it. He
also said he’s always wanted to return to the school.  “I wanted to come here 10 years ago,” Jordan said. “I
wanted to come here three years ago. It wasn’t because of what
happened.”  Permanent Successor  Rutgers on April 8 named Carl Kirschner as interim athletic
director and said it would form a committee to seek a permanent
successor to Pernetti.  Jordan takes over a program that had a 15-16 record last
season and hasn’t had a winning season since it went 19-14 in
2005-06. The Scarlet Knights have had losing records in 17 of
the past 23 seasons.  “With the debacle that the program has been through
lately, Eddie’s probably what they need right now, somebody
who’s sort of like a son of the university,” Phil Sellers, one
of several former Rutgers teammates of Jordan who were in
attendance at the news conference, said in an interview. “He
can bring those alumni back that might have turned their backs
on the program because they weren’t happy with what they’ve
seen.”  Big Ten  Rice was suspended by Pernetti three weeks after Rutgers
was invited to join the  Big Ten  conference.  In addition to pitting the Scarlet Knights against sports
powerhouses such as Ohio State University and the University of
 Nebraska , the switch will bring Rutgers a share of Big Ten
revenue -- $265 million in 2010 -- which may help to reduce the
annual payment the university doles out to the athletic
department.  The subsidy reached $28.5 million in June 2011, the largest
among 54 U.S. public universities in the six biggest football
conferences, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rice’s homophobic behavior came to light less than three
years after freshman Tyler Clementi killed himself when his
roommate broadcast video on the Internet of him kissing a man.  The roommate, Dharun Ravi, was convicted last year of
invasion of privacy, bias intimidation and other counts, served
less than a month in jail and is now appealing his conviction.  The school in February named a center to honor Clementi,
which will be used for anti-bullying programs and to help people
adjust to college life.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  