-- SABMiller Appoints Clark CEO After Mackay Treated for Tumor
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-04-23T11:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/sabmiller-appoints-clark-ceo-after-mackay-diagnosed-with-tumor.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB)  said Alan Clark will
succeed Graham Mackay as chief executive officer earlier than
planned after the man who led the company to become the world’s
second-biggest brewer was diagnosed with a brain tumor.  Clark, who has worked at the business for more than two
decades, will become CEO with immediate effect, London-based
SABMiller  said today . The 53-year-old had been due to take over
in July, a year after being appointed chief operating officer.  Mackay, 63, underwent surgery April 22, and his role will
be kept “under review pending the outcome of his treatment,”
SABMiller said. He had been due to take the position of chairman
in July, at the company’s annual general meeting. SABMiller
announced the leadership change in April last year.  Mackay has led the brewer since it listed in  London  in
1999, overseeing a slew of acquisitions including the A$10.5
billion ($10.8 billion) takeover of Foster’s Group Ltd. in 2011,
which gave it control of about half the Australian beer market.
In that time, the share price has risen about eightfold, while
sales have increased more than six times to $16.7 billion.  “Operationally, Mackay’s been the best,” Anthony Bucalo,
an analyst at Grupo Santander SA in London, said today. “He’s
been the architect of the company we’ve seen growing over the
last 15 years, and they’re now inheriting this incredible
culture at SABMiller that he was instrumental in forming.”  Shares Gain  Clark  joined the brewer in 1990 in his native  South Africa 
as training and development manager, and has managed units
including the European and soft-drinks divisions.  “Alan Clark is more than capable of doing this job, and is
deeply steeped in the culture of SABMiller,” Bucalo said.
“He’s a pro.”  The  shares  rose 3.3 percent to 3,470 pence at 11:41 a.m. in
London trading, giving the company a market capitalization of
55.6 billion pounds ($84.7 billion).  SABMiller’s decision to move its main listing to London was
a “watershed that brought them from being a South Africa-based
business to an international beer company,” according to  Ian Shackleton , an analyst at Nomura. The brewer originally started
selling beer to gold prospectors in South  Africa  in 1895.  Mackay also led the company’s expansion into  North America 
with the $5.6 billion acquisition of Miller Brewing Co. in 2002,
and the takeover of  Colombia ’s Bavaria SA and  Italy ’s Birra
Peroni SpA. He joined the company in 1978 in South Africa,
according to SABMiller’s website, and also sits on the boards of
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc and Philip Morris International Inc.  ‘Immense Contribution’  “Graham’s one of those guys who’s seen as one of the most
forward-thinking leaders in the beer world,” Shackleton said.
“They’ve clearly widened their geographic footprint hugely.”  The brewer said April 18 that it increased lager volume 3
percent this year, aided by gains in  emerging markets  such as
Asia and Africa. The company is combating sluggish conditions in
 Europe  by creating new packaging for its products, including
plastic bottles in  Romania  for its economy brand Ciucas.  Mackay has “made an immense contribution to making
SABMiller what it is today, but the transition from Graham to
Alan in accordance with our succession plans is already in its
final stages,” said John Manser, who will step up from deputy
chairman to become acting chairman. “We are confident that
under Alan Clark’s leadership the management team will continue
to grow our business and deliver value for shareholders.”  Mackay said he doesn’t expect there to be any impact on the
company’s operations or strategic direction.  “Alan will now simply pick up the remaining executive
responsibilities a little sooner than expected,” he said in the
statement. “I obviously have an additional personal objective,
and that is to get well as quickly as possible for the sake of
my wife and children.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  