-- SAP Africa Workforce to Double as Oil-Rich States Courted
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-04-24T07:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/sap-to-double-africa-workforce-while-courting-oil-rich-states.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business-management software, is pushing further into oil- and
gas-rich African countries as growth in Europe remains subdued
and Asian markets slow.  Pfungwa Serima, who heads SAP’s operations in the region,
has been meeting with ministers from African countries as good
relations with governments are crucial for business expansion,
he said in an interview. SAP plans to double the number of
employees in Africa to about 1,200 by 2015.  “Africa is the last frontier remaining on this globe where
real opportunities are,” Serima said over dinner in
Johannesburg, where SAP has its headquarters for the region.
“We believe in  Angola  because of its openness with oil and gas.
We believe in the potential of  Ivory Coast . We’re very close to
what’s happening in  Ghana ; and the potential of Nigeria, it’s
just a matter of time, but it’s one of the giants on the
continent.”  The economy in sub-Saharan Africa will grow 5.6 percent
this year and 6.1 percent in 2014, the  International Monetary
Fund  said April 16. That compares with a forecast of 4 percent
growth for the global economy next year. SAP, based in Walldorf,
Germany, last week reported first-quarter software sales and
profit that missed analyst estimates as it struggled to seal new
contracts in the Asia-Pacific area.  SAP  shares  rose 0.5 percent to 58.02 euros at 9:53 a.m. in
Frankfurt. That brought the stock’s gain to 18 percent in 12
months, giving the company a market value of 71.3 billion euros
($92.6 billion).  Growth Plan  Software revenue from customers in Asia-Pacific and Japan,
where SAP had posted the most growth in recent years, fell 15
percent. Co-Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said the
region will be “back on track” this quarter after China’s
first-quarter growth dropped and the country’s public sector
slowed spending amid a transition to a new government.  By contrast, license sales in Africa grew more than 10
percent in the three months through March. SAP doesn’t break out
revenue for the continent.  “We are going to the board in October to present our
growth plan and part of that will be talking about amplifying
our presence on the continent,” said Serima, who’s had meetings
with ministers of Ivory Coast and  Senegal  over the last four
weeks.  Oracle Challenge  Businesses have focused too much on other  emerging markets ,
such as China, while  Africa  with more than 1 billion people has
been misunderstood, Serima said. Problems such as a lack of
education and oppressive governments have added to the
misconception, said Serima.  “They look at it as one country,” said Serima, a
Zimbabwean. “Education and the availability of skills has
always been an issue. Africa has had a few issues around
dictators that still remain. If we can embrace democracy in
Africa that will be a step change in the right direction.”  Since taking office in 2010, co-CEOs McDermott and Jim Hagemann Snabe have expanded the software maker’s offering with
mobile and Web-based software and they have deployed the fast
Hana database to challenge its biggest competitor  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
in its core market. SAP plans to lift revenue to more than 20
billion euros in 2015, compared with last year’s sales of 16.2
billion euros.  Mobile Banking  Apart from delivering software to foreign companies
expanding into Africa, SAP is also seeking local clients.  SAP has been working with South Africa’s  Standard Bank
Group Ltd. (SBK)  to bring mobile banking services to people who don’t
have a bank account, reporting 550,000 customers in February, a
year after the project started. The company also targets
governments with Hana-supported software that helps detect  tax
evasion  and social services fraud.  “If we can assist governments, it gives us an opportunity
to participate in whatever they want to do,” Serima said.
“They’ve embraced the idea of service delivery and as such it
is becoming easier for them to accept the fact that
organizations like SAP will make a change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  