-- Schneider First-Quarter Sales Miss Estimates as Europe Falls
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-04-23T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/schneider-first-quarter-sales-miss-estimates-as-europe-falls.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s
biggest maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, reported
first-quarter sales that missed analysts’  estimates , hurt by
falling demand in western Europe and North America.  Revenue declined 3.7 percent to 5.21 billion euros ($6.80
billion), the company based in Rueil-Malmaison near Paris said
in a statement today. Analysts polled by Bloomberg projected
5.30 billion euros. Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate
fluctuations, sales fell 2.7 percent as the euro strengthened.  “Europe remained difficult,” and “our performance was
negatively impacted by one-offs and high comparables” in North
America, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire said in
the statement. “Improvement in  China  supported return to growth
in Asia-Pacific and other new economies continued to grow.”  The CEO reiterated his 2013 target for “low-single digit
organic growth in sales and a stable to slightly up adjusted”
earnings before interest, taxes and amortization margin as the
company is slashing costs by cutting jobs, regrouping sites,
being more selective on services contracts, and redesigning
products to adapt to a construction slump and government
austerity measures in  Europe .  Foreign exchange fluctuations trimmed first-quarter revenue
by 74 million euros as the European currency strengthened
against the dollar, the yen, the Indian rupee and the Brazilian
real, Schneider said.  Sales were also hurt by a smaller number of working days in
the first quarter, notably in North America, the company said.
Spending on government buildings data centers was weaker too, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  