-- Seizure Drug Used in Pregnancy Boosts Baby’s Autism Risk
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/seizure-drug-used-in-pregnancy-boosts-baby-s-autism-risk.html
Children born to mothers who took
the anti-seizure drug valproate were five times more likely to
be born with autism than those whose mothers didn’t take the
medication, a Danish study found.  The epilepsy drug was also tied to a three-fold increase of
 autism spectrum disorder , which includes Asperger syndrome and
other developmental disorders, according to research published
yesterday in the  Journal of the  American Medical Association .  The findings show that valproate should be avoided and
other treatments used instead to control seizures in women of
childbearing age to reduce risk of autism in their unborn
children, said  Kimford Meador , a neurologist who wrote an
accompanying editorial. If not, only the lowest dose of the drug
should be given. Previous research has linked valproate’s use
during pregnancy to heart defects, spina bifida, cleft palates
and cognitive problems including lower intelligence scores.  “This is an important risk factor and one that can be
avoided or at least the risk reduced in women who don’t need to
take this and can take another drug,” Meador, a professor of
neurology at  Emory University  in Atlanta, said in a telephone
interview. “This is the strongest evidence to date that there
is a link between fetal exposure and childhood autism or autism
spectrum disorder.”  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , based in North Chicago,  Illinois , sells
valproate under the brand name Depakote. The drug is approved by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to treat seizures, prevent
migraine headaches and treat manic episodes associated with
bipolar disorder. It is also used by doctors off-label for other
conditions, particularly psychiatric disorders, according to the
FDA website.  Agency Warning  The agency  in 2011  warned women of childbearing age that
valproate was associated with lower cognitive scores in children
whose mothers took the drug during pregnancy. It had previously
warned that the medicine was linked to  birth defects .  Valproate may turn on genes in the body too much, not at
all or at the wrong time, which could ultimately change the way
the nervous system develops, said Christopher Stodgell, an
associate professor in the Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology at the University of Rochester Medical Center in New
York, who wasn’t an author on the paper but is studying the
drug’s connection to autism.  The effects seem to occur early in pregnancy, within the
first few weeks, sometimes before a woman even realizes she’s
pregnant,  Stodgell  said.  ‘Understand’ Risks  “The risks outweigh the benefits but the caveat is the
drug is important to some women,” he said in a telephone
interview. “It’s important that these women understand what
those risks are.”  The study was one of the largest to show valproate’s link
to autism, he said.  Researchers from Aarhus University Hospital looked at
children born in  Denmark  from 1996 to 2006 and identified those
exposed to valproate during pregnancy. The analysis included
655,615 children.  During the course of the study, 5,437 children were
diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder, including 2,067 who
were diagnosed with childhood autism. Of those, 508 were exposed
to valproate.  In 14 years of follow up, use of valproate during pregnancy
was associated with an absolute risk of 4.42 percent for autism
spectrum disorder and 2.5 percent for childhood autism, compared
with a total risk of 1.53 percent for autism spectrum disorder
and 0.48 percent for childhood autism, the study showed.  Study Findings  When the researchers limited it to just children of women
with epilepsy, 432 children were exposed to valproate. The
absolute risk for developing autism spectrum disorder was 4.15
percent and the risk for childhood autism was 2.95 percent. That
compares to 2.44 percent risk for autism spectrum disorder and
1.02 percent risk for childhood autism for the 6,152 children
not exposed to valproate, according to the paper.  Meador said more studies are needed to better understand
how seizure drugs and other treatments affect an unborn child.  “There’s still a great deal of valproate being used,”
Meador said. “The amount being used in women of childbearing
age seems to be excessive given the risk benefit ratio. There’s
alternative drugs that have lower risks than valproate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  