-- Too-Big-to-Fail Bill Seen as Fix for Dodd-Frank Act’s Flaws
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-04-24T20:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/senate-too-big-to-fail-bill-boosts-big-banks-capital-standards.html
“Too-big-to-fail” legislation
unveiled in Washington today is needed to rein in the biggest
U.S. banks because the Dodd-Frank Act has failed to guard
taxpayers against future bailouts, the bill’s sponsors said.  The four largest banks --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of
America  Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co -- “are
nearly $2 trillion larger than they were” before getting U.S.
aid to help them weather the 2008 credit crisis, Senator  Sherrod Brown  said in a news conference today.  “If big banks want to continue risky practices, they
should do so with their own assets,” said Brown, an Ohio
Democrat. “Our bill will ensure a level playing field for all
financial institutions by ending the subsidy for Wall Street
megabanks and requiring banks to have adequate capital.”  Brown and Republican Senator  David Vitter  of  Louisiana ,
whose plan is opposed by key lawmakers, are proposing a 15
percent capital requirement for so-called megabanks as a way to
reduce risk and remove the perception that they would get
bailouts in a crisis. Mid-size and regional banks, those between
$500 billion and $50 billion in assets, would need to have 8
percent capital relative to assets.  “It is our intent to have much more protection against a
crisis and against a taxpayer bailout in a crisis, and it is our
intent to level the playing field and take away a government
policy subsidy, if you will, that exists in the market now
favoring size,” Vitter said during a roundtable meeting at the
 National Press Club  yesterday.  Mid-size ‘Losers’  The $500 billion threshold effectively puts a cap on growth
for regional banks such as  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  and
 BB&T Corp. (BBT) , which would be “losers” under the bill, according
to Joseph Engelhard, a former Treasury Department official who
is now senior vice president at Capital Alpha Partners LLC., a
Washington-based firm that “offers predictive insight for
capital-markets professionals,” according to its website.  “To the extent this bill gets close to passage it will
make the Fed and other regulators work even harder to implement
Dodd-Frank in a tougher way,” Englehard said in an interview.  The Dodd-Frank financial-regulation law was enacted in
2010, two years after a credit crisis that led to the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and taxpayer bailouts that
helped sustain other leading financial firms. Implementation has
been slowed amid disagreement within regulatory agencies and
legal challenges to some rules.  Traditional Banking  At least six banks have assets exceeding the $500 billion
threshold Vitter cited yesterday for the highest capital
standard: JPMorgan, Citigroup,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , all based in  New York , as well as  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based  Bank of America  and San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo.  Brown, 60, and Vitter, 51, say their bill would limit the
government safety net of deposit insurance and discount lending
to traditional banking operations and require affiliates and
subsidiaries of large banks to be separately capitalized. It
would provide regulatory relief to community banks including
changes to a qualified mortgage rule, creating an independent
bank examiner ombudsman for those institutions and adopting
privacy notice simplification.  For Brown, who was elected to the Senate in 2006 after
serving in the House, the proposal recalls his failed effort
during debate over what became the Dodd-Frank Act to include an
amendment to limit banks’ size. Vitter, who was elected in 2004
and joined Republicans in nearly unanimous opposition to Dodd-
Frank, has criticized proposed Basel III capital standards as a
“mess” and said they should be thrown out.  Chairman’s Opposition  Their legislation faces obstacles to enactment, starting in
the Senate Banking Committee, where Chairman  Tim Johnson , a
South Dakota Democrat, has said regulators should finish work on
Dodd-Frank before determining whether it solves too big to fail.
Senator  Mike Crapo , the Idaho lawmaker who is the panel’s top
Republican, said in an interview yesterday that setting capital
standards is a job for regulators, not legislators.  The Brown-Vitter bill is also opposed by Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who excoriated banks for their pre-
crisis risk-taking in his role as chairman of the Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.  “I want to have tough regulation, which is what I think
Dodd-Frank stood for and explicitly says,” Levin said in an
interview yesterday. “I’m fighting for that. I can’t at the
same time give up on that and say ‘break up the banks.’”  Systemic Threat  Supporters of the Brown-Vitter plan say further measures to
curb risk are needed because Dodd-Frank failed to address the
systemic threat posed by the largest banks. Bankers have said
those seeking additional steps aren’t considering the
regulations in the 2010 law including so-called living wills
that will lay out how financial firms are to be unwound after a
collapse and FDIC resolution authority for failed companies.  “Dodd-Frank allows the regulators to do what Brown-Vitter
is doing because it gives them the ability to set  capital
requirements  but the requirements they set are very low and rely
on risk weights,”  Anat Admati , a Stanford University finance
and economics professor, said today in an interview. “This a
step in the right direction definitely.”  Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas Republican who
leads the House Financial Services Committee, said at an
 Independent Community Bankers of America  conference today that
he opposes the idea of downsizing banks. The problem of too big
to fail can be solved through changes in bankruptcy law,
Hensarling said.  ‘Critical Mass’  “There isn’t a critical mass in Congress to pass new too-
big-to-fail legislation,” said  Brian Gardner , senior vice
president for Washington research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Inc. “However if some catalyst event comes along and changes
the political calculus the odds could improve.”  Ed Yingling, the former American Bankers Association
president who is now a partner at law firm Covington & Burling
LLP in  Washington , is also dubious of the bill’s chances.  “It will get a lot of discussion but ultimately it doesn’t
have any chance of moving forward,” Yingling said today in an
interview. “Those who understand the way Washington works will
say it’s hard to see how it moves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  