-- Serbian 3-Year Bond Yield Drops as Kosovo Deal Boosts EU Chances
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-23T13:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/serbian-3-year-bond-yield-drops-as-kosovo-deal-boosts-eu-chances.html
Yields on Serbian three-year bonds
fell as investors bid more than offered in the first sale after
the government reached an agreement with Kosovo that brings both
countries a step closer to European Union membership.  Yields declined 0.9 percentage point to 10.49 percent as
investors bought 10 billion dinars ($116.6 million) of three-
year bonds, which carry a 10 percent coupon, according to an e-
mailed statement today from the Debt Management Agency in
Belgrade. Investors bid 14.3 billion dinars, it said.  “Frontier markets are ironically a safe place to be these
days, if you can, of course, cope with the poor liquidity, small
markets, and exotic places,”  Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-
market strategy at Societe Generale SA in  London , according to
an investor note published today. “We like exposure to  Serbia ,
not only on the FX side, but on the cash bond side as well” and
“particularly” the three-year bonds.  The Balkan nation’s debt yields have fallen since the
European Commission said yesterday that Serbia and Kosovo
deserved to move closer to 27-nation bloc after they agreed to
improve relations.  Yields Fall  Yields on Serbia’s 10-year benchmark Eurobond maturing in
2021 eased 2 basis points to 5.053 percent at 2:47 p.m. in
Belgrade, after a 15 basis-point fall yesterday. The dinar
traded at 111.3080 against the euro at 2:58 p.m., little changed
on the day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The agreed deal increases the chances of Serbia getting a
date from the EU in June,” Naz Masraff, London-based analyst at
 Eurasia Group , said in a note to investors. “But the EU, and in
particular  Germany , will certainly want to see actual
implementation on the ground before granting a date,” which
could be set in December, or the first half of 2014,
“conditional on and linked to the implementation of the
agreement.”  The commission gave the two sides have until June 15 to
work out power sharing in telecommunications and energy and make
progress in clarifying the fate of people missing in both
nations since a 1998-99 war.  Societe Generale’s Anne said Serbia’s accord with Kosovo
will “provide a boost to the EU membership talks, which could
be massive as a signal for Serbia’s status as a place to
invest.”  Today’s auction yield was below the bank’s 10.70 percent to
11 percent forecast.  An International Monetary Fund mission arrives for talks
and a review of Serbia’s economic policies and monetary and
fiscal performance on May 8, five days before the National Bank
of Serbia meets to discuss interest rates after keeping
borrowing  costs  unchanged at 11.75 percent for two months on
slowing inflation.  Serbia should ask the IMF for a three-year precautionary
loan to boost investor confidence, central bank Governor
Jorgovanka Tabakovic, attending the spring meetings of the IMF
and World Bank in  Washington , told state-run Tanjug news agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  