-- Serbia to Split Up Srbijagas, Reschedule Its $1.5 Billion Debt
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-04-23T13:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/serbia-to-split-up-srbijagas-reschedule-its-1-5-billion-debt.html
Serbia  will divide its natural gas
monopoly Srbijagas JP in two parts, separating trade and
distribution from storage and transportation, as the company’s
debt became “unsustainable” and liquidity dwindled.  The government will “prevent the financial collapse” of
Srbijagas and any of its new borrowing as debt reached almost
1.2 billion euros ($1.5 billion) and liquidity was just 1
percent of short-term liabilities, Energy Minister Zorana
Mihajlovic told reporters in Belgrade today.  “The situation brings the country into serious danger of
disruption of the gas supply” coming from  Russia , Mihajlovic
said, presenting a plan to overhaul the Novi Sad, Serbia-based
company. “We will engage in talks with commercial banks to
reschedule loans given to Srbijagas.”  Almost 100 million euros of the total are short-term loans.
Srbijagas accumulated the debt between 2008 and 2012 as the
government capped gas prices during the economic downturn, with
public companies dominating the list of its debtors. The utility
posted a $410 million net loss in 2012.  Serbia wants to curb losses of state-owned enterprises and
it stopped backing their loans, trying to narrow the budget gap
to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product this year from 6.7
percent in 2012 and rein in public debt. The overhaul, to be
completed by the end of 2014, will unbundle Srbijagas according
to European Union requirements.  Once consolidated, the transportation and storage units
will operate as Transgas AD, and trade and distribution will
continue as Srbijagas AD. Both will be closed joint-stock
companies controlled by the state, Mihajlovic said.  Transgas may later be merged with pipeline and power grid
operators,  Transnafta JP  and Elektromreza Srbije JP, to form the
Serbian Energy Enterprise, which could transform Serbia into a
Balkan energy hub as it joins the  South Stream  pipeline and
builds a gas link to  Bulgaria .  To contact the reporter on this story: Misha Savic in Belgrade
at   msavic2@bloomberg.net  and Gordana
Filipovic at   gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  