-- Shootout Witness Collects Social-Media Crowd With Photos
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/shootout-witness-gathers-social-media-crowd-with-photos.html
As Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev
fought police with guns and homemade bombs in the early hours of
April 19, Andrew Kitzenberg peeked from his third-floor bedroom
window and  snapped pictures  of the battle with his iPhone.  As the firefight subsided, one of the brothers lay dead on
his suburban street and Kitzenberg did what witnesses to
dramatic events now do with increasing frequency.  “I tweeted the photos immediately,” he said in an
interview yesterday on the front porch of his home in Watertown,
 Massachusetts , referring to using the Twitter.com website, where
his “followers” have surged almost 600-fold. “I had a lot of
insightful information and wanted to share it.”  Kitzenberg, a 2010 graduate of Babson College in Wellesley,
Massachusetts, said he realized who the shooters were when they
pulled what appeared to be a kitchen pot out of a car and lit a
connecting fuse. The Boston Marathon bombers used explosive-
packed pressure cookers to kill three and injure more than 260
people near the race finish line April 15.  “I saw the sparks from the fuse and that’s when I hit the
ground,” Kitzenberg said.  A moment later he heard and felt a tremendous explosion. A
black smudge on the asphalt still marks the spot where the
pressure cooker blew up on Laurel Street, where he lives.  Gunfight Details  Watertown Police Captain Raymond Dupuis said more than 200
rounds were fired in the showdown. The Tsarnaevs also threw at
least two pipe bombs and two pressure-cooker bombs, only one of
which exploded during the firefight, he said.  Following the blast, Kitzenberg said he watched one of the
shooters begin walking toward the police line, firing a handgun.
The shooter, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, eventually ran out of
bullets, according to Dupuis. He was then tackled by officers.  “After he went down the other shooter turned the SUV
around and just accelerated toward the Watertown police
vehicles,” Kitzenberg said.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, drove straight at the officers,
apparently running over his brother, Dupuis said. Kitzenberg
said the younger man could have fled by heading in the opposite
direction, which appeared unguarded by police.  At around 2 a.m. that day, Kitzenberg posted this on
Twitter: “Crashed cop car with all windows shot out in our
driveway.”  Captured Nearby  After Dzhokhar Tsarnaev rammed through the police line, he
disappeared for more than 16 hours. He was eventually discovered
hiding in a covered boat in a nearby backyard and arrested.  The younger Tsarnaev was charged April 22 by federal
prosecutors with using a weapon of mass destruction that
resulted in death. He may face the death penalty if convicted.  Kitzenberg said after the melee, he discovered that a
bullet had pierced a second-floor wall of his house. It left a
hole in a calendar and struck the back of a desk chair.  “My roommates and I are all very grateful that we made it
through such a terrifying event unharmed,” he said on his blog.  Kitzenberg’s online popularity has since soared. He now has
more than 29,000 Twitter “followers,” which he said compares
with 50 the night the Tsarnaev brothers came to Laurel Street.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  