-- Spain’s Recession Eases as Rajoy Prepares Growth Plan
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-04-23T12:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/spain-s-recession-eases-as-rajoy-prepares-growth-plan.html
Spain ’s recession eased in the
first quarter as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  prepares plans to
foster growth while reducing the country’s  budget deficit .  Gross domestic product  fell 0.5 percent from the fourth
quarter, when it dropped 0.8 percent, the most since 2009, the
Bank of Spain said in its monthly  bulletin  today. That’s the
seventh quarterly contraction. Today’s data is in line with the
median of 15 economist estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Rajoy pledged on April 17 to unveil measures to stimulate
the economy and create jobs later this week. His government is
seeking more time from European Union peers to reorder public
finances in the euro-area’s fourth largest economy after a
banking-sector bailout propelled Spain’s deficit last year to
the largest in the region.  “It’s a good sign after a horrible last quarter in 2012,
but we are still in an intense recession,” said Jose Carlos Diez, chief economist at Madrid-based brokerage Intermoney SA.
“It’s difficult to see a recovery. Our main trading partners
aren’t doing well and unemployment is going to continue
increasing.”  Yields Fall  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark  bonds fell 23 basis
points to 4.264 percent at 2:40 p.m. in  Madrid , narrowing the
spread with German debt of similar maturity to 3.05 percentage
points after met its maximum target of 3 billion euros ($3.9
billion) in a bills sale. The Spanish 10-year yield rose to a
euro-era record of 7.75 percent in July before the  European
Central Bank  pledged to do whatever it takes to save the euro.  The  International Monetary Fund  last week cut its outlook
for Spain, predicting the economy to shrink 1.6 percent this
year before growing 0.7 percent in 2014. Still, the Washington-
based fund’s managing director  Christine Lagarde  offered support
for Rajoy’s calls for the EU to loosen demands for further
deficit cuts.  Spain “needs more time,” Lagarde said in  Washington  on
April 18. “We do not see a need to do upfront, heavy-duty
fiscal consolidation as was initially planned.”  Funding conditions remain restrictive for households and
companies, weighing on domestic demand, the Bank of Spain said.
Households’ limited capacity to save in a context of declining
disposable income as well as uncertainty on the labor market and
a high level of debt leave little space for consumption to pick
up in the short term, it said.  2012 Deficit  Spain’s export growth was also held back by the euro-area
recession during the first three months of the year, the Bank of
Spain said. Spain’s National Statistics Institute will report
first-quarter GDP data on April 30.  Eurostat, the EU’s statistics agency in Luxembourg,
reported yesterday that Spain’s 2012 deficit widened to 10.6
percent of GDP from 9.4 percent in 2011, more than three times
the  limit of 3 percent of GDP  imposed by the EU on all members.
Excluding aid to banks, the 2012 budget deficit was 7.1 percent,
Eurostat said.  The weakness of income from tax receipts and contributions
to the pensions and unemployment benefits system point to a
difficulty of reducing the budget deficit in a context of
economic crisis, the Bank of Spain said.  Jose Barroso , president of the European Commission,
yesterday signaled European officials are being swayed by IMF
pressure to relax Spain’s targets for reducing the budget
deficit due to the toll on the economy.  “We are reaching the limits of the current policies,”
Barroso said on a panel in Brussels. Budget cutting “has to be
complemented by a stronger emphasis on growth and growth
measures in the shorter term,” he said. “We have been saying
this, but we should say it louder and clearer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  