-- Suarez to Learn Ban Length After Accepting F.A. Charge for Bite
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-04-24T00:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/suarez-admits-violent-conduct-for-biting-chelsea-player-in-match.html
Liverpool striker Luis Suarez
accepted a charge of violent conduct by English soccer’s ruling
body for biting an opponent in a match and will today learn what
punishment he faces.  Suarez denied his biting Chelsea defender Branislav Ivanovic three days ago should result in a longer suspension
than the standard three-game ban, the Football Association said
in an  e-mailed statement  last night.  “Suarez has denied the F.A.’s claim that the standard
punishment of three matches is clearly insufficient for this
offense,” the governing body said in the statement. “The
incident was not seen by the match officials and has therefore
been retrospectively reviewed.”  An independent regulatory commission will hear the case
today, the F.A. added. Suarez will have the right to appeal if
he considers the penalty to be too severe.  The Uruguayan forward, who once got a seven-game ban for
biting an opponent when he played in the Netherlands, bit
Ivanovic on the arm during the second half of Liverpool’s 2-2
Premier League draw with Chelsea at Anfield.  The controversy has cast doubt on Suarez’s future in
English soccer. He’s been Liverpool’s standout player since
joining from Amsterdam club Ajax in January 2011, though has
faced criticism and punishment for his actions on the field. He
served an eight-game suspension last season after being found to
have racially abused Manchester United defender Patrice Evra.  Club Fine  Liverpool fined the 26-year-old an undisclosed amount for
the bite, saying the money would be donated to the Hillsborough
Family Support Group, which represents and supports families who
lost members in a 1989 stadium disaster.  As well as the fine, Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers has
spoken to Suarez, and will be “working with him further on his
discipline,” the team’s managing director Ian Ayre said in a
statement.  Suarez set up Liverpool’s first goal and got a yellow card
after his handball gave Chelsea a penalty kick for its second.
He then tied the match with a header in stoppage time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  