-- Sucampo Wins Approval for Expanded Use of Amitiza in U.S.
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-23T20:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/sucampo-wins-approval-for-expanded-use-of-amitiza-in-u-s-.html
Sucampo Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SCMP)  won
approval to expand the use of its Amitiza drug to treat opioid-
induced constipation in patients with chronic non-cancer pain.
The approval spurred the company’s shares to the greatest one-
day gain in more than four years.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the medicine,
already backed in 2006 for certain types of constipation.
Sucampo, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , has a partnership with
 Osaka , Japan-based  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  to sell Amitiza in
the U.S.  Amitiza is the first oral prescription medication available
for opioid-induced constipation, the companies said in a
statement today. Use of the drug for the condition will create a
peak market opportunity of $200 million, Irina Rivkind, an
analyst with Cantor Fitzgerald LP in  New York , said in a note to
clients. Sucampo reported sales of $81.5 million last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Opioid-induced constipation is experienced by about 40
percent of patients on the painkillers, according to an article
published in The American Journal of Gastroenterology in May
2011.  Sucampo gained 24 percent to $8.46 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day increase since December 2008. The
company is eligible for a $10 million payment from Takeda when
sales of the treatment begin and $50 million in commercial
milestone payments, Rivkind said.  Cubist, Nektar  Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST)  is studying bevenopran, a pill
that would treat opioid-induced constipation in patients with
chronic, non-cancer pain.  Nektar Therapeutics (NKTR)  and  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN)  are studying a tablet that would combine experimental
naloxegol with certain opioids to treat pain without
constipation.  Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (SLXP) ’s Relistor was approved in 2008
as an injection to help treat opioid-induced constipation in
patients with advanced illnesses who are receiving care to
relieve suffering. The company attempted to expand Relistor into
patients with chronic, non-cancer pain taking opioids and was
rejected by the FDA in July.  Salix is weighing whether it will seek approval for the
active ingredient in Relistor, methylnaltrexone, as an oral
treatment for the condition, the company said in its 2012 annual
report.  FDA Delay  The FDA delayed the decision to expand use of Amitiza in
November to review analysis submitted that month, Sucampo said
on Nov. 30. At the time, Sucampo said the FDA did approve label
changes that removed all pregnancy-related warnings and
precautions.  The changes include the deletion of the caution that women
who could become pregnant should have a negative pregnancy test
prior to beginning the treatment and should be capable of using
effective contraception. The new label advises nursing mothers
to monitor their infants for diarrhea while taking Amitiza.  Sucampo receives a tiered royalty rate of 18 percent to 26
percent on Amitiza, Rivkind said. The twice-daily drug is
approved for constipation in adults for which the cause is
unknown, meaning there isn’t an underlying illness or medication
at the root of the condition and to treat irritable bowel
syndrome with constipation in adult women.  Sucampo is studying Amitiza in pediatric constipation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  