-- Swiss Finance Chiefs More Optimistic SNB Will Defend Franc Limit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-04-23T13:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/swiss-finance-chiefs-more-optimistic-snb-will-defend-franc-limit.html
Swiss finance chiefs are more
optimistic that the  Swiss National Bank  will keep the franc at
or above its ceiling versus the euro over the next year than
three months ago, according to a Deloitte survey.  The franc will stay at 1.20 per euro or higher over the
next 12 months, according to 90 percent of 116 finance chiefs in
a survey conducted between Feb. 25 and March 18. That compares
with 78 percent who thought the same at the end of the fourth
quarter of 2012.  “The mood amongst CFOs is good -- the first time in two
years that it’s generally positive,” Michael Grampp, Deloitte’s
chief economist in  Switzerland , said at a press conference in
Zurich today. Finance directors’ expectations for sales growth
over the next 12 months have also increased, he said.  Swiss exporters are battling against a franc which
strengthened in recent months after reaching a 20-month low of
1.2569 per euro in January.  Clariant AG (CLN)  and  Lonza AG (LONN)  have
reduced Swiss operations as budgeting for  Europe ’s highest-paid
workforce becomes more difficult.  A weaker franc would help Swiss companies sell more
products abroad and compete with cheaper offerings from
neighboring countries such as  Germany .  The franc rose to as high as 1.008 per euro in August 2011,
from as low as 1.6828 in 2007, before the SNB imposed a 1.20 per
euro ceiling in September 2011 to help exporters and fend off
deflation.  Cap Stays  Still, the SNB may have to defend the 1.20 cap for the next
two years at least, Rudolf Huber, President of CFO Forum
Schweiz, a group representing Swiss finance chiefs, said in an
interview in Zurich. The franc will probably not weaken versus
the euro as the euro-zone economy won’t grow, Huber said, adding
that high costs will deter Swiss companies from building new
factories at home.  At the same time Huber sees the appetite for acquisitions
rising among Swiss companies over the next two years as
companies are prepared to pay more for deals.  “I think the risk appetite will pick up a bit,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  