-- Switzerland’s Bank Frey Suspends Executive After U.S. Indictment
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-04-23T08:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/switzerland-s-bank-frey-suspends-executive-after-u-s-indictment.html
Bank Frey & Co. said it relieved
Stefan Buck of company duties after the U.S. charged the
executive and a Swiss lawyer with helping American clients hide
millions of dollars in offshore accounts.  “Stefan Buck has been suspended from his duties as head of
private banking and member of the executive board in order to
give him the time required to defend himself,” Zurich-based
Bank Frey said today in a  statement  on its website. “This step
is by no means to be misconstrued as a sign that Bank Frey
considers Stefan Buck to be guilty of the accusations,” the
firm said, adding it will support Buck during the proceedings.  Buck and Edgar Paltzer, the lawyer, opened and managed
undeclared accounts on behalf of U.S. taxpayers at Swiss banks,
according to an indictment released April 16 in federal court in
 New York . While the indictment and  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara didn’t identify either man’s employer, Bank Frey has
confirmed it was the “Bank No. 1” referred to in the
indictment and that Buck was the head of private banking and an
executive board member.  The U.S. is still probing at least 11 Swiss financial firms
on suspicions they helped Americans hide money from the  Internal
Revenue Service  in a crackdown that’s led prosecutors to charge
at least 88 people since 2008, including more than two dozen
bankers, lawyers and advisers.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution in 2009
by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered  tax evasion  and
handing over data on thousands of clients. Wegelin & Co., the
oldest Swiss private bank, pleaded guilty in Manhattan in
January to conspiring to help hide more than $1.2 billion in
assets from the IRS while opening undeclared accounts for at
least 70 U.S. taxpayers who were former UBS clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  