-- Syrian Turmoil Dominates Obama’s Talks With Emir of Qatar
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-04-23T21:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/syrian-turmoil-dominates-obama-s-talks-with-emir-of-qatar.html
President  Barack Obama  met with the
emir of Qatar at the White House as the two nations consider
different approaches toward toppling  Syria ’s leader and share
concerns about  Iran ’s nuclear ambition.  In remarks in the Oval Office of the White House following
his meeting with Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al Thani, Obama said
that while Syria dominated their talks, the two leaders also
“exchanged ideas” about how to advance the  peace process 
between  Israel  and the Palestinians.  The two nations have been discussing the best way to remove
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and “strengthen an opposition
that can bring about a democratic Syria that represents all
people and respects their rights,” Obama said.  Al Thani  said what is happening in Syria is a “major and
horrific tragedy.”  Their meeting occurred as one of a series of visits between
Obama and regional leaders at the White House and on the same
day that Israel’s top military intelligence analyst said Syrian
government forces used chemical weapons against rebels.  Obama has said such conduct would constitute a red line,
while  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said today
that the U.S. is “looking for conclusive evidence” and hasn’t
yet confirmed the Israeli report. Carney also declined to say
what action the U.S. would take against Syria if it determines
that chemical weapons were used.  Syria Intervention  The emir last year called for an Arab-led intervention in
Syria. Qatar has led a group of Persian Gulf nations seeking
more far-reaching measures to end Assad’s rule, even going as
far as arming the opposition.  Obama met last week with United Arab Emirates Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed  Al Nahyan . The U.S. president is to meet
Friday with King Abdullah II of Jordan and on May 16 with
Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan.  Simon Henderson, director of the Gulf and Energy Policy
Program at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said
Syria is a dominant issue now between the U.S. and Qatar because
Qatari money may be supporting “some pretty ghastly Jihadi
types” in an effort to topple Assad while the U.S. is facing
criticism it isn’t doing enough to match its rhetoric that Assad
must go.  “The Qataris are saying, ‘Well what are you doing in
Syria? You don’t want Assad there either and we’re actually
doing something about it,’” Henderson said. “And I’m not sure
quite what the American response to that would be.”  Air Base  Another issue as the U.S. winds down the war in  Afghanistan 
is American use of Qatar’s al-Udeid Air Base.  The meeting with Obama “confers status on the emir,”
Henderson said. “So it’s all good news for Qatar. For Obama,
it’s probably an awkward confrontation with foreign policy
realities.”  “The only card that Obama has to play probably is that
Qatar feels vulnerable toward Iran,” Henderson said.  The leaders also said they had discussed  Egypt , with Obama
telling reporters that “we both very much want to see success
on the part of Egyptian democracy” and economic prosperity for
the country.  Henderson said Qatar’s promise of $8 billion to Egypt thus
far has frustrated other Arab leaders in the region who are wary
of President Mohamed Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood, while the
U.S. may be frustrated because Qatar’s assistance doesn’t appear
to carry conditions including subsidy changes sought by the
 International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  