-- U.K. April CBI Factory Index Declines on Export Demand
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/u-k-april-cbi-factory-index-declines-on-export-demand.html
A U.K. factory index unexpectedly
fell this month to the lowest in 2 1/2 years as export demand
weakened, indicating continued weakness in manufacturing,
according to the  Confederation of British Industry .  A  gauge of orders  dropped to minus 25, the lowest since
October 2010, from minus 15 in March, the London-based business
lobby said in a report published today. The median of 12
forecasts in a  Bloomberg News   survey  was for a reading of minus
13. Still, the report also showed that manufacturers have become
more confident, with a quarterly optimism index rising to 5 from
zero in January.  Data this week will probably show the U.K. economy narrowly
avoided falling into an unprecedented triple-dip recession in
the first quarter, according to a poll of economists. Still, the
recovery may struggle to gather momentum as weak demand in the
euro area, Britain’s biggest export market, a fiscal squeeze at
home and  rising unemployment  weigh on demand.  “This quarter was a mixed bag for manufacturing, with new
orders disappointing because of a decline in domestic demand,
but output did increase,” Stephen Gifford, CBI director of
economics, said in a statement. “Although weaker sterling has
eased concern about international competitiveness, manufacturers
highlight the potentially chilling effect of political and
economic instability abroad on export orders.”  The pound has fallen about 6.3 percent against the dollar
this year and 5 percent versus the euro.  Selling Prices  A monthly index of export orders fell to minus 21 in April
from minus 11 in March, according to the CBI data. Expectations
for output over the next three months rose 1 point to 23, while
selling-price expectations increased to 8 from 5.  Within the quarterly survey, a gauge of orders for the past
three months slipped 2 points to minus 6 and the outlook for the
next quarter was at 18.  The CBI conducted the survey of 380 manufacturers between
March 21 and April 10.  The  median forecast  of 37 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News is for the economy to have skirted a slump in the first
quarter with gross domestic product growth of 0.1 percent.
Still,  Bank of England  policy maker  Martin Weale  said on April
18 that he wouldn’t be surprised if GDP fell. The  Office for
National Statistics  will release the data on April 25 in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  