-- U.K. Regulator Said to Join CFTC in ISDAfix Manipulation Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-04-23T18:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/u-k-regulator-said-to-join-cftc-in-isdafix-manipulation-probe.html
The U.K. Financial Conduct
Authority has started an inquiry into how the so-called ISDAfix
rate is set in British pounds, widening a price-manipulation
probe into benchmark  interest-rate swaps  that began in the U.S.  The FCA is working with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and is in the early stages of its review, according
to two people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
named because the inquiry is ongoing. The London-based regulator
hasn’t opened a formal investigation, one of the people said.  The British regulator’s review comes after the CFTC issued
subpoenas to current and former brokers at  ICAP Plc (IAP)  in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey , the International Swaps & Derivatives
Association and as many as 15 Wall Street dealers as part of its
probe of the dollar-denominated rate,  Bloomberg News  first
reported April 8. ISDAfix rates help determine everything from
interest on annuities to borrowing costs on bonds linked to
skyscrapers.  The FCA, previously known as the Financial Services
Authority, began looking into manipulation of the  London 
interbank offered rate in 2009 after the CFTC requested its
assistance the prior year. The British agency opened a formal
investigation of that rate in early 2010, leading to  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc being fined
more than more than $2.5 billion over the past year for rigging
Libor, a global benchmark for $300 trillion of securities.  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the FCA, declined to
comment as did  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  