-- Let the Free Market Not Bureaucrats Build Bridges
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-04-23T22:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/u-s-cities-need-private-spending-on-public-works.html
For a country that prides itself on
a robust private sector, the U.S. lags behind many other nations
in using the private sector to finance, build and operate
infrastructure. From 1990 to 2006, for example, public-private
partnerships financed five times as much transportation
infrastructure in the U.K. as in the U.S. -- even though the
U.S. economy is more than six times larger than that of the U.K.  Partnerships between the public and private sectors cannot
solve the entire problem of decaying and neglected
infrastructure in the U.S. They do not represent “free” money,
and many have gone wrong. But done right, they can boost
investment and help efficiently manage projects once they are in
place.  What’s getting in the way of infrastructure investments
today? That’s a question that 17 U.S. big-city mayors took up
last week at the first meeting of a new task force formed by the
 Clinton Global Initiative  and the United States Conference of
Mayors. (I serve as a special adviser to this Infrastructure
Financing for Cities Task Force.) Presumably, this should be an
ideal time to work on roads, bridges and other public works
because interest rates are low and the spending would help
reduce high unemployment in the U.S.  Revenue Challenge  The discussion among the mayors was wide-ranging, but they
seemed to generally agree that access to low-cost financing
isn’t the crucial obstacle. The more basic problem is the
complex decision-making and approval process, along with the
challenge to generate future revenue streams sufficient to pay
for the ongoing costs of the project and the original loans to
build it.  Economists Barry Bosworth and Sveta Milusheva of the
Brookings Institution, who have pointed this out previously, say
decision-makers too often look to obtain free federal funding
for projects whose benefits are largely local. They also focus
too much on new construction, and too little on operating costs
and maintenance, which account for more than half of the total
spending on infrastructure, according to the Congressional
Budget Office. In mass transit and aviation, the share is more
like two-thirds.  Partnerships with the private sector don’t make these
operating and maintenance costs disappear -- ultimately, someone
still pays -- but they provide a way to finance those costs, as
well as the upfront investment, by leaning on people who
directly use the infrastructure rather than the city’s taxpayers
as a whole. A private operator of a toll road, for example,
would charge a user fee to recoup the cost of building and
running it. (The approach works only where there is a specific
revenue source associated with the project. Other kinds of
infrastructure still have to be financed by general revenue. And
projects that have specific income sources don’t necessarily
need a public-private partnership.)  For projects that generate revenue, one question that the
mayors had is how best to design a public-private partnership --
since not all succeed. Here’s one approach I like: Insist that
projects be bid out based on the present value of revenue. This
strategy was proposed in 2011 by the economists Eduardo Engel of
Yale University, Ronald Fischer of the University of  Chile  in
Santiago and Alexander Galetovic of the Universidad de los Andes
in Santiago. Under this approach, potential private partners
would bid on the present value of the user fees they would
require to undertake the project. The winning bidder would get
to collect the user fees until it hit the present-value target.  Auction Strategy  This type of auction, already demonstrated in Chile, has
several advantages. First, it directly addresses the risk that
demand will turn out to be greater or weaker than expected. If
it’s weaker, the private operator continues to collect user fees
for longer than planned, and if it’s greater, for a briefer
period.  Second, the present-value framework allows the government
to set the user-fee level efficiently, based on traffic
patterns, and also to create alternative capacity with less
opposition from the operator (since all that is affected is the
payback period, not the present value of revenue).  Finally, this approach provides a natural benchmark for any
renegotiations that may be needed during a long contracting
period. For example, what happens if, for whatever reason, the
city wants to end the concession early? Under traditional
contracts, the harm to the private operator is often hard to
calculate, and therefore becomes the subject of dispute. Under a
present-value framework, though, the amount that should be paid
to the private operator would be clear.  Bidding based on present value of revenue is just one of
many potential best practices that the mayors discussed last
week. I’m hopeful that this mayoral infrastructure task force
will produce real results over the next year. The leaders of the
effort -- including President Bill Clinton, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter -- deserve credit
for even trying.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  