-- U.S. Will ‘Learn Lessons’ From Bombings, Napolitano Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-04-23T16:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/u-s-will-learn-lessons-from-bombings-napolitano-says.html
The U.S. government will
incorporate lessons from the  Boston Marathon bombings  to boost
the nation’s security, Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  said.  “We will learn lessons from this attack, just as we have
from past instances of terrorism and violent extremism,”
Napolitano said. “We will apply those, we will emerge even
stronger.”  Napolitano was the sole witness at a Senate Judiciary
Committee hearing today in Washington to examine a proposed
rewrite of U.S. immigration law.  Following the April 15 bombings in  Boston , in which two
ethnic Chechens who immigrated legally to the U.S. were
identified as suspects, a number of Republican lawmakers have
called for stronger border control and stricter background
checks for immigrants who would seek citizenship under the plan.  Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley , the committee’s top
Republican, said today that the Boston attacks “are reminders
that our immigration system is directly related to our
sovereignty and is a national security matter.”  Grassley noted that several of the Sept. 11, 2001,
hijackers overstayed their visas and that one of the suspected
Boston bombers traveled to  Russia  in 2012. He said he was
concerned that the Senate proposal “weakens the entry-exit
system because it does not require biometric identifiers.”  Background Checks  Criminal background checks, which the immigration bill
would require before undocumented immigrants could become
citizens, could be “serious trouble” if they are “anything
like they were on the Boston bomber,” Grassley said.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican and co-
author of the immigration proposal, pressed Napolitano for
details on why authorities weren’t alerted when bombing suspect
Tamerlan Tsarnaev returned from Russia. Tsarnaev, 26, died of
injuries sustained during a gun battle with police four days
after the attack.  Napolitano said the FBI’s text alert on Tsarnaev had
expired.  Graham said he would like authorities to take more time to
interview the surviving suspect, Tsarnaev’s 19-year-old brother
Dzhokhar, outside the bounds of constitutional protections of
the Miranda warning of suspects’ right to remain silent and to
have a lawyer.  The  Justice Department  had instructed law enforcement
officers not to advise Dzhokhar Tsarnaev of his constitutional
rights after his arrest, based on a public-safety exception to
the Miranda rule.  ‘Bit Player’  “I would imagine he’s going to tell us that his brother
was a bad guy and he was a bit player,” Graham said.  Napolitano told Graham that “all threads are being
pulled” in the investigation, adding that she would share more
at a classified briefing on April 25.  Napolitano told senators she was “committed to finding out
why this happened, what more we can do to prevent attacks like
this in the future and making sure that those responsible for
this unconscionable act of terror face justice.”  The Senate immigration proposal would allow undocumented
immigrants who pay at least $2,000 in fines and meet other
criteria to apply for citizenship after more than a decade in
the U.S., though only if specific border security benchmarks are
reached.  ‘High-Risk Sectors’  The border plan must, within five years, result in an
apprehension rate of at least 90 percent in “high-risk”
sectors where more than 30,000 people are caught a year. If that
goal isn’t met, the proposal would establish a commission of
border-state officials and border-security experts to recommend
ways to achieve the 90 percent goal.  Napolitano said she “absolutely” thought the immigration
plan would make the nation more secure, in part by letting the
Homeland Security Department focus more on people in the country
who are committing or interested in committing crimes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  