-- U.S. Risks Market Loss Without Gas Export Permits, Dominion Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-23T18:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/u-s-risks-market-loss-without-gas-export-permits-dominion-says.html
The U.S. needs to act quickly to
take advantage of overseas demand for its glut of natural gas or
lose market share to international competitors,  Dominion
Resources Inc. (D)  Chief Executive Officer Thomas Farrell said.  “The U.S. must act very soon -- or the door is going to
close and our country will have missed a major economic
opportunity,” Farrell said today during a luncheon speech at
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington.  Dominion plans to build a facility to export liquefied
natural gas from its Cove Point terminal in  Maryland  by 2017.
The Richmond, Virginia-based company on April 1 filed an
application with the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
for the project, estimated to cost as much as $3.8 billion.  The U.S. has a glut of natural gas created as producers use
the drilling technique known as hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, to extract the fuel from shale. Dominion and San
Diego-based  Sempra Energy Co. (SRE)  are among companies seeking Energy
Department approval to export gas to nations that don’t have a
free-trade agreement with the U.S.  The U.S. faces competition from countries including
Australia, Canada,  Indonesia  and Qatar for natural gas exports,
Farrell said. “We are not the only nation in the world that has
this resource available. It’s a buyers’ market out there. We
need to keep it moving if we want to be able to take advantage
of this resource.”  Environmental Review  The “critical path for us” will be the FERC’s
environmental review of the project, because Dominion expects
the Energy Department’s approval soon, Farrell said in comments
to reporters after his speech. Dominion believes the FERC’s
review will be complete by this time next year, he said.  The FERC, which must authorize construction of such
projects, a year ago approved  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) ’s plan for an
export terminal at Sabine Pass in southwest  Louisiana . It is the
only gas-export project so far to win the regulator’s support.  The Energy Department will probably approve each of 19
remaining export projects under review, though not all
are likely to be built, according to a study issued yesterday by
Bloomberg Government and Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Japan , the world’s third-largest economy, is the primary
importer of natural gas, with about 36 percent of global
consumption in 2012, the report said. Dominion plans to ship gas
from the Cove Point facility to Japan and India, Farrell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  