-- Cordray Defends U.S. Consumer Bureau Data-Collection Plan
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-04-23T17:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/u-s-consumer-bureau-says-425-million-went-to-6-million.html
Data collected by the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau doesn’t invade individuals’ privacy,
is a vital regulatory tool and mimics techniques already in wide
use by the private sector, the agency’s director said today.  “The big banks know more about you than you know about
yourself,” CFPB Director Richard Cordray said at a hearing of
the Senate Banking Committee, where he faced criticism about a
bureau data-collection initiative. “And me too, as a
consumer.”  The CFPB is collecting data to improve its rule-writing and
supervisory work, sometimes through purchasing it from credit
bureaus like  Experian Plc. (EXPGY)  It is also requesting large amounts
of information from major banks, such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Bank of America Corp . in areas such as checking account
overdrafts and credit cards.  Senator Mike Johanns of  Nebraska , a Republican on the
panel, highlighted potential violations of individual privacy
from the CFPB’s work.  “To many people, this is going to sound downright
creepy,” Johanns said at the hearing.  “People are going to be
bothered by the fact that there’s this federal agency that’s
collecting data on the behavior of people like you and me and
everybody else who’s paying off a mortgage, who’s paying credit
card bills every month.”  Data Guarded  Cordray said the bureau does not watch over people in an
inappropriate manner, and guards data carefully. Consumers do
sometimes share personally identifiable information, like when
they file complaints.  “The notion that we’re tracking individual consumers or
invading their privacy is quite wrong,” Cordray said.  Cordray emphasized that the bureau needs this information
to do the work, such as cost-benefit analysis, that Congress has
requested. He also said the private sector has fully embraced
data analytics, often labeled “Big Data.”  Senator Michael Crapo of  Idaho , the panel’s senior
Republican, complained that he “specifically” asked the agency
about its data collection last month, but learned more about the
subject from an April 17 article published by Bloomberg News.  “The responses I received downplayed the nature and extent
of the issue,” Crapo said.  Crapo said that private-sector data collection is
fundamentally different from the CFPB’s activities.  Government Power  “Nobody in the private sector has the power that the
federal government has,” Crapo said. “The power of the
government is behind this data collection.”  Cordray said the Federal Reserve sometimes purchases data
for its own work on consumer finances.  The CFPB has wrangled with banks at times over how much
data it collects through the supervisory process, Cordray said
at the hearing. The agency’s goal is to establish a starting
point for where the market stands, he said.  “There are times where as we examine institutions, we have
to begin by getting a baseline of data to calibrate what is
going on there,” Cordray said.  In its first 21 months, the bureau has secured $425 million
in relief for 6 million consumers wronged by financial service
providers, Cordray said in his opening statement at the hearing,
billed by the committee as a semi-annual report to Congress.  ‘Warning Signal’  “We also imposed penalties on the companies to deter such
activity in the future,” Cordray said. “These actions will
serve as a warning signal for anyone who seeks to profit by
deceiving or misleading consumers.”  The CFPB, created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, has taken
enforcement actions in areas including credit-card add-on
products such as credit monitoring, and mortgage insurance. As a
consequence, companies including  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and
 American Express Co. (AXP)  have been forced to pay fines to the
government and restitution to consumers.  Cordray won’t have a parallel hearing in the House of
Representatives, according to House Financial Services Committee
Chairman Jeb Hensarling, a Texas Republican.  In the face of a Republican blockade, President  Barack Obama  installed Cordray in the director’s job in January 2012
using a so-called recess appointment, which bypasses the Senate.  A federal appeals court subsequently concluded that similar
appointments to the National Labor Relations Board were
unconstitutional, though that decision can be appealed to the
U.S. Supreme Court. Hensarling said in an e-mailed  statement 
that the court ruling “makes clear that there is no legally
appointed director of the CFPB at this time,” so the committee
will not have Cordray testify.  ‘Rigorous Oversight’  In the letter, Hensarling promised “rigorous oversight”
of the agency via testimony from other employees, and requests
for documents and other information.  Representative Maxine Waters of  California  today asked
Hensarling to reconsider his position and let Cordray deliver
his semi-annual testimony on the CFPB’s work.  If Cordray doesn’t get a chance to testify, Waters, the top
Democrat on the financial services committee, said she is
“prepared to use the rules of the committee to provide the
director the opportunity to give testimony.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  