-- Ukraine Oilseed Output Seen at Record by Oil World on Soybeans
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-04-23T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/ukraine-oilseed-output-seen-at-record-by-oil-world-on-soybeans.html
Ukraine ’s next oilseed harvest may
be its largest on record after fields recovered from drought
last year and farmers expanded soybean acreage, Oil World said.  Larger soybean and rapeseed crops may push total oilseed
production to 13.4 million to 14.4 million metric tons in the
2013-14 season, up from 12.71 million tons a year earlier, the
Hamburg-based researcher said today in an e-mailed report.
Soybean area may reach a high of as much as 1.8 million hectares
(4.4 million acres), allowing for production of as much as 3
million tons, up from 2.4 million tons a year earlier. Planting
of the oilseed in Ukraine has doubled in the past seven years,
it said.  “If our projections materialize, Ukraine is going to be an
even more important supplier of oilseeds and products to the
world market next season,” Oil World said. Forecasts “will be
subject to revision depending on the weather in coming weeks and
months.”  Ukraine’s rapeseed output may be as large as 2 million
tons, up from 1.3 million tons a year earlier, Oil World said.
The sunflower seed harvest may be 8.8 million to 9.4 million
tons, compared with 9 million tons a year earlier. The country
is the world’s largest producer of sunflower seed and is the
largest  shipper  of rapeseed to the European Union. It’s the
Northern Hemisphere’s third-largest exporter of soybeans, after
the U.S. and  Canada , according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  More than 70 percent of Ukraine’s early spring grain
planting is complete, with 2.08 million hectares sown as of
April 18, mostly with barley, Oil World said, citing the
country’s  Agriculture Ministry . Most winter-grain crops escaped
damage from cold weather this season, which will limit the
expansion of oilseed acres this spring, it said.  “Gradual warming in Ukraine this week will be supportive
for the spring planting campaign, allowing soils to dry after
the recent above-normal rain and snowfall and fieldwork to
accelerate,” Oil World said. “This primarily refers to the
northern and western parts of Ukraine, where spring plantings
have not yet started in earnest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 