-- Hungary Cuts Main Rate to Record as Matolcsy Targets Growth
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-04-23T13:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/hungary-cuts-main-rate-to-record-low-as-matolcsy-targets-growth.html
Hungary ’s central bank lowered its
benchmark interest rate to a record as new President Gyorgy Matolcsy seeks to help the economy emerge from a recession with
inflation near a 39-year low.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut the  two-week deposit rate  by a
quarter-point to 4.75 percent today, easing policy for a ninth
month and matching the projection of 25 of 26 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Hungary will pursue a “cautious” monetary
policy stance given “the contrast between the benign financial
market environment and weak real economic activity,” the
Monetary Council said in a statement today.  “The Council will consider a further reduction in the
policy rate if the medium-term outlook for inflation remains in
line with the bank’s 3 percent target and the improvement in
financial market sentiment is sustained,” according to the
statement posted on the central bank’s  website .  Matolcsy, whose appointment as central bank chief last
month sparked a weakening in the forint, is “only at the
beginning of renewing monetary policy,” he said in an April 18
interview with state news service MTI. Inflation will remain
below the bank’s target in 2013 and will “settle close” to the
goal in 2014, rate setters said in today’s statement.  “The surprise would have been if the central bank hadn’t
cut interest rates today, given the massive decline in bond
yields in recent weeks and with inflation at a 38-year low,”
Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based economist at Erste Group
Bank AG, said in an e-mail today. Hungary has room to cut rates
to 4 percent without posing a threat to financial assets,
according to the e-mail.  Forint Slides  The forint weakened for a fifth day, heading for its
longest losing streak since January and pushing this year’s loss
to 2.8 percent. The currency traded 0.2 percent lower at 299.60
per euro at 3:19 p.m. in Budapest. Yields on the government’s
five-year bonds slid 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point,
to 4.958 percent, a record low.  Hungary’s inflation and economic outlook “are consistent
with a lower interest rate,” according to the statement.  The bank is targeting an “equilibrium” interest rate that
doesn’t fuel inflation and helps growth, Ferenc Gerhardt, the
newly appointed deputy governor, said on April 15. Such a rate
is between 4.5 percent and 5 percent, Gerhardt said in a Nov. 5
interview.  Since then, government-mandated household energy-price cuts
helped push the  inflation  rate to 2.2 percent last month, the
lowest in almost 39 years. Price growth will average 2.6 percent
this year and 2.8 percent in 2014, the central bank said March
26.  ‘Souring’ Sentiment  “Falling inflation and an economy struggling to escape
from recession mean that further interest-rate cuts are likely
in Hungary,” William Jackson, economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mail today. Currency concerns will
prevent aggressive steps to ease policy and a “souring” in
market sentiment may force rate-setters to halt or even reverse
the easing cycle, he wrote.  Investors expect the benchmark rate to drop to 4 percent or
lower in the next six months, forward-rate agreements show.  Central banks around the world are easing monetary policy
in a bid to boost growth. The  Bank of Japan  is aiming to lift
inflation to 2 percent by 2015, while the European Central Bank
stands ready to purchase bonds of stressed nations. The Federal
Reserve has extended more than $1 trillion worth of
unprecedented credit to a single industry: housing.  ‘No Doubt’  “Growth remains anemic at current levels and we have no
doubt that the government and the central bank will gear up for
more measures to boost growth,” economists at  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  in London said in an e-mailed note yesterday. More easing is
in the pipeline and the “powers that be in Hungary will want to
avoid a steady strengthening of the currency.”  The central bank announced a plan to offer preferential
loans to small businesses and use foreign-currency reserves to
lower external debt after the  economy  contracted 1.7 percent
last year. The bank plans to use 10 percent of foreign-currency
reserves to cut the country’s short-term external debt under the
plan.  Policy-makers expect growth to resume this year and the
government expects the economy to expand 0.7 percent in 2013.
That contrasts with the European Commission’s forecast of a 0.1
percent contraction this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  