-- Tunisia’s IMF Agreement Reduces Pressure on Rating, Fitch Says
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-04-23T11:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/tunisia-s-imf-agreement-reduces-pressure-on-rating-fitch-says.html
Tunisia’s initial agreement with
the International Monetary Fund for a $1.75 billion loan “eases
pressure” on the country’s credit rating, Fitch Ratings Ltd.
said today.  The stand-by accord “provides crucial underpinning” for
the country’s economic program “ and will be an important
catalyst for further international support,” Paris-based
Director of Sovereigns Amelie Roux wrote in an e-mailed report.  Tunisia, which was cut by Fitch to the highest non-
investment grade rating of BB+ in December, reached the
agreement with the Washington-based lender April 20. The North
African country is seeking to boost economic growth and cut the
budget deficit more than two years after the uprising that ended
the rule of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  The loan “adds comfort to the country’s ability to face
its external financing needs over the coming years,” Roux said.
“This, together with the easing in political tensions since the
forming of a new government in March 2013, somewhat alleviates
pressure on the sovereign ratings.”  Economic growth is set to accelerate to 4 percent this year
from 3.6 percent in 2012, Finance Minister Elyes Fakhfakh said
this month. The government is aiming for a budget deficit of 5.1
percent of economic output this year, the same level as 2012,
compared with about 10 percent in  Egypt , where an uprising in
2011 ousted President  Hosni Mubarak .  The yield on the government’s 400 million euros of 4.5
percent Eurobonds due in June 2020 has dropped four basis
points, or 0.04 of a percentage point, since the IMF
announcement to 5.2 percent as of 11:01 a.m. in Tunis. That’s
the lowest level on a closing basis in more than two months. The
IMF agreement is subject to approval by the lender’s executive
board when it meets next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  