-- United Technologies Profit Exceeds Estimates on Aerospace
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-04-23T20:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/united-technologies-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-aerospace.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  reported
first-quarter earnings that topped analysts’ estimates as sales
of aerospace equipment surged after the acquisition of Goodrich
Corp.  Net income of $1.39 a share compared with the average
$1.29-a-share estimate by 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Profit from continuing operations gained 6.8 percent to $1.27
billion, and sales climbed 16 percent, the Hartford,
Connecticut-based company said in a statement.  United Technologies is benefiting from Chief Executive
Officer  Louis Chenevert ’s moves to increase the company’s focus
on the aviation industry, including buying Goodrich for $16.5
billion and taking over  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) ’s share of an
engine-making joint venture last year. Excluding the effect of
such deals,  revenue  slumped 2 percent in the first quarter.  “The integration of our two major acquisitions is
continuing very well, and they’re delivering really strong
performance for us,” Chenevert said in a telephone interview.
“We also see some signs of improvement in macroeconomic trends,
and there are actually some positives in  Europe .”  Earnings in the aerospace systems division more than
doubled to $501 million, bolstered by the purchase of Goodrich,
the world’s largest manufacturer of aircraft landing gear. The
company will pay down $2 billion of  debt  this year from the
deal, the largest in the history of the aerospace industry,
twice as much as planned at the end of 2012.  Jet Engines  Pratt & Whitney, which makes jet engines, saw operating
profit climb 4.4 percent to $406 million, bolstered by United
Technologies’ larger share of the International Aero Engines
venture.  Operating profit at the Otis elevator division climbed 1.6
percent in the quarter to $575 million. Its orders grew by 24
percent, led by a 29 percent increase in  China .  “Otis has been very aggressively taking on that market and
the orders were just phenomenal, and they’ve been growing over
the past few quarters,” Christian Mayes, an Edward Jones & Co.
analyst, said in a telephone interview. He has a buy  rating  on
the stock.  United Technologies fell 0.8 percent to $92.89 today in New
York. The shares previously climbed 14 percent this year,
 outpacing  a 9.6 percent gain by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  One-time items, including a gain from the extension of a
tax credit for research and development expenses, added 11 cents
to United Technologies’ earnings per share in the quarter, the
company said in the statement.  Net income of $1.266 billion compared with $330 million a
year earlier when Rocketdyne, Clipper Windpower and Hamilton
Sundstrand’s pump- and compressor-making units were
discontinued.  Revenue increased to $14.4 billion, trailing the average
$14.9 billion estimate of 17 analysts. The company reaffirmed a
forecast for full-year profit of $5.85 to $6.15 a share on $64
billion to $65 billion of sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  