-- Virtual Stores Should Pay Real Taxes
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-23T15:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/virtual-stores-should-pay-real-taxes.html
Since the birth of the Internet,
online retailers and consumers have guarded the tax-free click.
Not having to collect state sales taxes has allowed digital
stores to flourish. Shoppers have been able to find what they
want in regular stores, only to order the same product online --
tax-free.  And online sales have exploded. Last year, the U.S. Census
Bureau  estimates , retail e-commerce totaled $225 billion, an
increase of almost 16 percent from 2011. Online purchases now
account for 5.2 percent of total retail sales.  The subsidy -- worth about $23 billion today, according to
 Bloomberg News , and about $52 billion in unpaid  state sales
taxes  since 2006 -- has helped nurture e-commerce through its
startup, even if success came at the expense of brick-and-mortar
rivals. But now that e-commerce has grown up, it isn’t necessary
to keep coddling the industry.  The  Barack Obama  administration agrees, as do many U.S.
senators. Seventy-four of them voted yesterday to begin debating
legislation that would allow states to collect taxes from out-
of-state Internet vendors selling goods to their residents.  Large retailers, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , support
the measure. So does online giant Amazon.com Inc., which had
clashed with many states over its refusal to collect sales taxes
in the past. More recently, it has been building shipping
centers across the U.S. to speed delivery of its packages. The
expansion has added to Amazon’s physical presence in many
states, along with its obligation to collect sales taxes.  Five States  On the other side is  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  (which is asking millions of
small businesses and consumers that use its digital marketplace
to lobby against the bill), the five states without sales taxes
and those who oppose any tax, even one that leads to a more
equitable system.  It would be incorrect to portray this as an alliance of big
business and big government against small business and
consumers. For one thing, it isn’t really a new levy. It’s true
that retailers with no physical presence in a state haven’t had
to collect state sales taxes since a 1992 Supreme Court
decision. Shoppers, however, are supposed to pay sales taxes
voluntarily as part of their annual filing. It’s almost
impossible to get caught cheating, so hardly anyone complies.  The Senate bill also wouldn’t force states to collect tax;
it only frees them to do so.  New Hampshire ,  Oregon  and other
states with no  sales tax  could continue with the status quo.
Moreover, retailers with less than $1 million in out-of-state
sales would be exempt.  Some lawmakers claim that the legislation would be a burden
on companies that lack the resources to keep track of thousands
of state and local sales tax rates. This is overblown. States
would have to simplify their tax systems before requiring other
jurisdictions to start remitting taxes; at any rate, off-the-
shelf software now makes it relatively easy to keep track of the
array of sales levies.  When it was in its infancy, e-commerce received necessary
exemptions. Now that it has reached adulthood, there’s no reason
it shouldn’t be treated, and taxed, like a grown-up.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 