-- Visits to Shrine Aggravate China-Japan Tensions
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-04-23T21:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/visits-to-shrine-aggravate-china-japan-tensions.html
The  Yasukuni  Shrine sits in a quiet
neighborhood in central  Tokyo , but this week it became one of
Asia’s most controversial sites. Among the 2.5 million names
enshrined in the Shinto temple, of the Japanese who died in
service to the emperor from 1867 through World War II,  are 14
Class A war criminals  as judged by post-World War II tribunals.
These include the notorious  Hideki Tojo , prime minister of Japan
from 1941 to 1944, under whom Japan committed some of its worst
wartime atrocities.  Nonetheless, almost every year Japanese politicians -- from
members of parliament to  prime ministers  -- visit the shrine to
pay respects during the temple’s Spring Festival. Such visits
have long offended China and other Asian countries that suffered
at the hands of the Japanese during the war. Until recently, no
country had the stature or inclination to do much about it.  China ’s emergence as a political and economic power has
changed that equation and turned official visits to the Yasukuni
Shrine into politically tense incidents that inspire suspicion
and require diplomacy. The Chinese, like the South Koreans, view
the pilgrimages as evidence that Japan feels no genuine
contrition for its imperial past, nor any sincere desire to
behave differently.  Over the past year, that perception has played a role in
 the escalating tensions  between Japan and China over a group of
uninhabited islands in the East China Sea that China calls the
Diaoyus and Japan calls the Senkakus. Since the end of the
summer, disagreements over sovereignty and Chinese doubts about
Japanese intentions have inspired  violent anti-Japanese riots  in
Chinese cities, as well as  several very dangerous naval
encounters  between civilian and military ships near the islands.  Nevertheless, since Saturday, members of Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s right-leaning government, including at
least  three cabinet members  and, on Tuesday morning, a
delegation of  168 lawmakers , have made visits to the Yasukuni
Shrine. Abe himself didn’t go (though he did visit  before his
election ), but he did send a  ritual piece of wood on which his
name and title were written  in  his place . And while the
 earthquake  that struck China’s Sichuan province mere hours
before the first official went to Yasukuni drew much news media
away from the shrine, the Yasukuni visits didn’t go unnoticed,
by microbloggers or the Chinese government.  Netizens were particularly angry about the (entirely
coincidental) timing. “We are in the midst of earthquake relief
efforts,”  wrote  a microblogger on Tuesday morning. “They go to
the Yasukuni Shrine, flouting the dignity of life.” On Sunday
night, Wang Zheng, director of the Policy Simulation Center at
the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, also  tweeted  about the
politically unfortunate simultaneity of the two events but
concluded with a more threatening moral: “We should not forget
the humiliation.”  Meanwhile, cruder sentiments are proliferating across
Chinese social media. In mid-April, for example, when many
Chinese were anticipating another round of Yasukuni visits, a
restaurateur in Anhui province posted a  “Yasakuni Shrine” sign 
over the entrance to his restaurant’s toilets. Since then,
 others have seemingly followed his lead  and called for the
renaming of Chinese toilets after the shrine.  On Monday, China’s Foreign Ministry announced its immediate
response: It had taken the formal step of lodging “ solemn
representations ” -- in effect,  a dressing down , either verbal or
written -- with  Japan  over the visits. This was no surprise: The
stability-minded Chinese Foreign Ministry tends to lodge solemn
representations  whenever China clashes with its neighbors , and
 especially with Japan .  But diplomatic niceties, especially with regard to Japan,
have never been popular with the hawkish users of Chinese social
media. On Tuesday morning, a self-identified screenwriter in
Chongqing  tweeted : “I resent Japan because it never recognizes
history and is unrepentant. I’m also disgusted with our
government, which every year makes solemn representations. In
the event that negotiations don’t succeed, shouldn’t we
interfere?” (The tweet has since been deleted, as have some
others critical of the solemn representations and China’s lack
of a more muscular response to Japan’s perceived provocations.)  Precisely what that interference would look like isn’t
clear, but among those voices willing to microblog their
opinions, there is a consensus that China must do more than just
lodge solemn representations. The editorial boards at two of
China’s most prominent newspapers seem to share such impatience.
The nationalist, Communist Party-owned Global Times is the most
populist in its outlook; on Monday, it  opined in favor of
“fighting back”  while noting the (supposedly) growing influence
of Chinese public opinion:  “China definitely would like to develop a friendship with
Japan, but in recent years we haven’t been able to achieve one
based on the principles of equality and mutual respect.
Nonetheless, Japan plays a key role in China’s global strategic
outlook. Conflict between the two is inevitable unless China
exhibits restraint with a strategic outlook that balances and
suppresses Japan.  “But this won’t work in an era when public opinion
increasingly influences national policy. No matter how lofty the
government’s intentions, the Chinese people won’t agree to
friendship with a Japan that treated China badly in the past and
is being aggressive with it now.”  Meanwhile Global Times recommends preparing for a time at
which China must meet “tough with tough.” It’s an outlook that
its owner, People’s Daily, the more moderate, self-proclaimed
mouthpiece of the Communist Party, would ordinarily find
objectionable. But if the paper’s  Monday editorial  is to be
believed, patience is wearing thin.  “‘What is history? An echo of the past in the future; a
reflection from the future on the past.’ Victor Hugo’s famous
remark highlights the inner connection between history and the
future. Japan can’t break completely with its militaristic
history of invasion, which probably influences its concept of
development and views of Asia. What will be Japan’s next step?
Asian people must be highly alert to that.” One paragraph later,
the piece concludes, ominously: “Only if we correctly regard the
past can we explore the future. If the Japanese continue down
the wrong road, then Japan has no future at all.”  It’s difficult to know for sure whether the piece was
issuing a threat or merely making an observation. But from the
Chinese perspective, the Japanese visits to Yasukuni aren’t
isolated offenses so much as early indicators of darker
intentions. Thus, it likely came as no surprise to Chinese
officials when, about the time that the 168 Japanese lawmakers
showed up at Yasukuni on Tuesday morning,  80 Japanese
nationalists  were approaching the contested Diaoyu Islands by
boat, intending to land on the uninhabited rocks. They were
driven off, by  eight Chinese marine surveillance vessels , much
to the delight of Chinese microbloggers who’ve grown impatient
awaiting a more aggressive Chinese military.  One of them, a self-identified freelance military
journalist, placed the event in historic terms via  a Tuesday
tweet to Sina Weibo : “This is of great significance, as it’s the
first time China’s law enforcement forces expelled Japanese
rightists from the Diaoyu Islands. It’s roughly equivalent to a
bearish stock market standing in the black for the first time in
fifty years.”  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 