-- VMware’s Sales Forecast Falls Short of Analyst Estimates
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-04-24T14:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/vmware-forecasts-sales-that-fall-short-of-estimates.html
VMware Inc. (VMW) , the biggest maker of
software that lets computers run multiple operating systems,
gave a forecast for second-quarter sales that fell short of
analysts’ projections as business customers trim spending.  Revenue will be $1.21 billion to $1.24 billion, the Palo
Alto, California-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Analysts on average were  estimating  sales of $1.25 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares fell as much
as 6.9 percent, the biggest intraday drop in almost three
months.  VMware’s sales growth has been under pressure as U.S.
companies and federal agencies are reducing technology budgets.
In response, the company said in January it would cut 900 jobs
and exit some businesses. VMware remains “cautious” about
demand and the economy, Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Chadwick told analysts on a conference call.  “Revenue guidance for the second quarter is below
consensus,” said Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho Securities
USA Inc. The company repeated its March revenue forecast for
2013, which indicates VMware expects more contracts to come in
at the end of the year, he said. “Anytime the forecast is for
the year to be more back-end loaded, it increases the risk
factor.”  The  shares  declined 5 percent to $71.91 at 10:07 a.m.  New
York  time. The stock had dropped 30 percent in the past year
through yesterday.  Quarterly Profit  First-quarter net income fell 9.3 percent to $173.6
million, or 40 cents a share, from $191.4 million, or 44 cents,
a year earlier, the company said.  Profit excluding certain items was 74 cents a share, VMware
said. Analysts on average estimated profit of 70 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 13 percent
to $1.19 billion, compared with a $1.18 billion average
prediction.  Investors in VMware, which is majority-owned by  EMC Corp. (EMC) ,
have been concerned about slowing growth since the software
maker reported fourth-quarter results on Jan. 28. The company’s
forecast at the time sent the stock to its steepest one-day drop
in four years.  At an analyst meeting in March, Chief Executive Officer Pat Gelsinger trimmed VMWare’s projection for 2013 sales to $5.12
billion to $5.24 billion, while saying sales growth would pick
up in 2014. Gelsinger took over the CEO post in September.  The company was once known for issuing disappointing
forecasts, only to sail past them when reporting  results . Now,
even meeting the revenue forecast for the year will require a
significant jump in sales of software licenses in the second
half, said Lamba.  “In this environment, how do they expect license revenue
growth to accelerate like that?” said Lamba.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at  