-- Vodafone CFO Says Dividend Covered Without Verizon Payment
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-04-24T20:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/vodafone-cfo-says-dividend-covered-without-verizon-payment-1-.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the second-
largest wireless service provider, isn’t relying on cash from
its stake in  Verizon Wireless  to pay its dividend as it
navigates its way out of a European recession.  “The amount of cash we generate at the moment is a little
higher than the dividend that we pay out,” Chief Financial
Officer Andy Halford said in an interview yesterday in the
company’s London office. “If we did not get a U.S. dividend, it
would absolutely not be a problem for us.”  The future of Verizon Wireless, formed in 1999, has become
a focus among investors since  Bloomberg News  reported last month
that controlling partner  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  wants to
buy the Newbury, England-based company out of one of its most
profitable businesses this year. Analysts have said Vodafone’s
45 percent stake in the largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier could
be worth $115 billion, rivaling Vodafone’s market capitalization
of $144 billion.  Since the March 5 Bloomberg report, Vodafone shares have
risen about 15 percent.  Verizon said this month it would like to buy Vodafone’s
stake, though it doesn’t have plans for a full merger. New York-
based Verizon CFO Fran Shammo said last week that the taxes on a
deal, which analysts have said could reach tens of billions of
dollars, wouldn’t necessarily result in a heavy tax burden.  British Success  Halford declined to comment on plans for the Verizon
Wireless stake.  Bob Varettoni , a spokesman for Verizon, also
declined to comment.  Halford called Vodafone one of the most successful British
companies formed in the past 30 years, citing its operations in
about 30 countries and that its brand is licensed in another 50.
Revenue excluding sales from Verizon Wireless grew 1.2 percent
in the last fiscal year to 46.4 billion pounds ($70.8 billion).
The company has 400 million customers, more than any other
wireless service provider except for  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , he said.  Still, analysts predict revenue will fall to 44.5 billion
pounds when the company reports results for the most recent
year, ended March 2013, on May 21.  “They’re saying our dividend is fine even without the
money from the U.S. business; therefore, even if there is no
deal, you shouldn’t worry about our dividend,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said by phone.
“Clearly Verizon is putting a lot of pressure on Vodafone by
making it so public and so clear that they would like to buy
that stake.”  Dividend Payments  Vodafone paid 6.64 billion pounds in dividends last year.
That included a special payout of 2 billion pounds that came
through a 2.9 billion-pound payment from Verizon.  Vodafone slipped almost 1 percent to 193.20 pence in London
trading. Verizon Communications dropped 1 percent to $51.80 at
the close in  New York .  Verizon Wireless’s growth has been a bright spot for
Vodafone, whose biggest markets are in economically troubled
Europe. Vodafone, which receives cash from the venture through
special dividends, was paid $8 billion from the partnership last
year after not getting a dividend since 2005.  At home, Vodafone is looking for new areas to expand as its
mobile service in  Europe  is pummeled by heavy competition that
keeps prices down, declining economies, and a regulatory
environment that makes mergers difficult. Service revenue fell
for two consecutive quarters last year as customers cut back on
spending. Vodafone took a 5.9 billion-pound writedown over its
businesses in  Spain  and  Italy  last year.  ‘Quite Tough’  “I think it would be fair to say it’s still quite tough,”
Halford said. “It’s premature to say we can see the green
shoots.”  The company has unveiled almost 2,000 jobs cuts in  Germany ,
Italy and Spain as part of an initiative that led to more
network sharing with other carriers and joint ventures for fiber
rollout to cut costs.  “Vodafone has taken out as much cost today as we can
reasonably envisage,” Halford said. “Taking costs out is a
journey, and it’s one of progressively looking at areas to be
more efficient. It’s not all about jobs.”  To combat the declines in Europe, Vodafone is targeting
increased smartphone adoption and data use, fourth-generation
network rollouts, mobile payments and cloud storage services and
connected devices for business customers, Halford said.  Mobile Wallets  Mobile-wallet applications that let customers pay online
and in-store using credit and debit card information stored on
their phones will become increasingly popular in the next year,
Halford said. Enterprise services such as cloud storage for
documents and software and machine-to-machine applications like
tracking services for long-haul companies make up about a third
of revenues and are growing faster than other businesses, he
said.  “The governments around Europe have made spectrum
available for 4G technology,” Halford said. In the next five
years, “we are starting very much with a clean sheet of paper
in terms of the revenue we can generate from 4G services, which
is not just a dream if one looks at the U.S. where 4G has
already launched.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  