-- Vornado to Sell Harlem Office-Tower Site for $65 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-04-23T15:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/vornado-to-sell-harlem-office-tower-site-for-65-million.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  agreed to sell
a parcel near the MetroNorth commuter rail station in
Manhattan’s Harlem neighborhood, where it had planned to build
an office tower five years ago.  Vornado will receive $65 million plus unspecified
additional amounts as “brownfield” credits, which are
concessions governments make to developers who clean up
contaminated sites, the New York-based real estate investment
trust said today in a statement. The buyer wasn’t named.  Chairman Steven Roth, in his annual letter to investors on
April 12, said the company would “buy carefully and likely sell
more than we buy.” Vornado last year began reducing its
investments outside its specialty areas of New York and
 Washington  in an effort to simplify its holdings. The company
owns almost 20 million square feet (1.9 million square meters)
of  Manhattan office buildings .  A plan for the Harlem site unveiled in 2007 called for the
neighborhood’s first new office building in more than 30 years,
a 21-story, 640,000-square-foot tower to be called Harlem Park.
Its location, next to the first  Manhattan  stop on the MetroNorth
rail lines from the northern suburbs, “screams to be an office
site,” David Greenbaum, Vornado’s New York president, said at
the time.  The MLB Network, a television channel operated by Major
League Baseball, was to be the tower’s anchor tenant, the New
York Times reported in 2008. That plan unraveled because of
disagreements over lease terms, the newspaper said.  Vornado will have a net gain of about $22 million from the
land sale, which is expected to be completed by the end of June,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  