-- Vote Scandal Threatens Pena Nieto Support in Mexico Congress
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-04-23T21:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/vote-scandal-threatens-pena-nieto-support-in-mexico-s-congress.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto’s multi-party pact to boost private investment in the oil
industry and improve tax collection has been jeopardized by
allegations of corruption in the government.  The opposition National Action Party, or  PAN , released
video tapes that allegedly showed officials arranging to use
government social programs to promote the ruling party ahead of
local elections in July. As a result, the PAN and the Democratic
Revolution Party refused to take part in a banking bill they
helped negotiate, forcing the president to delay its
presentation today until as late as next month. One PAN lawmaker
said the pact among the parties is “in danger.”  “This is the most serious problem Pena Nieto has faced
since taking office,” said Jorge Chabat, a political science
professor at the Center for Economic Research and Teaching, a
Mexico City-based university. “It’s the biggest problem for
him, but also for what’s most important to him -- the pact. It
will fail if he doesn’t correct what’s happening.”  The accord, known as the Pact for  Mexico , has been
responsible for presenting bills that swiftly passed at least
one congressional house to boost competition in the
telecommunications industry and to overhaul the education
system. If Pena Nieto doesn’t address the accusations, the pact
could dissolve before the most important bills to revamp the
energy sector and tax collection are presented, Chabat said.  “Rupture”  Patching up differences among the parties “is getting more
and more difficult,” said Jose Isabel Trejo, a PAN lawmaker who
heads the lower house’s finance committee and who said the pact
is in danger.  The decision by the ruling PRI party and PRD to push a bill
through committee requiring mining companies to pay royalties,
without negotiating it through the pact, “is one factor that
could lead to a rupture,” Trejo said.  The bill will probably
be brought before the lower house floor tomorrow, he said.  The finance committee, which convened without Trejo
yesterday, approved the bill to set royalties for mines in
Mexico.  Gustavo Madero, the head of PAN, Mexico’s largest
opposition party, said the president must fire the social
development minister and open a federal investigation after the
accusations of electoral crimes in the state of Veracruz.  Cracks Appear  Nomura Holdings Inc., said some “cracks in the pact” have
appeared, and that the dissolution of the accord would trigger a
“strong negative reaction” in government bonds and the
currency, according to a research note by strategist Benito Berber. If the impasse is resolved, the currency could rally
further, Berber said.  The peso strengthened 0.3 percent at 3:59 p.m. Mexico City
time to 12.2448 per dollar. The peso has risen 5 percent this
year, the best performance among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The yield on fixed-rate government peso bonds due
2024 rose three basis points to 4.61 percent.  Barclays Plc chief Mexico economist Marco Oviedo wrote in a
note that he’s “optimistic” the government will resolve the
conflict and that the pact will endure.  “Time is of the essence,” Oviedo wrote, as Congress still
has to complete passage of the telecommunications bill and
discuss the bank lending bill before the legislative period ends
on April 30.  Pena Nieto’s government said in a statement today that he
decided to delay the lending bill’s presentation and suspend the
pact’s activities in order to “open a space for a frank
dialogue that will permit us to overcome our disagreements and
strengthen the pact.”  The lending bill delays might extend beyond the current
legislative session, which ends Apr. 30, Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said in an interview with Radio Formula.  Jesus Zambrano, the head of the PRD, suggested his party
may find solutions to the impasse, saying in an MVS Radio
interview that he thinks “we can overcome our differences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  