-- Washington Draws All the Wrong Lessons From Boston
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-04-23T22:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/washington-draws-all-the-wrong-lessons-from-boston.html
Ordinary people, elected and
unelected, behaved heroically last week. Unfortunately, it all
happened hundreds of miles from Washington.  In  Boston , strangers gave clothing and shelter to shivering
runners. They comforted injured spectators. They saved lives and
limbs. In New York, there wasn’t as much they could do, so they
sang “Sweet Caroline” at Yankee Stadium. Meanwhile, the people we
love to hate -- elected officials and government bureaucrats --
performed admirably and collaboratively, sharing power and
camera time.  For a glimpse of how ordinary civil servants do their jobs
without fanfare or riches,  watch this interview  with Edward
Deveau, the police chief of Watertown,  Massachusetts . Watch it
alone so no one will see you crying. He’s just a small-town cop.
He never thought he would find himself and six of his officers
called upon to stop two bomb-throwing terrorists.  But they were, and they did. Deveau didn’t come close to
spiking the ball. “Watertown’s men,” he said quietly. “They
saved a lot of lives.”  Now come to the nation’s capital, so broken and filled with
the wrong people that it can’t rise to the occasion even when
the occasion is relatively low and brings no hail of gunfire, no
life-or-death decisions. There was no need to capture any
terrorists on the run. Instead they ran their mouths.  Melting Down  Called upon this week to resume Senate Judiciary Committee
hearings on immigration reform, they melted down. They’d gotten
to a surprisingly good place thanks to a rare confluence of
bipartisan interests: Republicans want to have a prayer of
getting some of the Latino vote and to provide cheap labor to
their business constituents. Democrats would like to keep the
Latino vote.  Passing an immigration bill is the Senate’s only chance to
do something important this session, now that it has missed the
chance to do something not very important about gun control.  But the Senate is like a game of kiddie soccer: Everyone
just wants to go where the ball is. So the senators wanted to
spout off about what happened last week in Boston and use it to
justify whatever they wanted to do. The result was an unusual
public outburst of childish bickering.  Patrick Leahy of  Vermont , a Democrat, said it would be
cruel to use Boston to delay immigration reform. His Democratic
colleague Charles Schumer of New York, a member of the Gang of
Eight that negotiated the immigration compromise, said his
colleagues shouldn’t use Boston as an excuse to slow down the
carefully crafted bill.  “I never said that!” shouted the usually amiable Charles Grassley of  Iowa , turning to face Schumer. He yelled it again in
case Schumer was secretly listening to his iPod.  “I don’t mean you, Mr. Grassley,” Schumer said. He quickly
blamed the misunderstanding on “lots of calls” he’d gotten from
the unwashed masses dialing the switchboard. In fact, Grassley
had said just that -- and his Republican colleague Jeff Sessions
of  Alabama  chimed in as backup.  If Senate Democrats want immigration reform to move along,
they might reconsider calling out their Republican colleagues.
That’s not how the Senate works. If SpongeBob SquarePants were a
senator, he would be referred to as “Mr. SquarePants” or “my
esteemed colleague from Bikini Bottom.” No one would call him
squishy or spongy in public. Republicans have already been
quietly seething for months as Democrats invoked the mass
shooting in Newtown,  Connecticut , to push gun-control measures
Republicans didn’t want.  Delaying Reform  Grassley isn’t the only Republican senator citing the
events in Boston as an excuse to delay reform.  Rand Paul  of
 Kentucky , who was for reform before he was against it, might be
for it again if the bill would have kept the Chechens out (it
wouldn’t have, although all the rules requiring immigrants to
register would help the government keep track of them). Marco Rubio of  Florida , whose presidential hopes are riding on
threading the immigration needle, wants to use the Boston
investigation to address any shortcomings in the current bill.
Dan Coats of  Indiana  called for Congress to “just push it back a
month or two.”  Two months should just about do it, by which I mean kill
immigration reform. Vice President Joe Biden, God love him, was
asked to study gun control, and that study is now being blamed
for sapping some of the momentum. (Although what really killed
gun control was the National Rifle Association’s time-tested
strategy of bullying cowardly members of Congress.)  This week’s hearing and last week’s bombings brought home
two truths. The first is that  Washington  doesn’t cope with
tragedy so much as look for partisan advantage in it. Although
Grassley never admitted using Boston to delay immigration
reform, he  did say  that if he were to do so, he would be
justified, given how Democrats had used Newtown to push for
greater gun control.  The second is related to the first: In a crisis, we should
be grateful that the U.S. Congress, or at least the Senate,
isn’t in charge. For civility, competence and common sense,
we’re better off looking hundreds of miles away.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 