-- Wheeler Sees Quicker Growth as RBNZ Holds Key Rate; Kiwi Gains
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-23T22:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/wheeler-sees-rbnz-rate-on-hold-in-2013-amid-weak-inflation.html
New Zealand’s central bank said
economic growth has accelerated and it’s concerned about rising
home prices after keeping  borrowing costs  unchanged today,
sending the nation’s currency higher.  “Growth in the New Zealand economy has picked up,”
Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said in a statement
released in Wellington after leaving the official cash rate at a
record low 2.5 percent. “The bank does not want to see
financial or price stability compromised by housing demand
getting too far ahead of supply.”  Wheeler extended the central bank’s two-year rate pause as
drought, government spending cuts and a stronger New Zealand
dollar curb economic growth and contain prices. The so-called
kiwi rose as high as 84.58 U.S. cents compared with 83.99 cents
before the statement as Wheeler refrained from expressing deeper
concerns about the currency’s strength and reiterated warnings
on the property market.  “One risk is that the strong housing market and the
Canterbury rebuild provoke greater economic growth than
anticipated, requiring earlier or more aggressive OCR hikes,”
said Dominick Stephens, chief economist for  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland. “We expect to keep the OCR unchanged through
the end of the year.”  The rate decision was  forecast  by all 15 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  With annual inflation slower than the central bank’s 1
percent to 3 percent target for the third straight quarter in
the three months ended March 31, Wheeler repeated he expects to
keep the benchmark rate unchanged through the end of the year.  Growth Rebound  Wheeler today reiterated his confidence the economy will
rebound, led by global growth, a lift in consumer spending and
reconstruction of earthquake devastated Christchurch, according
to the statement.  “Global financial market sentiment remains buoyant and the
medium-term outlook for New Zealand’s overall trading partner
growth remains firm,” he said.  The New Zealand dollar traded at 84.34 U.S. cents at 9:43
a.m. in Wellington. It has gained 47 percent in the past four
years.  “The New Zealand dollar remains overvalued and is higher
than projected in March,” Wheeler said. “Further appreciation
has occurred partly in response to the announcement of a
substantial quantitative easing program in  Japan .”  The currency gains continue to be a “significant headwind
for the tradables sector, restricting export earnings and
encouraging demand for imports,” he said.  ‘More Neutral’  “The RBNZ’s comments on the New Zealand dollar were more
neutral than expected,” Jane Turner, senior economist at ASB
Bank Ltd. in Auckland, said in a note. “It appears many in the
market were anticipating more opinionated comments.”  Consumer prices rose 0.9 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier, matching the RBNZ projection.  Inflation “is expected to remain close to the bottom of
the target range this year,” Wheeler said. “Weak near-term
inflation prospects need to be balanced against our projection
for inflation to gradually rise toward the 2 percent target
midpoint.”  Wheeler, who took over from Alan Bollard in late September,
signed an agreement with English in which he undertook to keep
inflation near the midpoint of the target range. The central
bank doesn’t expect inflation to reach 2 percent until the
second half of 2015, according to its March 14 monetary policy
statement.  House Prices  Policy makers are watching the housing market for signs of
inflation pressure. Prices rose 6.5 percent in March from the
year-earlier month, the fastest pace since 2008, according to
Quotable Value New Zealand, the government-owned property
research company.  “House price inflation is high in some regions, despite
prices already being elevated,” Wheeler said.  Earlier this month, Deputy Governor Grant Spencer said “a
monetary policy response would become more likely” if the house
price and credit expansion begins to fuel excessive consumption
spending and inflationary pressures.  “The current rate of house price inflation, if it
continues, is likely to be accompanied by higher interest rates
sooner, and higher exchange rates,” Finance Minister Bill English said April 11.  The central bank has left the cash rate unchanged since
March 2011 to allow the economy to recover from the earthquakes
that battered the South Island city of Christchurch and to
revive confidence after  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis curbed
global demand.  Quake Rebuild  New Zealand faces an estimated NZ$30 billion ($25.3
billion) rebuild of its third-largest city after a series of
temblors that began in late 2010, including the nation’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years in February 2011 when 185
people were killed and roads, homes and commercial property were
wrecked.  New Zealand has declared drought throughout the North
Island, including Waikato and Taranaki, the largest dairying
provinces, as well as a small part of the South Island. Minister
for Primary Industries Nathan Guy yesterday welcomed recent
rain, while adding that the problems created by the dry summer
will be felt for many months.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the world’s biggest dairy
exporter, said April 11 that March milk collection fell 16
percent from the year earlier.  “Drought has lowered agricultural production and will
likely also negatively affect farm output in the coming
season,” Wheeler said today.  “International dairy prices have
spiked higher in response to the drought but these price gains
could prove temporary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  