-- Wimbledon Won’t Life Ticket Prices After Prize Money Gain
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-04-23T16:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/wimbledon-won-t-life-ticket-prices-after-prize-money-gain.html
The  Wimbledon  tennis championships
won’t raise ticket prices even after it announced the biggest
prize-money increase ever seen in tennis and plans to build a
second retractable roof.  The All England Club, which organizes the annual grass-
court Grand Slam tournament in southwest  London , today said it
would boost prize money for this year’s event by 40 percent to
22.6 million pounds ($34.5 million). The 6.5 million-pound
increase is the largest ever in player compensation, while the
total purse is the biggest in the history of the sport.  “All of our plans here are funded in a way that will not
affect ordinary fans coming to Wimbledon,” All England Club
Chairman Phil Brook said in an interview at Wimbledon’s Centre
Court.  A ground pass for the first week of Wimbledon costs 20
pounds.  Brook declined to comment on the total investment in player
compensation and a roof over No. 1 Court, instead saying “it’s
all affordable” with the funding coming from “existing
resources.”  The men’s and women’s singles champions for this year’s
tournament -- which starts June 24 -- will receive 1.6 million
pounds each, or 39 percent more than last year. Just like in
2012, Wimbledon saved the biggest increases for early-round
losers. An exit in the first three rounds of the main draw will
be rewarded by as much as 64 percent more pay, while players in
the qualifying tournament will receive 41 percent more. An exit
in the opening round will be rewarded with 23,500 pounds, or 62
percent more.  Losers’ Money  “A lot of the increase is going toward players who lose in
the early rounds or in our qualifying tournament,” Brook said.
“This is a large group of players, who are not particularly
wealthy. They are players who are making their way onto the
tour, and we think it’s important to support that group.”  After meetings between the four majors -- the Australian,
French and U.S. Opens and Wimbledon -- and the men’s tennis tour
in March last year, the  French Open  was the first to change its
distribution of prize money by increasing pay for the early
rounds of the main draws as well as the qualifying tournament in
2012.  That followed calls from players, including third-ranked
 Andy Murray  of Britain and second-ranked  Roger Federer  of
 Switzerland , for a more even distribution of revenue generated
by the majors. After  Roland Garros , the three other majors all
followed suit, boosting their total prize-money purses and
increasing pay in the earlier rounds.  ATP Discussions  “The latest prize-money increases announced by Wimbledon
complete a successful set of discussions for the ATP with all
four Grand Slams regarding player compensation,” Brad Drewett,
executive chairman and president of the ATP World Tour, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The Grand Slams generate significant revenue, and the ATP
said that all players should share in money, Drewett said.  French Open finalist Sara Errani of  Italy  also welcomed the
increases.  “To improve, you need people around you, such as a
physical trainer and a coach, and that’s not easy to do for
everybody,” world No. 7 Errani said in an interview from
Stuttgart,  Germany . “This should make it much better.”  The prize-money pot at next month’s French Open in Paris
is a tournament-record 22 million euros ($28.6 million), or 3
million euros more than last year. That compares with A$30
million ($30.1 million) at this year’s Australian Open, and
$29.5 million at the 2013  U.S. Open .  Australian Titles  Winning the Australian Open remains the most lucrative of
the four majors for singles champions, with Novak Djokovic of
 Serbia  and  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus each taking home A$2.43
($2.49 million) this year.  Wimbledon is also investing in improvements on its site at
London’s Church Road, where it has been located since 1922.  The club is planning to build a retractable roof over No. 1
Court by 2019. Centre Court has had a retractable roof since
2009, which cost 80 million pounds, the Times of London reported
at the time. The championships have frequently been hampered by
rain.  Wimbledon also plans to build three new courts north of No.
1, new player accommodations and landscaping that aims to give
fans the experience of “tennis in an English garden.”  Brook rejected calls from broadcasters such as the British
Broadcasting Corp. to show more night matches under the lights
with the roof closed.  In an interview with  Bloomberg News  last year, Barbara
Slater, director of BBC Sport, said she “would love” to see
more tennis played at night as it attracts more viewers. The
U.S. and Australian Open both have night sessions, while the
French Open plans schedule evening matches once it has one of
its main courts covered.  “Fundamentally, we are a day-time outdoor tournament,”
Brook said. “We don’t need to be a day-and-night tournament in
terms of revenue generation, and our roof on Centre Court was
built primarily for rain protection, and the same will be true
for No. 1 Court.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Danielle Rossingh at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net  