-- Woodside to Return Cash After Abandoning $45 Billion LNG Project
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-23T01:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/woodside-to-return-cash-after-abandoning-45-billion-lng-project.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,
Australia’s second-largest oil producer, will return about $520
million to investors in dividends after dropping plans to build
a liquefied natural gas project estimated to cost $45 billion.  Woodside’s shares rose the most since December 2008 after
deciding to pay a special dividend of 63 cents a share and to
boost the dividend payout ratio. Woodside  climbed  as much as 8.5
percent to A$37.53 in Sydney and traded at A$37.33 as of 11:21
a.m. local time. The benchmark index gained 1.2 percent.  The Australian energy company said earlier this month it
would consider accelerating the return of capital to investors
after scrapping the proposal to build the Browse project on
shore in Western  Australia  in favor of studying cheaper options.
Woodside also signaled a delay to the next stage of its A$15
billion ($15.4 billion) Pluto LNG project, ending talks with
companies to obtain gas supplies needed for its expansion, the
company said April 18.  Woodside’s sales and production have risen since the
initial phase of the Pluto venture started a year ago. The
company’s first-quarter sales climbed 21 percent to $1.45
billion, while production rose 55 percent to 21.9 million
barrels of oil equivalent, according to a statement last week.  The company will target a dividend payout ratio of 80
percent of underlying net profit after tax and expects to
maintain that level for several years, Woodside said in the
statement today. The special dividend will be paid May 29 to all
shareholders registered on May 6, Woodside said.  The board made those decisions “given the lead times
involved with the growth projects and forecast reductions in the
company’s debt levels,” according to the statement. Woodside
will “continue to pursue growth opportunities where we believe
they will create value,” the company said.  A new onshore Browse development would have cost about $45
billion, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in an April 12 report.
Woodside said it’s studying alternatives including floating LNG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  