-- Xerox Forecast Misses Estimates as Document Unit Slumps
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-04-23T20:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/xerox-forecast-misses-estimates-as-document-unit-slumps.html
Xerox Corp. (XRX) , the printer and copier
pioneer, fell after its second-quarter profit forecast missed
analyst estimates, hampered by restructuring costs and a slump
in its document business.  Excluding some items, earnings will be 23 cents to 25 cents
a share this quarter, Norwalk, Connecticut-based Xerox said
today in a statement. Analysts had predicted 26 cents on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Xerox Chief Executive Officer  Ursula Burns  is shifting away
from the traditional printing business and toward services,
which now make up about 55 percent of revenue. Printing is
declining as customers access more of their documents on
computers and mobile devices. Revenue from Xerox’s document
division fell 9 percent last quarter.  “Challenges in our document-technology business continued
during the first quarter,” Burns said in the statement.  Xerox shares fell 1.9 percent to $8.44 at the close in New
York. The stock has gained 24 percent this year, compared with a
11 percent advance by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Xerox, which aims for two thirds of its revenue to come
from business services by 2017, gave the forecast after its two
larger rivals, International Business Machines Corp. and
 Accenture Plc (ACN) , said demand for consulting was weak, particularly
in  Europe . IBM last week posted quarterly revenue and earnings
that missed estimates, while Accenture forecast third-quarter
sales in March that fell short of projections.  Sales Decline  Xerox’s first-quarter net income rose 10 percent to $296
million, or 23 cents a share, from $269 million, or 19 cents, a
year earlier. Sales fell 2.7 percent to $5.36 billion, missing
the $5.5 billion average projections of analysts.  The company said it remains on track to meet its full-year
goal of $1.09 to $1.15 a share in earnings, excluding some
items.  Xerox hired Kathryn Mikells as its chief financial officer
last month. Mikells, 47, joins Xerox from home-security provider
ADT Corp., where she was also CFO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  