-- Yen Sends Cash to Priciest Topix to JGBs Since ’11
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-04-23T01:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/yen-sends-cash-to-priciest-topix-to-jgbs-since-11.html
The yen’s weakening toward 100 per
dollar has forced investors to redo their math on  Japan ’s
corporate earnings, prompting them to recommend buying shares
that are the priciest relative to bonds in two years.  Tokio Marine Asset Management Co. says Japanese stocks have
room for further gains, while Okasan Asset Management Co.
expects a shift to riskier assets. The estimated  dividend  yield
of companies in the Topix Index was 0.97 percentage points more
than 10-year government debt rates on April 15, the least since
July 11, 2011. That’s still more than the 0.5 percentage point
similar  U.S. spread , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  Topix index  climbed to the highest level since
September 2008 and bonds slumped on optimism  Bank of Japan 
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s stimulus will revive  consumer
spending  and end 15 years of deflation. The yen touched 99.9 per
dollar in Tokyo yesterday, near the lowest since April 2009,
after the show of support for the BOJ’s stimulus plan at a Group
of 20 meeting in  Washington .  “Japan’s return from deflation to economic normality will
spur corporations to shift more money to dividends and  capital
investment ,” said Kenichi Kubo, a senior  fund manager  at Tokio
Marine Asset Management, which oversees about 5 trillion yen
($50 billion). “The green light from the G-20 for Japan’s
monetary policy is boosting expectations for a weaker yen.”  Topix Advances  The Topix surged 59 percent as of yesterday from Nov. 14,
when the election that propelled Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to
power was announced. Brokerages and real estate companies led
the advance amid speculation his planned stimulus measures,
dubbed Abenomics, will raise the value of assets.  The  dividend yield  on the equity index has fallen 99.5
basis points, or 0.995 percentage point, to 1.605 percent during
the same period. The index traded at 17.3 times  estimated
earnings  yesterday, compared with 14.1 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index on April 19.  Kuroda set a two-year horizon for achieving the BOJ’s 2
percent annual inflation target and announced a plan to double
monthly debt buying. The April 4 decision caused the benchmark
yield to slump to an all-time low then surge twofold the next
day. The  10-year yield  fell 1/2 a basis point to 0.605 percent
as of 10 a.m. in Tokyo today. It declined to a record low of
0.315 percent on April 5.  Sovereign Yields  The yield on 30-year  government securities  jumped 7 1/2
basis points to 1.6 percent in Tokyo yesterday, while the 20-
year rate increased 5 basis points to 1.48 percent.  “Japanese bond investors tend to follow similar investment
patterns, which can result in sudden market moves,” said
 Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co., a unit of Norinchukin Bank, which has 74.07
trillion yen in assets. “The benchmark rates are more likely to
rise going forward, but the BOJ’s asset-buying program will
probably prevent sudden gains, flattening the yield curve.”  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Mori Hills REIT
Investment Corp. hired Barclays Plc and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. for a sale of five- and seven-year bonds,
according to a statement from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities. The real estate investment trust last sold debt in
November 2012, offering 7 billion yen of three- and five-year
notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Returns  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 0.76
percent gain this year, compared with a 1.82 percent return for
the nation’s sovereign notes, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Company debt worldwide has climbed
1.67 percent.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year securities  yielded  108 basis
points less than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, compared with
102.5 a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nippon Life Insurance Co. may buy more foreign debt and cut
holdings of long-term domestic securities if yields in Japan
stay low, Hiroshi Ozeki, general manager at the investment
department of the country’s largest life insurer, said in a
briefing yesterday. The company may boost purchases of domestic
and foreign corporate debt in the fiscal year started April 1,
he said.  The Ministry of Finance will  sell  about 2.9 trillion yen of
two-year notes on April 25. The April 16 offering of five-year
notes drew bids valued at 3.09 times the amount available, the
lowest demand since December 2011, according to ministry data.  Default Swaps  The yen traded at 99.24 per dollar at 10:06 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
after falling to a four-year low of 99.95 on April 11. The
currency has plunged almost 20 percent over the past six months,
the worst performance among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  The cost to insure Japan’s sovereign notes for five years
against nonpayment was at 67 basis points yesterday, matching
the lowest in a month, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. A drop in the credit-default
swaps signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  “The BOJ’s buying of sovereign assets is encouraging
investors to move on to riskier securities,” said  Satoshi Yamada , a Tokyo-based manager of debt trading at Okasan Asset
Management, which oversees about 1.4 trillion yen in assets.
“There are still serious concerns about whether the policies
will translate to actual economic improvement.”  Economic Outlook  Japan’s economy  probably grew at an annualized 2.15 percent
pace in the first quarter, the fastest pace in a year, according
to the median estimate of 30 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . The economy’s expansion will probably accelerate to 2.85
percent in the current quarter and 3.15 percent in the three
months to Sept. 30, the data show.  The  International Monetary Fund  last week doubled its
forecast for fiscal 2014 growth in Japan to 1.4 percent from its
January projection. The Washington-based fund said in its World
Economic Outlook report that the BOJ’s stimulus will help boost
inflation.  Japan’s  five-year breakeven rate , a measure of inflation
expectations, was at 1.5 percentage points yesterday, near the
record high of 1.54 percent reached in March.  Consumer prices 
excluding fresh food fell 0.3 percent from a year earlier in
February, government data showed last month.  The BOJ is considering raising its inflation forecast in
its next outlook report due for release on April 26, said people
familiar with the bank’s discussions. It may upgrade its view on
so-called core consumer prices to at least 1.5 percent from 0.9
percent for fiscal 2014, according to the people, who asked not
to be identified because the talks were private.  Yen Windfall  Seven & I Holdings Co., the operator of 7-Eleven
convenience stores, said earlier this month that the weaker yen
will help bolster annual profit to a record this fiscal year.
Fast Retailing Co., the seller of Uniqlo branded apparel, raised
its net income outlook citing the currency’s move.  Toyota Motor Corp. cited the weaker yen when it raised in
February its profit forecast 10 percent to 860 billion yen for
the 12 months ended March 31. Mazda Motor Corp. and Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd. also increased their earnings estimates as the
weakening currency makes Japanese products more profitable
overseas.  Of the 1,698 companies listed on the Topix, more than 200
are scheduled to  report earnings  from today through April 26,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The earnings results must confirm the market’s
expectations” for the equities rally to continue, Norichukin’s
Minami said. “The imbalance between low benchmark rates and
rallying shares may be with us for some time, because of all the
money seeking an outlet amid the excessive liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  