-- Yum Profit Tops Estimates as Taco Bell Bolsters Sales
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-04-23T22:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-23/yum-profit-tops-estimates-as-taco-bell-bolsters-sales.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC
and Pizza Hut dining chains, posted first-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as new menu items helped Taco Bell’s
domestic sales.  Net income  fell 26 percent to $337 million, or 72 cents a
share, from $458 million, or 96 cents, a year earlier, the
Louisville, Kentucky-based company said today in a statement.
Excluding certain items, profit was 70 cents a share. Analysts
 estimated  60 cents, the average of 25 projections compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  David Novak  is trying to lure U.S.
consumers with new food at Taco Bell as the company’s China
business struggles to recover from concerns about chicken
quality. Sales at U.S. stores open at least 12 months rose 2
percent in the quarter. Analysts projected a 1.9 percent gain,
the average of 22 estimates from Consensus Metrix. U.S.
comparable-store sales for Taco Bell climbed 6 percent.  “Taco Bell is still strong -- the cool-ranch Doritos Locos
Tacos had a positive impact and carried the weaker sisters,”
 Larry Miller , an Atlanta-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets 
said in an interview. He rates the shares the equivalent of buy.  In the U.S., Taco Bell has recently advertised Doritos
Locos Tacos, a new steak burrito and dessert items to help boost
sales. KFC is also rolling out new foods in the U.S., including
boneless chicken, to compete with chicken nuggets at  Burger King
Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)   ‘Additional Problem’  It’s also good that Yum reaffirmed full-year guidance
“despite the additional problem of avian flu” in China, Miller
said.  Yum rose 6.7 percent to $68.43 at 5:39 p.m. in  New York .
The shares  fell  3.4 percent this year through the close of
regular trading to $64.15, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Restaurants Index rose 10 percent.  Yum reiterated its  forecast  for a “mid-single digit”
decline for 2013 profit excluding certain items.  The recent outbreak of bird flu is curbing demand for KFC
food in China, where Yum last year got about half of its
revenue. KFC’s same-store sales in China dropped 24 percent in
the first quarter. For the  China  division, they’re expected to
decline 30 percent in April, the company said in the statement.
Yum, which has more than 5,400 stores in the Asian nation, is
 scheduled  to release the China division results on May 10.  ‘Properly Cooked’  “We continue to remind consumers that properly cooked
chicken is perfectly safe to eat,” Novak said in the statement.
“Historically, the sales impact of Avian flu publicity has
initially been dramatic at KFC but relatively short-lived.”  China comparable-store sales at Yum restaurants dropped 20
percent in the quarter, matching analysts’ estimates, according
to Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New Jersey-
based Kaul Advisory Group. Same-store sales fell 3 percent in
 India  and rose 1 percent at other international stores.  Comparable-store sales are considered an indicator of
growth because they include only older, established locations.  Revenue declined 7.6 percent to $2.54 billion in the
quarter ended March 23. Analysts estimated $2.56 billion, on
average.  The company has about 39,000 restaurants worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  