-- U.S. Bus Riders Surge as Free Wi-Fi Beats Driving
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2011-12-21T18:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/-cool-bus-trips-surge-as-free-wi-fi-beats-driving-study-shows.html
Megabus.com and BoltBus led U.S.
curbside bus companies that boosted trips by 32 percent this
year as travelers opted to leave their cars behind and surf the
Internet while traveling, DePaul University researchers said.  The popularity of U.S. intercity buses picking up
passengers at the curb rather than in a terminal has been
growing since the industry reversed  a 46-year decline  in 2006,
Joseph Schwieterman, director of DePaul’s  Chaddick Institute for
Metropolitan Development  in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. Bus traffic including traditional service grew this
year at the fastest pace since 2008, the institute said in a
 study released today .  Higher  gasoline  costs make driving a car more expensive at
the same time as buses offer access to free Wi-Fi and cheaper
fares than on planes and trains, Schwieterman said. Once viewed
as a last resort in the U.S., bus travel is now attracting more
affluent riders, students and women traveling alone, he said.  “Bus travel is suddenly cool,” Schwieterman said.
“There’s a fatigue over driving combined with a revitalized
image of the bus.”  Exceeds Airline Gains  Daily intercity curbside bus departures increased to 778
from 589 a year ago, according to a DePaul study to be published
today. Scheduled departures for the total bus industry, which
includes Greyhound Lines, increased 7.1 percent to 2,693. That
compares with a gain of 1.5 percent for airline seat miles and
1.2 percent for rail seat miles, according to the study.  The institute’s annual snapshot of the bus industry is
based on the number of industry wide departures on one Friday in
December.  As bus customers come back, fares are increasing,
Schwieterman said. Routes where fares of $20 or less were once
common are now seeing tickets priced at $35 or $40, he said.  Megabus and BoltBus offer a limited number of seats for as
little as $1 with advanced booking. Typical one-way New York-to-
 Washington  Megabus fares range from $17 to $26, according to its
website. BoltBus tickets range from $15 to $27.  Safety Questions  Regulators are questioning the safety of bus travel after
28 people died in eight crashes this year. The  National
Transportation Safety Board  warned in an Oct. 31 study that
curbside operators are seven times more likely to be involved in
a fatal wreck than intercity lines with more conventional
business models.  Neither of the two largest U.S. curbside operators --
 Stagecoach Group Plc (SGP) ’s Megabus and  FirstGroup Plc (FGP) ’s BoltBus, a
partnership between Greyhound and Peter Pan Bus Lines Inc. --
were involved in this year’s fatal accidents. A Megabus coach
traveling to Toronto crashed into a bridge outside Syracuse, New
York, in September 2010, killing four.  The NTSB’s warning about the dangers of curbside buses
included so-called Chinatown operators, which can operate under
multiple names, the board said. The DePaul researchers don’t
include Chinatown companies in their calculations because the
operators tend to pool their buses, may not run them under
independent brands, and may also use unmarked, leased buses,
Schwieterman said.  Adding Routes  New routes helped drive growth. BoltBus set up a hub in
 Newark ,  New Jersey , with 40 daily buses to Baltimore,  Boston ,
Philadelphia and Washington, the study said. Aberdeen, Scotland-
based FirstGroup also began Greyhound Express in Chicago and on
the East Coast, and plans to expand further, according to the
study.  FirstGroup is experiencing across-the-board growth on U.S.
routes, said Timothy Stokes, a spokesman for the company’s U.S.
subsidiary based in Cincinnati. Station-based Greyhound routes
are gaining as well as curbside BoltBus and luxury Greyhound
Express, he said.  “People are spending their money more wisely,” Stokes
said. “They’re weighing their options more wisely.”  Megabus opened new hubs in Pittsburgh, with 38 departures,
and Atlanta, with 29. Its Chicago and New York hubs appear to
now be profitable, the study said. Stagecoach is based in Perth,
 Scotland .  More traffic in existing hubs in  New York , Chicago and
Philadelphia is also bolstering growth, said Bryony Chamberlain,
director of Megabus USA.  “We’ve come in with a product which is new and brings the
long-distance, intercity buses to a new market,” Chamberlain
said in a telephone interview. “It’s much nicer to be sitting
there being driven somewhere than sitting in traffic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  