-- ‘Dragon Tattoo’ Hacker Hunts Mass Killer; Sunken Treasure: Film
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2011-12-21T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/-dragon-tattoo-hacker-hunts-mass-killer-sunken-treasure-film.html
David Fincher  gives “ The Girl With
the Dragon Tattoo ” a sharp English-language makeover without
losing any of its vivid characters or gloomy Swedish atmosphere.  Less than two years after a solid Swedish film of Stieg
Larsson’s best-selling novel was released, Fincher (“The  Social
Network ”) has made a better movie about the search for a serial
killer by a daring journalist and an antisocial computer hacker.  “Dragon Tattoo” is still set in a snowy land known for
civility and social justice. But that isn’t Larsson’s world,
which is filled with corruption, greed, prejudice and sexual
violence, as graphically depicted in a scene where tech whiz
Lisbeth Salander (Rooney Mara) is raped by her guardian (Yorick
van Wageningen).  The superb cast is led by  Daniel Craig  as divorced magazine
editor Mikael Blomkvist and Mara as his tattooed, facially
pierced, bisexual co-investigator. Their relationship, which
turns from frosty to amorous, is the linchpin of a sordid story
that includes a torture chamber where the killer dispatches his
victims.  Other standouts include  Christopher Plummer  as retired
industrialist Henrik Vanger, who hires Blomkvist to find a niece
who’s been missing from his dysfunctional family for 40 years;
van Wageningen as the guardian who forces Salander to trade sex
for money; and Stellan Skarsgard as Martin Vanger, the
mysterious head of the family company who lives on an island
estate right out of Architectural Digest.  “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,” from  Columbia
Pictures , opens today across the U.S. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Adventures of Tintin’  Steven Spielberg  and  Peter Jackson  were the perfect pair to
make “ The Adventures of Tintin ,” a computer-enhanced 3-D film
based on Herge’s graphic novels about an intrepid boy reporter
and his faithful dog Snowy.  Both filmmakers have the visual flair and childlike spirit
needed to translate Herge’s popular characters for the big
screen.  Directed by Spielberg and produced by Jackson, the buoyant
movie combines three of Herge’s books into a story about
Tintin’s search for a sunken ship that was carrying a vast
treasure.  Along with Tintin (Jamie Bell) and Snowy (operated by
puppeteer Brad Elliott), the globe-trotting adventure features a
dastardly villain (Craig), a drunken ship captain (Andy Serkis)
and two buffoonish detectives ( Simon Pegg  and Nick Frost).  Spielberg uses performance-capture -- a technique that
makes the actors look like animated figures -- and other
computerized images to produce a pleasing blend of fantasy and
reality.  “The Adventures of Tintin,” from  Paramount Pictures ,
opens today across the U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Albert Nobbs’  Glenn Close’s androgynous look in “ Albert Nobbs ” -- think
 David Bowie  with short hair and a tuxedo -- is the most
intriguing part of this film about a woman who passes as a man
in 19th-century Ireland.  That’s not enough to sustain interest in Rodrigo Garcia’s
glacially paced adaptation of a short story that was turned into
a 1982 off-Broadway play starring Close as the title character.  Nobbs has dressed and acted as a man for decades in order
to keep her job as a hotel servant in Dublin. Her female side is
so repressed and her male disguise so empty that she’s lost any
connection with either sex.  Secret Lives  She briefly emerges from her shell after discovering that a
temporary co-worker (Janet McTeer) harbors the same secret,
leading to a tender scene where they both don dresses and
bonnets for a seaside stroll.  But Nobbs’s attempt to woo a pretty young servant (Mia
Wasikowska) ends tragically, and the film stumbles toward its
melodramatic finish.  Close, who co-wrote the screenplay with Gabriella Prekop
and novelist John Banville, has the exigent task of breathing
life into an expressionless, emotionally stunted character who’s
given little to do or say.  “Albert Nobbs,” from Roadside Attractions, opens today in
 New York  and Dec. 23 in  Los Angeles  for one-week Oscar
qualifying runs. It will be released Jan. 27 across the U.S.
Rating: **1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 