-- ‘Hard Target’ North Korea Poses Challenge to U.S. Spying
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2011-12-21T15:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/-hard-target-north-korea-rebuffs-u-s-spying-effort-as-power-shift-begins.html
If Stalin’s Russia was “a riddle,
wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma,” as  Winston Churchill 
described it in 1939, Kim Jong Un’s North Korea 72 years later
is an even more inscrutable intelligence target.  The technological revolution that has brought the Internet,
smart phones, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and the outside world
to other repressive regimes has just begun lapping at North
Korea’s shores, mostly along the  Yalu River  on the Chinese
border.  “It’s a very hard target,” said U.S. Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican who heads the House intelligence
committee, in a telephone interview yesterday. “There is no
freedom of movement, in, out or once you’re in; and North
Koreans are not very well connected to each other, let alone to
the outside world.”  Job One for the U.S. and its allies is deciphering who’s in
charge in Pyongyang amid reports that after 73 years of one-man
rule, Kim, who will turn 28 next month, will share power with
his uncle, Jang Song-thaek. Intelligence analysts also will be
watching for signs of the balance of power between Kim and the
country’s powerful military, although they will be doing so from
afar because  North Korea  hasn’t invited foreign leaders to the
funeral of Kim’s father, Kim Jong Il.  Not a Surprise  Although it wasn’t disclosed by North Korea for some 48
hours, the sudden death of the “Dear Leader” came as no
surprise, said a U.S. official in an e-mail message. U.S.
intelligence agencies had known that Kim was at an increased
risk of a coronary event or other medical emergency since his
2008 stroke, and had anticipated he would die with little
warning, the official said, speaking on the condition of
anonymity to discuss classified matters.  A simple fact is at the heart of the intelligence challenge
posed by North Korea, David S. Maxwell, the associate director
of the Security Studies program at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington , said in an interview. “What makes it hard for us to
penetrate is the same control of information that keeps the
regime in power,” he said.  North Korea relies on an 11-year-old network of underground
fiber-optic cables that’s harder for outsiders to tap -- and
easier for the authorities to monitor -- than are cell phones,
satellite communications or the Internet.  Recruiting spies and extracting human intelligence from
North Korea is even more difficult, in part because there is no
U.S. embassy in Pyongyang to provide cover for U.S. intelligence
officers.  Foreigners Followed  Few foreigners are allowed to visit, and those who do are
followed everywhere, regardless of their status or their
country’s relationship with Pyongyang. In late 1980, Justin
Nyoka, a Zimbabwe cabinet minister who was visiting the North
Korean capital with Prime Minister  Robert Mugabe , an admirer of
“Great Leader” Kim Il Sung-- Jong Un’s grandfather -- made
the mistake of visiting his hotel lobby in search of cigarettes
without a government minder. He was immediately seized and
returned, politely but firmly, to his room, he later said in an
interview.  North Koreans rarely are permitted to travel abroad, and
those who are have been thoroughly vetted, have escorts
everywhere and know their spouses, children, parents and
siblings are under the watchful eyes of the police back home.  Families Targeted  Trying to recruit traveling Northerners, said Maxwell, is
virtually impossible, and not only because they are never alone.
Three generations of their families would pay for any betrayal
or even any gossip, he said. After the late Hwang Jang Yop, an
adviser to  Kim Jong Il , defected to  South Korea  in 1997, his
wife and a daughter committed suicide and three other children
were imprisoned in labor camps, according to the South Korean
newspaper  Chosun Ilbo .  While the U.S. relies on allies -- and sometimes
adversaries -- for intelligence on other so-called “hard
target” countries such as  Iran , Cuba, Russia and  China ,
reliable sources on North Korea are few and far between.  The Chinese have limited access and they remain reluctant
to share very much because they suspect that the U.S. seeks to
overthrow the Pyongyang regime and keep troops stationed in
South Korea as part of an effort to contain China, said a U.S.
official with access to classified intelligence. Chinese reports
on the health of Kim Jong Il “were consistently rosy,” said
the official.  Healthier Leader  Germany , where for years North Korea’s leaders sought
medical treatment, has been a “declining resource” since
communist East Germany collapsed in the 1980s, said the
official. It may decline further, the official said, as Chinese
medicine improves and because the young Kim will require less
frequent treatment than his ailing father did.  These challenges are compounded by the fact that, despite
the country’s backwardness, North Korea’s intelligence
tradecraft is “something to be reckoned with,” said Rogers.  Pyongyang concealed its support for  Syria ’s secret nuclear
program for some time, even as both countries were closely
watched by adversaries. It did so in part by using foreign
companies to ship material and also, a senior U.S. official told
reporters in 2008, by putting curtain walls and a false roof on
a Syrian reactor to conceal its resemblance to a North Korean
one at Yongbyon. The disguise ultimately failed, and an Israeli
air attack destroyed the reactor on Sept. 6, 2007.  U.S. Interests  The difficulties of collecting intelligence on North Korea
are offset, at least in part, by the fact that U.S. interest in
the so-called hermit kingdom is concentrated on Pyongyang’s
nuclear and missile programs, its weapons exports, its support
for terrorist groups and the military threat it poses to its
neighbors. Troop movements, missile tests and other military
actions are largely visible to reconnaissance satellites.  Economic intelligence, which is of keen interest in China
and elsewhere, is less important because the country’s trade is
so limited. Reports about internal stability -- considered
critical in countries such as Iran,  Egypt , Syria and now perhaps
 Russia  -- are less important in the case of Pyongyang because
analysts don’t expect the kind of rapid change that’s occurred
elsewhere, said a second U.S. official with access to
intelligence material.  Not immediately knowing about Kim’s death was of little
practical importance because there turned out to be no need for
quick action, the first official said.  Sharper Picture  The intelligence picture from North Korea has been growing
sharper in recent years, albeit slowly. Earlier this year, in a
rare victory against Pyongyang’s weapons proliferation, the U.S.
Navy intercepted a ship it suspected was carrying North Korean
missile parts to Myanmar and forced it to return to North Korea.  Intelligence on the North also has improved because South
Korean intelligence officers, who have linguistic and cultural
advantages, are spending less time tailing their own politicians
and more time pursuing targets in the north, said the second
official.  “Over the past three or four years, we have gotten
better,” said Rogers. “It requires incredible persistence, but
we’ve been able to build on small successes.”  Technology may finally turn the tide, as it’s doing
elsewhere, by forcing even North Korea to change, even if not to
abandon its reclusive and repressive ways.  Barbro Elm, the Swedish ambassador to North Korea, recently
reported that she had taken a trip from Pyongyang to three other
cities and had strong domestic cell phone service the entire
way. She had international service only when she was near the
Chinese border and could connect to Chinese towers.  New Cellular Network  The Egyptian firm  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (OCIC)  is building a
3G cell network in the North, according to a Nov. 1 report by
Alexandre Mansourov of the Nautilus Institute for Security and
Sustainability, a policy research group in  San Francisco . The
report said that only about 3 percent of the country now has
service, although it would become harder to monitor as it grows.  While the country’s per-capita GDP is just $1,800 and a
cell phone costs more than $300, wrote Mansourov, the North
Korea mobile communications industry has “crossed the
Rubicon,” and the government “can no longer roll it back
without paying a severe political price.”  Communication in North Korea, he continued, “has
transitioned from a panopticon of total control to a voluntary
compliance system, where the government makes an example of a
select group to try and force the rest of the country to stay in
line.”  While that may in time prove to be bad news for the young
Kim as he ponders the fate of dictators elsewhere, it may be the
best news out of North Korea for spies since the country was
founded in 1948.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  