-- Hong Kong Solstice Spoiled as Bird Flu Sparks Poultry Slaughter, Sale Ban
-- B y   S a n d i   L i u   a n d   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2011-12-22T03:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/h-k-halts-poultry-sales-after-h5n1-discovery.html
Hong Kong  celebrates  winter solstice 
today without fresh chickens in the feast marking the occasion
after officials culled tens of thousands of birds and banned the
sale and import of live poultry to prevent a bird flu outbreak.  The government slaughtered a total of 19,451 birds,
including more than 15,000 chickens, yesterday after the deadly
H5N1 bird flu virus was found in a chicken carcass at a
wholesale market.  “It is unfortunate that an avian influenza case is
detected before the winter solstice,” Secretary for Food and
Health York Chow said. “I understand that it will cause
inconvenience to the public. However, to safeguard public health,
we need to adopt decisive and effective measures to prevent and
control the spread of the virus.”  Hong Kong takes a tough line on the highly pathogenic
strain of flu virus, first recorded in humans in the city in
1997 and which has since spread through  Asia ,  Europe  and  Africa ,
resulting in the deaths of tens of millions of birds and killing
more than half of the people that caught it. The city of 7
million people was also hit by an outbreak of Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome in 2003 in which 299 people died.  The Cheung Sha Wan Temporary Wholesale Poultry Market,
where the carcass was found, was disinfected and will be closed
until Jan. 12, the government said in a  statement  yesterday
evening. The city’s 30 chicken farms were tested, with all
samples free of avian influenza, according to the statement. The
Agricultural, Fisheries and Conservation Department will conduct
further testing.  Health Concern  Avian flu is a serious public health concern with the
potential to cause a deadly pandemic, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention says. Since 2003, more than 500 people
have been infected with the H5N1 strain worldwide and about 60
percent have died, according to the Atlanta-based agency.  Public hospitals in the city activated their  “serious” 
response level and enhanced surveillance after the government
discovered the H5N1-infected chicken carcass at the Cheung Sha
Wan market, in the western part of Kowloon. It wasn’t clear
whether the chicken was local or imported, Chow said.  The  Department of Health  is testing workers at the market,
farmers and other people who may have come into contact with the
birds, according to a separate statement yesterday. So far no
human H5N1 infections have been discovered, it said.  “Hong Kong has the best H5N1 contingency plan to be found
in any part of the world,” said Yuen Kwok-yung, chairman of
infectious diseases at the University of Hong Kong’s department
of microbiology. “We should not panic. Every winter there is
increased H5N1 activity in poultry and migratory birds.”  Swine Flu  During the 2009 swine flu scare, Hong Kong quarantined
almost 400 people in a downtown hotel who may have come into
contact with a Mexican visitor confirmed as having caught the
flu strain.  No live ducks or geese are sold in Hong Kong, said Sally Kong, a government spokeswoman. Chow said the government will
pay compensation of HK$30 for each chicken destroyed.  In 1997, the government ordered all poultry in Hong Kong to
be culled. Many families in rural areas kept chickens in back-
yard wood-and-wire hutches that can still be seen lying empty
and rusting in villages across the territory. Ducks, geese and
pigeons are also widely eaten in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandi Liu in Hong Kong at 
 sliu60@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  