-- ‘Medieval’ Economy Bequeathed to Kim Jong Un With Mineral Riches Untapped
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2011-12-21T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/-medieval-economy-bequeathed-to-kim-jong-un-with-mineral-riches-untapped.html
Kim Jong Un,  North Korea ’s anointed
leader, inherits an economy that was outstripped by  South Korea 
in the 1970s, shrank after the collapse of communism in  Europe 
and now struggles under its stated policy of self-reliance.  Gross domestic product of 30 trillion won ($26.5 billion)
in 2010 was one-fortieth of the size of South Korea’s, according
to  estimates  by the South’s central bank. The North’s economy
probably shrank in four of the past five years, the Bank of
Korea says. North Korea doesn’t release GDP data.  The choice for Kim and his supporters is whether to stick
with the central planning that’s failed in the past or embark on
the type of opening that led neighbor China to surpass  Japan  as
the world’s second-largest economy. Founded with more mineral
resources and a bigger industrial base than the South, North
Korea can barely feed itself after more than six decades of
totalitarian rule, with the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency
calculating its global GDP rank at 195th out of 228.  “It’s the best example of the failure of a closed economy
-- they’re still living in a medieval era when the rest of the
world is moving forward every day,” said Cho Bong Hyun, a
researcher at IBK Economic Research Institute in  Seoul , who has
visited the North more than 30 times since 2000 and advises
South Korean companies operating in an industrial zone there.
“The young leader may try some economic reforms such as a
partial market system and foreign investment zones once he gains
unchallenged control of the country.”  Famine, Hunger  North  Korea  has depended on economic handouts since the
mid-1990s when an estimated 2 million people died of starvation
under then-ruler  Kim Jong Il , Jong Un’s father.  Food aid is currently needed for about 5 million of the
nation’s 24 million people, with one in three children
physically stunted from a lack of nutrition, according to a Nov.
25  report  from the Food & Agriculture Organization of the  United
Nations  and the World Food Programme.  From May to September, the daily cereal ration that most
households rely on was 200 grams or less per person, or one-
third of minimum needs, the organizations said. People eat wild
foods such as edible grasses, acorns, pine nuts, berries,
mushrooms and flower roots, they said.  “Kim Jong Un won’t do anything about the economy in his
first year -- he will put everything into politics and
maintaining order,” says Lee Young Hwa, an economics professor
at  Osaka ’s Kansai University who is active in the Japan-based
human-rights group Rescue the North Korean People. “This will
further worsen the economy. Once the political situation has
stabilized, he will focus on the economy.”  China  Ties  Close ties with neighboring China, a source of oil and food
and a purchaser of coal, have yet to convince North Korea to
mirror that nation’s opening up. North Korea’s trade of $4.17
billion in 2010 compared with South Korea’s $891.6 billion, the
Bank of Korea estimates.  Informal citizens’ markets exist and some foreign companies
have made limited inroads.  Macau billionaire  Stanley Ho  backed a casino in a state-run
hotel in Pyongyang through his Sociedade de Turismo e Diversoes
de Macau SARL.  Hong Kong ’s Emperor Group has a gambling venue in
Rason, a city near China’s border intended to operate as a
special economic zone.  Capitalist Enclave  At the Gaeseong industrial park, 10 miles (16 kilometers)
from the border with South Korea, companies from the South such
as underwear maker  Good People Co. (033340)  operate with mainly local
labor. Cairo-based  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  had about 666,520
mobile phone subscribers in the nation as of June 30, up from
184,530 a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 News Corp. (NWSA)  has published mobile-phone games developed by North
Korean programmers.  “North Korea’s economy used to be in a better shape than
the South until the early 1970s, thanks to the industrial
infrastructure that the Japanese set up to invade China during
World War II,” said Cho, of IBK. “The situation reversed as
South Korea boosted its growth through industrialization and
exports while the North kept its door closed to protect its
dictatorship.”  The collapse of the  Soviet Union  in 1989 removed one of the
North’s main sources of funding. The regime, founded by Kim Jong
Un’s grandfather, Kim Il Sung, has pushed a doctrine of self-
reliance known as Juche that has led to shortages of raw
materials and foreign currency.  Adapting Technology  North Korea’s state-run KCNA news agency frequently touts
the marvels of  Vinalon , a fiber made from limestone that was
invented in the country, and domestic techniques for making
steel without coking coal, an expensive ingredient that it would
need to import.  The nation’s deposits of minerals including coal and metals
may be worth about 6,984 trillion won, or 24 times more than
those in the South, according to South Korea’s state-run Korea
Resources Corp.  Industry “is operating at only a small fraction of
capacity” due to lack of fuel, spare parts and materials, the
U.S. State Department said in an Oct. 31 report. At the same
time, the nation is “thought to earn hundreds of millions of
dollars from the unreported sale of missiles, narcotics and
counterfeit cigarettes and currency, and other illicit
activities,” it said.  Intelligence Gathering  Last year, major industries “were hampered by bad weather,
poor energy and raw material supply, and the international
economic sanctions on the country,” according to the  Bank of
Korea , which produces its analysis of the North from information
gathered in part by the South’s National Intelligence Service.
Teams of about 25 economists help compile the data.  Accurate intelligence is difficult to obtain because of the
North’s secrecy, analysts said. David S. Maxwell, the associate
director of the Security Studies program at  Georgetown
University  in  Washington , said in an interview this week that
“what makes it hard for us to penetrate is the same control of
information that keeps the regime in power.”  Risks of economic policy changes in the North were
highlighted early last year by the execution of an official held
responsible for bungling a currency revaluation. Pak Nam Gi, the
ruling Worker’s Party of Korea head of finance and planning, was
shot for intentionally damaging the economy, South Korean news
agency Yonhap reported in March.  The  revaluation  was an attempt to reassert the regime’s
control by confiscating the savings of people active in private
trading, according to analysts including  Andrei Lankov , an
associate professor at Kookmin University in Seoul. Instead, it
fueled inflation and exacerbated shortages of food and basic
goods already endemic due to mismanagement of the economy.  KCNA has a different view. It reported this month that
North Korea’s economy is prospering after “unprecedented
miracles and innovations in socialist economic construction,”
while “the U.S. is troubled by a large number of poor people”
and South Korea by an increasing number of suicides “due to
unemployment and poverty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  