-- T-Mobile Says Devices Had Carrier IQ Data-Collection Software
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2011-12-21T19:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/t-mobile-says-devices-had-carrier-iq-data-collection-software.html
T-Mobile USA Inc. and Motorola
Mobility Inc. said some of their mobile devices contain Carrier
IQ Inc. software that collects user data, responding to U.S.
Senate concerns that customer privacy is in jeopardy.  Al Franken , a Minnesota Democrat who leads a Senate
subcommittee on privacy, released letters today from the
companies explaining their use of the software.  Carrier IQ said in a Dec. 12 report that it found software
that allowed collection of some user text message data that was
unreadable, and that it doesn’t gather or transmit the contents
of e-mails, keystrokes or any details from mobile phone users’
address books. The  Mountain View , California-based company also
said its software allows collection of URLs, which may include
online search histories.  About 450,000 T-Mobile customers use nine devices
containing the software that provides data including telephone
numbers dialed and received, the Bellevue, Washington-based
company wrote in a letter. T-Mobile said it doesn’t use the
software to view texts, e-mails, photos, videos or listen to
voice messages, log keystrokes or view Internet activity.  The software is used “solely to obtain data about the
nearest cell phone tower” when a customer experiences service
failures, the company wrote. It doesn’t collect precise customer
location data, and “customers expect us to take pro-active
steps, including the use of reasonable diagnostic tools, to
ensure network reliability and enhance our customers’ device
experience,” according to the company.  Data Collection  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , said
wireless providers specified that the software be installed on
four mobile devices, with about 145,000 sold at the end of
2011’s third quarter, without being more specific.  The company said it couldn’t accurately track the number of
devices now used by consumers. Carrier IQ didn’t immediately
comment.  “Motorola Mobility neither received nor had access to any
data collected by the Carrier IQ software, with the exception of
approximately 125 devices used for testing the Carrier IQ
software implementation,” the company wrote.  Franken’s office released letters on Dec. 15 from  AT&T
Inc. (T) , Sprint Nextel Corp.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Samsung
Telecommunications America answering his questions about the
software.  Sprint has “disabled” the use of the software “so that
diagnostic information and data is no longer being collected,”
spokeswoman Stephanie Vinge-Walsh said yesterday in a statement.  “Sprint has not used Carrier IQ diagnostics to profile
customers, to serve targeted advertising or for any purpose not
specifically related to certifying that a device is able to
operate on our network or to otherwise improve the customer
experience or our network operations,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steve Walsh  in Washington at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net  