-- Lafarge Said to Seek Buyer For $800 Million South African Cement Business
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2011-12-21T16:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/lafarge-said-to-seek-800-million-in-sale-of-south-africa-cement.html
Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s biggest
cement maker, is seeking a buyer for its cement operations in
 South Africa  in a transaction that may fetch $700 million to
$800 million, two people familiar with the situation said.  Potential bidders may include  India ’s Aditya Birla Group,
said one of the people, who declined to be identified because
the plan is private. Lafarge, based in Paris, has more than 3
million tons of cement capacity in South Africa and doesn’t
break out financial results from the country.  Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont has sold assets to
help meet a goal of cutting debt by about 2 billion euros ($2.63
billion) this year. He plans to reduce debt further in 2012 and
bolster profit by raising prices, stepping up savings and
divesting more assets.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service cut Lafarge’s credit rating to below investment grade
this year.  The company will have difficulty restoring profitability
because of rising raw-material prices, political turmoil in the
Middle East and a construction slump in countries such as the
U.S., Spain and  Greece , the credit-rating companies said.  In response, Lafarge sold more than half of its gypsum
business to buyers including  Etex Group (ETEVP) , and divested some
cement and ready-mix plants in the U.S. to Cementos Argos SA.
Its net debt was 14.3 billion euros at the end of the third
quarter, compared with 14.7 billion euros a year earlier.  UltraTech  Lafarge spokeswoman Christel des Royeries declined to
comment. Pragnya Ram, a spokeswoman for the  Aditya Birla Group ,
wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Shares of the French cement supplier fell 1.5 percent to
25.91 euros at the close of trading today.  UltraTech Cement Ltd., owned by the Aditya Birla Group, is
India’s largest producer of the commodity, with capacity of 52
million metric tons. The company produced 32.9 million tons of
cement in the fiscal year ended March 31. The Aditya Birla group
owns 63.3 percent of UltraTech Cement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  