-- Airlines Lose Challenge to EU Expansion of Carbon Cap-and-Trade System
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2011-12-21T21:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/airlines-lose-fight-against-eu-carbon-caps.html
International airlines must comply
with the European Union’s carbon-emission limits, the region’s
highest court said in a final ruling that may inflame trade
tensions between Europe and the U.S.  The  EU Court of Justice  today confirmed the validity of EU
rules that include aviation in the emissions-trading system,
known as the ETS. U.S. airlines said the judgment would
“isolate” the region from the rest of the world.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
Airlines and the Air Transport Association of America challenged
the EU’s attempt to extend the world’s largest carbon cap-and-
trade program beyond its borders. The Luxembourg-based court’s
ruling, which can’t be appealed, means the rules will be imposed
on any flights to and from EU airports starting next year.  While the U.S. is not a party to the case, the government
has been monitoring it closely, Krishna R. Urs, Deputy Assistant
Secretary for Transportation Affairs at the U.S. Department of
State, said in an e-mailed statement today.  “We continue to have strong legal and policy objections to
the inclusion of flights by non-EU air carriers in the EU ETS,”
he said. “We do not view the Court’s decision as resolving
these objections.”  Airlines for America, the industry group representing the
interests of U.S. airlines, said the decision “further isolates
the EU from the rest of the world” and maintains “a unilateral
scheme that is counterproductive to concerted global action on
aviation and climate change.”  ‘Crystal Clear’  EU carbon permits for December 2012 delivery briefly pared
losses after the ruling. The contract fell 6.3 percent to 8.36
euros a metric ton at closing on ICE Futures  Europe  in  London .  “The EU now expects U.S. airlines to respect EU law”
after a “crystal-clear ruling,” Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said in a post on Twitter.  At a court hearing in July, the airlines said the plan to
extend the EU carbon market to flights to and from EU airports
was unlawful. They argued the rules violate several principles
of customary international law and international agreements,
including the Chicago Convention, which governs international
civil aviation. The EU decided in 2008 that aviation should
become a part of its carbon cap-and-trade program.  EU Arrivals  The EU law “is not intended to apply as such to aircraft
flying over the high seas or over the territory” of EU nations,
the court said. “It is only if the operators of such aircraft
choose to operate a commercial air route arriving at or
departing from an airport situated in the EU that they are
subject to the emissions trading scheme.”  The EU rules don’t violate the principle of territoriality
or the sovereignty of third states, said the court.  The decision “is unlikely to significantly boost the EU
carbon allowances price,” Bloomberg New Energy Finance analysts
said in an e-mail. “The issue is likely to remain in the
headlines as opposing countries may increase political pressure
on the EU.”  International airlines should be exempt from the EU curbs,
the  International Civil Aviation Organization  said last month in
a declaration that drew together  China ,  Russia , and the U.S. The
non-binding statement was adopted at the urging of 26 countries,
which also included  Brazil ,  Japan  and  India .  “We urge the EU to work with its international partners in
the International Civil Aviation Organization to address the
valid concerns that have been raised by the international
community,” the State Department’s Urs said.  China Court Case  The ICAO plans to strike a deal next year creating a global
carbon market for the industry, said Raymond Benjamin, its
secretary general. The  World Bank  may help manage the proposed
greenhouse-gas market for the world’s 50 biggest nations, which
would supersede the EU program in 2014 or 2015, he has said.  Chinese airlines aim to take the EU to court in  Germany  by
the end of the year, the China  Air Transport Association  said.
Members of the group include Air China Ltd., China Southern
Airlines Co. and China Eastern Airlines Corp.  “The U.S. government and dozens of others around the world
are increasing pressure on the EU to come back to the table to
consider” a global approach, Airlines for America, formerly
known as the Air Transport Association, said in an e-mailed
 statement . A4A members “will comply under protest” with the EU
carbon-emissions curbs in the meantime, the group said.  The EU law offers the possibility of exempting incoming
flights from a particular country if that nation implements
equivalent measures to cut aviation-related pollution. The
commission includes that option in bilateral meetings with
various countries.  U.S. House Bill  The U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill earlier
this year prohibiting the country’s airlines from participating
in the EU program after the industry estimated the cap-and-trade
system would cost U.S. airlines $3.1 billion from 2012 to 2020.
That measure needs backing from the Senate and President Barack Obama to become law.  The case will now return to the U.K. court that referred it
and which will now have to rule in line with today’s decision.  The case is:  C-366/10 , The Air Transport Association of
America,  American Airlines , Inc., Continental Airlines, Inc.,
 United Airlines , Inc. v. The Secretary of State for Energy and
Climate Change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  