-- Clippers Beat Kobe Bryant-Less Lakers 108-103 in Teams’ Preseason Finale
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-22T06:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/lakers-bryant-to-miss-preseason-finale-with-torn-ligament-in-right-wrist.html
Blake Griffin  had 30 points and the
Clippers defeated the Kobe Bryant-less Lakers 108-103 last night
to sweep a preseason duel of Los Angeles teams.  Bryant, 33, who has a torn ligament in his right wrist, sat
on the Lakers’ bench in a suit wearing a plastic brace on the
wrist. He declined to comment when asked by reporters about his
availability for the season opener in three days against the
 Chicago Bulls .  A 13-time All-Star and 2007-08 National Basketball
Association Most Valuable Player, Bryant injured his wrist
during the Lakers’ 114-95 loss to the Clippers three days ago.
He had tests yesterday that revealed the tear to the
lunotriquetral ligament, the Lakers said on their  website .  Bryant’s status is officially listed as day-to-day.  “Come Sunday, we’ll see how it is,” Lakers coach  Mike Brown  said before last night’s game. “There’s a chance he can
play Sunday.”  Dr. Michael Hausman, vice chairman of the Orthopedics
Department at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, said
the lunotriquetral ligament is one of two that bind and help
stabilize the three carpal bones in the wrist. He said an injury
to the lunotriquetral ligament, which is located on the small-
finger side of the wrist, is rarer and usually less debilitating
than that for the scapholunate ligament.  “He elected the correct ligament to injure if he had to
injure one of them,” Hausman said in a telephone interview.  Hausman said the prognosis for recovery from a torn
lunotriquetral ligament depends on multiple factors, including
the severity of the tear, whether the bones are shifted and if
there are any other associated injuries.  “Let’s say there’s a small tear, that may very well calm
down over the course of a week and he would be able to resume
trying to play,” Hausman said.  Bryant averaged a team-leading 25.3 points last season,
matching his  career average .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  