-- Malaysia Plans to Relax Foreign Bank Ownership Rules, Issue More Licenses
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2011-12-22T02:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/malaysia-loosens-foreign-bank-ownership-rules-to-develop-finance-industry.html
Malaysia  will allow foreign banks to
own bigger stakes in local lenders, grant more licenses and ease
short-selling rules as it seeks to triple the size of its
finance sector by the end of the decade, the  central bank  said.  The Southeast Asian country will also let companies manage
foreign currency fluctuations and allow non-residents to trade
onshore interest-rate derivatives as it seeks to develop its
money market under a 10-year plan announced by Prime Minister
Najib Razak in Kuala Lumpur yesterday.  “The gradual removal of barriers for overseas investors
will result in a level playing field and make the local
financial market more competitive,” Abdul Jalil Abdul Rasheed,
who helps manage $3 billion as chief executive officer at Kuala
Lumpur-based Aberdeen Islamic Asset Management Sdn., said in an
interview yesterday. “We have reached the stage where a lot of
the local banks are already strong and can give foreign banks a
run for their money.”  Bank of China Ltd., BNP Paribas SA and Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. are among foreign lenders that have set up
operations in Malaysia, attracted by its emergence as  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest debt securities market and world’s largest issuer
of Islamic bonds. The country accounts for 63 percent of
Shariah-compliant debt sales globally, the  Finance Ministry  said
in October.  ‘Significant Opportunities’  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., Southeast Asia’s second-
largest lender by assets, plans to expand traditional financial
services as well as Islamic banking operations in Malaysia, its
second-largest market by profit and assets.  “The further liberalization of the country’s banking rules
is therefore positive news for us,” Jeffrey Chew, chief
executive officer and director of Singapore-based OCBC’s
Malaysian unit, said in an e-mailed response to questions today.
“This new set of blueprints will give OCBC significant
opportunities in the areas of  wealth management , online and
mobile banking services and payments, Islamic finance, branch
network and non-branch delivery channels.”  Financing that complies with Islam’s ban on interest may
account for 40 percent of the total by 2020, up from 29 percent
in 2010, the central bank said. Malaysia’s debt securities
market has almost tripled over the past decade to 867 billion
ringgit ($273 billion), it said in yesterday’s report.  Under Malaysia’s first 10-year Financial Sector Master Plan
published in 2001, local banks and brokerages were encouraged to
merge as rules were gradually eased and more licenses granted.  More Consolidation  Consolidation is continuing as foreign competition is set
to increase.  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , Malaysia’s fifth-biggest lender,
is in talks to buy the investment banking operations of  OSK
Holdings Bhd. (OSK) , the country’s fourth-biggest stockbroker. K&N
Kenanga Holdings Bhd., a brokerage part-owned by Deutsche Bank
AG, is in talks to buy the investment banking and brokerage
operations of local rival  ECM Libra Financial Group Bhd. (ECML) , two
people familiar with the matter said on Dec. 1.  Malaysia’s financial system, including outstanding bonds,
loans and equity-market capitalization, may grow this decade at
an annual pace of 8 percent to 11 percent, or six times the rate
of expansion of its gross domestic product,  Bank Negara  Malaysia
forecast. That compares with an average 7.3 percent growth since
2001, and would give the nation a financial sector valued at as
much as 9.1 trillion ringgit by 2020, it said.  Licenses will be granted to banks and insurers with
specialized expertise, including Islamic finance, the report
said. Existing foreign banks in Malaysia will be allowed greater
flexibility in locating branches.  Strengthening Malaysia’s position as an international
Islamic financial center is a pillar of the plan, yesterday’s
report said. The central bank said it plans to develop new
products and expand the range of globally-accepted hedging
instruments.  Ownership Cap  Bank Negara left a 30 percent cap on foreign ownership of
banks unchanged in yesterday’s report. Exemptions may be granted
depending on the financial profile of the investor and whether
it’s in the interests of the country, it said.  “The presence of strong and well-managed domestic banking
groups that will account for a significant share of resident
deposits will remain important for the orderly growth and
development of the financial sector and the Malaysian economy,”
central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in a speech in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday.  Raising Stakes  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  holds 23.8
percent of  AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM) , while  Hong Kong ’s  Bank of East
Asia Ltd. (23)  owns 23.5 percent of  Affin Holdings Bhd., (AHB)  according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Bank Negara maintained that selective ownership
relaxation can be considered on a case-by-case basis, which
keeps our hopes alive that foreign institutions would eventually
raise their stakes in AMMB and Alliance Financial Group,”
 Vincent Khoo , an analyst at Singapore-based UOB-Kay Hian
Holdings Ltd. said in a report today.  The central bank last eased foreign ownership limits at
non-commercial banks in 2009 when the country went into a
recession. It increased the maximum amount overseas investors
could hold in insurers, Islamic banks, investment banks and
sellers of Shariah-compliant insurance to 70 percent from 49
percent at that time.  Sovereign Bonds  To develop Malaysia’s money markets, the government could
issue more benchmark securities and hold larger treasury-bill
auctions in the coming decade, the central bank said.  Principal dealers undertaking short-selling may provide
further flexibility, and non-principal dealers could be allowed
to borrow and lend securities, it said.  Mahathir Mohamad fixed the ringgit at 3.80 a dollar in
September 1998 during his tenure as prime minister amid the
Asian financial crisis, blaming speculators including  George
Soros  for a 34 percent plunge in the currency. A ban on offshore
trading remains in force since, though the dollar peg was
removed in 2005 and most other  capital controls  have been
lifted.  Malaysia isn’t ready to free trade in the ringgit because
of “instability in the foreign exchange market,” Najib told
reporters yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  