-- Saudi Almarai Buys Argentina Farm Operator Fondomonte to Increase Supplies
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2011-12-21T08:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/almarai-acquires-argentina-farm-operator-fondomonte-for-312-million-riyals.html
Almarai Co. (ALMARAI) ,  Saudi Arabia ’s largest
food producer by market value, acquired Fondomonte SA, a company
that owns and operates three farms in  Argentina , for 312 million
riyals ($83 million).  The Riyadh-based company financed the transaction from its
cashflow and Islamic banking facilities, Almarai said in a
 statement  to the Saudi bourse today. Almarai is expanding its
supply chain and access to feed for its dairy herd and poultry
business, “in line with the Saudi government’s trend to secure
supplies and preserve local resources,” the company said.  Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s largest economy, is
encouraging food companies to invest in Africa and  Asia  to
reduce local grain production and conserve water. The government
is seeking to end the cultivation of water-intensive crops,
including wheat, in the country by 2016.  A group of Saudi Arabian investors said in October 2009
they planned to establish the International Agriculture and Food
Investment Co., a 2 billion-riyal company to invest in
agricultural projects. Savola Al-Azizia United Co.
said in October it agreed to buy 78 percent of two Egyptian food
companies for 556.5 million Egyptian pounds ($93 million).  Almarai is expanding outside the Arabian Peninsula’s most
populous country to meet rising demand for dairy and poultry
products. The company plans to raise 1.5 billion riyals next
year from the sale of Islamic bonds to fund growth, Chief
Financial officer Paul-Louis Gay said on Nov. 30.  “We estimate that feedstock comprises some 30 percent of
Almarai’s direct input costs, so any savings will translate into
attractive gains in margins,” said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity
analyst at Riyad Capital. “The key risk with the transaction is
further correction in agriculture commodities, which could erode
benefits.”  Almarai’s shares rose 1.3 percent to 98 riyals at 11:06
a.m. in  Riyadh , giving the company a market value of 22.5
billion riyals. The stock has lost 12.8 percent this year,
compared with a 4.5 percent loss for the benchmark  Tadawul All
Share Index. (SASEIDX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  