-- Premier Soccer League’s 20,000th Goal Scored as Both Manchester Teams Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-12-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/manchester-teams-win-as-20-000th-premier-league-goal-is-scored.html
Aston Villa’s Marc Albrighton put
his name in the English Premier League record book last night as
Manchester City and  Manchester United  tightened their grip on
the top of the standings.  Albrighton scored the 20,000th goal in Premier League
history during a 2-1 loss to Arsenal. Sheffield United’s Brian Deane scored the league’s first goal against Manchester United
on Aug. 15, 1992.  “It is one of those things you remember for the rest of
your life,” Albrighton said after the game. “It is a
milestone, but it has been soured slightly by the fact we lost
the game.”  First-place City defeated Stoke 3-0 and United was a 5-0
winner at Fulham. City holds a two-point lead over defending
champion United, which is eight points ahead of third-place
Tottenham.  West Bromwich beat Newcastle 3-2, Everton defeated Swansea
1-0, Sunderland topped Queens Park Rangers 3-2 and Wigan tied 0-
0 with Liverpool.  Yossi Benayoun ’s late header allowed Arsenal to spoil
Albrighton’s historic tally at Villa Park. Robin van Persie
scored in the 17th minute with a penalty kick for his league-
leading 16th goal. Albrighton then answered nine minutes into
the second half to tie the score.  Benayoun headed in van Persie’s corner kick with three
minutes remaining to lift Arsenal into a tie with Chelsea for
fourth place with 32 points. Chelsea visits Tottenham tonight.  Villa’s Alan Hutton was then sent off after receiving two
yellow cards in injury time.  Sergio Aguero  scored twice to help guarantee Manchester
City will be in first place on Christmas Day for the first time
since 1929.  Top of Table  “We played really well against a difficult opponent and I
am pleased for all our supporters that they will enjoy Christmas
with their team top of the table,” City manager Robert Mancini
said on the club’s website. “I have said many times, though, it
is better to be top of the table in May than it is at this time
of year.”  Aguero scored after 29 minutes and  Adam Johnson  doubled the
lead seven minutes later. Aguero then added his 13th league goal
in the second half as Stoke’s four-game winning streak was
ended.  Manchester United extended its unbeaten run to eight games.
 Danny Welbeck , Nani and Ryan Giggs scored in the first half at
Craven Cottage.  Wayne Rooney  made it 4-0 in the 88th minute and
Dimitar Berbatov added the final goal in injury time.  “We played some superb football in the first half,”
United manager Alex Ferguson said. “It was a great start and
allowed us to keep control up to halftime.”  Paul Scharner’s goal in the 85th minute gave West Brom the
win at Newcastle, which is winless in six matches, while  Wes Brown  scored on a header in the final minute as Sunderland won
at QPR.  Leon Osman  scored the goal as Everton beat Swansea to
end a four-match winless run.  Penalty Kick Stopped  Ali Al Habsi stopped Charlie Adam’s penalty kick in the
first half of Wigan’s goalless home draw with Liverpool.  Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  started less than 24 hours
after being handed an eight-match suspension for racially
abusing Manchester United’s Patrice Evra in a game. Suarez is
free to play while Liverpool decides whether to appeal the ban,
and his teammates wore white t-shirts during warmups with his
image on the front and name and number on the back in support.  “I think the boys showed their respect and admiration for
Luis with wearing the t-shirts,” Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  said. “He has earned that. He deserves it and we will
always stand beside him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 