-- AOL Needs ‘Immediate Action,’ Investor Says
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2011-12-21T18:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/aol-should-take-immediate-action-to-stem-losses-investor-says.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) , losing as much as $500
million annually in its display advertising business, must take
“immediate action” to stem shareholders’ losses, activist
investor  Starboard Value LP  said.  Starboard, which said it holds a 4.5 percent stake, sent
AOL a letter dated today that outlines its poor performance,
estimating the  Internet company  sees “staggering” operating
losses in display ads.  AOL Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  has been
struggling to revive sales after the separation from Time Warner
Inc. in December 2009, as AOL competed for ad dollars with
Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. Revenue has dropped in four
successive quarters, and AOL has lost $792.2 million since the
spinoff.  “Although there is substantial skepticism about AOL’s
display business, we believe there is significant value embedded
in the company’s content properties,” Starboard CEO Jeffrey Smith wrote in the letter.  AOL, based in  New York , gained 1.4 percent to $15.01 at
1:33 p.m. in New York. The shares had dropped 38 percent this
year before today, while Google jumped 6.1 percent.  Smith created the New York-based  Starboard  in March through
a spinoff of Ramius LLC, where he co-founded the small-
capitalization value funds. Starboard invests in undervalued
small-cap companies and “actively” engages with management
teams and boards to identify and execute on opportunities to
unlock value, according to its website.  ‘Deeply Undervalued’  AOL is “deeply undervalued,” and there are opportunities
to improve the performance based on actions “within the control
of management and the board,” Starboard said in the letter,
requesting a meeting with the board. It didn’t specify what type
of actions.  The investment group estimates AOL’s local Patch business
will lose as much as $150 million this year on high fixed costs
and “immaterial” revenue of as much as $20 million.  Over the past two years, AOL has “significantly” reduced
costs, sold assets and made investments, the company said in a
statement in response to the letter. AOL, which recently bought
back 10 percent of its own shares, has a “clear strategy” and
will continue to “aggressively” execute on it in 2012,
according to the statement.  Starboard sent the letter ahead of a Feb. 25 deadline to
nominate board members for AOL.  Investors are ascribing almost all of AOL’s value to its
legacy Internet dial-up business, which has about 3 million
subscribers, according to Smith.  “This valuation discrepancy is primarily due to the
company’s massive operating losses in its display business, as
well as continued concern over further acquisitions and
investments into money-losing growth initiatives like Patch,”
Starboard said in the letter.  The Wall Street Journal reported on Starboard’s letter to
AOL earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  