-- Asia Stocks Rise Second Day on U.S. Data, China Industry Support
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2011-12-21T11:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/asian-stocks-set-for-biggest-advance-in-two-weeks-on-u-s-housing-starts.html
Asian  stocks (MXAP)  rose for a second day,
with a benchmark index set for the biggest gain in almost three
weeks, as  China  pledged support for exporters and small
businesses and after improved U.S. and German economic data.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , the Japanese carmaker that gets about 44
percent of its sales from  North America , advanced 2.4 percent in
 Tokyo  on speculation shipments will rise amid signs the  U.S.
economy  is improving. Onesteel Ltd., the second-worst performer
in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index this year, jumped 7.1 percent
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. named it among top Australian
stock picks for next year. Mining and energy stocks gained as
oil and copper prices climbed.  “The U.S. is showing it’s fairly robust in terms of not
being dragged down to the extent of European economies,” said
 Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “The question is, given we
are coming into a holiday period, how sustainable those gains
are going to be over the next week or so.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 2.2 percent to 113.38
as of 8:02 p.m. in Tokyo, with almost nine shares rising for
each that fell. The gauge dropped to a three-week low on Dec. 19
after North Korean leader Kim Jong Il died and Fitch Ratings
said it may cut the credit ratings of European nations.  Trading volumes were below the 30-day average for all major
markets in the region except  India , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  increased 1.5 percent,
while South Korea’s Kospi Index jumped 3.1 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 rose 2.1 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index gained
1.9 percent.  U.S. Rebound  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index added 2.2 percent
after Premier Wen Jiabao pledged to provide capital support for
small and medium-sized companies affected by the nation’s
slowing economic growth. The Shanghai Composite Index slipped
1.1 percent, erasing gains of as much as 1 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.4 percent
today. The index advanced 3 percent in  New York  yesterday after
housing starts in November rose to the most since April 2010 and
payrolls increased in 29 states.  Shares of Asian exporters advanced. Honda gained 2.4
percent to 2,325 yen. Samsung Electronics Co., South Korea’s
biggest exporter of devices such as mobile phones and
semiconductors, climbed 4.5 percent to 1.057 million won in
Seoul.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a maker of building materials
that counts the U.S. as its biggest market, added 1.8 percent to
A$6.66.  Shipping Alliance  Stocks also gained as concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis
eased after Spain sold 5.64 billion euros ($7.38 billion) of
bills, more than the maximum target, and German business
confidence unexpectedly grew.  Shipping stocks advanced on speculation a new alliance
formed by  Mitsui O.S.K. (9104)  Lines Ltd., Hyundai Merchant Marine Co.,
Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. and three other lines on the Asia-
Europe trade route will help stem a decline in rates.  Mitsui O.S.K., Japan’s second-biggest freight carrier by
sales, increased 1.8 percent to 288 yen in Tokyo. Hyundai
Merchant Marine, South Korea’s No. 2, jumped 4.5 percent to
25,400 won in Seoul. Neptune Orient Lines Ltd, Southeast Asia’s
largest container carrier, gained 3.6 percent to S$1.15.  Worst Performers  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 19 percent this year
year through yesterday. Utilities were the worst performing
industry in the gauge as Japan’s nuclear-power producers tumbled
after the worst nuclear accident in 25 years engulfed Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. Tepco, as the
utility is known, is the worst performer on the gauge, followed
by  OneSteel (OST) , Australia’s second-biggest producer of the metal.  OneSteel, which tumbled 75 percent this year through
yesterday, increased 7.1 percent to 68 Australian cents. Goldman
Sachs recommended investors “buy” the stock, saying the
company may benefit from a potential loosening of monetary
policy in China.  The Asia-Pacific index’s drop this year compared with a 1.3
percent decline by the S&P 500 and a 14 percent slide by the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued
at 12.4 times estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.6
times for the S&P 500 and 10.4 times for the Stoxx 600.  Commodity Stocks  Raw-material producers and energy companies advanced today
after commodity prices rallied on the improving outlook for the
U.S. and Europe and after Wen’s pledge of support for Chinese
producers. China is the world’s biggest consumer of copper.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , which counts China’s as its No. 1
market, climbed 3 percent to A$35.13. Jiangxi Copper Co.,
China’s biggest producer of the metal, rose 1.9 percent to
HK$16.84 in Hong Kong.  Among stocks that dropped, Tepco sank 9.8 percent to 211
yen in Tokyo. The utility may be effectively nationalized, the
Yomiuri newspaper reported, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the plan. The company denied the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  