-- Australia Picks Cowan, Hilfenhaus to Face India; Hughes, Khawaja Dropped
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2011-12-21T05:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/australia-picks-cowan-recalls-hilfenhaus-for-first-cricket-test-vs-india.html
Australia  picked batsmen Ed Cowan
and  Shaun Marsh  and recalled bowler Ben Hilfenhaus in a 13-man
squad for next week’s series-opening cricket Test against  India .  Cowan, 29, was chosen for the first time and will open the
batting after scoring centuries in his past four first-class
games, including 109 yesterday for the Chairman’s XI against
India in Canberra. He’ll be joined in the top three by Marsh if
his fellow left-hander can prove his fitness.  “Ed is in a rich vein of form at the moment,” national
selector John Inverarity said in a news conference. “He knows
his game well. In the side we need a bit more steadiness and
we’re looking to Ed to provide that.”  Cowan and Marsh replaced batsmen Phillip Hughes and Usman
Khawaja in the team that lost to  New Zealand  in Hobart last
week, a defeat which left the two-match contest tied at 1-1.
Australia’s only Test series victory this year came in  Sri
Lanka , while India has been overtaken by England at the top of
the International Cricket Council’s  Test rankings .  Allrounder Shane Watson and fast bowler Ryan Harris weren’t
considered because of fitness concerns, Cricket Australia said.  Watson missed both Tests against New Zealand because of a
hamstring and then a calf injury, while Harris only returned to
action yesterday in a Big Bash League Twenty20 game. Selectors
retained allrounder Dan Christian in Watson’s absence and he’ll
probably bat at No. 6 if Marsh is ruled out because of a back
injury, Inverarity said.  “He’s got to prove himself in running, fielding and diving
and seeing how he pulls up,” Inverarity said of Marsh.  Experienced Option  Hilfenhaus, who played his most-recent Test in January
against  England , will vie for the final bowling spot with
Mitchell Starc. Inverarity said Hilfenhaus provides an option as
a “strong, durable, experienced bowler.”  The selection chief said Hughes and Khawaja need to work
hard to produce “compelling performances” to push their case
for future selection in the Test team. Hughes averaged 19 in his
past eight Test innings, while Khawaja’s top score in 11 innings
since making his elite debut in January is 65.  “We see both Phillip Hughes and Usman Khawaja as
developing players with bright futures and remaining as players
of significance,” Inverarity said.  The first Test against India starts Dec. 26 at the
Melbourne Cricket Ground with  matches  in Sydney, Perth and
Adelaide to follow.  Cowan said he was always going to be at the MCG next week
regardless of being picked in the team because his best friend
is starting his bachelor party at the match.  “I was scheduled to fly out on the morning of Boxing Day
and sink a few tinnies watching the Test,” Cowan told
reporters. “Unfortunately, I’ve had to put the bucks day on
hold.”  AUSTRALIA SQUAD:  Michael Clarke  (captain),  Brad Haddin 
(vice-captain), Dan Christian, Ed Cowan,  Ben Hilfenhaus , Mike
Hussey, Nathan Lyon, Shaun Marsh, James Pattinson, Ricky
Ponting,  Peter Siddle , Mitchell Starc, David Warner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  