-- Havel’s Casket Moved to Castle in Prague as Czechs Mourn Ex-President
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2011-12-21T10:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/havel-s-casket-moved-to-castle-in-prague.html
Thousands of people followed Czech
ex-President Vaclav Havel’s casket as it was transported through
the narrow streets of  Prague , opening three days of official
mourning ahead of a state funeral on Dec. 23.  People jammed cobblestone streets in the city center today
as Havel’s plain wooden coffin was loaded into a black Mercedes
hearse for a short journey across the Vltava river and up the
hill toward Hradcany Castle, the seat of the president.  The early-morning procession crossed through medieval
streets and the Charles Bridge, built in 1357, one of the city’s
prime attractions for tourists. Funeral wreaths sent by Havel’s
family hung on the sides of the vehicle, which was followed by
Havel’s widow Dagmar Havlova and his brother, Ivan.  Havel, who died in his sleep Dec. 18 at the age of 75 after
a long illness, was a symbol for opposing totalitarian regimes
in the former Soviet bloc and helped lead the nation to
democracy following the Velvet Revolution that overthrew
communism in Czechoslovakia in 1989. He was president for almost
13 years and counted figures including  Nelson Mandela  and  Lech Walesa  as friends.  “This reminds me of the atmosphere of 1989 when people
gathered to end Communism,” said Zdenek Lauschman, a 52-year-
old teacher, who stood watching the hearse drive away. “It is
also a reflection of what has happened in the last 20 years.
Havel was the only one in politics who was decent and managed to
remain in politics. He’s cut from a different cloth than other
politicians.”  ‘Truth and Love’  The streets around the funeral procession were lined with
Czech flags, with some mourners in the procession carrying
candles and photos of Havel in the cold morning light. A sign in
the crowd read: “Truth and Love Will Triumph over Lies and
Hatred,” one of Havel’s best-known citations. Black flags hung
from state buildings as church bells tolled along the route and
crowds applauded the hearse.  Havel’s casket was transferred under cloudy skies to a
horse-drawn military caisson and accompanied by an honor guard
and military band for the final ride through the castle grounds
before being carried into the Gothic-Renaissance Vladislav Hall
to lie in state until the funeral. President Vaclav Klaus
accompanied the procession into the castle.  Diplomats and members of the government and parliament
watched as Havel’s now flag-draped casket was set on a bier
covered in blue velvet as candles burned throughout the hall,
which is used for elections of the president and other state
ceremonies. The Czech Philharmonic and choir played Antonin
Dvorak’s “Stabat Mater” and selections from Josef Suk.  Presidential Remarks  “Vaclav Havel’s name will also remain connected to the
Velvet Revolution and the revival of freedom and democracy,”
Klaus said in remarks made at the ceremony. “The figure of
Vaclav Havel defies clear categorization and superficial
assessment.”  Havel served as president of  Czechoslovakia  from the end of
1989 until 1992. In 1993, he became president of the Czech
Republic, which was founded after the split of Czechoslovakia
into two countries, a move he opposed. Havel was re-elected for
his second and final term in early 1998 and left office in 2003.  During the state mourning period, casinos and smaller
gaming halls will be closed and flags will fly at half mast. The
state funeral at the castle which dates back to the Ninth
Century is the largest of its kind in more than 30 years, with
leaders such as French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and former U.S.
President  Bill Clinton  expected to attend.  ‘Civil Society’  While his official authority as president was limited by
the Czech constitution, Havel used the presidency as a platform
for building what he called a “civil society.”  In the years after the fall of communism in 1989, Havel’s
reputation and his ideas brought international renown to his new
country. He was a strong advocate for expansion of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union. Under his
presidency, the  Czech Republic  became a NATO member in March
1999 and joined the EU in 2004.  “I came to witness this,” said Jiri Cvecek, a 30-year-old
charity worker. “He was a great man who has to be honored by
coming and showing that it is worth coming - it is a time to
show solidarity and togetherness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  