-- Baidu Drags N.Y. Index Lower as Sina Falls: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2011-12-21T22:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/baidu-drags-u-s-traded-stocks-lower-as-cnooc-declines-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  listed in the U.S.
fell, pulling the benchmark  index (SPX)  down from a one-week high, on
concern growth in the world’s second-largest economy may slow as
a lingering European debt crisis reduces exports.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities fell 1.5 percent to 93.69 at the close of trading in
New York.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , which owns the Twitter-like Weibo service
in China, and  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , the nation’s biggest online search
engine, paced declines in Internet shares.  NetEase.com Inc. (NTES) 
retreated 6.6 percent after it was dropped from a focus list at
Roth Capital Partners LLC. A 1.1 percent slump in  China Mobile
Ltd. (CHL)  created a 12-cent discount to its Hong Kong-listed shares.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this week that slowing
growth and elevated prices are adding to the difficulties the
government faces, and he encouraged export-reliant regions to
explore sales to domestic or  emerging markets . The country’s
November exports rose the least since 2009, making the
government more likely to pursue policies to sustain economic
expansion as Europe’s debt crisis lingers.  China’s economy  “depends on how much money is going to be
thrown into the system,” said Khiem Do, the Hong Kong-based
head of multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management Asia
Ltd., in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “We hope that
they would ease off a little bit by cutting banks’ reserve
ratio, and they might cut the  interest rates  as well because
many other central banks have cut the rates.”  Fiscal Policy  The government will maintain prudent monetary and proactive
fiscal policy next year and policies will be fine-tuned as
needed in accordance with the changing situation, the ruling
Communist Party said after a meeting last week. The Chinese
central bank reduced lenders’ reserve requirements on Nov. 30,
the first time since 2008.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2 percent to
1,243.72. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid for a third day,
losing 1.1 percent to 2,191.15 yesterday as equities were
dragged down by a cash crunch that pushed the  seven-day
interbank funding rate  up the most in a month.  Sina sank 6.6 percent to $52.07, the lowest since October
2010. It has lost 24 percent this year. The company, which also
owns China’s third-most visited website, said last week
Beijing’s municipal government will force microblog users to
verify their identities. Chinese officials have pressured
microblog services to strengthen supervision of users after a
fatal rail crash in July sparked an outburst of criticism of the
government.  ‘Notorious Markets’  Baidu fell 4.6 percent, the most in a month, to $112.97,
trimming its gain in 2011 to 17 percent. Baidu, China’s biggest
Internet company by market value, was removed from the U.S.
government’s list of “notorious markets” that help sustain
piracy and counterfeiting of intellectual property, citing
“positive action” by the company.  The  ishares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 0.8 percent to $34.76.
The Chinese  yuan  strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.3387 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  In Europe, lenders sought more funds from the  European
Central Bank  than economists had predicted, reducing optimism
that the debt crisis will be contained. A total of 523 euro-area
banks took a record 489 billion euros ($639 billion) from the
ECB in three-year loans yesterday, exceeding the median estimate
of 293 billion euros among economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  China’s economy grew 9.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, down from 9.5 percent in the second. Consumer
prices rose 4.2 percent in November from a year ago, the slowest
pace in 14 months.  Racism Accusation  The  Nasdaq  Stock Market was blocked from delisting a
Chinese maker of wind towers after the company sued in New York
state court, claiming the procedures for kicking it out are
marred by racism.  CleanTech Innovations Inc., based in Tieling, China,
alleged the exchange violated its own rules and the company’s
right to due process in “arbitrarily and capriciously” seeking
to remove it. New York State Supreme Court Justice Melvin
Schweitzer put the delisting on hold and set a hearing next
month for Nasdaq to show why the court shouldn’t let the suit
proceed with expedited pre-trial evidence gathering.  China Telecom, the smallest of the country’s three mobile-
phone carriers, added 2.16 million  3G users  in November, 22
percent fewer than in the previous month, it said on its website
Dec. 20. That compared with 2.68 million new users at  China
Mobile Ltd. (941)  and 3.38 million for China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  Mobile Shares  The American depositary receipts of China Telecom retreated
3.7 percent to a seven-month low of $55.96. Each ADR represents
100 common shares. The ADRs of China Mobile slipped 1.1 percent
to $46.85, while China Unicom slid 0.3 percent to $20.83.  The ADRs of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the nation’s largest offshore oil
explorer, dropped 2.6 percent to $173.41. CLSA Ltd. said the
company may idle two natural gas fields for as long as two
months after they were shut this week because of a leak in a
subsea pipeline. The outage could lead to gas shortages in the
industrial province of Guangdong if supply from liquefied
natural gas terminals is unable to make up the shortfall, CLSA
analyst Simon Powell said in a research note e-mailed to clients
Dec. 20.  Cnooc underperformed its peers  PetroChina Co. (PTR)  and  China
Petroleum and Chemical Corp ., known as Sinopec, in U.S. trading.
PetroChina, the biggest oil producer in the country, may buy the
40 percent of Canada’s MacKay River oil sands project that it
doesn’t already own from Athabasca Oil Sands Corp., the Calgary
Herald reported yesterday. PetroChina would pay about $664
million to take over MacKay, which may produce 150,000 barrels
of oil equivalent a day, the newspaper said.  PetroChina, Sinopec  PetroChina added 0.8 percent to $120.71 while Sinopec
climbed 1 percent to $104.87. Crude oil for February delivery
increased 1.5 percent to $98.67 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU)  and Tudou Holdings Ltd., China’s two largest
operators of online video sites, are accusing each other of
intellectual property infringements by running pirated videos.  “Negotiations went futile, while our competitor initiated
misleading PR campaign, we have no other choice but to resort to
legal action,” Jean Shao, Youku’s spokeswoman said in an email
yesterday, saying its rival has started pirating its contents
since 2010.  Youku is illegally showing the entertainment program series
“Kangxi is Coming,” whose online broadcast rights in China are
owned by Tudou, Yu Bin, vice president of finance at Tudou, said
in a phone interview Dec. 19.  Tudou’s ADRs fell for an eighth day, slipping 3.8 percent
to $10. Youku slumped 3.1 percent to $17.14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  