-- BofA Agrees to Record $335M Fair-Lending Deal
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2011-12-21T23:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/bank-of-america-to-pay-335-million-to-end-countrywide-fair-lending-probe.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  will pay a
record $335 million to compensate Countrywide Financial Corp.
borrowers who were charged more for home loans based on race and
national origin.  Countrywide, acquired by Bank of America in 2008, assessed
higher fees and  interest rates  to more than 200,000 black and
Hispanic borrowers, the  U.S. Department of Justice  said
yesterday in a  statement . The lender also steered minorities
into higher-cost subprime mortgages from 2004 to 2007, even when
they qualified for prime loans, the agency said.  The penalty for Bank of America, the second-largest U.S.
lender by deposits, dwarfs the $30 million total for all
previous fair-lending settlements extracted by the agency,
including $6.1 million paid last year by American International
Group Inc. The Obama administration has boosted scrutiny of
banks to discourage loan discrimination after the housing bust
led to record defaults.  “This is huge,” said Warren W. Traiger, a lawyer at New
York-based BuckleySandler LLP who advises financial firms on
fair lending. “While lenders need to be concerned about the
activities of the civil-rights division of the  Justice
Department , the magnitude of this flows from a unique set of
facts. Countrywide was a driver of the subprime debacle and
helped create the  Great Recession .”  Millions of Loans  The review covered 2.5 million loans, including data on
terms and creditworthiness of borrowers, according to the
Justice Department. The agency said Calabasas, California-based
Countrywide allowed loan officers and brokers to vary interest
rates and fees, and knew it was discriminating against
minorities. Whites with similar credit profiles received prime
loans, according to the statement.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
52, is cleaning up liabilities inherited with the takeover of
Countrywide that was engineered by his predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis . The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank has committed
about $40 billion for mortgage refunds, lawsuits and
 foreclosures  since 2007.  “We will not hesitate to hold financial institutions
accountable, including one of the nation’s largest,” Attorney
General Eric Holder said in the statement. “These institutions
should make judgments based on applicants’ creditworthiness, not
on the color of their skin.”  Before the Takeover  The “alleged historic practices” of Countrywide predate
its purchase by Bank of America, and the firm discontinued
Countrywide products and practices it didn’t agree with, said
 Dan Frahm , a company spokesman, in an e-mail. “We are committed
to fair and equal treatment of all our customers.”  Yesterday’s accord also settles a lawsuit from Illinois
Attorney General Lisa Madigan alleging discriminatory lending
practices from Countrywide. The agreement provides for an
independent administrator to distribute payments to borrowers
identified by the Justice Department, she said in a statement.  Compensation to borrowers could reach more than $1,000
each, and the exact size will depend on who originated the loan
and whether the borrower was steered into a subprime product,
said a Justice Department official who wasn’t authorized to be
identified. Checks should start going out to qualified borrowers
in about 24 months, the official said.  “We commend Bank of America for repeatedly seeking to
reform the mess they acquired,” Benjamin Jealous, president of
the NAACP, said in a telephone interview. “If the people who
ran Countrywide were still running it now, we’d be dealing with
a very different situation.”  More Negotiations  Bank of America is still in negotiations, along with four
other mortgage servicers, to settle unrelated probes from U.S.
regulators and dozens of  attorneys general  that the firms used
so-called robo-signers to improperly submit foreclosure
documents without verifying them.  “The bank is trying to dig its way out of a hole --
there’s no bigger hole than its Countrywide assets,” said  John Taylor , president of the National Community Reinvestment
Coalition, which  represents  community and housing groups. “It
is a wise decision to agree with Attorney General Holder to
resolve some of the problems that were created as a result of
those loans.”  Before being acquired, Countrywide was the biggest U.S.
provider of subprime mortgages, loans that regulators have said
were offered disproportionately to minorities and more prone to
end in default. Bank of America saved the lender from possible
bankruptcy in July 2008 when it bought the Calabasas,
California-based company for $2.5 billion, almost a year after
investing $2 billion in preferred shares.  Impact on Lending  Countrywide was the largest mortgage lender in the U.S.
with 17 percent of the market and $408 billion of loans
originated in 2007, according to industry newsletter Inside
Mortgage Finance. Regulators later found its growth was fueled
by lax lending standards, with loans marred by false or missing
data about borrowers and properties.  The Countrywide probe was among seven authorized suits and
more than 20 active fair-lending investigations being pursued by
the Justice Department, Thomas E. Perez, the assistant attorney
general in charge of the department’s civil-rights division,
said in a Nov. 7  speech .  “There were terrible things that went on in the past, I
get that,” said Christine Clifford, vice president of Access
Mortgage Research & Consulting Inc. in Columbia,  Maryland . “But
our housing industry won’t rebound until people are lending
again. Banks are scared to death about fair lending, because the
feeling is that the DOJ is going to go after you.”  Bank of America rose 1.2 percent to $5.23 in New York
trading yesterday, erasing a decline of as much as 1.4 percent.
The stock has dropped 61 percent this year on concern about the
mounting costs tied to Countrywide’s mortgage lending.  Borrowers with questions about the settlement may send an
e-mail to  countrywide.settlement@usdoj.gov .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  