-- Basel to Curb Bank-Capital Boosts on Derivatives Writedowns
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2011-12-21T12:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/basel-to-curb-banks-boosting-capital-with-derivatives-writedowns.html
Global regulators are seeking to
curb banks’ use of an accounting rule allowing lenders to boost
their profits and capital by writing down the value of their own
debt and derivatives when market prices fall.  The rule, known as debt or debit-valuation adjustment, says
that banks can book financial gains when the value of their own
bonds and derivatives falls, under the theory that a profit
would be realized if the liabilities were repurchased at a
discount.  Banks shouldn’t be able to count such gains toward their
capital reserves, the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
said in a statement published on its website. The committee is
seeking “full deduction” of debit-valuation adjustments from
lenders’ core reserves, including that arising from derivatives.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
each booked more than $1.5 billion of gains from DVA in the
third quarter as bank credit spreads widened. Morgan Stanley
Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  has described his firm’s
$3.4 billion gain from the accounting rule as a “bizarre
accounting anomaly.”  Global regulators agreed last year to more than triple the
core capital that lenders must hold to guard against insolvency
and also to force them to stockpile easily sellable assets to
survive a short-term funding squeeze. They will be expected to
have core capital equivalent to seven percent of their assets,
weighted according to their riskiness, by 2019.  Under Basel rules, a bank’s core capital consists mainly of
retained earnings and ordinary shares. The Basel committee will
seek views on its decision until Feb. 17, it said.  Falling Bank Stocks  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index (S5FINL)  has fallen 20
percent this year, led by Bank of America’s 61 percent plunge.
Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup have all fallen at
least 45 percent, while JPMorgan has dropped 24 percent.  The Basel committee is seeking to avoid “an increase in a
bank’s capital when its own creditworthiness deteriorates, which
would otherwise undermine the quality of capital and the
protection it provides to depositors and senior creditors,” the
group said.  Lenders including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Citigroup and  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA have warned that plans by the Basel committee to
impose additional capital surcharges on systemically important
lenders could force them to cut loans to businesses and support
to international trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  