-- Battery-Fire Crashes Seen Every Other Year as U.S. Rules Fought
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2011-12-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/battery-fire-crashes-seen-every-other-year.html
Batteries used in mobile phones and
laptop computers, which can spontaneously combust, will destroy
an average of one U.S.-registered cargo jet every other year, a
government analysis has concluded.  Shipments of lithium batteries have been suspected of
contributing to two U.S. cargo-jet accidents since 2006. They
aren’t treated as hazardous, and the  U.S. Congress  is debating
whether to exempt them from stricter rules. Projected growth in
battery production increases the odds of fires, the  study  by
U.S., Canadian and U.K. researchers found.  “It’s like a fireworks display,” Jerry Back, senior fire
protection engineer at Hughes Associates Inc. in Baltimore, said
about burning batteries in an interview. The firm conducts fire
research for government and private clients.  “They explode,” Back said. “They shoot fireballs. They
emit smoke. Sometimes they spray flaming liquid.”  The study, commissioned in part by the U.S.  Federal
Aviation Administration , was released as government
investigators are trying to determine why the lithium battery on
a  General Motors Co. (GM)  Chevrolet Volt car caught fire following a
crash test in May.  The U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration in January 2010 proposed stricter rules for
handling airborne battery shipments. The rules remain under
review at the U.S. Department of Transportation.  The Republican-controlled House earlier this year voted to
block the rules. The Democratic-controlled Senate hasn’t acted
on the measure.  Costs Disputed  Manufacturers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  say
additional regulation would cost them $1.1 billion a year and
isn’t warranted, according to  PRBA-The Rechargeable Battery
Association , a Washington-based trade association. The hazardous
materials administration estimated the cost of its rule at $70.2
million over 10 years.  “We have to take seriously this risk and we have to take
seriously the way in which we package and transport these
materials,” Lee Collins, executive vice president of the
Coalition of Airline Pilots Associations, a Washington-based
group representing five pilot unions, said in an interview.  The crash-risk analysis, which was posted on the FAA’s
website in September without publicity, highlights the dangers
of some types of lithium batteries as cargo on passenger planes,
Russ Leighton, safety coordinator for the Teamsters Airline
Division, said in an interview. The Teamsters represent pilots
at  Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings (AAWW) ’ Atlas Air Inc. and ABX Air Inc.  Passenger Plane Incidents  Rechargeable lithium batteries can be carried as cargo in
passenger planes.  Non-rechargeable lithium batteries, which are made
differently and resist halon extinguishers, were banned as cargo
in passenger planes in 2004. That type of battery is used in
hearing aids, garage-door openers and small electronic devices.  Since then, there have been 17  reported fire incidents  with
lithium batteries of both types on passenger planes, all but one
involving passengers who carried the batteries or packed them in
luggage, according to the FAA.  The agency in 2008 barred passengers from carrying spare
lithium batteries in checked luggage. Last year it recommended
to passenger airlines that battery shipments be placed in areas
with fire-suppression systems.  Philadelphia, Dubai  A  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   Boeing (BA)  DC-8 that was destroyed
by fire on Feb. 7, 2006, in Philadelphia contained “numerous”
lithium batteries in computers and other devices, a National
Transportation Safety Board investigation found. The three crew
members escaped as flames engulfed the jet shortly after
landing.  The safety board said it couldn’t identify the cause of the
fire. The investigation focused on batteries.  On Sept. 3, 2010, fire broke out on a UPS Boeing 747-400
jetliner 22 minutes after it left Dubai. The plane, which
crashed at a military base, was carrying more than 81,000
lithium batteries, according to a report by the General  Civil
Aviation Authority  of the  United Arab Emirates . Both pilots
died.  Lithium batteries burn so hot that if one in a shipment
catches fire it will ignite the others,  research  at the FAA’s
fire safety branch in  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey , has shown.  Both types of lithium batteries will continue burning after
being blanketed by halon fire-suppression systems, according to
the FAA research. The halon can prevent fires involving
rechargeable batteries from spreading to adjacent cargo. It
can’t stop the spread of non-rechargeable battery fires,
according to the research.  UPS Challenges Findings  UPS disputes the study’s prediction of more accidents,
because there’s no proof the fires on its jets started in
batteries, Mike Mangeot, a UPS spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. More research must be done before adopting stricter
rules, Mangeot said.  The rechargeable battery association agrees, George
Kerchner, its  executive director , said in an interview. The
group represents Apple, Panasonic and tool-maker  Stanley Black &
Decker Inc. (SWK)   The group opposes the hazardous materials administration’s
proposal to require better testing of battery safety and
improved packaging to prevent short-circuiting.  The House provision, approved as part of a bill setting
policy guidelines for the FAA, prohibits any rules stricter than
those set by the  United Nations . House and Senate negotiators
haven’t yet reached agreement on the FAA bill.  Shippers Blamed  In a June 17 letter to Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood,
airlines, battery manufacturers and electronics firms urged
officials to strictly enforce the UN guidelines on safe
manufacturing and testing of batteries.  “The failure of some shippers to comply with these
requirements has been the root cause of virtually all of
reported air cargo transport incidents,” the letter said.  The letter was written by Kerchner’s group and others
including Airlines for America, the Washington trade group
representing the largest U.S. carriers; the  Consumer Electronics
Association , the Arlington, Virginia-based association whose
members include Apple and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ; and the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, the largest U.S. business-advocacy group.  Production of lithium-battery cells grew from 625 million
in 2000 to 4.4 billion in 2010, according to the study, which
was completed in September.  The total is expected to almost double by 2020, reaching
about 8 billion, it said. About half of lithium batteries are
shipped on U.S. aircraft, the report said.  ‘Time Bomb’  As a result of that growth, statistical models predicted
that there would be 4.5 accidents due to lithium-battery fires
from 2011 to 2020, the report said.  Battery-related accidents are projected to cost $395
million during the decade, the study said.  The report was commissioned by the FAA,  Transport Canada 
and  England ’s Civil Aviation Authority after last year’s Dubai
crash. It says that lithium batteries “likely contributed” to
that incident and the one in Philadelphia in 2006.  The study projected accidents only for U.S. cargo carriers.
An  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  cargo 747-400 flying from  Seoul  to
 Shanghai  crashed into the  East China Sea  on Sept. 28 after the
crew reported a fire on board. The jet’s cargo included lithium
batteries, according to  South Korea ’s Ministry of Land,
Transport and Maritime Affairs.  The report shows the need for stronger regulations and
enforcement on battery labeling and handling, Leighton said.  “You kind of have this time bomb waiting to go off,”
Leighton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  