-- Bearish Rupee Bets at Three-Year High as RBI Confidence Ebbs: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2011-12-22T04:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/bearish-rupee-bets-at-three-year-high-as-rbi-confidence-ebbs-india-credit.html
International investors are boosting
bets that  India ’s rupee will extend the worst slide since 2008
as an economic slump deepens, suggesting a lack of confidence in
the central bank’s steps to curb exchange-rate volatility.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forward contracts on the rupee
dropped 2.6 percent this month to 56.19 per dollar even as the
Reserve Bank of India introduced measures to boost dollar supply
and curb rupee sales. Forwards fell as much as 6.5 percent below
onshore spot rupee prices yesterday, the deepest discount since
2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Similar contracts signal
a 0.8 percent drop in China’s yuan and a 1.1 percent decline for
South Korea’s won.  Bond risk in India has surged the most among the largest
developing nations this year as the rupee’s 15.3 percent tumble
threatens to further fuel inflation that’s already more than 9
percent, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. The sliding
rupee is also boosting costs for Indian companies, faced with a
record $11.4 billion of dollar-bond repayments in 2012.  “While the RBI has taken decisive steps to reduce
speculation, these measures don’t necessarily address the
underlying cause for the rupee’s weakness,” Olivier Desbarres,
head of foreign-exchange strategy for Asia-Pacific ex-Japan at
 Barclays Capital  in  Singapore , said in an interview on Dec. 16.  The rupee, the worst performer against the dollar among
Asian currencies and of the so-called BRIC nations in 2011,
plunged to a record low of 54.305 per dollar on Dec. 15, poised
for a third straight quarter of declines, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Worst of BRICs  Brazil ’s real lost 10.7 percent this year to 1.8598 per
dollar and the Russian ruble retreated 3.8 percent to 31.74. The
Chinese yuan gained 4.1 percent to 6.3395. The rupee may slide
to 60 per dollar next year, according to CLSA and Skandinaviska
Enskilda Banken AB.  Currency options signal further declines in the Indian
currency. Implied volatility on three-month dollar-rupee
options, a gauge of expected exchange-rate swings, doubled in
the second half of 2011 to a 19-month high of 14.2 percent this
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Similar-dated contracts offering the right to sell the
rupee against the dollar cost 350 basis points more than those
to buy today, compared with 115 at the end of June. The so-
called risk reversal rate was 71 basis points for the yuan, 475
for the ruble, and 800 for the real.  ‘Not Real Money’  “This is a sign of rupee weakness driven by foreign
investors,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , said in a phone interview on Dec. 13.
“Offshore forwards are leading onshore forwards. This means it
is possibly not real money.”  Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars
on currencies that are traditionally not easily convertible for
foreign investors.  The rupee has rebounded 2.9 percent from last week’s lows
after the Reserve Bank restricted trades in onshore forward
contracts to temper speculation and freed  interest rates  on
dollar deposits held locally to spur fund inflows.  Companies can’t enter into multiple forward contracts to
cover a single overseas transaction, the central bank said on
Dec. 15. The monetary authority eased rules for overseas
borrowings by microfinance companies on Dec. 19.  ‘Other Measures’  Last month, policy makers relaxed rules for firms to sell
foreign currencies through swaps. They also sold dollars in
recent weeks to curb the rupee’s slide, according to Mumbai-
based IndusInd Bank Ltd. The central bank  sold  $943 million of
foreign currency in October, compared with $845 million in the
previous month, data on its website show.  “These are not the only measures we have,”  Reserve Bank 
Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told reporters in Mumbai on Dec.
20. “There are other measures we can undertake to bring
stability to this market. But for the moment, clearly some
degree of stability has returned, and that’s important.”  Indian local currency-denominated debt has  returned  6.3
percent this year, compared with the 17 percent earned on
Brazilian real bonds, JPMorgan data show. Chinese notes returned
6 percent, while  Russia ’s gained 5.4 percent, the data show.  The rupee fell more than other Asian currencies as India’s
economy slowed and  Europe ’s debt crisis spurred capital outflows
from developing nations. India is more vulnerable as it has
 Asia ’s widest current-account  deficit .  Investor Exodus  Factory output  fell 5.1 percent in October from a year
earlier, the first decline since June 2009, government data
showed last week. Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao , who has raised
borrowing costs 13 times since early 2010 to stem inflation,
left rates unchanged on Dec. 16 to support the slowing economy.  Global investors pulled almost $20 billion this year from
the stock markets of India,  South Korea ,  Taiwan  and  Thailand ,
exchange data show. India’s current-account shortfall widened to
$14.2 billion in the three months ended June 30, from $5.4
billion in the first quarter, government data showed.  The gap may widen to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product
in the year ending March, Commerce Secretary  Rahul Khullar  said
this month. India’s  GDP  was $1.7 trillion in 2010, according to
the  World Bank .  “The RBI’s measures, along with some intervention, will
buy time for the country to address medium-term issues such as
the current-account deficit and capital outflows,” Ananth Narayan G., Mumbai-based head of South Asia currency and bonds
trading at Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai. “Those are the
root causes of the rupee’s weakness.”  Bond Risk  Yields  on 10-year  government bonds  climbed 41 basis points,
or 0.41 percentage point, in 2011. The yield on the 8.79 percent
note due 2021 fell one basis point today in Mumbai to 8.33
percent, according to the central bank’s trading system. Rupee-
denominated bonds returned 6.5 percent in 2011, compared with
the 20.5 percent earned by Indonesian debt, HSBC Holdings Plc
indexes show.  The cost to  protect  the debt of State Bank of India against
non-payment has surged the most this year since 2008 as the
rupee weakened. Credit-default swaps on the state-owned lender
jumped 234 basis points in 2011 to 395 basis points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  China ’s government bonds increased 80 to 152, while
those for Russia climbed 126 to 273 and Brazil’s added 53 to
164.  Retail Investment  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. State Bank is viewed as a
proxy for India by investors as the nation doesn’t have dollar-
denominated debt.  The central bank predicts Indian  inflation , which slowed to
9.11 percent in November from 9.73 percent the previous month,
will slow to 7 percent by March.  “Since inflation is on an easing path, investors are
betting on a cut in interest rates in the coming months,” N.S.
Venkatesh, head of treasury at Mumbai-based IDBI Bank Ltd., said
in an interview on Dec. 16.  That is “encouraging for bond
investors.”  Overseas funds boosted  holdings  of rupee-denominated
government and corporate debt by $8.16 billion this year to a
record $25.8 billion on Dec. 20, exchange data show. Investors
still demand  extra yield  of 637 basis points to hold India’s 10-
year sovereign notes over similar-dated U.S. Treasuries.  The central bank’s latest measures show “the commitment of
the RBI to fight further rupee depreciation,”  Sebastien Barbe ,
chief emerging-market strategist in Paris at Credit Agricole
CIB, said in an interview on Dec. 15. “I think this draws a
line in the sand at close to 54 per dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  