-- Beckham Shirts Seen Bringing in Less Than $2 Million If He Should Join PSG
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2011-12-22T09:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/beckham-shirts-seen-bringing-in-less-than-2-million-for-french-team-psg.html
David Beckham  may not pay his way
for Paris Saint-Germain’s Qatari owners in shirt sales.  The French soccer team can expect no more than 1.5 million
euros ($2 million) in profit from extra shirt sales if Beckham
joins from  Los Angeles Galaxy , according to Andreas Ullmann,
head of market intelligence at Cologne-based Sport+Markt AG.
Other financial spinoffs will depend on the 36-year-old
midfielder’s success with the club, Ullmann added.  Le Parisien newspaper yesterday reported that Beckham, the
best-paid soccer player according to  France  Football magazine,
had agreed to a gross monthly salary of 800,000 euros with PSG,
the leader of France’s Ligue 1. Beckham’s management agency XIX
said the former England captain had “yet to make a final
decision” on his soccer future.  “There may not be millions and millions to earn, but there
is a tangible effect,” Ullmann said in an interview. “At this
stage in his career, you can’t compare his sporting impact to
Messi or Ronaldo who will likely stay where they are for four or
five years.”  Real Madrid’s Cristiano Ronaldo and Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi  lead  Spain ’s La Liga in scoring.  Soccer teams typically get no more than 15 euros from each
70-euro shirt sold after revenue is shared with the apparel
maker and distribution and tax costs are factored in, Ullmann
said. Paris Saint-Germain, whose shirts are made by Nike Inc.,
can expect to sell between 50,000 and 100,000 extra shirts if
Beckham joins, Ullmann said.  Qatari Investment  Qatar Sports Investments, an investment arm of the Qatari
government, bought a 70 percent stake in PSG in May and said it
would build the team into one of  Europe ’s strongest. PSG, which
counts French president  Nicolas Sarkozy  as a fan, won the last
of its two national championships in 1994.  Beckham helped to raise the visibility of  Major League
Soccer  since joining the Galaxy in 2007. He was the highest-
profile signing in the U.S. since Pele joined the New York
Cosmos in 1975.  In the two years after he joined Real Madrid in 2003, the
Spanish team’s sponsorship and advertising income more than
doubled to 45.9 million, according to team accounts. Sales of
jerseys and other merchandising jumped 62 percent to 54.1
million euros.  Beckham’s effect on PSG, which is sponsored by airline
Emirates, may be more limited because he’s nearing the end of
his career, according to Conor O’Shea, an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets in Paris who covers Lagardere SCA, the owner of
PSG’s marketing partner Sportfive.  Big Name  “Beckham is still a big name even if a bit less so than
when he joined Real  Madrid ,” O’Shea said.  Paris Saint-Germain is reviewing its contract with
Sportfive, which gets a cut of team sponsorship and
merchandising sales, O’Shea said. Sportfive officials didn’t
return e-mails seeking comment and PSG spokesman Mathias Barbera
declined to comment in an e-mail.  PSG beat Saint Etienne 1-0 last night to top Ligue 1. The
Paris team was eliminated from the continent’s second-tier
Europa League last week.  For soccer fans, buying a PSG shirt with Beckham’s name on
it may not be a good long-term investment, Ullmann said.  “It could be out of date in six months or a year,”
Ullmann said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  