-- Belgian Business Confidence Unexpectedly Rose in December
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2011-12-21T14:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/belgian-business-confidence-unexpectedly-increased-in-december.html
Belgian business confidence
unexpectedly rose for the first time since March as demand
forecasts among executives in construction, manufacturing and
trade gained ground.  The  confidence index  for Belgium increased to minus 10.6
from minus 12.2 in November, the  National Bank of Belgium  in
Brussels said in a statement today. Economists had projected a
drop to minus 12.5, the median of 13  forecasts  compiled by
Bloomberg News showed.  “Business confidence firmed up in the manufacturing
industry, more markedly so in the building industry and
especially in trade,” the central bank said. “In each of the
three branches of activity considered, the outlook for demand
was given a rosier assessment.”  The central bank said that in the business-related
services, “where the business indicator had shown a very clear
recovery the previous month, the situation stabilized. The
smoothed overall synthetic curve, which reflects the underlying
trend, is still on a downward path.”  Ratings Cut  New Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo pledged budget cuts to
prevent  Belgium  from succumbing to the European debt crisis as
he took office this month, ending a political stalemate that had
endured since inconclusive elections in June 2010. The following
week, Moody’s Investors Service cut Belgium’s credit rating two
steps, citing rising borrowing costs, slowing economic growth
and liabilities from the breakup of French-Belgian lender Dexia
SA. German business confidence unexpectedly rose for a second
month in December.  A gauge of demand expectations among executives in the
trade industry jumped to minus 12.5 from minus 27.3 in the
previous month, according to the central bank. A sub-index of
demand forecasts in the manufacturing industry increased to
minus 11.2 from minus 17.5, while the building-industry gauge
improved to minus 9 from minus 11.1.  Consumer confidence  in Belgium, the euro region’s sixth-
largest economy, rose in December, rebounding from the steepest
drop in three years in the prior month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  