-- Bernanke Money Policy Seen Successful as Savers Become Consumers
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2011-12-21T17:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/bernanke-money-policy-seen-achieving-goal-as-savers-become-consumers-again.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  finally may be catching a break: His easy-money
policies are showing signs of speeding up the economic rebound
three years after he cut interest rates  to zero .  Housing may be nearing a bottom as record-low mortgage
rates tempt more buyers into the market and confidence among
homebuilders climbs to the highest since May 2010. Autos,
another part of the economy sensitive to interest rates, are
reviving, with carmakers reporting in November their highest
sales pace in more than two years.  Banks also are starting to put more of their money to work,
expanding commercial and industrial loans last quarter by the
most since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt in
September 2008.  “When the Fed sprinkles happy dust on the economy, we
always respond,” said  Allen Sinai , co-founder and chief global
economist and strategist at Decision Economics in  New York .
“The happy dust has been out there a long, long time, and I
think it finally may be settling in some places.”  Since the recovery began in June 2009, households have
focused on saving rather than spending, while banks have
concentrated on rebuilding capital instead of lending. That may
be changing, as both have made progress in rebuilding their
balance sheets, Sinai said.  He sees growth accelerating in the range of 2.5 percent to
2.75 percent next year from 1.5 percent to 2 percent this year,
when the economy was hit by what Bernanke called “some elements
of bad luck” in a Nov. 2 news conference. These include a run-
up in  oil prices  caused by the Arab spring and a  sell-off (SPX)  in the
stock market triggered by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  More Bad Luck  More bad luck may be in store if Congress fails to extend a
payroll-tax cut and special unemployment benefits beyond the end
of the year. That could knock a percentage point off growth in
2012, reviving fears of a double dip, said  Stuart Hoffman , chief
economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh.  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in
Jersey City,  New Jersey , is even more optimistic than Sinai.
Crandall -- the most-accurate forecaster of the  U.S. economy  as
of Dec. 1, based on Bloomberg calculations -- predicts growth
next year of just over 3 percent, as companies become more
confident about the outlook and expand their businesses.  The resilience of the economy will lift corporate earnings
and stock prices, Sinai said. Operating profits of companies in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will rise by an average of 8
percent to 10 percent in 2012, and the stock gauge will end the
year at 1,400, he forecasts -- up from 1,241.30 at 4 p.m. in New
York yesterday.  Stocks Over Bonds  “Next year, stocks will do better than bonds,” Hoffman
said. He sees stock returns in the “high single digits,”
including dividends, compared with yields on  10-year Treasury
notes  below 2 percent.  Faster economic growth should be good news for President
Barack Obama as he tries to secure a second term. It’s
“possible” the jobless rate may be down to 8 percent by the
November elections, he said Dec. 11 on the CBS television
program “60 Minutes.”  Sinai and  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at  Barclays
Capital  in New York, agree.  “We see the unemployment rate at 8 percent at the end of
2012,” Maki said Dec. 14 in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene, compared with  8.6 percent  last
month. It will fall faster than many forecasters expect, in part
because “more and more of the baby boomers are retiring every
month,” he added.  ‘Policy-Uncertainty Shock’  Big risks remain. The economy may be buffeted in the second
half of next year by what  Ethan Harris  at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch calls a “policy-uncertainty shock.” The co-head
of global economic research in New York sees growth slowing to
just over 1 percent in the third and fourth quarters of 2012, as
households and companies wait to see what happens to former
President George W. Bush’s income-tax cuts, which are scheduled
to expire at the end of 2012.  Europe also is a concern. The sovereign-debt turmoil there
and a deceleration in emerging-market growth may be “poised to
knock us off course,” Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President
Richard Fisher said Dec. 16.  Demand “has slowly begun to strengthen domestically, yet
developments in Europe, a slowdown in growth in emerging
economies such as China and Brazil, and concerns about financial
tripwires that might be triggered give rise to caution,” he
said in a speech in Austin, Texas.  Fastest Expansion  The economy appears to be ending 2011 with the fastest
expansion of the year, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist
for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. He forecasts growth of 3.5
percent in the fourth quarter, compared with what he said will
be a downwardly revised 1.5 percent in the third. The Commerce
Department already cut its third-quarter estimate to a 2 percent
annual rate on Nov. 22 from 2.5 percent.  It was the late Nobel laureate economist Milton Friedman
who first spoke of monetary policy affecting the economy with
“long and variable lags,” as consumers and companies gradually
adjust spending in response to changes in  interest rates .  Transmission of this policy to the economy “has been
gummed up” during the recovery, as households held back on
spending and banks restrained lending, said  Paul Ballew , chief
economist at Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in Columbus, Ohio,
and a Fed adviser. Now, “it’s starting to free up a bit.”  ‘Well Above’ Average  The tangible-capital ratio for the banking industry stood
at a post-World War II high of 8.5 percent in the third quarter,
based on calculations by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. The ratio --
which measures how much loss a bank can absorb before
shareholder equity is wiped out -- is “well above” the 6.9
percent average since 1934, according to the investment bank.  With their balance sheets fortified, banks have increased
commercial and industrial loans by an average annual pace of
almost 10 percent in the third quarter, the highest since the
comparable quarter in 2008, compared with a 1.7 percent decline
in the past four years, based on Fed data.  U.S. banks also have moved to fill gaps left by crisis-
plagued European counterparts as they reduce lending in America.
San Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co., the largest U.S. home
lender, announced Nov. 2 that it was buying a $3.3 billion
commercial real-estate-loan portfolio from Irish Bank Resolution
Corp., formerly known as Anglo Irish Bank.  Better Financial Shape  Consumers also are in better financial shape, thanks to
reductions in debt and the Fed’s record-low interest rates.
Household-debt payments as a share of disposable income stood at
 11 percent  in the third quarter, the lowest since 1994 and down
from a peak of 14 percent set in 2007, according to data from
the central bank.  That has freed up money for spending, and the automobile
industry is a beneficiary. U.S. light-duty car and truck sales
rose to a seasonally adjusted annualized rate of  13.6 million  in
November, the best month since August 2009, based on data from
Autodata Corp. in Woodcliff, New Jersey.  “We’re going to breach 14 million” for 2012 as a whole,
said Ballew, a former director of global market and industry
analysis for  General Motors Co. (GM)  in Detroit. He reckons sales
this year will come in just below 13 million.  “It’s a good time to buy,” he said. “Affordability is at
an extremely high level, and auto-loan rates are at the lowest
they’ve ever been.”  Aging Cars  The average age of cars and light trucks on the road today
has risen to 10.6 years, Jenny Lin, senior U.S. economist at
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford Motor Co., said on a Dec. 1
conference call. That’s above the seven-to-7.5 years Ballew says
is the long-term average.  “We are going to see more and more of this pent-up demand
realized,” Lin told analysts and reporters.  The story is much the same in housing. Low  mortgage rates 
and the steep drop in prices have made homes more affordable
than they’ve been in years, said Thomas Lawler, a former
economist with government-backed mortgage company Fannie Mae in
 Washington , who is an independent housing consultant in
Leesburg, Virginia.  There’s also a lot of pent-up demand in this market, as
many young adults put off moving away from their parents because
of the tough economic times, he added.  “Residential-investment spending has hit a bottom, and it
probably will pick up a little bit next year,” he said.  Rising Home Sales  Sales of existing homes climbed 4 percent in November to a
4.42 million annual pace from a revised 4.25 million rate in
October, the National Association of Realtors reported today.
The revisions stretched back to 2007, reducing the number of
homes sold in the U.S. by an average of 14 percent, magnifying
the depth of the slump.  Now, “the market feels a little bit better than we would
have expected,”  Larry Sorsby , chief financial officer at
builder Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. in Red Bank, New Jersey, said
in a Dec. 15 call with analysts. While sales historically fall
in November, “this year we’ve not seen as dramatic a slowdown
as we have seen in recent prior years.”  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of builder confidence  rose to 21  this month, the highest since
May 2010, from 19 in November, the Washington-based group said
Dec. 19.  Builders broke ground last month on the most houses in more
than a year, led by a three-year high in multifamily units.
Starts increased 9.3 percent to a  685,000 annual rate , the best
since April 2010, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.
Building permits, a proxy for future construction, also rose to
a more than one-year high.  May Improve  Housing starts have averaged an annualized, seasonally
adjusted 653,000 in the last three months, up from an average
605,000 in the prior three months and 539,000 in the fourth
quarter of 2010. They may continue to improve in 2012 to 675,000
for the year, said Hoffman, the second most-accurate forecaster
of this statistic, according to Bloomberg calculations. He sees
economic growth accelerating to a “modest” 2.5 percent next
year from about 1.75 percent in 2011.  “Bernanke was right; there was an element of bad luck this
year,” Crandall said. “Things don’t look bad for the U.S. in
2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  