-- BNP Paribas Renewables Fund to Add Biomass After Sleaford Deal
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2011-12-21T06:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/bnp-paribas-renewables-fund-to-add-biomass-after-sleaford-deal.html
BNP Paribas Clean Energy Partners
Ltd.  plans to tap its 437 million-euro ($573 million) renewables
fund to add more biomass assets, after snapping up a straw-to-
power plant in northeast  England  last week.  The BNP Paribas unit, seeking to buy a project of similar
size to the 40-megawatt Sleaford plant, is studying potential
deals, Technical Director Peter Dickson said in an interview.
It’s likely the next acquisition won’t be in the U.K., he said.  The London-based fund is among renewable-energy investors
expanding in biomass-fired generation, which uses organic matter
such as wood chips, municipal waste and straw to produce power.
The 27-nation European Union has  set targets  for member states
to get a certain portion of their energy from renewable sources,
aiming for an average 20 percent share across the bloc by 2020.  “We see the renewable industry as continuing to be
secure,” Dickson said by telephone. “We don’t see a huge
amount of alternatives for European governments but to invest in
clean energy.”  The BNP Paribas fund, financed by institutional investors,
avoids risk by considering only “fully developed” projects,
Dickson said. The “sweet spot” is ventures in the later stages
of construction before they enter commercial operation, he said.  BNP Paribas bought the Sleaford plant in Lincolnshire from
developer Eco2 Ltd. for 170 million pounds ($266 million) in its
first acquisition of a biomass project, it said Dec. 12. The
fund already has completed deals in wind and solar energy.  A “significant” portion of the fund is invested in about
10 projects, Dickson said. It’s now in talks on new investments
and is hoping to conclude agreements by year-end, he said.  “We’re very active in solar and onshore wind and we’re
actively looking at investing in French, U.K. and Irish wind
power plants,” according to the director. The fund’s strategy
is to split investments equally between wind, solar and biomass,
before studying the potential for another fund, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  