-- BOE Officials Unanimous on Bond Buying as Program Approaches Market Limit
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-21T10:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/boe-officials-voted-unanimously-as-bond-buying-approaches-market-s-limit.html
Bank of England  policy makers said
the pace of their bond purchases is close to the market’s
capacity as some signaled further stimulus might be needed next
year to weather  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King ,
voted unanimously to keep  the target for gilt buying  at 275
billion pounds ($432 billion) after increasing it by 75 billion
pounds in October, according to the minutes of their Dec. 7-8
meeting published today in London. They also voted 9-0 to keep
the key  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent.  “Some members continued to note that the balance to risks
to inflation in the November inflation report projections meant
that a further expansion of the asset purchase program might
well become warranted,” the minutes said. “It was noted that
market capacity made it difficult to increase the monthly rate
of purchases substantially above what was already under way.”  Consumer confidence  plunged to the lowest in almost three
years this month as unemployment rose and above-target inflation
squeezed household budgets, GfK NOP Ltd. said today. Officials
have warned the crisis in the euro area may hurt the U.K.
economy, as the government refuses to compromise on the pace of
its deficit-reduction plan.  Separate data today showed Britain’s  budget deficit 
narrowed more than economists forecast in November as  tax
revenue  increased and the government restrained spending.  The pound rose 0.6 percent against the dollar and traded at
$1.5760 as of 10:26 a.m. in London. The yield on the two-year
generic gilt was up almost 1 basis point today at 0.38 percent.  Contraction Risk  Data tomorrow will show Britain’s economy grew 0.5 percent
in the three months through September, according to the median
forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Bank of
England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said this month there’s a
risk the economy may shrink for at least one quarter as the euro
area heads toward a recession.  Some officials “thought that the outlook had deteriorated
somewhat on the month, and noted the further weakening in the
labor market and increased concerns for credit supply arising
from the continuing strains in bank funding markets,” the
minutes said.  “It seemed likely that a contraction in activity was under
way in the euro area” and “the substantial challenges faced by
the euro area posed a threat to the outlook” for the U.K.,
according to the minutes. All officials agreed that there was
“little merit” in changing the path of asset purchases at the
meeting and that there had been little change in the risks to
the U.K. in the previous month.  ‘Pipeline’  The minutes signal “more asset purchases are in the
pipeline after the current program will be completed in
January,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV
in Amsterdam. “Indeed, we expect the BOE to keep the printing
press running next year. This is based on our view that the
economy will slide into a mild recession this quarter and next,
before posting a modest recovery.”  King has said there are early signs of a credit crunch in
the euro area. The  European Central Bank  will lend euro-area
banks 489 billion euros ($643 billion) for three years, it said
today, more than economists had forecast. The move is the ECB’s
latest attempt to keep credit flowing to the economy.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said yesterday
that the U.K. faces a “difficult” year in 2012, while policy
maker Ben Broadbent said there’s a “material chance of a
technical recession,” which is two consecutive quarters of
contraction. The  Office for Budget Responsibility , Britain’s
fiscal watchdog, cut its forecasts for economic growth last
month to reflect turmoil in Europe.  Britain’s net government borrowing excluding support for
banks fell to 18.1 billion pounds in November from 20.4 billion
pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said.
Tax revenue rose 7.1 percent, while spending increased 0.8
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  