-- Boehner Says ‘We’re Ready to Go to Work’ on Payroll Tax Cut
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2011-12-21T16:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/boehner-says-we-re-ready-to-go-to-work-on-payroll-tax-cut-1-.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  said
Republicans in his chamber are “ready to go to work” on a one-
year extension of a  payroll-tax  cut due to expire in January, as
congressional leaders in both parties continued to pursue
diverging paths in a year-end showdown.  The president and bipartisan congressional leaders “have
all really asked for the same thing over the course of the last
several months: Let’s extend the  payroll tax  credit for a
year,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said today as he insisted
both parties work toward a long-term tax fix.  In his office in the Capitol, Boehner and other Republican
leaders convened a meeting of eight key lawmakers in their party
appointed to take part in talks for an extension. Democrats in
both chambers are urging the House to pass a bill approved by a
bipartisan Senate majority to extend the payroll tax cut for two
months. House Democrats say they won’t appoint negotiators.  Also today in  Washington , Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
sent a letter to Boehner reiterating that he is ready to
negotiate on a yearlong extension of the tax cut if the House
first will pass the Senate’s two-month measure to allow time for
talks.  “I am fully confident that we can work out our differences
and find common ground on a yearlong extension,” Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, said in the letter. “But in the meantime, families
should not have to worry that they will wake up to a tax
increase on Jan. 1, 2012.”  How to Pay  Republicans and Democrats disagree on how to pay for a
yearlong payroll-tax cut. The House rejected the Senate-approved
plan yesterday on a 229-193 vote after passing its own proposal
earlier this month.  Paychecks for 160 million workers will be reduced in
January unless lawmakers break the stalemate that threatens to
harm U.S. economic growth and poses political difficulties for a
Congress with low public approval ratings.  Republican presidential candidates  Newt Gingrich  and  Mitt Romney  said today they favored a one-year extension of the tax
cut.  “I’d like to see the payroll tax extended,” Romney said
on  MSNBC . “You’d like to get as much as possible. But this is
not going to turn the economy around.”  Gingrich, campaigning in Des Moines,  Iowa , blamed the
Senate for the impasse.  “Reid is deliberately game-playing by sending the Senate
home,” Gingrich told reporters. “It’s a total dereliction of
duty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Meszoly at 
 rmeszoly@bloomberg.net  