-- BofA Said Close to Settling Fair-Lending Probe
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2011-12-21T16:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/bofa-said-close-to-settling-fair-lending-probe-into-countrywide.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is close to
settling a U.S. Justice Department probe into whether its
Countrywide Financial Corp. unit violated fair-lending
practices, said two people with knowledge of the discussions.  A deal may be announced as early as this week and will
include money to compensate Countrywide customers, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks were
private.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
acquired  subprime lender  Countrywide in 2008, and with it
billions of dollars  in mortgage liabilities .  The DOJ is “being very aggressive reviewing mortgage data,
and where they determine a lender is not adequately serving a
particular community, they are doing things like requiring banks
to open branches in lower-income areas,” said Warren W.
Traiger, a lawyer at New York-based  BuckleySandler  LLP who
advises financial firms on fair-lending compliance.  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender by
deposits, would be the biggest financial firm to settle a case
with the  Justice Department ’s new fair-lending unit. The DOJ has
extracted more than  $30 million  in compensation for loan
discrimination cases, including deals with American
International Group Inc. and Citizens Republic Bancorp Inc.  More Scrutiny  The Obama administration has increased scrutiny of banks to
prevent redlining -- excluding borrowers in low-income or
minority neighborhoods -- as well as pricing discrimination and
steering customers to products based on race or national origin.
The 1977 Community Reinvestment Act requires banks to make loans
in all of the areas they serve.  The Countrywide probe was among seven authorized suits and
more than 20 active fair-lending investigations being pursued by
the Justice Department, Thomas E. Perez, the assistant attorney
general in charge of the DOJ’s civil-rights division, said in a
Nov. 7  speech .  “There were terrible things that went on in the past, I
get that,” said Christine Clifford, vice president of Access
Mortgage Research & Consulting Inc. in Columbia,  Maryland . “But
our housing industry won’t rebound until people are lending
again. Banks are scared to death about fair lending, because the
feeling is that the DOJ is going to go after you.”  Subprime Loans  Before being acquired, Countrywide was the biggest U.S.
provider of subprime mortgages, a type of loan that regulators
have said was offered disproportionately to minorities. Xochitl
Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and Bank of
America’s  Dan Frahm  said they couldn’t comment on the
settlement.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
52, is cleaning up Countrywide liabilities inherited from the
takeover made by his predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis . The company
has committed about $40 billion for mortgage refunds, lawsuits
and foreclosures since 2007.  The bank’s shares dropped 3 cents to $5.14 as of 10:58 a.m.
in New York. They have plunged more than 60 percent this year
amid concern that mortgage-related costs will increase and
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will slow global economic growth.  Bank of America also faces a lawsuit from Illinois Attorney
General Lisa Madigan alleging Countrywide steered black and
Latino borrowers into riskier subprime mortgages and charged
them more than whites. That suit, filed in June 2010, is still
pending, said  Robyn Ziegler , a spokeswoman for the Illinois
attorney general’s office.  The bank is still in negotiations, along with four other
mortgage servicers, to settle unrelated probes from U.S.
regulators and dozens of  attorneys general  that the firms used
so-called robo-signers to improperly submit foreclosure
documents without verifying them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  