-- BOJ Cuts Economic View for Second Month
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2011-12-21T03:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/boj-cuts-economic-view-for-second-month-even-as-asset-purchases-unchanged.html
Japan’s central bank lowered its
assessment for the nation’s economy for a second straight month
while refraining from boosting monetary stimulus, citing easy
domestic financial conditions.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his policy
board kept the central bank’s asset-buying fund at 20 trillion
yen ($257 billion), and its credit-lending program at 35
trillion yen, it said in a statement in Tokyo today. The
benchmark  interest rate  was held at a range of zero to 0.1
percent. The unanimous decisions were in line with predictions
of all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Companies are cutting their profit and spending forecasts
for the year as a yen near a postwar record against the dollar
and slower overseas demand have eroded the confidence of the
nation’s manufacturers, the central bank’s Tankan survey showed
last week. Shirakawa last month signaled the bank is ready to do
more to counter the fallout from Europe’s deepening sovereign-
debt crisis.  “There’s a chance for additional easing by the end of
March,”  Mari Iwashita , chief market economist at SMBC Nikko
Securities in Tokyo, said before the report. “That timing will
probably get pushed forward if financial markets get volatile”
and the “BOJ will probably stay on alert” into the new year,
she said.  The government sold the Japanese currency in the market at
least three times this year. The BOJ has supported efforts by
expanding its asset-purchases, its main policy tool. The  Finance
Ministry  said yesterday it is preparing to bolster its
intervention war chest to a record high, an indication it
remains vigilant about volatility in the yen.  Exports Flat  The BOJ downgraded its economic assessment today, saying
that the pick-up in activity has paused. It also said that
exports and production have remained “more or less flat” and
that the improvement in business sentiment has slowed.  Japan ’s exports fell 4.5 percent in November from a year
earlier, the second straight month of decline, the Ministry of
Finance said today in Tokyo.  The yen weakened against the dollar and the Nikkei 225
Stock Average tumbled earlier this week after the death of North
Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  fueled concern about political
instability in  East Asia .  In Europe, governments agreed to bolster their anti-crisis
arsenal this week, channeling 150 billion euros ($197 billion)
to the  International Monetary Fund . Still, the U.K. refused to
commit, in a sign of the difficulty of attracting outside cash
to ease the region’s debt crisis.  Haven Currency  “Investors will keep avoiding taking risks” as concerns
about the  Europe ’s debt development linger, said Takehiro Sato,
chief economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“The yen will continue to be preferred as a haven currency.”  Large manufactures expect the yen’s exchange rate to trade
at 79.02 per dollar on average in the year through March 31, the
Tankan report showed.  “This year we truly felt the weight of the yen as a heavy
burden on our shoulders,” Toshiyuki Shiga, chief operating
officer of Nissan Motor Co., said Dec. 15.  The central bank has allocated about 45 percent of the 20
trillion yen it has budgeted in its asset-buying program for
 government bonds . It sets aside the rest to purchase corporate
debt, exchange-traded funds and real estate investment trusts.  “There aren’t many policy steps available to the BOJ,”
said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan and a former BOJ
official. “The BOJ will probably focus on Japanese government
bonds as a target for purchases.”  The central bank may extend the maturities of bonds it buys
to 5 years to lower borrowing costs further, according to
Kazuhiko Sano, chief strategist at Tokai  Tokyo  Securities. Under
the facility it currency purchases bonds with the duration of up
to two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  