-- Bonds Stop Flowing as Collateral Gets Stuck at ECB: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2011-12-21T11:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/bonds-stop-flowing-as-collateral-gets-stuck-at-ecb-euro-credit.html
The chains of loaned securities
being pledged and re-pledged in the so-called wholesale money
markets are growing shorter, as collateral piles up at central
banks where it can’t generate additional borrowing.  Rehypothecation is the financial alchemy that transmutes
$2.45 trillion of assets into $5.8 trillion of collateral at the
14 largest securities dealers, down from a peak of $10 trillion
in 2007, according to  Manmohan Singh , senior financial economist
at the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington . Once
collateral is parked at the central bank, it can’t be recycled,
and may become hard to find in times of need.  At the end of last year, banks turned each dollar of
securities into $2.40 of collateral, Singh says. As banks grow
wary of lending to each other, those assets are being pledged
instead to the  European Central Bank  in one-time transactions
that mean the securities can’t be recommitted.  “The system is collapsing onto the balance sheet of the
most-solid member of the system, which is the central bank,”
said  Perry Mehrling , professor of economics at Barnard College,
Colombia University in  New York . “The central bank is on one
side of the market only. The bonds are flowing in and they’re
not flowing out again.”  The disappearance of the unsecured credit markets as the
sovereign debt crisis deepens has underlined the importance of
secured borrowing through  repurchase agreements .  Shortage of Collateral  “There is an enormous shortage of collateral,” said  Simon Gleeson , a financial-services lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP in
London. “That’s because the European banks can no longer raise
unsecured funds. There’s never been enough quality collateral so
the only way to do it was to re-use the securities.”  European banks are opting to park money on  deposit  at the
central bank rather than lend it to one another. They kept an
average of 273 billion euros ($356 billion) at the Frankfurt-
based institution during the past 20 days, within 6 billion
euros of the most since July 2010, according to ECB data.  The importance of secured lending in the  interbank market 
has grown largely unnoticed in recent years, said  Matt King ,
global head of credit strategy at Citigroup Inc. in London. Its
size may make it a source of risk, since borrowers may struggle
to find enough acceptable securities should lenders demand more
security, he said.  “Risk has become channeled here in an increasing way in
recent years, and we just don’t focus on it,” King said.
“Everyone is just doing what is efficient under the rules but
it’s built up to become a source of  systemic risk .” There is
“scope for runs on banks due to collateral suddenly becoming
very scarce, as in  Europe  at present,” he said.  Systemic Risk  Repo trading volumes in Europe are sliding, according to
 ICAP Plc (IAP) , the largest interdealer broker and the owner of
BrokerTec, the biggest platform for repo trading, where
securities such as  government bonds  are loaned for a fee.  “We’ve seen quite a significant fallback in the past two
to three months, and most of that’s driven by  Germany ,” said
Don Smith, an ICAP economist, who puts the decline at as much as
20 percent. “The German repo market has been getting very, very
tight,” forcing borrowers to use larger amounts of lower-
quality collateral and pushing up borrowing costs, he said.  “There is a lack of position-taking going on which is
consistent with elevated levels of  risk aversion , the sense that
people just want to buy and hold German government collateral,”
Smith said.  Risk Aversion  Secured lending was viewed as having two big advantages,
said Barbara Ridpath, the chief executive of the  International
Centre for Financial Regulation  in  London , who was head of
 Standard & Poor’s  ratings activities in Europe until 2008.  “Bankers realized that if they took collateral, two good
things happened,” she said. “One, they could stop looking at
the credit of a counterparty. And two, they could get ahead of
other creditors in a bankruptcy because they had security.”  Rehypothecation, where a bank takes an asset pledged to it
and recycles it to another institution, makes it hard for
creditors to keep track of ownership, as was shown in the 2008
collapse of New York-based  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in the
biggest bankruptcy to date.  In a paper dated 10 days before the collapse, King at
Citigroup pointed out how assets pledged to Lehman had declined
54 percent since November 2007, compared with declines of no
more than 3 percent among its peers. Those still using Lehman as
a counterparty when it crashed found the securities they had
pledged as collateral had been recycled through London and they
were now in line for payment with other creditors.  ‘Credit Claim’  “Once you engage in a repo with me, you no longer have the
assets, you have a credit claim against me,” said Gleeson at
 Clifford Chance . “A wise counterparty doesn’t do repo with
someone in a deep hole.”  As secured transactions increase, unsecured creditors get
pushed further back in the queue for payment in a default. This,
combined with reforms in countries such as the U.K. to make
insured depositors whole before unsecured bondholders, mean it’s
more costly for banks to issue unsecured debt, said  Simon Adamson , a bank analyst at CreditSights Inc. in London.  “I suspect regulators will become increasingly concerned
about asset encumbrance and levels of collateralized
borrowing,” he said. “Senior unsecured will remain an option
for banks, at least if and when the sovereign debt crisis is
fixed. However, it will be a smaller market, partly because of
bail-in legislation, lower-rated, and more costly.”  Debt Crisis  Faced with a situation in which the lack of collateral is
starving the financial system of the instruments it needs to do
business, the ECB agreed to offer unlimited three-year funding
against collateral in two tenders starting today.  Banks asked to borrow 489 billion euros, the most ever in a
single operation and almost double the median estimate of 293
billion euros by economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The ECB
said 523 banks asked for the funds.  The central bank also  said  Dec. 8 it would accept lower-
rated bonds and bank loans as collateral in its own lending, and
cut reserve requirements, potentially freeing up another 100
billion euros of collateral, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
estimates.  “Everyone wants collateral, everyone wants dollars,” said
Mehrling at Barnard College. “If the central bank accepts bad
collateral, then bad collateral goes out of the system. But that
releases good collateral that the central bank would otherwise
be demanding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  