-- Bosch Buys Conergy Unit as Part of $2 Billion Solar Drive
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2011-12-21T12:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/bosch-buys-conergy-unit-as-part-of-2-billion-solar-drive.html
Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s
biggest car parts supplier that’s pursuing a 1.5 billion-euro
($2 billion) push into solar energy, bought  Conergy AG ’s
Voltwerk Electronics GmbH unit.  The purchase marks Bosch’s entry into solar inverters,
devices that connect electricity generated by panels to the
transmission grid. Voltwerk generated sales of 68 million euros
in 2010, Stuttgart-based Bosch said today in a  statement ,
without giving the financial terms.  The deal puts Bosch into competition with established
suppliers including Germany’s  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92)  and Power-
One Inc. based in Camarillo,  California . Suppliers of inverters
struggled to keep up with orders in 2010 as demand rocketed.
Subsidy cuts and falling prices weighed on companies this year
and they’ve had to cope with lower margins.  “Conergy’s small-scale inverters performed well in tests
and with Bosch’s entry, there are now much better possibilities
to expand further into large-scale inverters that generate
better margins,” Peter Wirtz, an analyst at WestLB AG, said by
phone from Dusseldorf.  Bosch is building a 500 million-euro photovoltaic
production plant in  Malaysia  that will employ 2,000 workers in
what will be the company’s biggest non-German production site.
The company in 2008 purchased Ersol Solar Energy AG and holds an
86 percent stake in  Aleo Solar AG .  Conergy, once  Germany ’s largest solar company, last month
posted a third-quarter loss bigger than its market value as
prices and demand fell at home. The company will lose 100 jobs,
idle production of wafers and cells and focus on the end-product
modules, it said in September. It was taken over by creditors in
July.  Shares of Conergy rose as much as 21 percent in Frankfurt
trading today, their steepest intraday gain since Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  