-- Brazil Outstanding Loans Rose at Second-Fastest Pace of Year
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2011-12-21T14:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/brazil-outstanding-loans-rose-at-second-fastest-pace-of-year-2-.html
Brazilian  bank lending  rose at the
second-fastest pace this year in November as banks charged the
lowest lending rate in nine months after the central bank cut
borrowing costs.  Outstanding credit climbed 1.9 percent last month to 1.98
trillion reais ($1.07 trillion), led by an increase in lending
to companies, the central bank said in a report distributed
today in Brasilia. The average rate banks charged for loans fell
to 38.5 percent, the lowest level since February, spurring
demand for credit.  “At the central bank there’s a commitment to the policy of
cutting rates and that gets transmitted through a lower cost of
credit,” said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco
WestLB do Brasil SA in  Sao Paulo . “Even with the slowdown you
have companies with investments that take a while, and they need
financing.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is trying to
reinvigorate  Brazil ’s economy as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepens
with a mix of tax cuts, interest rate reductions and looser bank
lending requirements. The central bank last month unwound most
of the credit curbs that it imposed last December on auto loans,
personal loans and payroll loans in a bid to revive credit
growth as economic growth stalled in the third quarter.  As growth slows, the central bank expects credit expansion
of 17.5 percent this year and 15 percent in 2012, said Tulio Maciel, the head of the central bank’s economic research
department, told reporters in Brasilia.  Interest Rates   The average interest rate charged on consumer loans was
44.7 percent, down from 47.1 percent in October, the central
bank said. The average rate on company loans was unchanged at
29.8 percent, according to the report.  Total loans in November rose 18.2 percent from a year
earlier, led by a 46 percent jump in mortgage credit. Consumer
bank lending, not including mortgages, grew at half the rate of
total lending in November, expanding 0.8 percent to 626 billion
reais, according to the report. Consumer credit grew 16 percent
in the past 12 months.  Consumer demand for credit is easing as  job creation  slows
and Brazilians spend more money on debt they’ve already taken
on. The proportion of family incomes used for debt service rose
to a record 22.2 percent, according to the central bank. In the
U.S., the ratio of household debt payments to personal income
was 16.09 percent, according to the  Federal Reserve .  Rate Cuts  Gross domestic product shrank 0.04 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, the first such
contraction since the first quarter of 2009.  Bank loan defaults, measured by payments overdue for more
than 90 days, rose to 5.6 percent, its highest level since
November 2009, the report shows. Consumer loan defaults jumped
to 7.3 percent in November from 7.1 percent in the previous
month, while corporate loan defaults stayed at 4 percent.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini last month cut the
key interest rate for a third straight meeting, pushing it to 11
percent, to shore up economic growth even as inflation stayed
above the target range. President Rousseff said the country will
target growth of 5 percent next year, and is ready to use lower
borrowing costs to stimulate growth instead of more  government
spending .  “Developed nations have interest rates close to zero,”
Rousseff told reporters in Brasilia on Dec. 16. “We have a room
for maneuver that they don’t.”  Traders are wagering that policy makers will cut the
benchmark interest rate to 9.75 percent by May, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 