-- Burgundy Bargains Lurk in Beaune Cellars: A. Craig Copetas
-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 2011-12-21T15:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/burgundy-holiday-bargains-lurk-in-beaune-s-wine-cellars-a-craig-copetas.html
In a crypt beneath the French
village of Chassagne-Montrachet, Jean-Francois Rateau flicks
away a spider sleeping on the dust-encrusted glass neck of
Prince Florent de Merode.  The bottle of Grand Cru Corton Bressandes wine is crimson,
a 2002 pinot noir handpicked from the highest slopes of
Burgundy’s Cote de Beaune.  Rateau pulls the cork and pours. Standing to his right and
biting his lip is John Lonardo, senior adviser at the
international property brokerage firm Sperry Van Ness
International and a member of the Burgundy wine-hunting
fellowship, the Raiders of the Lost Vine.  Toward a dim light, the real-estate-investment specialist
from Miami raises his glass. He swirls it, closes his eyes and
lets his nose follow the aroma to discover if the 93 euro
($121.60) a bottle of Bressandes will be a 2011 holiday gift of
choice for his clients. He sips and holds the liquid in his
mouth for a long moment. Standing opposite, French publisher
 Philippe Larminie  fidgets with a calculator and processes the
Corton’s case price in silence.  At the top of a stone stairway, a cell phone is positioned
to transmit Lonardo’s verdict across the border to the office of
Bjorn von Below, a founding member of the Lost Vine and senior
vice president of Geneva-based EFG Bank, which is owned by  EFG
International AG (EFGN) , a Swiss private bank controlled by Greek
billionaire Spiro Latsis and his family.  Chinese Rivals  “Buy,” the 61-year-old Lonardo says. “My Chinese clients
don’t yet know that  Domaine de la Romanee-Conti  leased
Bressandes’s 2.27 hectares and are slapping a DRC label on the
ticket.”  As Von Below tells it, this is an important moment in the
10-year history of the Lost Vine, a coterie of bankers, brokers
and physicians who each year gather along the “Lieux-dits de
Cote d’Or” (Vineyards of the Golden Slope) to pursue uniquely
priced Burgundy drinking wines with exceptional terroirs and a
good story.  “The Burgundies we’ve discovered over the years have been
great but little distributed Grands and Premiers Crus available
at source for under 100 euros a bottle,” Von Below says. “DRC
now controls Bressandes and the Chinese have raised the auction
price of almost all top-level Burgundies. I suspect they’ll soon
be traveling to the source, with cash to inflate many of
Burgundy’s drinking wines into investment vehicles.”  Burgundy Cases  Indeed, the Lost Vine expedition this season came in the
wake of deep-pocketed wine collectors in  Asia  over the past few
months sidestepping investment-grade Bordeaux Grands Crus in
favor of Burgundies priced at more than $128,000 a case.  That was two days after Alain Suguenot, president of the
Hospices de Beaune and mayor of Beaune as well as a member of
the French parliament, says he entered into talks with Air China
Vice President Fan Cheng on supplying the airline and other
Chinese corporate clients with Champagne and Burgundy wines.  “The negociants see this as sending a signal of strength
and stability to the market,” says George Legrand, director of
 Maison Boisset .  “Burgundy’s on fire and sizzling,” adds  John Kapon , chief
executive officer of New York-based wine-auction company Acker
Merrall & Condit, which set 145 price records at its Nov. 4 and
5 auctions in  Hong Kong . “Bordeaux is a day at the office
now.”  U.S. Collector  Kapon told Bloomberg News that over a two-week period in
November his company sold thousands of bottles from the Burgundy
cellar of U.S. collector Donald Stott. Acker’s Oct. 29 sale in
 New York  totaled more than $4 million and set 114 records, while
the two-day Hong Kong event raised $14.5 million. In  London ,
Bonhams Fine & Rare Wine Auction in December offered 92 lots of
red Burgundies, including a case of 1985 Romanee-Conti Domaine
de la Romanee-Conti for 140,000 euros.  “I expect the price of pre-DRC Bressandes to triple over
the next few years,” says Rateau, whose family for almost a
century has managed  Caveau de Chassagne-Montrachet . “Once it
has the DRC label, the sky is the limit.”  Von Below says Chinese investment, coupled with the
“tempting DRC branding” of Bressandes, will make finding off-
the-beaten track Burgundies more difficult to isolate.  “We’re going to have to fight harder and be more open to
appellations like St. Aubin,” Von Below reckons. “It will be
harder to drink the big-name Burgundies for pleasure, but the
region is so complex that it will take longer than the
professional wine brokers who deal with  China  think to turn
Burgundy into a real investment wine.”  Celebratory Haul  For this season, though, the Lost Vine isolated a fine haul
of celebratory Burgundian wines fit for immediate gratification
and the discerning investment portfolio.  At the top of the Lost Vine’s list are the wines of the
exceptional pinot noir vintner  Jean-Marc Boillot , whose 2009
Beaune Premier Cru Montrevenots at 25 euros a bottle overwhelms
the Beaune competition in the all-important quality-to-price
ratio. Other liquid stars in the Boillot cave include his 2003
Pommard Premier Cru Les Saucilles at 32 euros a bottle and the
2007 and 2009 vintages at 35 euros a bottle.  The younger Saucilles harvests require a few more years
rest before drinking. The 2003 is robust and ready to enjoy, a
soundly priced example of one of  France ’s grandest wines.
Larminie says that Boillot’s second Pommard, a Premier Cru Les
Jarollieres vintage 2000 and 2001, both priced at 36 euros a
bottle, is the ideal drink to accompany a traditional Christmas
roast goose.  Vincent Dancer  Lonardo says that his most remarkable discovery is the
“Village” wine of  Vincent Dancer . Is that too high praise for
a lowly and usually watery red? Maybe, until the Raiders trudged
through the fields to isolate the wine’s provenance. French law
bans growers from printing the name of a wine’s origin on the
label of village output. Dancer’s biologically produced table
wine hails from grapes grown on Pommard flatlands.  Dancer’s “Bourgogne Appellation Controlee 2009” bursts
with terroir and the affluent tang of the region’s Premier Cru
wines for 25 euros a magnum.  Single-bottle holiday investments of distinction for under
100 euros include the 2007 Premier Cru Beaune Les Teurons from
Albert Morot and, from the Cote de Nuits, a 2006 Grand Cru
Chambertin-Clos de Beze from Domaine Robert Groffier and a 1985
Corton Clos du Roy by Antonin Guyon.  Beware the big-ticket Grands Crus from Montrachet. A Lost
Vine test of the world’s most-expensive white Burgundies
revealed the price to be the only significant thing about them,
particularly among the lower-priced Grand Cru labels.  Sherry Taste  DRC’s Le Montrachet brand -- a refreshing flower-and-honey
tipple at 4,000 euros a bottle for the 1996 vintage and 3,000
euros a bottle for the 1988 vintage -- remain king of the hill
above Puligny-Montrachet, though a few glasses poured from a 240
euro bottle of Domaine Blain-Gagnard’s lower slope 2002 Batard
proved too caramelized and kicking with the aftertaste of
sherry.  Still, Larminie says he savors the caramel-infused terroir
of Batard and Chevalier Montrachets.  “No doubt the difference between honey and caramel can be
oppressive to the uninitiated,” Larminie says. “Le Montrachets
are exceptionally expensive and consumable pieces of art for
people who don’t need to look at how much money is in their
wallet.”  Larminie fills his glass with Batard and tells a story.
“Batard is the wine Frenchmen use to woo beautiful young
women,” he says. “For us, this is a reasonably priced wine
with the aroma and flavor of the perfect perfume.”  To contact the writer on the story:
 Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 