-- Buy Ross, TJX Calls Before Sales Report, Goldman Sachs Says
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2011-12-21T17:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/buy-ross-tjx-calls-before-sales-report-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors should buy calls on  Ross
Stores, Inc. (ROST)  and  TJX Cos. (TJX)  before a Jan. 5 report on December
same-store sales, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  January $47.50  call options  on Ross Stores, a Pleasanton,
California-based discounter, and January $65 calls to buy TJX --
the owner of T.J. Maxx, Marshalls, and HomeGoods -- should be
bought before next month’s International Council of Shopping
Centers report on revenue from stores open at least a year,
equity-derivatives strategists Katherine Fogertey and  John Marshall  said in a report yesterday. Ross fell 0.5 percent to
$47.64 at 11:59 a.m in  New York . TJX slipped 0.2 percent to $63.  The strategists said retail volatility tends to be high in
November, drop in December, and rise in January, and investors
have a “good entry point” because average retail implied
volatility is down more than 20 percent from last month.  “The options market does not appear positioned for a
potential pickup in volatility,” the strategists wrote. Traders
are “pricing in continued declines in volatility in January on
average, presenting compelling opportunities to position long
volatility in retail stocks.”  “Value-conscious” shoppers boosted traffic at discount
retailers and surveys show customers have delayed their holiday
shopping from last year, which could skew trend data, the
Goldman Sachs strategists said, citing Adrianne Shapira, the
firm’s retail analyst.  Ross Stores will post better-than-estimated sales as 48
percent of its stores are on the West Coast, so the company
could benefit from cool temperatures affecting that area, the
report said, while new marketing initiatives at TJX will draw
higher-end consumers.  Same-store sales are considered the best measure of a
retailer’s results because they exclude the effect of store
openings and closings in the past year.  The New York-based strategists also recommended buying
January $8  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  straddles. A straddle
involves the purchase of a call and put with the same strike
price and expiration, and is a bet that the stock’s volatility
will rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  