-- Buying LoopNet Today Returns 206% With Takeover Closing Year-End: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2011-12-21T15:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/buying-loopnet-today-returns-206-with-takeover-closing-year-end-real-m-a.html
No takeover in America is giving
arbitragers the opportunity to make more money in less time than
 CoStar (CSGP)  Group Inc.’s deal for LoopNet Inc.  LoopNet, which runs a website that allows brokers to post
and search commercial real-estate listings, fell more than $1.50
below CoStar’s per-share offer this week for the first time
since the agreement was announced in April. With the deal set to
close by year-end pending regulatory approval, traders betting
the sale will be completed on time stand to reap an annualized
206 percent gain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While some investors have grown concerned the LoopNet
acquisition will unravel because of the Federal Trade
Commission’s antitrust review, William Blair & Co. says the deal
will most likely still win approval. Since neither CoStar, which
sells software that lets real-estate developers and banks
analyze property sales, nor LoopNet offer services to consumers
and few of their products overlap, the transaction can overcome
the regulatory scrutiny that caused AT&T Inc. to scrap its $39
billion bid for  T-Mobile USA , according to MKM Partners.  “It’s a huge spread,”  Keith Moore , an event-driven
strategist at  Stamford , Connecticut-based MKM Partners, said in
a telephone interview. “Either the government’s going to
challenge or the deal will be completed, and we tend to think
that it’ll go through.”  Moore says that even if the FTC extends the review, he
expects the transaction will close by mid-January. Based on that
completion date, traders can still double their profit on an
annualized basis at LoopNet’s price yesterday.  Acquisition Detail  Today, LoopNet rose 1 percent to $18.09 a share as of 10:45
a.m. in New York, while the 82-stock  Bloomberg U.S. Internet
Index (BUSNET)  declined 1.5 percent.  “We’re working through the process and hopeful to complete
the process,” said Richard Simonelli, spokesman for Washington-
based CoStar. “We’re hopeful that it will go through.”  He declined to comment on its discussions with the FTC.  Cary Brazeman, a spokesman for San Francisco-based LoopNet,
declined to comment on the pending transaction.  Peter Kaplan , a
spokesman at the Washington-based FTC, didn’t immediately
respond to telephone calls seeking comment.  In April, CoStar agreed to buy LoopNet for $16.50 a share
in cash and 0.03702 CoStar share, according to a statement. As
of yesterday, the deal valued LoopNet at $19.03 a share.  While the transaction was approved by the boards of both
companies, as well as LoopNet shareholders, the gap between the
deal offer and LoopNet’s stock began to widen in December and
reached $1.59 this week.  Richest American Windfall  With LoopNet closing at $17.92 a share yesterday,
arbitragers who purchased shares at that  price (LOOP)  would triple
their money on an annualized basis if the deal closes by the end
of the year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Only two other U.S. acquisitions valued at $250 million or
more are offering annualized gains of greater than 100 percent:
Gilead Sciences Inc.’s purchase of Pharmasset Inc. and Carl Icahn’s hostile takeover of Commercial Metals Co.  Icahn’s tender offer expires on Jan. 10, while the
Pharmasset takeover is scheduled to be completed two days later,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  If CoStar buys LoopNet by mid-January, the arbitrage would
still hand traders an annualized 98 percent gain. The median
annualized windfall is less than 5 percent.  One reason that the FTC is unlikely to block the LoopNet
takeover is because it and CoStar have few overlapping customers,
said Judey Delgado, a Cresskill, New Jersey-based senior analyst
at Alpine Associates Advisors, which owns 5.3 percent of LoopNet.  Barrier to Entry  About 10 percent of CoStar’s revenue comes from the same
subscribers as LoopNet’s, Andrew Florance, chief executive
officer at CoStar, said in a conference call on April 27.  “It looks like it really is an opportunity,” Delgado said
in a telephone interview. “It does really seem that this will
get done, it’s our opinion that this will clear. There’s not a
sense really that  Washington  is gearing up for a fight.”  The two companies would have as much as 25 percent of the
market for data and analysis on commercial real estate, CoStar
said. That means their potential competitors would still control
at least three-quarters of an industry that relies on compiling
publicly available information for property prices and sales.  “The uncertainty with the FTC has got people spooked,”
 Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based merger arbitrage
strategist for Tullett Prebon Plc, said in a telephone interview.
That concern has been “misplaced and I believe a little bit
exaggerated. Anybody in the real estate market could
theoretically do what CoStar and LoopNet does. The market share
is not substantial -- it’s still fragmented,” he said.  Financing Commitments  “The best-case scenario is you wake up before Christmas
and the FTC says we’re done,” he said.  CoStar has a commitment from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for a
$415 million  term loan  and a revolving credit facility of at
least $37.5 million, CoStar said in April.  CoStar also sold shares in May, raising $225 million and
boosting its cash and equivalents to $554 million, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That’s eliminated almost all the risk that
the takeover will unravel because of a lack of financing, said
Brandon Dobell, an analyst at William Blair in  Chicago .  Steve Gerbel, a merger-arbitrage hedge fund manager at
Chicago Capital Management, which sold out of LoopNet in June,
says if the FTC decides the acquisition will lessen competition
and challenges it, there is little chance a compromise could be
reached that still allows the deal to be completed.  That makes it too risky a deal to bet on now, he said.  Antitrust Scrutiny  “It’s a very difficult transaction to fix,” Gerbel said
in a telephone interview. “It’s an ‘all-or-nothing,’ and that’s
what scared me and why we got out of the transaction.”  The demise this week of Dallas-based AT&T’s deal to buy T-
Mobile USA, announced nine months ago, may also signal that U.S.
regulators are taking a tougher stance on acquisitions.  CoStar and LoopNet won’t rise to a similar level of
antitrust concern, William Blair’s Dobell said. Instead,
regulators have taken more time to scrutinize the deal because
they are probably less familiar with the industry, he said.  “In most other scenarios, whether it’s drug companies or
AT&T and T-Mobile, you can see how there would be concerns about
overlap or an undue pricing-pressure opportunity that would
generally concern the FTC,” Dobell said. With LoopNet, “we’re
still quite confident the deal closes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 