-- HTC’s Patent Tweak Seen as Too Little in Fight With Apple: Tech
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2011-12-21T00:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/htc-s-patent-tweak-seen-as-too-little-too-late-in-fight-with-apple-tech.html
HTC Corp. (2498)   Asia ’s second-biggest
maker of smartphones, can tweak the technology in its handsets
to avoid a U.S. trade agency ban. Dealing with the threat from
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s new devices may prove
tougher.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said on Dec. 19
that beginning in April it would ban the sale of HTC phones that
infringed an Apple patent on so-called data-detection, such as
touching a phone number or an address in an e-mail to dial or
find the address on a map. HTC responded by saying it will
remove the offending features from its phones.  Keeping the handsets on the market solves HTC’s immediate
challenge after becoming the top selling vendor in the U.S.
Samsung’s Galaxy Nexus and Apple’s faster, ‘ Siri ’-enabled iPhone
hit the market within the last quarter, posing a new threat to
HTC’s place in the $262 billion global mobile-phone market. The
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company is forecast to post its slowest
annual sales-growth and first profit decline since the 2009
economic crisis.  “Things were going great at HTC two years ago, their
products were so successful and they were the hottest company in
mobile phones,” said  Will Stofega , an analyst at researcher IDC
in Framingham,  Massachusetts . “They didn’t keep the momentum
going, and now we’re seeing products that haven’t wowed
audiences as much.”  HTC’s revenue will climb 11 percent next year and profit
will drop 6.7 percent, according to analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg, marking its worst financial performance since the
2009 global economic crisis. HTC’s revenue climbed 50-fold from
2000 to 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Sales Guidance  Stiff competition prompted HTC to cut its sales guidance
for this quarter by 20 percent, last month. That announcement,
on Nov. 23, prompted the stock to drop by its daily 7 percent
limit in Taipei for two consecutive days, worsening the year-to-
date loss to 45 percent.  At least six brokers downgraded HTC since the revised
guidance, with more analysts now recommending investors sell HTC
than buy for the first time in at least two years.  HTC Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung didn’t immediately
return calls yesterday.  The ITC, the agency empowered to block imports of products
that infringe the patents, found in Apple’s favor for one of
four patents the Cupertino, California-based company alleged HTC
breached. Apple’s so-called ‘647 patent covered a feature in
which the phone recognizes a telephone number so it can be
stored in directories or called without dialing.  Ripping Off IPhone  The result, while less than Apple sought, marks its first
victory in patent cases and strengthens the argument that
Google’s Android “ripped off the iPhone,” as the company’s
late founder,  Steve Jobs , once claimed. The ruling is the first
definitive decision in the dozens of patent cases that began to
proliferate last year as smartphone makers battle over a market
that Strategy Analytics Inc. said increased 44 percent last
quarter from a year earlier to 117 million phones worldwide.  Apple also has civil patent infringement cases against HTC
and Samsung. Both Asian rivals have also filed their own
retaliatory actions to the ITC and in U.S courts. The Android
operating system has led the global market since last year,
climbing to 48 percent of all smart phones in the second quarter
of this year and ahead of 19 percent for Apple’s iOS platform,
 according to  U.K. researcher Canalys.  Siri  Founded in 1997, HTC used its partnership with  Google (GOOG)  to
help transform itself from a contract manufacturer of Compaq
Computer Corp.’s iPaq personal digital assistant to the biggest
U.S. smartphone seller for the first time last quarter. The
company is chaired by  Taiwan ’s richest woman, Cher Wang.  Since HTC became the leader in the U.S., Apple and Samsung
have replied with newer and more functional devices. Apple sold
a record 4 million units of the iPhone 4S in the product’s first
weekend beginning Oct. 14. The model features ‘Siri,’ a software
that allows users to ask questions or issue commands by voice.  In October, Samsung unveiled the new Galaxy Nexus that runs
Google’s latest Ice Cream Sandwich software, featuring face-
detection technology.  HTC’s relative success in the ITC ruling -- Apple had
alleged four patents were infringed, with ITC agreeing on only
one --spurred the stock up its daily 7 percent limit in Taipei
yesterday. Still, analysts say the company needs to change if
it’s to gain on Apple and Samsung.  “They need to improve their products and the design which
hasn’t changed in two years,” said Roxy Wong, who rates HTC
“reduce” at  Mirae Asset Securities Co. (037620)  in  Hong Kong . “I’d
turn more positive if they became more competitive in their
price-performance and design.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 