-- California Prisons Can’t Afford Costly Three Strikes Law: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-21T00:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/california-prisons-can-t-afford-costly-three-strikes-law-view.html
The costly mess that is the
 California  prison system has produced inmate strikes, violence
and a Supreme Court ruling that its teeming institutions are
unconstitutional. Now it may produce a welcome byproduct:
justice.  Last week, the state gave the go-ahead to a proposed ballot
initiative to modify California’s “three strikes” law, enabling
backers of the initiative to begin gathering the signatures
necessary to put it to a vote. Approved by voters in 1994 after
the kidnapping and murder of 12-year-old Polly Klaas by a career
criminal, the law reflected the public’s frustration with
pervasive and seemingly ever-more-violent crime.  Two dozen other states adopted three-strikes laws as well,
but none is as indiscriminately punitive as California’s, which
allows any felony to qualify as a third strike. The state has
imposed sentences of 25 years to life for third strikes such as
shoplifting a pair of socks and prying open the door to a church
food pantry.  Many of the more than 8,000 prisoners serving third-strike
sentences in California are hardened, violent criminals who have
earned lengthy terms, or life, behind bars. Their sentences
would not be shortened by the ballot initiative. But more than
 3,600 third-strikers  have committed crimes that were neither
violent nor serious. In addition, local prosecutors and judges
exercise broad discretion on third-strike sentencing, producing
vast disparities among the state’s counties.  The original three-strikes law was written too broadly to
provide just punishment in the thousands of circumstances it
covers. With the state buckling under the strain of chronic
budget  deficits  and a sagging economy, it is now too expensive
to maintain. According to the state auditor, the  cost  of
imprisoning nonviolent three-strikes offenders for 25 years is
$4.8 billion. (California will spend roughly $10 billion on
prisons this year -- more than it spends on its once-renowned
higher education system.) Backers of the initiative say it will
save at least tens of millions of dollars a year.  Supporters, backed by the Stanford Three Strikes Project at
the university’s law school, will need to collect more than
500,000 signatures just to get the initiative on next November’s
ballot. They must also raise millions of dollars to pay for
advertising. A ballot initiative to change the law in 2004 was
shot down by 53 percent of voters. This latest effort will
surely be opposed by the powerful correction-officers union,
many California prosecutors (Los Angeles District Attorney Steve Cooley has been a steadfast and courageous exception) and
politicians fearful of being labeled soft on crime.  Violent crime in California has declined by more than half
since 1990, tracking similar declines in states with three-
strikes laws and those without them. (Indeed, there seems to be
little or no correlation between levels of violent crime and
three-strikes laws.) Changing the law to exempt nonviolent
criminals would not make California more dangerous. It would
make the state’s justice system more fair, its prisons less
crowded and its perennial budget gaps less dire.  Voters seem to recognize that change is overdue. According
to a poll in July, 62 percent of Californians now favor reducing
life sentences for third-strike property-crime offenders.  To comply with the court order on prison overcrowding, the
state is seeking to reduce its prison population from roughly
135,000 inmates to 110,000 two years from now. That will require
a kind of triage, with the state releasing thousands of
nonviolent convicts in order to ensure that violent criminals
remain incarcerated. Repealing three-strikes for nonviolent
offenders will help the prison system evolve from cruel and
unusual to humane and cost-effective. We hope California voters
support the ballot initiative.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 