-- Canadian Dollar Strengthens Amid Crude Oil Gains, Retail-Sales Growth
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2011-12-21T22:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/canadian-dollar-strengthens-to-seven-day-high-before-retail-sales-report.html
The Canadian dollar appreciated for
a second day against its U.S. counterpart as crude oil advanced
and the nation’s statistics agency reported retail sales growth
that doubled economists’ predictions.  The currency rose against a majority of its most-traded
peers. It pared an earlier advance against the greenback after
U.S. stocks fell as optimism faded about the  European Central
Bank ’s plans to loan 489 billion euros ($638 billion) to the
region’s financial institutions.  “Foreign-exchange performance is exceptionally tight, so
the upside surprise might be giving marginal support to the
Canadian dollar,” David Watt, senior currency strategist in
Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit, said in an
e-mail message referring to the retail-sales report. “Oil
prices are also up a bit, and holding their gains a bit better
than other asset prices, so more marginal support.”  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
waterfowl on the dollar coin, appreciated 0.3 percent to
C$1.0266 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. Toronto time. It earlier
gained to C$1.0209, the strongest since Dec. 12. One Canadian
dollar buys 97.41 U.S. cents.  Yields  on  Canada ’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.95 percent. They touched
1.837 percent on Dec. 16, the lowest level in Bloomberg data
going back to 1989. Canada’s 10-year bonds yielded one basis
points less than equivalent-maturity U.S. Treasuries, compared
with 32 basis points more on Sept. 5, the most this year.  Retail Sales  Canadian retail sales rose 1 percent to a seasonally
adjusted C$38.6 billion ($37.6 billion) in October, led by
increased receipts at car dealerships and gasoline stations,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News forecast a 0.5 percent gain, the median of 21
estimates.  The ECB awarded three-year loans to 523 banks in a so-
called long-term refinancing operation.  “Although the ECB managed to get some new cash into the
system, it remains to be seen how that cash is utilized,” said
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank’s TD Securities unit, in an e-mail message. “I don’t think
it really changes the overall view of the risks and challenges
for the  euro zone .” He predicts the loonie may weaken to about
C$1.04 to C$1.05 into year-end.  Futures on crude oil, the nation’s largest export, advanced
1.8 percent to $98.94 a barrel in  New York .  Monthly Loss  Canada’s dollar is among the worst performing major
currencies this year and is headed for a 0.9 percent loss this
month versus the greenback on concern a worsening crisis in
 Europe  and slowing global growth will crimp demand for its raw
materials.  “The market realized that a large demand for LTRO might
actually be suggestive of large problems in the banking
sector,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of
 Nova Scotia  in Toronto, said in an e-mail message. “The
Canadian dollar has been following along with broader markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  