-- Chelsea’s Terry to Be Prosecuted Over Alleged Racist Comments
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-12-21T15:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/chelsea-s-terry-to-be-prosecuted-over-alleged-racist-comments-about-player.html
England soccer captain  John Terry 
will face criminal charges after a police probe into a complaint
he racially abused Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand
during an Oct. 23 Premier League match, prosecutors said today.  The Chelsea player is scheduled to appear in court Feb. 1,
the prosecutor said today in an e-mailed statement. Terry said
he will prove his innocence.  Terry is also subject of an investigation by the Football
Association, which yesterday banned Liverpool forward  Luis Suarez  for 8 matches and fined the Uruguayan 40,000 pounds
($63,700) after finding him guilty of racially abusing
Manchester United defender  Patrice Evra .  “I have today advised the  Metropolitan Police Service  that
John Terry should be prosecuted for a racially aggravated public
order offence following comments allegedly made during a Premier
League football match,” Alison Saunders, chief crown prosecutor
for  London , said in the statement. “I am satisfied there is
sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction and
it is in the public interest to prosecute this case.”  Chelsea lost 1-0 in the game at Loftus Road. Terry said
afterward that he had spoken with Ferdinand and that “it was
all a misunderstanding at the time.”  Video showed Terry and Ferdinand’s exchanges during the
game. The Chelsea defender said later that he was trying to
explain to Ferdinand that he hadn’t used offending words toward
him.  “I am disappointed with the decision to charge me and hope
to be given the chance to clear my name as quickly as
possible,” Terry said in a statement. “I have never aimed a
racist remark at anyone and count people from all races and
creeds among my closest friends. I will fight tooth and nail to
prove my innocence. I have campaigned against racism and believe
there is no place for it in society.”  Chelsea said it would support its captain.  “John has made it clear he denies the charge and is
determined to do all he can to prove his innocence,” the west
London club said on its website. “Chelsea F.C. has always been
fully supportive of John in this matter and there is no question
that we will continue to be so.”  Terry faces a maximum fine of 2,500 pounds ($3,919) if
convicted of the offense.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja London at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 