-- Chile Traders See January Interest Rate at 5%, Survey Shows
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-12-21T12:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/chile-traders-see-january-interest-rate-at-5-survey-shows-1-.html
Chile ’s central bank will lower its
benchmark interest rate to 5 percent in January, according to a
bi-weekly survey of traders and investors published today on the
bank’s website.  Policy makers have kept the rate at 5.25 percent since July
after raising  borrowing costs  five times in the first half of
this year. They will lower the rate to 4.5 percent in April and
4.25 percent in July, according to the median forecast of 58
traders and investors in the survey taken yesterday.  The central bank yesterday lowered its growth and inflation
forecasts for 2012 and said that  interest rates  would probably
fall. Policy makers will move the benchmark rate broadly in line
with estimates in market surveys under the bank’s “base”
scenario, President Rodrigo Vergara said. That outlook envisions
a limited impact at home from global financial turmoil, he told
Senators in Valparaiso.  “We once again confront a scene of external turbulence,”
Vergara said after publishing the bank’s quarterly monetary
policy report yesterday. “It’s important to continue developing
and adapting our policy instrument to changes in the financial
landscape.”  Inflation in the next 12 months will be 2.7 percent,
today’s survey showed. The Chilean peso will slide to 520 per
 U.S. dollar  in seven days’ time, according to the survey.  Policy makers forecast inflation of 3.9 percent in December
and 2.7 percent at the end of next year, according to
yesterday’s central bank report. The bank targets 3 percent
inflation, plus or minus 1 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 