-- China Money Rate Gains Second Day as Holiday Cash Demand Rises
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2011-12-21T09:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/china-money-rate-gains-a-second-day-as-holiday-cash-demand-rises.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose for a second day on speculation cash demand is rising ahead
of holidays and as banks hoard cash to meet year-end reserve-
ratio requirements.  Money supply also became tighter this week due to a drop in
the amount of central bank bills and repurchase agreements that
are maturing. Debt redemptions will total 17 billion yuan ($2.7
billion) this week, compared with about 100 billion yuan per
week on average in the past few months, said  Frances Cheung , a
senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . Financial
markets are closed on Jan. 2-3 for public holidays. Chinese New
Year starts on Jan. 23.  “It’s the year-end effect,” said  Ju Wang , a Singapore-
based senior strategist at  Barclays Capital . “Demand for cash
will increase as people prepare for the Chinese holidays and
this will tighten liquidity.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose 36 basis points, or
0.36 percentage point, to 3.60 percent at 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, gained five basis points to 2.79
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
10-year bond yield was little changed at 3.46 percent. The
central bank will sell one billion yuan ($158 million) of three-
month bills at an auction tomorrow.  The central bank cut the amount of cash that banks must set
aside as reserves for the first time since 2008 this month as
 Europe ’s debt crisis dimmed the outlook for exports and growth.
The 50 basis-point decrease in reserve-requirement ratios took
effect on Dec. 5.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  