-- China Stocks Drop for Third Day on Cash Crunch, Ping An’s Fundraising Plan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-21T08:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/china-s-stocks-advance-on-premier-wen-s-export-pledge-u-s-economy-data.html
China’s stocks  fell for a third day
as a cash crunch weighed on equities after banks hoarded cash to
meet year-end reserve-ratio requirements and  Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co. (601318)  plunged on fundraising plans.  Ping An,  China ’s second-biggest insurer, slid 5.2 percent
on a plan to sell as much as 26 billion yuan ($4.1 billion) of
bonds after business expansion brought down its capital
adequacy. China Vanke Co. led a decline for developers as cities
including Shanghai extended the period limiting home purchases.
 Chongqing Brewery Co. (600132)  climbed for the first time in 10 days
after its third-biggest shareholder sought to remove the
company’s chairman as director.  “The economy and the capital markets are still facing a
credit crunch as a result of two years of monetary tightening,”
said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based chief investment officer at
Jingxi Investment Management Co., which manages about $120
million. “The economy is experiencing a down cycle. Stocks are
not a place to put money until economic growth picks up again.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.1 percent to 2,191.15
at the close. It rose as much as 1 percent after Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to help exporters and small companies. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 1.6 percent to 2,339.11. The  Bloomberg China-US
55 Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, jumped 3 percent at the close in  New York  yesterday.  Bucking Trend  China’s stock market was an outlier in the region today,
with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index advancing 2.1 percent after
U.S. builders broke ground in November on the most houses in
over a year and German business confidence unexpectedly rose for
a second month in December. Housing starts grew 9.3 percent to a
685,000 annual rate, exceeding the highest estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the highest level
since April 2010, Commerce Department figures showed.  The  Shanghai  Composite has fallen 6.1 percent in December
as concern about an economic slowdown overshadowed the first cut
in reserve requirement ratios in three years on Nov. 30.
The index trades at an estimated price-earnings ratio of 10.5
times, a record low, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg that began to track the multiple since 2006. For the
year, the measure is down 22 percent after the central bank
raised  interest rates  three times to curb inflation and exports
to  Europe  slowed because of the region’s debt crisis.  Ping An slumped 5.2 percent to 34.43 yuan. The proceeds
from the sale of six-year convertible bonds will be used to
boost working capital, Ping An said in a statement.  Repo Rate  The sale will erode liquidity in the  capital markets  and
will boost Ping An’s equity base by about 9 percent if the bonds
are converted into stocks, Sun Ting, an analyst at Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co., wrote in a report today.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose 36 basis points, or
0.36 percentage point, to 3.60 percent as of 3:16 p.m. in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  “It’s the year-end effect,” said  Ju Wang , a Singapore-
based senior strategist at  Barclays Capital . “Demand for cash
will increase as people prepare for the Chinese holidays and
this will tighten liquidity.”  China’s financial markets will be closed on Jan. 2-3 for
public holidays. Chinese New Year starts on Jan. 23.  The nation will keep its export policies such as tax
rebates “basically stable” next year and the government will
mainly use fiscal spending to support “structural tax cuts,”
Premier Wen was cited as saying in a statement posted on the
central government’s website yesterday. Slowing growth and
elevated prices are adding to the difficulty in managing the
economy, he said.  Property Curbs  A gauge of 34 property stocks in the Shanghai Composite
Index dropped 1.9 percent, its first decline in four days.
Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer, fell 2.7
percent to 7.30 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second
biggest, lost 1.7 percent to 9.91 yuan.  China Merchants Property
Development Co. (000024)  retreated 3.1 percent to 17.49 yuan.  Shanghai will continue to implement home purchase limits
next year, the city government said yesterday, joining Qingdao,
Guangzhou and Shenzhen in making similar moves.  Property sales may fall between 3 percent and 6 percent
next year and average prices are likely to fall between 1
percent and 4 percent, Soufun Holdings Ltd., the country’s
biggest real estate website owner, said in a statement.  Pension Fund Buying  China’s national pension fund invested at least 10 billion
yuan ($1.58 billion) in 20 stock funds last week, Shanghai
Securities News reported today, without saying where it got the
information.  Dai Xianglong , chairman of the National Council for
Social Security Fund, suggested that local social security funds
be allowed to buy equities, the newspaper said yesterday.  Chongqing Brewery gained 0.7 percent to 31.61 yuan. The
beermaker and medicine company agreed to hold an extraordinary
general meeting on Feb. 7 to discuss a proposal by Dacheng Fund
Management Co. to remove Chairman Huang Minggui as director, the
company said in a statement.  The shares slumped by the daily limit of 10 percent in each
of the past nine days after the company released on Dec. 8 a
report on a Hepatitis B vaccine it is researching. The vaccine
may be a “high risk” and “capital intensive” investment,
Chongqing Brewery said in the report.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing.
Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  