-- China Seeks $536 Billion of Investments to Protect Environment
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-21T07:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/china-seeks-536-billion-of-investments-to-protect-environment.html
China  needs about 3.4 trillion yuan
($536 billion) of investments for environmental protection in
the five years through 2015, the State Council said in a
 blueprint  on pollution reduction.  The government plans to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions by
8 percent, raise the ratio of non-fossil fuels as part of total
energy use, lower the ratio for coal, and add 42 million tons of
daily sewage treatment capacity from 2011 through 2015, it said
in a statement on its website yesterday. Companies and local
authorities will be mainly responsible for the investments,
while the central government will give support as needed
“depending on different circumstances,” it said.  China’s spending on environmental projects is part of a
campaign to move the world’s second-biggest economy away from a
model that derived most of its growth from exports and
investments for roads, railways and airports. Senior Chinese
leaders including President  Hu Jintao  have pledged to bolster
domestic consumption, conserve energy and reduce pollution as
part of efforts to create more sustainable economic growth.  “Boosting environmental protection is an important step in
China’s move to shift its growth model,” said Wang Jun, a
researcher with the government-backed China Center for
International Economic Exchanges in Beijing. “Excessive
infrastructure investment over the past years has been a key
factor fueling China’s high inflation and also added to
financial risks.”  Investment Focus  China will shift its investment focus to sewage treatment
plants, water irrigation and other “green” projects, Wang said.  “The government will continue to build roads, bridges, and
airports, but the investment won’t match the 4 trillion yuan the
country spent after the 2008 crisis,” he said.  That investment was fueled by historic levels of bank
lending. Much of the borrowing was by companies local Chinese
governments set up to bypass rules barring them from directly
taking loans or selling debt. The National Audit Office said in
June that local government debt in China totaled 10.7 trillion
yuan, with 80 percent of the total coming from banks, and warned
of repayment risks.  China is the world’s largest energy consumer and the
biggest emitter of  greenhouse gases .  While targets and key tasks outlined in the  11th five-year
plan for 2006 to 2010  were achieved, the deterioration trend in
the environment hasn’t been “fundamentally curbed” and
pressures on it are increasing, the State Council said.  Environmental Spending  The country’s 11th five-year plan targeted total investment
on environmental protection at 1.35 percent of gross domestic
product during the period, without giving a specific amount.
Based on the  annual GDP  data released by the National Bureau of
Statistics during the period, that investment would amount to
2.08 trillion yuan, about 40 percent less than investments
planned for 2011 through 2015, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  The State Council’s statement on the 12th five-year plan
didn’t say whether the goals on emission reduction are “binding
indicators,” compared with such a mention in the plan for the
previous period.  The government said it will encourage “qualified” local
government financing vehicles to expand funding channels for
environmental protection projects and will support companies in
the industry to issue bonds or list shares.  --Victoria Ruan. Editors: Shamim Adam,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  