-- China Faces Threat of European Tariffs on Organic Coated Steel
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2011-12-21T12:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/china-faces-threat-of-european-tariffs-on-organic-coated-steel.html
The European Union threatened to
impose tariffs on organic coated steel from  China  to curb
competition for EU producers.  The EU opened an inquiry into whether Chinese manufacturers
of the metal sell it in the 27-nation bloc below cost, a
practice known as dumping. This kind of steel is used in
domestic appliances, construction, heating and furniture, among
other things, according to  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest
steelmaker.  The investigation will determine if organic coated steel
from China is “being dumped and whether this dumping has caused
injury to the union industry,” the European Commission, the
bloc’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in the  Official
Journal . The commission has nine months to decide whether to
impose provisional anti-dumping duties for half a year, and EU
governments have 15 months to decide whether to apply
“definitive” levies for five years.  The probe stems from a Nov. 7 complaint by the European
steel industry association,  Eurofer , on behalf of producers that
account for more than 70 percent of the EU’s output of organic
coated steel, according to the commission, which didn’t identify
any companies.  Brussels-based Eurofer said last month China’s share of the
EU market for organic coated steel had grown to 15 percent from
0.5 percent in 2004. The association said European consumption
had dropped and imports from China had caused “significant
injury” to the EU industry.  “Over the past four years imports from China into the EU
increased dramatically,” Eurofer said in a statement on Nov.
25. “As a result of this, the EU industry lost sales and market
share, forcing it to cut back on production and to reduce
capacity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  