-- CIBC’s Gibson Sees Canadian Equity Rally as Europe Averts ‘Armageddon’
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2011-12-21T18:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/cibc-s-gibson-sees-canadian-equity-rally-as-europe-averts-armageddon-.html
Canadian stocks will gain 19 percent
next year should European leaders spend as much as 2 trillion
euros ($2.6 trillion) to solve the region’s debt crisis, says
Peter Gibson, the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce strategist.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  may climb to
14,000 from yesterday’s close of 11,716.88, provided that world
leaders spend enough money to reassure investors. Failure to do
so may lead to a new financial crisis, a breakup of the euro
region and a recession in the U.S., said Gibson, who has been
named  Canada ’s top quantitative analyst 21 times in annual
Brendan Wood International surveys of money managers.  “We continue to believe that  Europe  is ultimately going to
do what they have to do,” Gibson, 54, said in a telephone
interview from Toronto. “If Europe does the right thing, you’ve
got a shot at a two- or three-year recovery. If Europe fails to
act, it’s Armageddon.”  Canada’s benchmark stock index fell 13 percent this year
through yesterday, led by raw-materials and energy stocks, on
concern Europe’s debt troubles will limit economic growth. The
two industries make up 48 percent of Canadian equities by market
value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gibson estimates
there is about a 70 percent chance 2012 will see a resolution of
the European debt situation and a delay in what he sees as an
inevitable real estate and banking crisis in  China .  Infusion Needed  It will take the infusion of 750 billion euros to 1
trillion euros into German and French banks and another 1
trillion euros for economies in the European periphery for the
crisis to subside, according to Gibson, who said in 2004 the
euro might face a breakdown by 2010.  “It has to be a big and overwhelming strategy,” said
Gibson, whose bank is Canada’s fifth-largest by assets.  Italian government-bond yields below 4 percent would
indicate market acceptance of a debt-crisis solution, Gibson
said. Ten-year Italian debt yielded 6.61 percent yesterday. The
yield was last below 4 percent in November 2010.  Should that scenario occur, energy and materials companies,
which are sensitive to economic growth, will outperform after
lagging behind more-defensive stocks in 2011, Gibson said.
Smaller equities would also rally after the  S&P/TSX Smallcap
Index  tumbled 19 percent this year through yesterday.  As energy and materials companies’ share of Canadian stocks
is almost three times their proportion of U.S. stocks by market
value, Canadian equities would outgain their U.S. counterparts,
Gibson said. CIBC’s Investment Strategy Committee forecasts the
 S&P 500  will advance to 1,260 next year, which would mark a 1.5
percent increase from yesterday’s close.  Currency Rally  “If the right thing is done, oil probably rebounds to over
$100 a barrel,” Gibson said. “You would expect the Canadian
dollar would be back above parity. You would expect the TSX to
outperform.”  The CIBC strategy committee recommends investors have most
of their holdings in equities. Its model portfolio for more-
risk-tolerant investors has 65 percent of its holdings in
Canadian stocks and none in U.S. equities. The committee’s 2012
estimate for the S&P/TSX is 13,000.  Gibson agreed a case could be made for investors to
hesitate, considering the 30 percent chance the S&P/TSX could
face a plunge like that of the  bear market  from June 2008 to
March 2009, when it  slumped 50 percent .  “The two outcomes in front of us are very, very
different,” he said. “It’s just a classic binary decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  