-- Cleveland Disassembles Itself in Face of Property-Value Plunge
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2011-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/cleveland-disassembles-itself-in-face-of-property-value-plunge.html
Demolition contractor Craig Crawford
has a foundation-level view of  Cleveland ’s housing market, and
he sees a lot of unbuilding ahead.  Contractors who cashed in on the boom are now tearing down
buildings, Crawford said in an interview amid the loose bricks
and splintered wood that once composed the Eddy Chateau
apartments. He hopes his business will thrive with a reappraisal
of all  Cuyahoga County  properties next year and a push to tear
down vacant homes to improve neighborhoods and stabilize values,
he said.  “Anybody with an excavator is now a demolition
contractor,” Crawford, 46, a co-owner of C&J Contractors, said
in front of his backhoe as he razed the complex on the city’s
east side. “Excavators that were digging basements two years
ago are now knocking down houses.”  As much as U.S. cities such as Cleveland suffered during
the recession, the full impact won’t be felt until periodic
reappraisals reflect the decline in market values since the
housing bubble burst in 2007, said Jacqueline Byers, research
director for National Association of Counties. Thirty-six
percent of counties in a survey released Oct. 20 blamed
declining property-tax revenue for budget shortfalls, forcing
them to reduce services or raise taxes, Byers said.  “Some counties all through this downturn have been living
with assessments that were prerecession, simply because of the
cycle,” Byers said in a telephone interview from  Washington .
“When they suddenly see an appraisal that is actually bringing
their house in line with fair-market value of that house in that
community currently, people are not happy.”  Fed’s Warning  U.S. counties reappraise property values at different
times, depending on the state, to determine how much in property
taxes are assessed on each parcel to help pay for education and
other government services.  Cuyahoga County,  Ohio ’s most populous at 1.3 million, is
revaluing its 550,000 parcels in Cleveland and countywide in
2012. The last full reappraisal was six years ago, and with the
current estimated value of homes falling below the county’s 2010
forecasts, values may be 45 percent lower, according to a Dec. 6
 report  by Federal Reserve Bank of  Cleveland .  Wade Steen, Cuyahoga County’s fiscal officer, said he
doesn’t think values will drop as much as the report suggests.
The study projected a fall of 11 percent to 18 percent after
next year’s reappraisal. The decline may be 38 percent to 45
percent in Cleveland and 26 percent to 30 percent in inner-ring
suburbs, the report said.  ‘There’s No Way’  Steen questioned the conclusions because the county lowered
its residential values 7.7 percent to $20.4 billion  in 2009 and
researchers used data from sheriff’s sales and transactions
between relatives that are below market value.  “I don’t see any way we’re going to be close to what
they’re saying the decline in value is, especially within the
city of Cleveland,” Steen said in a telephone interview.
“There’s no way that values declined that much.”  Still, many homes are abandoned with no value, Thomas J.
Fitzpatrick IV, a Fed economist who co-wrote the report, said in
a telephone interview. Also, even after the reappraisal,
residents can challenge their valuations, he said.  With at least seven vacant houses on his street in
University Heights, a Cleveland suburb, Robert Hatcher said he
suspects he’s paying more in taxes than his home is worth. He
worries that the reappraisal won’t change that.  Disappearing Residents  “Market values have plummeted,” Hatcher, 65, a retired
social worker, said in a telephone interview. “Every time we
look up, there’s another empty house on the street.”  The Cuyahoga County  Land Bank  is trying to help, buying a
vacant property on Hatcher’s street in July 2010 for $28,432,
spending $73,530 to renovate it and listing it for sale four
months ago at $105,000, Bernard Moore, a housing specialist for
the group, said at the house last week. There have been no
buyers so far, he said.  Homes sales in the region are on “a little bit more of an
upward trend,” at least in parts of the county, Joanne Zettl,
chairwoman-elect of the Cleveland Area Board of Realtors, said
in a telephone interview.  Seventy economists surveyed by Bloomberg gave a median
estimate of 5.06 million U.S. existing home sales in November,
up from 4.97 million the previous month.  U.S. home prices through September are down 31 percent from
a July 2006 peak, based on the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of 20 U.S.
cities, including the greater Cleveland area. Declining property
values have wiped out more than $4 trillion in real estate
wealth over four years, according to the Fed.  Surviving the Plunge  Only about 7 percent of Cleveland’s budget comes from
property taxes, and with income-tax collections exceeding
projections by 4 percent this year, a property-value decline
shouldn’t be a major blow for the city, said Finance Director
Sharon Dumas. School districts that are more dependent on
property taxes could feel a sharper pinch, she said.  The impact of foreclosures on  Ohio  and neighboring  Michigan 
is analogous to what  Hurricane Katrina  did to the  Gulf Coast ,
said Jim Rokakis, a former Cuyahoga treasurer who directs the
nonprofit Thriving Communities Institute in Cleveland.  Zombie Houses  Rokakis estimated there are 70,000 residential properties
in Ohio, including about 10,000 in Cleveland, that are “rotting
corpses” that should be demolished to protect occupied homes
around them.  “If you don’t find a way to clean and green these
properties, you’re dooming what’s left of these cities,”
Rokakis said. He wants more federal money allocated for
demolition because cities don’t have adequate funding for it, he
said.  Crawford, the part owner of the excavating company that his
father started, said he began working full time after graduating
from high school. About half his work used to be site
preparation for commercial construction, he said.  These days, demolition is virtually everything, and it will
“probably be the bulk of the work for a while,” he said.  On Catherine Williams’ street in East Cleveland, the city
where oil baron  John D. Rockefeller  once lived, there is a
vacant lot on one side of her two-story home, an empty house on
the other and two vacant apartment buildings across the street
slated for demolition.  Watching contractors tear down a house up the street,
Williams, 75, said she would move if she could get a fair price.
The neighborhood was different when she moved in 42 years ago,
she said.  “Everyone would be out on Saturday morning, cleaning up
their property,” Williams said. “You don’t see that now, do
you?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Cleveland at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  