-- Congress Deadlock Threatens Jobless Aid, May Add State Costs
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   É s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2011-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/congress-deadlock-threatens-jobless-aid.html
Jephanie Thomas lost her retail job
about two years ago. Since then, her almost weekly efforts to
find work while getting extended  unemployment benefits  have
failed. Her assistance may end amid a deadlock in Congress.  Too many people are applying for too few jobs, Thomas said
yesterday as the U.S. House rejected a two-month extension of
the jobless program the Senate passed on Dec. 17. The jobless
aid is now in limbo.  “I don’t know what I’ll do,” Thomas, 22, said in an
interview as she stopped in a career center in Brooklyn. “It
isn’t fair because the  unemployment rate  isn’t really falling.”  Ending extended jobless benefits will slice almost a half
percentage point from U.S. economic growth, and will pinch
retailers and companies doing business with the unemployed,  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc., in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said in an interview.  Congress also failed to agree on extending a payroll-tax
cut past this month, which will trim U.S. gross domestic product
another half point as the economy struggles to recover and cope
with global financial woes in  Europe , Zandi said.  “The economy is going to take a big hit and recession
risks will become uncomfortably high next year,” Zandi said.
“It would be a serious error to do nothing.”  The congressional deadlock puts in jeopardy two
unemployment expansion programs, the first of which was approved
in July 2008 by former President  George W. Bush . Regular
unemployment insurance programs run by the Labor Department
would continue.  Assistance Ending  Without action, unemployment benefits would end after 26
weeks, the coverage provided by most states, compared with as
many as 53 weeks in states with high unemployment.  Assistance may end as soon as January for 1.8 million
people who get unemployment checks, according to a report from
the Washington-based National Employment Law Project. Labor
Secretary Hilda Solis said last month that about 5 million
Americans would lose federal jobless aid without action by
lawmakers.  “It’s catastrophic,” Judith Conti, the group’s federal
advocacy coordinator, said in an interview. “For lots of
families, this is the only lifeline they have. And for Congress
to walk away from a deal that could keep these programs up and
running in the holiday season and through the new year is about
as callous as anything I have ever seen.”  States’ Share  The expanded-benefits program, fully paid by the federal
government, is set to expire by Jan. 4. Next month, without
congressional action, the U.S. will pay half the cost, with
cash-strapped states picking up the remainder.  The program cost the federal government about $9.5 billion
this year, up from $7.8 billion last year and $4.9 billion in
2009, said Michael Reed, a policy associate with the National
Conference of State Legislators in  Washington .  Workers such as Thomas have been seeking jobs as U.S.
 unemployment  has remained higher than 8 percent for 34
consecutive months. The rate in November fell to 8.6 percent,
the lowest since March 2009, from 9 percent a month earlier.
Last week, the Labor Department said the fewest workers in more
than three years filed claims for unemployment benefits.  The Senate voted 89-10 Dec. 17 to continue the expanded
unemployment benefits for two months, while extending an
expiring payroll-tax cut and preventing a cut in doctors’
reimbursements under Medicare. House Speaker  John Boehner  said
he opposes the measure because the short extension creates
uncertainty for employers as they plan for 2012. The House
rejected the Senate measure 229-193 yesterday.  ‘Bite Bullet’  The Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, which
expires Jan. 3, provides as many as 53 weeks of benefits in
states where unemployment is higher than 8.5 percent. States
struggling with tight budgets would need to find additional cash
to pay their share, or would stop paying, Reed said.  They may “decide they will bite the bullet and pay for it
themselves or let it fall by the wayside because they don’t have
enough to pay them out,” Reed said in an interview.  House Republicans  who opposed the Senate’s measure may be
tested when explaining their votes, especially to constituents
who get benefits or know people who do,  Julian Zelizer , a
professor of history and public affairs at  Princeton University 
in  New Jersey , said in an interview. Democrats will cite the
vote to show Republicans are only concerned about cutting taxes
on the wealthy, he said.  Democrats’ Campaign  “It’s very clear the Democrats are planning a campaign
that revolves around this, focused in on  unemployment insurance 
and the willingness to extend those benefits, and willingness to
raise taxes on the middle class and not the richest Americans,”
Zelizer said. “I would not be surprised if you hear about it a
lot from congressional candidates.”  Senator  Scott Brown , a Massachusetts Republican, faulted
House members of his party, saying their actions will result
in smaller paychecks and hurt families that rely on unemployment
benefits.  “It angers me that House Republicans would rather continue
playing politics than find solutions,” Brown, who will stand
for re-election next year, said in a statement.  German Garcia, 29, who lost his job at a property
management company and now is taking resume and interview
classes at the same  Brooklyn  center where Thomas seeks work,
said lawmakers should do more.  “They should extend those programs because at the end of
the day, what will people do?” he said. “People need a safety
net.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  