-- Congress Looks to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac to Raise Federal Funds
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2011-12-21T12:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/congress-looks-to-fannie-mae-freddie-mac-to-raise-federal-funds.html
Bills offered by Democrats and
Republicans to extend an expiring payroll tax cut would, for the
first time, divert fees charged by Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  to
the  U.S. Treasury  instead of using them to backstop defaulted
loans.  Legislation written by Democrats in the Senate and
Republicans in the House would raise as much as $38 billion over
10 years to offset the tax cut by increasing the rates that the
two government-controlled mortgage companies charge lenders to
guarantee principal and interest on home loans. Until now, all
of the revenues from those guarantee fees have gone to Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac to cover mortgage defaults.  As Congress struggles to reach agreement on the payroll tax
cut before the end of the year, some lawmakers, mortgage
industry trade groups, and even the companies’ regulator are
raising concerns about the revenue plan. They question whether
it is appropriate to siphon funds from  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac to feed general government accounts at a time when members
of both parties are pushing to reduce the government’s role in
the two companies, known as government-sponsored enterprises.  “Relying on long-term revenue from the enterprises as an
offset for short-term tax cuts seems inconsistent with the need
to end the conservatorships and reform our housing finance
system,” Edward DeMarco, acting director of the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , said in an e-mailed statement. “FHFA will
implement whatever Congress directs but I hope final resolution
of the conservatorships occurs much sooner than 10 years from
now.”  Guarantee Fees  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac buy mortgages and package them
into securities with guaranteed payments of principal and
interest. To guard against losses in case of default, they
charge lenders premiums commonly known as “g fees.” Lenders
typically add the fees, which average about 27 basis points, to
a home loan’s interest rate.  The House and Senate bills would add an additional 10 basis
points onto the guarantee fees.  The increases, if lenders pass them along to homebuyers,
would cost a borrower with a $200,000 mortgage about $4,000 over
the life of the loan, according to the  Mortgage Bankers
Association .  Critics of the proposals say they would cause a drag on the
housing market. Furthermore, they say, fee increases are
misguided at a time when the two companies have drawn $170
billion in aid from the U.S. Treasury to stay afloat.  ‘Slipping By’  “My concern is that this is just slipping by most of
America with little awareness as to the real impact,”  David Stevens , president of the Mortgage Bankers Association, said in
an interview. “To divert these fees as though they were a piggy
bank for arbitrary  tax policy  that has no relationship to the
risks of these institutions is disgraceful.”  The concept of using guarantee fees to help solve federal
budget problems arose from the negotiations of the congressional
supercommittee that was charged with forging a bipartisan
deficit-reduction plan this year. Though the supercommittee said
in November that it could not complete its task, the fee
increase received bipartisan support.  “Raising g fees will help the private market compete on a
level playing field, reduce Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s
market share over time, and limit taxpayer exposure from the GSE
conservatorships,” a group of  House Republicans  wrote in a
letter to the panel.  Lending Risk  FHFA’s DeMarco has previously said he that he agrees that
the guarantee fees need to be raised to better reflect lending
risk. He said at a Dec. 1 congressional hearing that Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac would increase their rates gradually throughout
2012. The government-owned mortgage companies’ pricing for
credit guarantees “is less than one would observe in a purely
private, competitive market,” he said during a speech in
September.  Massachusetts Democrat  Barney Frank , the ranking Democrat
on the House Financial Services Committee, said he does not like
the idea of using guarantee fees to pay for a tax cut, but for
different reasons. He has other plans for the money, he said.  “I think it is legitimate to take some percentage of that
to fund affordable rental housing,” he said in an interview.
“If you keep it in the housing area, you’re not hurting the
housing piece of the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Clea Benson in  Washington 
at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 