-- Container-Shipping May Rise in 2012 After Alliances Sealed, Platou Says
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2011-12-21T12:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/container-shipping-may-rise-in-2012-after-alliances-sealed-platou-says.html
Rates for ships hauling boxloads of
manufactured goods may rise next year after owners said they
will cooperate on some trade routes to overcome a vessel glut
and slowing trade growth, RS Platou Markets AS said.  Six lines said yesterday they will form an alliance for
Asia- Europe  trade after a collapse in freight rates.
Mediterranean Shipping Co. and CMA CGM SA, the world’s second-
and third-largest owners, said Dec. 1 they agreed to a vessel-
sharing accord on the same voyage. Added to the fleet of A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S, the biggest owner of container ships, the
alliances will control about 68 percent of carriers operating on
the route, investment bank SEB Enskilda said.  “We are increasingly hopeful for a better 2012,”  Rahul Kapoor, a Singapore-based analyst for investment bank Platou,
said in an e-mailed report today. “The move will effectively
put an end to fight for market share with a greater emphasis on
freight rates and vessel utilization and help a recovery in
freight rates in 2012.”  The owners are teaming up to contend with a swelling fleet
and slowing growth in demand. World trade will expand 5.8
percent in 2012, down from a previous forecast of 6.7 percent,
the International Monetary Fund estimates. The number of idle
 container ships  rose to an 18-month high as of Dec. 5, as 210
ships with a combined carrying capacity of 526,000 20-foot
boxloads were unused, according to Paris-based shipping
researcher Alphaliner.  Platou Markets, based in Oslo, is a unit of RS Platou ASA,
owner of  Norway ’s biggest shipbroker.  Market Share  Costs for shipping Chinese goods to Europe climbed last
week for the first time since August, gaining 1.8 percent to
$499 per 20-foot box, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s
largest shipbroker. Rates are still down 64 percent this year
while loads to the U.S. declined 28 percent.  “This will naturally lead to higher market shares and
pricing power and is positive for the container market,” Rikard Vabo, an analyst at Oslo-based investment bank Fearnley Fonds
ASA said in an e-mailed note today.  Demand for cargoes to Europe from  Asia  will expand 3
percent next year while the fleet of container ships swells 8
percent, Clarkson estimates.  The consolidation is a sign of fleet oversupply and won’t
buoy rates, Nikolaj Kamedula, an analyst at SEB Enskilda in
Copenhagen, said by e-mail. It may allow owners to lower their
costs and cut freight rates, he said.  “Alliances have been in existence since the 1990s and have
not previously been able to control freight rates,” Kamedula
said. “It does nothing to remove the overall industry
overcapacity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  