-- Corn, Wheat Decline on Forecast Rains May Ease Dry-Weather Stress on Crops
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2011-12-21T14:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/corn-wheat-decline-on-forecast-rains-may-ease-dry-weather-stress-on-crops.html
Corn and soybeans fell in  Chicago  as
rain in  Argentina  and  Brazil  during the next few days may ease
the impact of dry weather there, while wheat dropped amid
expectations rain and snow will boost moisture in the U.S.  Showers in Brazil later this week and over the weekend will
help ease stress to developing corn, though more rain will be
needed, Telvent DTN Inc. said yesterday. Soil moisture for
spring growth of wheat in the U.S. central and southern Plains
will be recharged through rain or snow, it said in a report.  “Forecasters are seeing some precipitation for dry areas
of South Brazil and Argentina,” FCStone Commodity Services
( Europe ) Ltd. wrote in an e-mailed comment today. “Rains for
 South America  could weigh on recent buying sentiment.”  Corn for March delivery dropped 0.6 percent to $6.0325 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 2:51 p.m. Paris time,
falling 4.1 percent this year. Soybeans for delivery the same
month slipped 0.6 percent to $11.48 a bushel, for a decline of
18 percent in the year to date.  Wheat for March delivery fell 0.7 percent in Chicago to
$6.0325 a bushel, taking the annual loss to 24 percent. Milling
wheat for delivery the same month traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris
rose 0.5 percent to 183.75 euros ($239.72) a metric ton.  “Going into the holidays, we’re expecting people to cover
their positions so there could be more downside today,” Lynette
Tan, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte., said by phone from
 Singapore  today.  Scattered showers and thunderstorms will filter into corn,
wheat, and soybean growing areas in Argentina during the next
few days, which will help ease stress to crops, Telvent said.  The La Nina weather phenomenon, which can cause droughts in
South America, may be near its peak and is expected to decrease
in the coming months, the Australian Bureau of Meteorology said
on its  website  today. La Nina climate indicators are weaker than
at the same time in 2010, the bureau said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  