-- Cornell’s $350 Million Donor Feeney Plans to Give It All Away
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2011-12-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/cornell-s-350-million-donor-feeney-plans-to-give-it-all-away.html
Donating a record $350 million to
 Cornell University  last week moved Charles Feeney closer to a
life goal: giving away all of his fortune while still alive.  Feeney, 80, plans to shut by 2020  Atlantic Philanthropies ,
the foundation he began bankrolling in 1984 by gifting his
businesses, including shares of the Duty Free Shoppers Group
chain he co-founded. The charity has about $2 billion in assets
and has donated more than $5.5 billion for health programs,
universities and causes worldwide, according to its website.  Cornell has been among the biggest beneficiaries, receiving
almost $1 billion, including the gift announced Dec. 16 that
will help pay for an engineering campus in  New York City . Feeney
graduated from Cornell’s school of hotel administration in 1956
and has helped pay for buildings, scholarships and research at
the main campus in Ithaca,  New York , for decades, said Ron Ehrenberg, an economist and former university vice president.  “Cornell has just been very, very fortunate to have him,”
said Ehrenberg, who received $1.5 million from Feeney to support
his work. “It is hard to envision the university without him.”  Feeney in February joined the  Giving Pledge  group that
originated with Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates  and
investor  Warren Buffett . The campaign includes about 70 members
who have agreed to donate more than half their wealth.  “I cannot think of a more personally rewarding and
appropriate use of wealth than to give while one is living,”
Feeney said in a  letter  to Gates and Buffett making his pledge.  Grant Making  Atlantic Philanthropies concentrates its grant-making on
aging; children; population health; and reconciliation and human
rights. It gave away $285 million in 2010, and $375 million the
previous year, according to recent financial  statements .  Feeney typically doesn’t seek public credit for his
donations and his name isn’t on any Cornell buildings, Ehrenberg
said. Most of his Cornell gifts are to projects recommended by
the university’s president and provost, he said.  The $350 million gift was critical to Cornell winning New
York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s contest to lure an engineering
school to the city, said Peter Meinig, chairman of Cornell’s
board of trustees. The mayor -- founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News -- solicited bids in July
for a competition that would offer use of city land on Roosevelt
Island, in the  East River , and $100 million for infrastructure
improvements to build a science and engineering campus.  Major Project  “You’re talking about a major, major project,” Meinig
said. “All universities today are operating under significant
financial constraints. The fact that Chuck Feeney and Atlantic
Philanthropies were willing to commit $350 million to this
project gave us the ability to be very aggressive in the
competition.”  Atlantic Philanthropies said in an e-mail that Feeney
wasn’t available for an interview.  Cornell, partnering with  Technion-Israel Institute of
Technology , beat out six competing bids from schools including
 Stanford University  and  Carnegie Mellon University . Stanford
pulled out of the contest Dec. 16, hours before Cornell
announced Feeney’s gift as an anonymous donation. Feeney was
revealed to be the donor Dec. 19.  Cornell plans to begin classes next year in leased space
until the Roosevelt Island campus is completed. Cornell said it
will move by 2017 and finish construction of more than 1.3
million square feet by 2027. By 2043, the campus will have 2,500
students and 280 faculty members, according to the university
and the mayor’s office.  $1.5 Billion Construction  The project will cost about $1.5 billion, Cornell President
 David Skorton  said at a Dec. 19 press conference. The university
doesn’t plan on borrowing to finance the project and instead
will rely on tuition and philanthropy, technology license fees
and corporate partnerships, he said.  Feeney, the son of a nurse and insurance underwriter, grew
up in a neighborhood on the western edge of Elizabeth,  New
Jersey , according to a 2007  biography  written by Conor O’Clery,
“The Billionaire Who Wasn’t: How Chuck Feeney Secretly Made and
Gave Away a Fortune.” He knew how to squeeze money out of work,
and as a teenage golf caddy, sought out nine-hole players who
paid the same tip of 25 cents as those using the full 18-hole
course, according to the book.  Feeney owns neither a house nor a car, and takes a salary
from the foundation that “covers his needs,” O’Clery said in a
telephone interview. Feeney recently stopped flying coach,
switching to business class after his charity’s board insisted
because of health concerns, O’Clery said.  “He’s still shopping for the cheapest tickets, you can be
sure of that,” O’Clery said.  Net Worth  While Forbes magazine in 1988 listed Feeney as the 23rd
richest person in the world with assets of about $1.3 billion,
the ranking was wrong, O’Clery said. Feeney had already signed
over businesses to his philanthropy at a secret meeting in the
Bahamas in 1984, according to O’Clery. The assets included spas
in Thailand, retail stores in Hawaii and France, and property in
the U.K.  Profit from those businesses added as much as $300 million
annually to the foundation’s endowment, O’Clery said. In 1997,
the foundation received about $1.6 billion after Feeney’s share
of Duty Free Shoppers Group was sold, he said.  Feeney decided to acknowledge his philanthropy to encourage
other wealthy donors to do the same, O’Clery said.  “He wanted his model of giving while living to be out
there for other people of great wealth to use as a template,”
the author said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  