-- Corn Posts Longest Rally Since August, Soybeans Gain on Weather Concerns
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2011-12-21T20:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/corn-posts-longest-rally-since-august-soybeans-gain-on-weather-concerns.html
Corn rose, capping the longest rally
since August, and soybeans climbed to a one-month high as
adverse weather threatens crops in  South America , boosting
demand for U.S. supplies. Wheat also advanced.  Rains in the next five days will fail to provide relief to
about a third of the crops in  Argentina  and leave about 20
percent of the growing region in Brazil too dry,  Commodity
Weather Group LLC  said today in a report. Heat and dry weather
will return next week and increase stress on developing corn and
soybeans, the private forecaster said.  “The weather remains a significant threat to yields,”
Chad Henderson, a market analyst at Prime Agricultural
Consultants Inc. in Brookfield,  Wisconsin , said in a telephone
interview. “South American crops are reaching the critical
development period and will need more rain.”  Corn futures for March delivery rose 1.6 percent to close
at $6.165 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price gained for the fourth straight session, the longest
rally since late August. Earlier, the grain reached $6.19, the
highest for a most-active contract since Nov. 18.  Soybean futures for March delivery climbed 0.8 percent to
$11.6325 a bushel. Earlier, the price reached $11.685, the
highest since Nov. 21. The oilseed climbed for the fifth
consecutive session, the longest rally since mid-October.  The U.S. was the world’s largest producer and exporter of
both commodities in the marketing year that ended Sept. 30. The
Department of Agriculture says  Brazil  will top the U.S. this
year as the leading shipper of soybeans. Argentina is the
second-biggest corn exporter.  Wheat futures for March delivery rose 1.5 percent to $6.17
a bushel. The price climbed for the fourth straight session, the
longest rally since early November, as the gain in corn boosts
demand for grain in  animal feed .  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion. Wheat was fourth at
$13 billion, behind hay, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  