-- Vietnam’s Sacombank May Sell 15% Stake to Credit Suisse
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-21T14:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/credit-suisse-in-talks-with-vietnam-s-sacombank-for-as-much-as-15-stake.html
Saigon Thuong Tin Commercial Joint-
Stock Bank (SBC)  may sell as much as a 15 percent stake to  Credit
Suisse  Group AG, the Vietnamese lender’s Chief Executive Officer
said. The bank’s stock rose to the highest level in almost a
month in  Ho Chi Minh City .  Sacombank, as the lender is known, will start negotiations
with Zurich-based  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  on a sale next month, Tran Xuan
Huy said in a phone interview today. He declined to comment on
the value of the stake or timing of the transaction.  “We want to sell to Credit Suisse as much as the current
law allows us to do, which would be 15 percent,” Huy said. The
share sale “can happen gradually until the stake reaches the
maximum both sides agree on.”  A Sacombank stake sale would follow  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411) ’s agreement to buy a 15 percent stake in state-owned Joint-
Stock Commercial Bank, or Vietcombank, as Vietnamese banks look
to foreign investors for capital support. Central bank Governor
Nguyen Van Binh is encouraging mergers and acquisitions to
bolster weaker banks, and said last month consolidating its 42
lenders into 15 large ones would improve economic stability.  Credit Suisse and Sacombank signed a memorandum of
understanding yesterday to help the banks “strengthen their
competitiveness,” according to an e-mailed statement from
Sacombank. Credit Suisse has no current plans to acquire a
strategic stake in Sacombank, said  Adam Harper , a Hong Kong-
based spokesman. He declined to elaborate further.  Shares of Sacombank gained 1.4 percent, to close at 15,000
dong, the highest level since Nov. 23 on the  Ho Chi Minh City
Stock Exchange  today. The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  added 0.6 percent,
to 367.72.  HSBC (HSBA)  Holdings Plc,  Standard Chartered (STAN)  Plc and  Australia &
New Zealand Banking (ANZ)  Group Ltd. are among foreign banks that have
invested in Vietnamese banks and opened branches in the
Southeast Asian country to tap into a consumer market that
Credit Suisse Group AG describes as “under-banked” in an
August report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  