-- Daiichi Sankyo Cuts Executives’ Pay After $500 Million Ranbaxy Settlement
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2011-12-21T06:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/daiichi-sankyo-lowers-executive-pay-after-500-million-ranbaxy-settlement.html
Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568)  cut pay for
executives and directors after slashing its profit forecast
because of a $500 million provision to settle a legal dispute at
its Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. unit in India.  Japan ’s third-biggest drugmaker by market value expects net
income to slump 63 percent to 26 billion yen ($334 million) in
the year ending March 2012, from 70.1 billion yen a year
earlier, it said in a statement today. Profit will miss the 50
billion yen forecast made in July because of a 37.5 billion yen
charge linked to Ranbaxy’s settlement with the U.S. Justice
Department, it said.  Chief Executive Officer Joji Nakayama and board members
will receive 5 percent to 30 percent less compensation for six
months in response to the cut in the earnings forecast, Daiichi
Sankyo said today. The company has lost about half its market
value since agreeing to buy a majority stake in Ranbaxy,  India ’s
largest drugmaker, in June 2008. Most of the drop occurred after
the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  banned imports from two of
the unit’s plants because of manufacturing violations.  “I sensed the settlement was near and am relieved to hear
it finally,” Yasuhiro Nakazawa, an analyst at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in Tokyo, said by telephone today. “It’s a step
forward and I’m waiting for Ranbaxy to give more details on the
process for resuming exports to the U.S.”  Daiichi Sankyo rose 2.9 percent, the biggest gain in almost
three weeks, to 1,515 yen at the close of trade in Tokyo. The
stock has dropped 15 percent this year, compared with the 19
percent decline in the benchmark Topix index. Ranbaxy fell 1.3
percent to 389.3 rupees at 11:39 a.m. in Mumbai.  The Japanese drugmaker will pay a 30 yen dividend for the
second half as previously planned. The revised earnings forecast
doesn’t account for sales expected from the generic version of
Pfizer Inc.’s cholesterol-lowering pill, Lipitor, introduced by
Ranbaxy in the U.S. three weeks ago, it said.  Import Ban  Three months after Daiichi Sankyo agreed to buy a
controlling stake in Ranbaxy, based near  New Delhi , for $4.6
billion, the FDA barred imports from the Indian drugmaker’s
Paonta Sahib and Dewas plants because of manufacturing defects.  In February 2009, U.S. regulators said they halted reviews
of new products from one of Ranbaxy’s factories because the
company falsified data about the products’ shelf life.  Ranbaxy agreed to a settlement with the FDA and committed
to strengthening procedures and policies to comply with industry
standards, it said in a separate statement today. The $500
million provision “will be sufficient to resolve all potential
civil and criminal liability,” Ranbaxy said.  The payment, which is 16 percent of Ranbaxy’s market value,
“is much above our expectation,” said Bino Pathiparampil, a
Mumbai-based pharmaceutical analyst at IIFL Ltd.  “This could
wipe out the company’s profits for this year and the next,” he
said in a telephone interview.  Consent Decree  The agreement paves the way for U.S. exports to resume from
the company’s two tainted factories, while drug approvals could
take at least 12 months, said Pathiparampil, who  downgraded (RBXY)  the
stock to “reduce” from “add” after the announcement.  The resolution with the  FDA  is a consent decree which is
“not a straight approval to manufacture but more like a plan of
action of things to be done to get compliance,” he said.  The consent decree needs to be approved by a U.S. district
court in  Maryland , the company said.  “While we were disappointed by the conduct that led to the
FDA’s investigation, we are proud of the systematic corrective
steps we have taken to upgrade and enhance the quality of our
business and manufacturing processes,” Arun Sawhney, Ranbaxy’s
CEO and managing director, said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  