-- Denmark Divided on EU’s Fiscal Pact as Presidency Approaches
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2011-12-21T07:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/denmark-divided-on-europe-s-tighter-fiscal-pact-as-presidency-approaches.html
Prime Minister Helle Thorning- Schmidt, who vowed to fight for European unity when  Denmark 
takes over the bloc’s presidency next month, is battling a split
at home over whether to embrace deepening fiscal ties.  Thorning-Schmidt is fending off calls for a referendum on
adopting the fiscal compact proposed this month for the 17 euro
nations that leaders say is crucial for the euro’s survival and
that polls show voters in the non-euro country would reject.
Foreign Minister Villy Soevndal, who heads the anti-euro
Socialist People’s Party, said Denmark can’t adopt all the
measures in the accord.  “She has to handle a government which is deeply divided on
the EU,” Rasmus Joensson, an associate professor in political
communication at Roskilde University in Denmark, said in an
interview. “It will be a difficult task to unite the EU when
your own government isn’t united.”  Denmark’s Socialist  People’s Party , one of three groups in
the ruling coalition, argues that joining the fiscal compact
agreed on Dec. 9 would limit stimulus options as the country
teeters on the brink of a recession. A referendum would probably
end in defeat for Thorning-Schmidt, said Jens Nyholm, chief
economist at Spar Nord Bank A/S. The 45-year-old led her  Social
Democrats  to an election victory in September, ending a decade
of Liberal-Conservative rule.  End in Defeat  Denmark, which has opted out of the euro, will take over
the EU presidency on Jan. 1 as the common currency hangs in the
balance. The country, where voters have twice rejected the euro,
faces a new debate over whether to strengthen ties to the bloc
amid calls from opposition parties and the public for a vote on
the proposed fiscal fix for the euro region’s debt woes.  EU leaders this month created a blueprint for a tighter
financial union in their latest attempt to stem the region’s
two-year-old debt crisis. Political discord has so far prevented
the leaders from delivering a deal that convinces markets they
have the means to contain the turmoil.  “Anything that’s got to do with the euro is going to get a
’No’ from Danish voters,” Nyholm said. “We’ve been following
the rules while the guys inside the euro, they broke them.”  Danes are split on the pact and want the question put to a
referendum, according to a poll commissioned by  Ugebrevet A4 , a
Danish Confederation of Trade Unions newsletter. Of the 1,085
Danes surveyed by Analyse Danmark, 43 percent were opposed to
joining and 33 percent in favor, according to Ugebrevet A4.
Twenty-four percent were unsure.  ‘Very Difficult’  Soevndal, in a Dec. 10 interview with broadcaster TV2 News,
said that Denmark shouldn’t embrace the pact in its entirety
because some provisions would hurt the economy.  “There will be things that are very difficult for
Denmark,” said Soevndal, whose party campaigned against the
euro in past referenda. It has gone silent on the subject since
joining the coalition.  Thorning-Schmidt, a member of the European Parliament from
1999 until 2004, has warned Danes of the risks linked to
following the U.K. and severing ties to the EU.  “It’s a major interest for Denmark to have a stable
euro,” she said at a Dec. 13 press conference. “We can’t have
a large gap between the level of discipline in the euro pact and
the level we have in Denmark: The Danish economy wouldn’t be
able to manage that over time.”  Debt Metrics  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s refusal to back the
agreement for tighter fiscal union has weakened the country’s
political clout and credibility, according to Joan Costa i Font,
professor of political economy at the  London School  of
Economics.  Denmark’s opposition to euro membership reached a record
high according to a poll published today by  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)  The
lead of the ‘no’ bloc widened to a record 44.1 percentage points
in December from 23.3 percentage points in September, the poll
showed, according to the Copenhagen-based bank. Of those polled,
59.2 percent were opposed to adopting the euro.  Denmark’s central bank, which defends a peg to the euro,
has cut rates twice this month, bringing its benchmark to a
record-low 0.7 percent, to offset a capital influx as investors
flee euro-denominated assets.  Denmark’s government debt will be 44.1 percent of gross
domestic product this year, compared with a euro-area average of
88 percent, the European Commission said Nov. 10. That’s
attracting bond investors looking to escape  Europe ’s debt.
Denmark pays about 16 basis points less than  Germany  to borrow
for 10 years.  Maneuverability  The Nordic country has managed to maintain a lower debt
ratio than the euro area on average even as it struggles to
emerge from twin housing and debt crises. Gross domestic product
shrank 0.8 percent in the third quarter, the statistics office
said on Nov. 30 and output probably contracted in the three
months through December, according to Danske Bank.  The government has pledged to propel Denmark out of its
economic slump by bringing forward investment. Thorning-
Schmidt’s Social Democrats have pledged fiscal responsibility
while the Socialist People’s Party backs more welfare spending.  The government yesterday cut its forecast for growth this
year and next to 1 percent, and predicted a deficit of 5.5
percent of gross domestic product next year, widening from 4
percent this year.  Keeping Opt Outs  Denmark has promised to contribute 40 billion kroner ($7
billion) as part of plan by EU countries to channel money to the
 International Monetary Fund  to fight the crisis. Three other
non-euro countries also pledged to add to the IMF war chest
while Britain refused to commit, preventing officials from
reaching the 200 billion-euro target.  Danish voters first rejected the Maastricht Treaty in a
1992 referendum and the country subsequently opted out of four
elements of the treaty: the euro, European citizenship, defense
cooperation and legal cooperation. In 2001, voters rejected euro
membership in a second referendum.  The opt-outs will be respected if the country joins the EU
pact, newspaper Politiken reported Dec. 16, citing a draft
letter sent by EU President  Herman Van Rompuy . The Danish
People’s Party and the Red-Green Alliance, which together hold
34 seats in Denmark’s 179-seat parliament, have said the country
should hold a referendum on the treaty.  The treaty, to be hammered out by late January and signed
in early March, will take effect once ratified by nine of the 17
euro-area countries. EU states outside the euro will join as
they ratify, with the U.K. alone so far in refusing to sign up.  Denmark will seek to participate in the pact to the
“widest extent possible,” Nicolai Wammen, the country’s
minister for European affairs, said at a conference in
Copenhagen yesterday. The opt-outs need to be “respected” and
the krone’s peg to the euro taken into account, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  