-- Deutsche Bank Sued by Kingate Fund Over Madoff Settlement
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2011-12-21T18:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/deutsche-bank-sued-by-kingate-global-fund-over-madoff-feeder.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was sued by Kingate
Global Fund Ltd. over claims the German bank refused to honor an
agreement to buy bankruptcy claims on the estate of convicted
con man  Bernard Madoff .  Kingate Global Fund and Kingate Euro Fund, two so-called
Madoff “feeder funds” based in the British Virgin Islands,
filed their complaint in federal court in  New York  today, asking
a judge to force Deutsche Bank to follow through on its
commitment to buy the claims.  Deutsche Bank agreed to buy $1.62 billion in claims from
the funds in August, and has refused to complete the purchase
because a proposed settlement between Kingate and Madoff estate
trustee Irving Picard doesn’t provide “sufficient protection”
for the Frankfurt-based bank, according to the complaint.  “The Kingate funds will suffer real and concrete damages
if Deutsche Bank continues its bad faith attempt to either
renegotiate or terminate what everyone understood to be -- and
what plainly states that it is -- a done deal,” lawyers for
Kingate said in the complaint. “The Kingate Funds’ settlement
with the Madoff trustee, which is the result of years of
negotiations, will fall apart.”  Picard in June sued the Kingate funds, which are being
liquidated in the British Virgin Islands, seeking $975 million
in funds they took out of Madoff’s scheme. The funds have been
unable to complete a settlement with Picard because of Deutsche
Bank’s refusal to honor the agreement, lawyers for Kingate said
in the lawsuit.  “Deutsche Bank will purchase Kingate’s claim if both
parties can finalize mutually acceptable documentation,”  Renee Calabro , a New York-based spokeswoman for the bank, said in a
phone interview.  The case is Kingate Global Fund Ltd. v. Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., 11-cv-9364, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 