-- Deutsche Telekom Dividend Pressured After AT&T Deal Collapse
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2011-12-21T15:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/deutsche-telekom-dividend-pressured-after-at-t-deal-collapse.html
Deutsche Telekom AG ’s failure to
sell its T-Mobile USA unit to  AT&T Inc. (T)  for $39 billion may put
pressure on the German company to reduce shareholder payouts
after next year, investors said.  With the collapse of the deal, stakeholders will miss out
on the Bonn-based company’s plan to use the proceeds to
repurchase 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion) in stock, cut  debt ,
and receive an 8 percent stake in AT&T. Spending on improving T-
Mobile’s network and acquiring spectrum may cost as much as $9
billion, said RBC Capital Markets analyst Jonathan Atkin.  That may detract from Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann ’s efforts to contain damage from the European debt
crisis on consumer and corporate spending and to return the
region to growth. Spanish rival  Telefonica SA (TEF)  last week became
the first former phone monopoly in  Europe  to cut a dividend
forecast, sparking similar cuts at  Telekom Austria AG. (TKA)  Obermann
yesterday wouldn’t commit to dividend levels beyond 2012.  “They won’t fiddle with the dividend right away, but it’s
after that where it gets interesting,” said Andreas Mark, a
fund manager at Union Investment in  Frankfurt , which manages
about 170 billion euros including Deutsche Telekom and AT&T
shares. “They’re facing the prospect of having to put in money
in the medium term.”  Bandwidth Demand  Deutsche Telekom confirmed its shareholder returns program
through 2012, including an annual dividend of at least 70 euro
cents and buybacks totalling as much as 1.2 billion euros over
three years.  Phone companies worldwide are facing increasing costs for
network build-outs and upgrade as the use of smartphones such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to download movies and pictures surge. That
has put to test executives’ decisions on how they use the cash
generated from phone services.  Deutsche Telekom’s stock has a  yield  of 7.8 percent, in
line with the average for European telecommunications companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Madrid-based
Telefonica, even after the lowered 2012 dividend forecast, still
yields 12.1 percent, one of the highest in the industry.  Deutsche Telekom today slid 0.3 percent to 8.80 euros at 4
p.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the company at 38.1 billion euros.
AT&T rose 0.3 percent to $29.20 in  New York .  Slump Accelerates  European governments and consumers are trimming spending to
help weather the region’s debt crisis, which started in  Greece 
in 2009. Deutsche Telekom controls the country’s biggest phone
company,  Hellenic Telecommunications Organizatio SA. (HTO)   Deutsche Telekom aims to return its European business,
which also encompasses countries such as Poland, Romania and
 Hungary , to growth by 2013. It has also promised to respond to
data-traffic growth in the region by rolling out faster wireless
and fixed-line infrastructure.  The phone company has concentrated on cost cuts to limit
the impact of declining sales on profit across its markets. The
revenue slump is set to  accelerate  to 5.2 percent this year
after 3.4 percent last year, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “In the current conditions, achieving growth is very, very
difficult, that’s why the shares need another attractor,”
Obermann said yesterday. Deutsche Telekom “has been a stable
provider of payouts in recent years, that’s important for long-
term shareholders. And we need those long-term shareholders
because the transformation of the company is a task for
generations.”  Cash Injections  Obermann is taking on additional task starting Jan. 1, when
he will oversee the company’s products and innovation strategy
after Ed Kozel’s departure. The job includes strengthening
nascent businesses including telemedicine, smart electricity
networks and software and music downloads.  AT&T and Deutsche Telekom on Dec. 19 agreed to abandon this
year’s largest acquisition after deciding that opposition by
U.S. regulators would be too difficult to surmount. The deal
would have created a new leader in the U.S. wireless market
ahead of  Verizon Wireless . The German phone company will receive
a breakup package including $3 billion in cash, wireless
frequencies and a roaming agreement.  With no realistic buyer for T-Mobile in sight, other forms
of combinations are the more likely way forward in coming years
for the business, said Bruno Lippens, a  fund manager  at Pictet
Asset Management in Geneva, which holds about 14 million
Deutsche Telekom shares. That would probably require cash
injections and may weigh on Deutsche Telekom’s free  cash flow ,
or operating cash flow minus  capital spending , he said.  ‘Strategic Priorities’  “If you’re looking for a plan B now you’ll probably have
to invest more in this business,” Lippens said. “And if you
don’t have the cash available because you are allocating it to
fiber in  Germany , and dividends -- and you probably need to do
something in Greece as well -- then it just adds to this whole
list of strategic priorities that the management has.”  Still, Deutsche Telekom has more room to manoeuvre on
dividends than Telefonica and  Telekom Austria  because it pays
out a lower ratio of its free cash flow to investors, Union
Investment’s Mark said.  If the company does trim shareholder returns in coming
years, it will probably skip share buybacks before cutting the
dividend, he said. An alternative would be limiting investments
in German and European infrastructure, said the fund manager.  Before Deutsche Telekom agreed on the deal with AT&T, it
had also held talks with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , people with
knowledge of the matter said in March. Sprint remains a
potential suitor for T-Mobile in the future, analysts say.  “The other alternatives at the time didn’t look nearly as
attractive to all stakeholders, including the customers,
including the U.S. agenda, the national broadband plan,”
Obermann said during an interview, when asked whether it would
have been wiser to forge a linkup with Sprint instead of AT&T.
“We have to take the proceeds now and move on and make the best
out of the situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  