-- Dexia Faces EU Probe Over Belgian, French, State Guarantees
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2011-12-21T16:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/dexia-faces-european-union-probe-into-belgian-french-guarantees.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian lender
that’s being broken up, faces a European Union investigation
into as much as 45 billion euros ($59 billion) in guarantees
from Belgium, France and Luxembourg.  The European Commission gave temporary approval for the
guarantees and said final authorization would be based on a
restructuring plan that the governments must submit within three
months, the Brussels-based commission said in a statement today.  The temporary guarantees for Dexia and its unit Dexia
Credit Local “mark a significant change compared with” EU
conditions for a 2008 bailout, the regulator said. Belgium’s
credit rating was cut two steps by Moody’s Investors Service
last week, which said rising borrowing costs, slowing growth and
liabilities from Dexia’s breakup threaten to inflate the euro
area’s fifth-highest debt load.  “The restructuring plan enabled Dexia SA to enhance the
stability of its financing sources and reduce its leverage and
its portfolio of non-strategic assets,” the commission said.
“The bank has fallen behind with the implementation of this
plan and the imbalance in its financing sources has worsened
again since last summer.”  The EU approval means Dexia can use the guarantees to raise
funding from Dec. 22, the bank said in an e-mailed statement.
“The implementation of the guarantee will enable the Dexia
Group to reduce the amount of its central bank refinancing and,
gradually, the financing” for Dexia Bank  Belgium  which was
taken over by the Belgian government in October.  May 31 Expiration  The guarantees will cover loans with maturities of as much
as three years and will expire on May 31 unless the EU and the
three governments agree to an extension, Dexia said. The bank
will pay a commitment fee of 225 million euros and monthly fees
to Belgium, France and Luxembourg based on EU guidelines that
shield banks from soaring insurance costs on sovereign debt.  Dexia, rescued by the governments in October for the second
time in three years, obtained as much as 45 billion euros in
guarantees from the three states to cover its financing needs
until the end of May, the Paris- and Brussels-based bank said on
Dec. 5. The bank yesterday sealed a deal to sell its  Luxembourg 
unit, Dexia Banque Internationale à Luxembourg SA, for a total
of 730 million euros to Precision Capital of Qatar.  ‘First Step’  The temporary guarantee is “the first step” from the
three governments to provide as much as 90 billion euros, Dexia
said earlier this month. Belgium is taking on 60.5 percent,
France 36.5 percent and Luxembourg 3 percent.  The bank will likely have to prepare extra restructuring
measures to show how it plans to compensate for harm to
competition caused by the state aid before it can win final EU
approval for the rescue. Dexia is planning to “radically shrink
in size” and won’t have to comply with capital rules set by the
European Banking Authority, it said in a Dec. 8 statement.  Dexia, once the world’s largest municipal lender, said Nov.
9 its shareholder equity shrank 84 percent after the
nationalization of its Belgian bank unit and declines in the
value of government-bond holdings.  Belgian  borrowing costs  started surging after a caretaker
government bought Dexia’s Belgian banking unit for 4 billion
euros and agreed to guarantee as much as 54.5 billion euros of
the crisis-hit lender’s liabilities for as long as 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  