-- Dollar Near 11-Month High Against Euro Before Draghi Speaks, Bill Auctions
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2011-12-22T07:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/dollar-is-near-11-month-high-against-euro-before-confidence-spending-data.html
The dollar traded 0.9 percent from
an 11-month high versus the euro before European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  speaks today amid concern policy makers
are struggling to contain the euro region’s debt crisis.  Europe ’s common currency held yesterday’s decline as France
and  Italy  prepare to sell debt next week. New Zealand’s dollar
maintained a two-day gain versus its U.S. counterpart after a
report showed the economy expanded in the third quarter by more
than economists had forecast.  “The dollar is being bought as a refuge,” said Kengo Suzuki, manager of the foreign-bond department in Tokyo at
Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-biggest listed
bank by market value. “We’re likely to see Europe’s debt
problems get more serious in the first half of next year.”  The U.S. currency traded at $1.3063 per euro as of 6:50
a.m. in  London  from $1.3047 in  New York  yesterday. It
strengthened to $1.2946 per euro on Dec. 14, the highest since
Jan. 11. The dollar was little changed at 78.05 yen. The 17-
nation euro bought 101.96 yen from 101.86 yesterday.  Draghi will hold a media briefing in  Frankfurt  today after
a meeting of the European Systemic Risk Board. The ECB President
said on Dec. 19 that lenders in the euro region will experience
“very significant” funding constraints next year and that
there are “substantial downside risks” to the economy.  Downgrade Risk  France will auction bills on Dec. 27, while Italy will
offer debt maturing in 2014, 2018, 2021 and 2022 on Dec. 29.
 Standard & Poor’s  said this month it may cut the credit grades
of 15 euro nations, including Germany and  France , the region’s
biggest economies.  “The S&P downgrade of euro-zone sovereigns is hanging over
the market but there is no definite timing,” Steven Englander,
head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New
York, wrote in a note dated today. “S&P probably wants to
manage the announcement so as to have the least market impact.”  Italy’s Senate is set to give final approval today to Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s 30 billion-euro ($39 billion) emergency
budget plan, including a pension overhaul and a levy on primary
residences. The ballot in the upper house will take place at
about 2:15 p.m. in  Rome  following an address to lawmakers by
Monti, Senate Speaker Renato Schifani said last night.  The euro has depreciated 2.4 percent against the dollar
this year, poised for a second-straight annual drop. The yen has
gained 3.9 percent versus the greenback and 6.5 percent against
the shared European currency.  ‘Bearish’ on Euro  “I’m bearish on the euro,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a
senior currency analyst in  Tokyo  at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which
provides foreign-exchange margin trading services. “It will
take more time until we see a resolution to Europe’s debt
crisis.”  New Zealand’s gross domestic product expanded 0.8 percent
in the three months ended Sept. 30 from the second quarter,
government data showed today. Economists had estimated a 0.6
percent gain.  “New Zealand GDP growth rebounded strongly,” Barclays Plc
currency strategists Hamish Pepper and Olivier Desbarres, wrote
in a note today. “We remain constructive” on the kiwi dollar
over the medium term.  The so-called kiwi was little changed at 76.99 U.S. cents
from 77.04 yesterday after climbing 2 percent over the past two
days. It traded at 60.09 yen from 60.14.  U.S. Economy   Demand for the dollar was limited before reports forecast
to show confidence and spending among U.S. consumers is
recovering, reducing the allure of safer assets.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of
consumer sentiment probably rose to 68 this month from a
preliminary reading of 67.7, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before today’s report.   Consumer spending  grew
0.3 percent in November after increasing 0.1 percent the
previous month, according to a separate survey before Commerce
Department figures due tomorrow.  “U.S. economic numbers are improving,” said Ueda Harlow’s
Yamauchi. “Positive figures on the U.S. economy nurture
optimistic sentiment in markets, spurring dollar selling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  