-- ECB to Lend Greater-Than-Forecast $645 Billion as Banks Line Up for Funds
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2011-12-21T13:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/ecb-will-lend-banks-more-than-forecast-645-billion-to-keep-credit-flowing.html
The  European Central Bank  will lend
euro-area banks a record amount for three years in its latest
attempt to keep credit flowing to the economy during the
sovereign debt crisis.  The Frankfurt-based ECB awarded 489 billion euros ($645
billion) in 1,134-day loans today, the most ever in a single
operation and more than economists’ median estimate of 293
billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey. The ECB said 523 banks
asked for the funds, which will be lent at the average of its
 benchmark interest rate  -- currently 1 percent -- over the
period of the loans. They start tomorrow.  “It was obviously an offer the banks could not refuse,”
said  Laurent Fransolet , head of fixed-income strategy at
 Barclays Capital  in London. “It shows the ECB is not out of
ammunition and it gives banks security on liquidity for a few
years. On the other hand it means banks will rely on the ECB for
longer.”  Europe ’s debt crisis has increased the risk of government
and bank defaults, making institutions wary of lending to each
other and driving up the cost of credit. The ECB is trying to
ensure that banks have access to cheap cash for the medium term
so that they can keep lending to companies and households. In
addition to the longer-term loans, the ECB has widened the pool
of collateral banks can use to secure the funds.  New Money  Barclays estimates today’s operation will inject 193
billion euros of new money into the system, with 296 billion
euros accounted for by maturing loans. The ECB also lent banks
$33 billion for 14 days in a regular dollar offering, up from
$5.1 billion a week ago, and 29.7 billion euros for 98 days.  The euro jumped half a cent to $1.3198 before retreating to
$1.3092 at 1:25 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  “More important than the size of the operation is what
banks do with this cash,” said  Simon Smith , chief economist at
foreign-exchange broker FXPro Group Ltd. in London. “The
dichotomy between size and use explains why the euro struggled
to maintain its initial positive reaction to the news.”  Spanish two-year notes extended a decline, snapping an
eight-day gain and sending yields 14 basis points higher to 3.49
percent. Italian notes also dropped, pushing the yield 29 basis
points higher to 5.27 percent.  ‘Through the Backdoor’  Yields on  government bonds  in Italy and  Spain  fell in the
days after the ECB announced the loans on Dec. 8 as banks bought
the securities to use them as collateral in today’s tender.
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has suggested banks could use
the loans to buy even more government debt.  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp, said the loans amount to quantitative easing
“through the backdoor.”  “What the ECB is doing is providing ultra-cheap money to
banks, which in turn are going to be in there buying the
sovereign debt up,” Derrick told Linzie Janis on Bloomberg
Television’s “First Look” earlier today. “That’s good news in
the sense that it’s clearly going to help sovereigns in the near
future, but it’s also printing more money. That’s going to start
to weigh on the euro over time.”  Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Group in Amsterdam,
said banks are more likely to use the loans to “finance credit
to the private sector or to repay maturing bank debt.”  “We doubt whether the money will be used extensively to
fund purchases of peripheral debt,” he said.  Refinancing Needs  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  in a Dec. 19 interview
predicted “significant” demand for the loans as banks face
“very high refinancing needs early next year.”  Some 230 billion euros of bank bonds mature in the first
quarter of 2012 alone, ECB President  Mario Draghi  told the
European Parliament this week.  “Banks represent about 80 percent of lending to the euro
area,” Draghi said. “The banking channel is crucial to the
supply of credit.” He predicted banks will experience “very
significant funding constraints” for the “whole” of 2012.  Banks from the 17-nation euro region need to refinance 35
percent more debt next year than they did this year, according
to a  Bank of England  study. Lenders have more than 600 billion
euros of debt maturing in 2012, around three quarters of which
is unsecured, the study says.  Focus on Banks  The ECB is focusing on greasing the banking system to fight
the debt crisis as it resists calls to increase its  bond
purchases  to reduce governments’ borrowing costs. Today’s
lending exceeded the 442 billion euros awarded in the ECB’s
inaugural 12-month loan in 2009.  The ECB said 123 banks shifted a total of 45.7 billion
euros into the three-year loan from an existing one-year
facility allotted in October. The central bank will offer a
second three-year loan on Feb. 28 and borrowers have the option
of repaying the funds after a year.  “It’s very significant and very helpful for the banks,”
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , told Bloomberg Television. “But
it’s not going to bring about a turning point in this crisis.”  As long as Europe’s leaders fail to agree on the right
policy mix, which should include sovereign-debt restructuring or
a move to common bonds, the ECB’s measures won’t end the
turmoil, Cailloux said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  