-- Egypt Bond Rating Cut as Violence Takes Further Toll on Economy
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2011-12-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/egypt-bond-rating-cut-as-violence-takes-further-toll-on-economy.html
Egypt ’s government bond rating was
downgraded for a fourth time in a year, as 10 months of
political unrest since the ouster of Hosni Mubarak threatened to
bring the economy to a standstill.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Egypt’s rating one level to
B2, five levels below investment grade, citing the government’s
deteriorating finances and the “unsettled political
situation.” The decision follows a week of rallies and clashes
in Cairo in which 15 people have been killed and hundreds
injured as soldiers and police tried to disperse demonstrations
against the country’s military rulers. The unrest further
threatens an economy suffering a 44 percent slump in foreign
reserves and record borrowing costs.  Market sentiment toward Egypt “had already taken a turn
for the worse over the last couple of months, particularly as
reserves data started to show some worrying signs,” said Dina Ahmad, an emerging markets strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
 London . The downgrade “is likely to exacerbate that and could
place further pressure on the government’s finances as they had
already been facing sustained upward pressure on yields.”  Yields on Egypt’s dollar bonds maturing in 2020 were
trading at a record high of 8.05 at 9.00 p.m. yesterday. The
benchmark  EGX 30 index  fell 0.1 percent at the close in Cairo,
and is down 48 percent this year.  The country’s foreign-exchange reserves fell by almost $4
billion over two months to $20.2 billion at the end of November.
Egypt’s rating could be reduced further if they continue to
decline at a similar pace, Moody’s said yesterday in a
statement.  Tahrir Vigil  Protesters maintained their vigil in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square 
for a sixth night, erecting tents and holding up pictures of
those killed in the clashes. Mohamed Mostafa, a student, became
the 15th person to die in the violence after sustaining a
gunshot injury the previous day, Health Ministry official Hisham
Sheeha said by phone in Cairo. Most of the deaths resulted from
bullets and pellets, he said.  Thousands of Egyptian women joined protests on the streets
of central Cairo on Dec. 20 following international condemnation
of videos and  photographs  posted online and broadcast on private
television stations showing troops stripping and beating a woman
and dragging other demonstrators, hitting them with batons and
stomping on them.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called Prime
Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri to express concern about the
beatings, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  told
reporters yesterday in  Washington . She said Clinton was reacting
to “horrible images” of violence against protesters.  U.S. Relations  Egypt’s Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr told reporters
the government rejected “the interference from any country,
either the U.S. or others, in our internal affairs,” when he
was asked about Clinton’s criticism. The U.S. gives $1.3  billion 
to Egypt in annual military aid.  Egypt is in the middle of parliamentary elections in which
the Muslim Brotherhood’s affiliate, the Freedom and Justice
party, took an early lead, followed by the Nour party, a
conservative religious grouping. Run-offs for the second round
are being held today and tomorrow. A third and final round of
voting begins in early January, while presidential elections are
scheduled to be held by the end of June.  It is unclear what power an elected assembly may have. The
ruling military council, which took power from  Hosni Mubarak  in
February, says it won’t relinquish its authority until there is
a new parliament, president and constitution.  The ruling generals “themselves risk future  prosecution 
for complicity in serious crimes” unless they put an end to
violence now and bring the perpetrators to justice, UN High
Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said in a Dec. 19
statement, describing the crackdown as “vicious.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  