-- Lehman Told to Resolve $1.3 Billion Archstone Dispute With Banks
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-12-21T20:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/lehman-told-to-resolve-1-3-billion-archstone-dispute-with-banks.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which
asked a judge today to stop  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  from transferring a stake in Archstone to  Sam Zell ’s  Equity
Residential (EQR) , was told to sit down with the banks and resolve the
disputes.  Bankrupt Lehman told the banks last week that it would buy
half of their Archstone stake for about $1.3 billion. It also
sued them for breach of contract, saying they collude to sell a
stake to Zell’s company, Archstone’s “largest competitor,” and
failed to inform Lehman about all the terms of the deal. Lehman
currently owns 47 percent of Archstone.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck said at a hearing today he
was “mystified” by the lawsuit. Lehman should be holding
“business meetings” with the banks, not suing them, he said.
He set a court conference for later today, telling the parties
to sort out issues of fact before it started.  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from  Washington 
and  New York  to  San Francisco . Lehman is seeking to sell
Archstone, its biggest real-estate asset, for $6 billion to help
pay creditors with claims of about $370 billion, and to do that
must gain control of the company, according to a person familiar
with the plan.  $2.6 Billion  Lehman would have to spend at least $2.6 billion to buy the
banks’ whole stake in Archstone, Peck said. That would force it
to own 100 percent of the real estate company, which might not
be in the best interests of creditors waiting for a payout, he
said.  The Zell company is the “elephant in the room,” Peck
said. If Lehman buys the first half of the banks’ Archstone
stake, and not the second half, Equity Residential has an option
to buy the second half. That would saddle Lehman with an asset
whose biggest rival had a stake in the company, he said.  By striking the deal with Zell, the banks “have put Lehman
in a box,” he said.  Lawyers for Barclays and Bank of America told Peck that
Lehman hadn’t placed restrictions on any type of buyer in the
Archstone agreements it helped to draw up. The defunct firm had
put itself in a box, Bank of America lawyer Lawrence Friedman
told Peck.  Option to Buy  Barclays and Bank of America had agreed to sell
26.5 percent of Archstone to Equity Residential for
$1.3 billion, granting the Chicago-based company an option to
buy the second half of their stake for the same price or more,
if Lehman took the first piece. Lehman has the right to match
Zell’s offer and met a deadline last week for saying it would
buy the first piece of their stake.  Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, and Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman for
London-based Barclays, have declined to comment on the lawsuit.  According to Lehman, the banks have been negotiating for
months with Zell and other parties about selling their Archstone
stake. Lehman’s original pact with the banks gave it until Jan.
23 to get court approval for its purchase, pay a $66 million
deposit and close the deal, paying the balance of the $1.3
billion, it said in the Dec. 15 suit.  In a separate filing, Lehman accused the banks of doing
“side deals” with Zell. They participated in a $1 billion bond
offering by Equity Residential, Lehman said.  Lehman and Tishman bought Archstone in October 2007 as
commercial real estate prices peaked. Lehman, Bank of America,
Barclays and other lenders assumed or provided secured loans,
according to the lawsuit.  Lehman, whose share of the secured debt was more than $3
billion, filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
September 2008 as credit markets froze worldwide.  Archstone was twice restructured afterward, with the
lenders committing another $485 million in 2009 and converting
$5.2 billion of debt to equity in 2010, according to court
papers.  As of Sept. 30, Archstone had stakes in about 428 apartment
complexes with about 74,000 units, including some under
construction, according to the company. The total comprises 179
properties with about 60,000 units in the U.S. and 249 sites
with about 14,000 units in  Germany .  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ). The complaint is Archstone LB Syndication Partner
LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  