-- Lehman Swiss Unit Loses Bid for $1.5 Billion in Assets
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2011-12-21T16:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/lehman-s-swiss-unit-loses-bid-for-1-5-billion-rascals-assets-in-london.html
(Corrects processing date in seventh paragraph.)  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s
former Swiss unit lost its bid to seize some of the $1.5 billion
of securities frozen at the bank’s London operation after its
failure.  The U.K. Court of Appeal rejected Switzerland-based Lehman
Brothers Finance SA’s claim to the so-called Rascals assets,
which were caught up in the bank’s internal-settlement system
when it collapsed into administration in September 2008.  While the Swiss unit said it was the owner of securities
acquired on its behalf, Judge Timothy Lloyd ruled the assets
should remain with Lehman Brothers International Europe and its
administrators PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Lehman used internal  repurchase agreements  and stock loans
to avoid regulatory charges on securities held by its European
units, a system Lloyd described as “a mess” in his written
judgment. Securities were purchased through the U.K unit and
placed into the “Regulation and Administration of Safe Custody
and Global Settlement” system, known as Rascals, before being
sold to clients, according to the judgment.  The status of the Rascals assets has been the subject of a
legal battle between Lehman Brothers International  Europe  and
other European subsidiaries.  Lehman filed bankruptcy in September 2008, plunging global
financial markets into turmoil. Its London unit, now in the
hands of the administrators, has been involved in lawsuits with
the parent company in the U.S. and affiliates throughout Europe
over billions of dollars frozen in its accounts.  Manually Processed  Lloyd left open the possibly that Lehman Brothers Finance
SA could claim Rascals assets manually processed through stock
loans after July 31, 2008. They belonged to the Swiss unit “at
the moment of the group’s collapse,” unless Lehman Brothers
International Europe can show it paid collateral on the
securities.  “Those possibilities need to be kept open, so as to be
capable of resolution by a judge if the parties cannot agree the
position,” Lloyd said.  “We are pleased with the outcome of the appeal and are now
reviewing the detail of the judgment,” Stephanie Howel, a PwC
spokeswoman in  London , said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is: In the Matter of Lehman Brothers International
(Europe)(In Administration), case no. 7942/2008,  High Court  of
Justice,  Chancery Division  (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  