-- Lehman Unit, Saab Automobile, MF Global, U.K. Data: European Bankruptcy
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2011-12-21T16:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/lehman-unit-saab-automobile-mf-global-u-k-data-european-bankruptcy.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s
former Swiss unit lost its bid to seize some of the $1.5 billion
of securities frozen at the bank’s London operation after its
failure.  The U.K. Court of Appeal rejected Switzerland-based Lehman
Brothers Finance SA’s claim to the so-called Rascals assets,
which were caught up in the bank’s internal-settlement system
when it collapsed into administration in September 2008.  While the Swiss unit said it was the owner of securities
acquired on its behalf, Judge Timothy Lloyd ruled the assets
should remain with Lehman Brothers International  Europe  and its
administrators PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Lehman used internal  repurchase agreements  and stock loans
to avoid regulatory charges on securities held by its European
units, a system Lloyd described as “a mess” in his written
judgment. Securities were purchased through the U.K unit and
placed into the “Regulation and Administration of Safe Custody
and Global Settlement” system, known as Rascals, before being
sold to clients, according to the judgment.  The status of the Rascals assets has been the subject of a
legal battle between Lehman Brothers International Europe and
other European subsidiaries.  Lehman filed bankruptcy in September 2008, plunging global
financial markets into turmoil. Its  London  unit, now in the
hands of the administrators, has been involved in lawsuits with
the parent company in the U.S. and affiliates throughout Europe
over billions of dollars frozen in its accounts.  Lloyd left open the possibly that Lehman Brothers Finance
SA could claim Rascals assets manually processed through stock
loans after July 1, 2008. They belonged to the Swiss unit “at
the moment of the group’s collapse,” unless Lehman Brothers
International Europe can show it paid collateral on the
securities.  The case is: In the Matter of Lehman Brothers International
(Europe)(In Administration), case no. 7942/2008,  High Court  of
Justice,  Chancery Division  (London).  Saab Automobile Breakup Looms on Chinese Cash Limit, GM’s Snub  Saab Automobile’s assets may be broken up and sold to pay
debt as the unprofitable Swedish company ends more than six
decades of carmaking following a bankruptcy filing.  Saab Auto submitted the application at Vaenersborg District
Court after a potential Chinese partner wasn’t able to provide
funding while  General Motors Co. (GM) , a former owner, said it would
block the proposed tie-up, parent company  Swedish Automobile NV 
said Dec. 19 in a statement.  “There’s no doubt this is the blackest day in my career,”
Chief Executive Officer Victor Muller said at a press conference
Dec. 19  at Saab Auto headquarters in Trollhaettan. The
company’s workforce totals about 3,600 employees, including
3,400 in the southeastern Swedish town.  Muller has been seeking funding for Saab since his
Zeewolde, Netherlands-based company, then named Spyker Cars NV,
 bought  it in February 2010 from Detroit-based GM, which was
about to shutter the brand. Muller was in talks earlier this
month with potential Chinese financial backers, including
Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile.  The court said in an online  statement  that it accepted the
petition and appointed two Gothenburg, Sweden-based attorneys,
Hans Bergqvist and Anne-Marie Pouteaux, as administrators.  GM, which still has a say in Saab’s strategy because of the
carmakers’ technology ties, said on Dec. 17 that recent
proposals for rescuing Saab were similar to earlier plans that
it had rejected as being “detrimental to GM and its
shareholders.”  The U.S. carmaker “made it clear it would not approve of a
transaction involving Youngman,” while difficulties with rules
on transferring funds out of  China  prevented a financing deal,
Muller said Dec. 19.  Muller said that he received “two or three” expressions
of interest on Dec. 19 from potential buyers, and that he’ll
refer them to the bankruptcy administrator that the court
appoints.  “Although this may seem like the end, it is not
necessarily so,” he said.  Saab Auto traces its roots back to the establishment of
aircraft manufacturer Svenska Aeroplan AB, which was set up in
1937 and began building cars 10 years later. The auto business
was split off from the aerospace operations, now called Saab AB,
in the 1990s, with GM gaining a 50 percent stake in 1990 and
full control in 2000.  MF Global’s U.K. Staff Face ‘Threats of Violence,’  KPMG  Says  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MF) ’s U.K. employees have received
threats amid claims the broker misused client funds before it
collapsed, the company’s administrators told a London court on
Dec. 19.  KPMG LLP, administrators of MF Global’s U.K. unit, asked a
judge for permission to remove the names of employees from court
filings for their protection.  “We have had two sets of threats, one in relation to a
trader,” KPMG’s lawyer Adam al-Attar told the court. The
intimidation included “threats of violence,” he said.  The threats may have been because of the association with
MF Global UK Ltd.’s New York-based parent company, where there
is “speculation as to the misapplication of client monies,”
Al-Attar said. High Court Judge David Richards approved the
application and made an order for the redactions this morning.  In the U.S. bankruptcy, trustee James W. Giddens has
estimated that $1.2 billion is missing from MF Global’s
segregated customer funds, which are supposed to be protected.
Jon S. Corzine, the former chairman and chief executive officer,
apologized to clients and investors for their losses at a
hearing before U.S lawmakers last week.  No shortfall has been identified in the U.K. Administrators
know where the British unit’s segregated client funds are held
and have collected 82 percent of the money, KPMG partner Richard Heis said on Dec. 16.  The ruling sought by KPMG isn’t unprecedented, Heis said in
a statement Dec. 19.  “This is an order that we have sought and obtained in the
past when there is a possibility that disclosure of employees’
personal details, as otherwise required by legislation, might
expose them to harm,” he said.  About 350 of MF Global’s 700 U.K. employees have been
retained by KPMG to work on winding up the company, Al-Attar
said.  MF Global was the fifth-largest financial company to file
for bankruptcy when it sought U.S. court protection on Oct. 31
after placing losing bets on European sovereign debt.  Denmark Says Fjordbank Mors Creditors to Get More Money Back  Denmark’s government said creditors at  Fjordbank Mors A/S (FJORD) 
will get more money back after the value of the failed bank’s
loans was calculated to be higher than previously expected.  Eligible creditors will get a dividend of 86 percent
instead of 73.6 percent, equivalent to 1.3 billion kroner more
($228 million), the Copenhagen-based Financial Stability
Company, the government’s bank wind-down unit, said Dec. 21 by
e-mail.  Sino-Forest Defaults on Two Bond Issues, Seeks Waivers  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese timber company fending off
fraud allegations, defaulted on two sets of bond payments and
said it may consider seeking creditor protection.  The company received notices of default on Dec. 16 on
senior notes due 2014 and 2017 after failing to publish its
third-quarter financial results in a “timely manner,” Sino-
Forest said Dec. 18 in a statement. The company, which said last
week it expected to receive the default notices, said it’s now
seeking waivers from bondholders.  The notices give Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based
Sino-Forest 30 days to rectify the situation, which the company
said it doesn’t expect to be able to do.  Northern Irish Court to Rule on Quinn Bankruptcy in 2012  The legality of Sean Quinn’s bankruptcy declaration in
 Northern Ireland  will be decided early next year, a judge in
Belfast said Dec. 20 after hearing submissions from lawyers
representing the former  Anglo Irish  Bank Corp.  Lawyers for Quinn said Dec. 20 his center of business
interests have always been in Northern Ireland as his company’s
headquarters were in Fermanagh, in the U.K. region, and so a
decision by a Northern Ireland court to last month declare him
bankrupt should stand.  Lawyers for Irish Bank Resolution Corp., formerly known as
Anglo Irish., argued that Quinn’s main centre of business
interests are in the  Republic of Ireland  and a court in Northern
Ireland didn’t have the international jurisdiction to  declare
him bankrupt.   U.K. Stores Face Most Insolvencies Since 2008 Amid Slump  U.K. retail insolvencies may reach the highest level in
four years as weak Christmas sales leave chains struggling to
meet rent payments due this month, according to restructuring
firm  AlixPartners LLP .  “We are likely to see a number of retail collapses early
in the new year and it could include some much-loved names,”
Sanjay Bailur, managing director of the advisory firm’s U.K.
unit, said in an interview. The outlook is “worse than the last
three or four years.”  A disappointing Christmas season may be the nail in the
coffin for retailers who have been barely hanging on for years.
Many in sectors like value clothing, books, music, and toys
“have lost their focus and have ended up with too many
unprofitable stores, resulting in failed expansion plans, both
domestically and overseas,” Bailur said.  Thorntons Plc (THT) , a U.K. confectionery maker, fell the most in
at least 22 years Dec. 21 after saying annual profit will miss
estimates. Earlier this week, HMV Plc, the U.K.’s biggest CD and
DVD retailer with more than 250 stores and 163.7 million pounds
($256.6 million) of debt, said that insufficient sales may cast
“significant doubt” on its future. Outdoor clothing chain
 Blacks Leisure Group Plc (BSLA)  put itself up for sale this month after
shares plunged 95 percent in 2011.  U.K. consumer confidence fell to the lowest level since the
depths of the financial crisis in 2009 driven by concern about a
financial recovery and the euro region debt crisis, according to
GfK NOP Ltd. U.K. retail sales slumped 1.6 percent in November,
the most in six months, according to the  British Retail
Consortium , as shoppers held out for discounts and cut back on
festive spending amid warnings of a looming recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  