-- Electronic Arts Asks Must Defend $400 Million Activision Suit, Judge Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/electronic-arts-asks-judge-to-dismiss-400-million-activision-claims.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , the second-
biggest U.S. video-game publisher, lost a court bid to dismiss
the $400-million contract-interference claims by its larger
rival  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)   California Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle, at a hearing
yesterday in  Los Angeles , denied Electronic Arts’ request to
throw out the claims, saying Activision had provided sufficient
evidence that a jury should decide whether Electronic Arts broke
the law by talking to two creators of Activision’s “Call of
Duty” franchise while they were still under contract.  Berle rejected Electronic Arts’ argument that it was
perfectly lawful for the two top executives of Activision’s
Infinity Ward studio, Jason West and Vince Zampella, to explore
future employment opportunities. It was ’’a whole different
scenario’’ if Electronic Arts approached the two executives
while there was still more than two years left on their
contract, the judge said.  Activision, based in  Santa Monica , California, last year
added Electronic Arts as a cross-defendant to a lawsuit that was
initially brought by West and Zampella after they were fired.
They had sued for $36 million, saying Activision fired them to
avoid paying the royalties they were owed for “Call of Duty:
Modern Warfare 2,” the top-selling game the previous year.  Robert Klieger, a lawyer for  Redwood City , California-based
Electronic Arts, declined to comment after the hearing.  “We’re pleased with the ruling and look forward to proving
our case at trial,” Steven Marenberg, a lawyer for Activision,
said after the hearing.  ‘Call of Duty’  Activision’s lawyers said in court filings that Electronic
Arts wanted to lure away the “Call of Duty” developers because
the game had displaced “Medal of Honor” by Electronic Arts as
the dominant combat-game franchise, helping Activision to
overtake its rival as the largest video-game publisher.  “EA dangled before West and Zampella a lucrative deal that
incentivized them to terminate their Activision contracts
prematurely, either by quitting or by behaving so badly that
Activision had no choice but to fire them, which, of course, is
exactly what happened,” Activision said in its opposition to
Electronic Arts’ request to throw out its claims.  After they were fired, West and Zampella set up an
independent studio, Respawn Entertainment. Electronic Arts said
in court papers that it has no involvement with Respawn beyond
an agreement to publish and distribute the studio’s games.  In addition, about 40 current and former employees of
Infinity Ward sued last year, alleging they weren’t paid bonuses
and royalties for their work on “Modern Warfare 2.” Their case
has been consolidated with the case by West and Zampella against
Activision.  The case is West v. Activision, SC107041,  California 
Superior Court (Los Angeles County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  