-- Leonard Green Raises About $4B for PE Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2011-12-21T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/leonard-green-said-to-raise-about-4-billion-for-sixth-private-equity-fund.html
Leonard Green & Partners LP, the
buyout firm whose investments include Whole Foods Market Inc.
and J. Crew Group Inc., raised about $4 billion for its sixth
fund, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The firm, based in  Los Angeles , aims to complete
fundraising for Green Equity Investors VI LP this month, with a
formal close early next year, said one of the people, who asked
not to be identified because the information is private. It
started raising money this year with a goal of matching its 2007
fund at $5.3 billion and later set a cap of $6 billion.  The company, founded in 1989 by the late Leonard I. Green,
oversees about $9 billion in equity, according to its website.
Larger firms, including KKR & Co., which manages $44 billion in
buyout funds, and Providence Equity Partners Inc., with $23
billion, are planning pools that are smaller than their
predecessors.  “There is more pressure at the large end of the market to
come back in smaller size as it is more difficult to put out
large amounts of capital in what is a debt-constrained market,”
said Kelly DePonte, a partner at Probitas Partners LLC, a San
Francisco-based firm that helps funds raise money.  Michael Gennaro,  Leonard Green ’s chief operating officer,
declined to comment on fundraising.  In addition to imposing a cap on the fund, which investors
prefer so that it doesn’t grow too large, Leonard Green will
give them 100 percent of fees charged to companies it acquires.
It initially planned to give them 80 percent of the fees.  The firm’s fifth fund generated an 18 percent net internal
rate of return and its holdings were valued at 1.3 times cost as
of June 30, according to performance data published by the
Washington State Investment Board on its website.  Leonard Green usually targets deals of $500 million to $2
billion in enterprise value, according to its website. The
firm’s investments also include BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. and Jo-
Ann Stores Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  