-- EPA’s Changes to Air-Toxics Rule Fail to Sway American Electric
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2011-12-22T17:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/epa-issues-arsenic-mercury-cap-for-u-s-coal-fired-power-plants.html
Utility companies criticizing a
proposed new U.S. cap on power-plant pollutants say they aren’t
swayed by the Obama administration’s decision to grant two of
their requests for more flexibility in complying.  Representatives for the largest coal-fired power producers,
 Southern Co. (SO)  and  American Electric Power Co. (AEP) , said the
administration is underestimating the costs of the plan, which
was  released  by the Environmental Protection Agency in
Washington yesterday.  “We are disappointed,” Melissa McHenry, a spokeswoman for
American Electric, based in Columbus, Ohio, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “Our main concern remains the amount of time
available to achieve compliance.”  The EPA’s mercury and air toxics rule would cost companies
$9.6 billion a year for installing pollution-control devices or
closing coal plants and substituting another fuel source, such
as natural gas. Most of the 1,100 U.S. coal-fired units already
comply, the EPA said. The rule caused a split within the
industry.  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  of  Chicago  and Public Service Enterprise Group
Inc., of Newark,  New Jersey , support the rule because they say
they’ve already cut emissions and their competitors should have
to as well.  “This is a rule that is way long overdue,” Eric Svenson,
PSEG’s vice president of environment, health and safety, said in
an interview. “We know from PSEG’s own experience that
installing hardware and controls is doable.”  Save Lives  The EPA says the standard will save lives and create as
much as $90 billion in annual benefits. It will also boost
employment as power producers install scrubbing systems,  Lisa
Jackson , the agency’s administrator, said at an event in
Washington.  Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC)  and  Alstom SA (ALO)  are companies
that make such equipment.  The standard will lead to a cut of 4.7 gigawatts of U.S.
coal-fired generation capacity by 2015, or less than one-half of
1 percent, according to the EPA. FBR Capital Markets & Co. in
New York estimated the drop might more than 10 times that much.  Changes announced yesterday include easing mandatory
controls for particulate matter, scuttling pollution caps when
plants are starting up or shutting down, and giving companies
greater leeway to average mercury emissions across units.
Altering the rule will save utilities about $1 billion annually,
the EPA said in a fact sheet.  Push to Overturn  “These are the kinds of flexibilities that a number of
people in the industry have been arguing for,”  Paul Allen ,
senior vice president of Constellation Energy Group Inc., said
in an interview.  The EPA’s rule still faces hurdles.  U.S. Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican, pledged
to push for legislation that would overturn the rule, and said
he asked the EPA’s inspector general to investigate the way the
agency developed the regulation.  “I am determined to apply the brakes to President Obama’s
runaway regulatory agenda before it wrecks our economy,” he
said in a statement yesterday.  American Electric, based in Columbus,  Ohio , said in June
that proposed EPA rules would force it to close parts or all of
11  power plants , eliminating 600 jobs. Southern said in August
that the rules may cost it as much as $18 billion.  The International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and
other unions sided with American Electric in urging a delay in
the rules.  ‘Some Improvements’  In a meeting with Jackson in September, executives from
American Electric made the case for adjusting the particulate
standard, saying the company’s cost would be $700 million for
little or no health benefit, according to notes filed online by
EPA officials. Southern asked for the waiving of pollution
controls during startup and shutdown.  The companies each got their way. “There seem to be some
improvements in the rule,” McHenry said, referring to the
particulate-matter adjustment. Stephanie Kirijan, a spokeswoman
for Southern, said the company is still reviewing the measure.  The lobbying didn’t succeed in persuading the
administration to extend the three-year compliance deadline
across the board.  Instead, the rule was accompanied by a presidential
memorandum directing the EPA to use its legal authority to give
power companies more time when necessary. The EPA said in its
statement that it wants to make “broadly available” a fourth
year, and will offer more time to deal with local reliability
issues.  Compliance Deadline  “They didn’t address the time frame for compliance,”
 Scott Segal , a lobbyist in  Washington  with Bracewell & Giuliani
LLP representing companies such as Southern, said in an
interview. Overall, “this is largely the same as the
proposal.”  For environmental and health groups, that’s something to
cheer.  Mercury harms the nervous systems of fetuses and young
children, according to the EPA. Clamping down on additional
pollutants covered by the standard will reduce asthma, cancer,
 heart disease  and early death.  “There was no last-minute mischief,”  John Walke , clean-
air director for the New York-based Natural Resources Defense
Council, said in an interview. The “11th-hour lobbying frenzy
just failed.”  Southern rose 1 percent to $45.86 in New York trading
yesterday. American Electric rose 2.3 percent to $40.85. The EPA
rules were in line with investor expectations,  Andrew Smith , a
New York-based analyst for J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, said in a
note to investors.  Regulated utilities such as Southern should be able to pass
the costs of new investments to customers, John Kohli, portfolio
manager for the Franklin Resources Inc. utilities fund, said in
an interview Dec. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  