-- Tepco Plans to Dismantle Fukushima Reactors Within 40 Years
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2011-12-21T09:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/tepco-sets-plans-to-dismantle-fukushima-reactors.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  plans to
decommission the damaged reactors at the wrecked Fukushima
nuclear plant in 30 to 40 years, the Japanese government said,
outlining a “roadmap” for dismantling the station.  The company known as Tepco will start removing the spent
fuel rods at Fukushima Dai-Ichi within two years, according to
the schedule released today in Tokyo. Engineers will attempt to
start removing melted fuel from one of the reactors within a
decade, the government said.  Three reactors went into meltdown after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami damaged the station, causing the worst
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986. Decommissioning the
station may cost at least 1.15 trillion yen ($14.8 billion),
according to a government estimate in October.  Dismantling the reactors will probably be more complex than
Chernobyl because it involves more nuclear fuel, said Najmedin Meshkati, a professor of civil engineering at the University of
 Southern California , who worked as a consultant on
decommissioning the Ukraine station.  “It is difficult to get an accurate estimate now because
we really don’t have a very good understanding of the level of
devastation, the amount of the meltdown and the material that
needs to be removed and the exact radiation level,” he said.  Tepco and the government may have to revise the timetable
after robots are used to gather more details about the extent of
the damage deep inside the reactors, Meshkati said.  Fuel Extraction  To get to the spent fuel rods engineers must negotiate
blown out walls and the twisted remains of steel infrastructure,
after explosions tore reactor buildings apart in the early days
of the crisis.  There are more than 2,700 spent fuel assemblies in four
buildings, according to the Japan Atomic Industrial Forum. More
than 1,300 are located in the No. 4 unit, which didn’t melt down
because the fuel had been removed from the reactor for
maintenance before the quake and tsunami struck.  Once the spent rods are removed, Tepco will start working
on extracting the melted cores, which dropped to the bottom of
the reactor vessels then burnt through inner steel casings into
concrete foundations. The fuel didn’t breach a second steel
containment barrier.  Reactor No. 1 had 400 fuel assemblies and reactors 2 and 3
had 548 each, according to the atomic forum.  Each assembly contains 60 uranium rods about 4.35 meters
(14 feet) in length adding up to about 270 metric tons of fuel
to be removed, said Tony Irwin, a former reactor manager for
British Energy Group Plc who lectures on nuclear technology at
the  Australian National University .  Striking a Balance  Tepco is probably waiting for radiation levels to fall
before attempting to extract the melted fuel, Irwin said.  “It’s a balance between the dose they’re going to get to
workers doing this job and the need to remove the fuel from the
reactor,” he said.  The government on Dec. 16 announced Tepco had brought the
station into a state known as cold shutdown, meeting its target
to stabilize the reactors by the end of the year and allowing it
to move to the next phase of resolving the crisis.  Radiation fallout caused 160,000 people to flee areas
around the Fukushima station, which is located about 220
kilometers (137 miles) north of  Tokyo  and has six reactors.  The cost of the cleanup and compensating residents and
businesses affected by the catastrophe may bankrupt Tepco, which
has asked the government for support and received emergency
loans from its creditors.  Shares Fall  Tepco shares fell to the lowest in two months today after
the Yomiuri newspaper said the utility may be nationalized to
avert collapse. The government may invest 1 trillion yen to
acquire stock while banks may be asked to lend the same amount,
the newspaper reported. Tepco shares fell 9.8 percent.  “We are considering all options,” Trade and Industry
Minister  Yukio Edano  said today in Tokyo when asked about the
Yomiuri report. He was speaking at a press conference to outline
the decommissioning schedule.  Edano said the roadmap didn’t include decommissioning costs
because “it’s difficult to make a firm estimate at the
moment.”  The cost of the cleanup won’t be an impediment to carrying
out the project,  Goshi Hosono , the minister in charge of the
response to the disaster, said today at the same briefing.  “There won’t be any delays in the decomissioning process
due to the cost,” he said. “I ordered Tepco not to allow that
to happen.”  The government will be sensitive to the aspirations of
those displaced by the disaster, Edano said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  