-- Tepco Shares Decline After Report Company May Be Nationalized
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2011-12-21T08:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/tepco-shares-decline-after-report-company-may-be-nationalized.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  shares fell
to the lowest in more than two months after the Yomiuri
newspaper said the utility may be nationalized to avert collapse
as it faces billions of dollars in costs to decommission the
wrecked Fukushima nuclear station.  The government may acquire more than two-thirds of the
company’s shares through its Nuclear Damage Liability
Facilitation Fund, the Yomiuri said. The fund may invest 1
trillion yen ($12.8 billion) to acquire stock while banks may be
asked to lend the same amount, the newspaper reported, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the plan.  The utility known as Tepco said in a statement “there is
no truth” to the report. “We will first work on cutting costs
and securing funds,” it said.  Tepco fell 9.8 percent on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange to close
at 211 yen, the lowest since Oct. 6. Tepco is down 90 percent
since the day before the March 11 quake and tsunami crippled its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station, causing 160,000 people to
flee radiation fallout.  “We are considering all options,” Trade and Industry
Minister  Yukio Edano  said today in Tokyo in response to a
question on the Yomiuri report at a press conference.  The funds from the government and banks will help Tepco
avoid insolvency and pay for dismantling and decommissioning the
damaged reactors, as well as cover the cost of purchasing fuel
to run its thermal plants, the Yomiuri said.  The government-backed fund may acquire securities including
preferred stock and replace the company’s management, the
Yomiuri reported. The fund will gain control after shareholders
approve the plan at a meeting in June, it said.  The fund expects electricity prices to be raised as much as
10 percent next October and the company to restart reactors at
one of its nuclear plants after April 2013, the Yomiuri said.  The government-backed fund aims to complete negotiations
with banks by the end of March, the Yomiuri said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  