-- Mercator-Agrokor Sale Delayed as NLB Bank Postpones Decision
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2011-12-21T15:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/mercator-agrokor-sale-delayed-as-nlb-postpones-decision-on-stake.html
Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d.’s sale
to Croatian rival Agrokor d.d. was delayed after the second-
largest investor in the Slovenian store chain postponed approval
and opposition to the sale intensified.  Supervisors of Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., the nation’s
largest bank, which owns almost 11 percent of Mercator,
postponed approval after NLB Chief Executive Officer Bozo Jasovic unexpectedly resigned, the Ljubljana-based lender said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Mercator shares plunged.  Political leaders in the former Yugoslav republic,
including the likely next prime minister Zoran Jankovic, a
former Mercator chief executive, oppose the sale on the claim it
would hurt national interests and reduce competition. Shares of
Mercator have lost as much as 15 percent in the past month as
the dispute over the retailer’s future heats up.  “Once Agrokor was chosen as the buyer of a majority stake
of Mercator, there were more and more attempts and pressure on
NLB to withdraw from the sale,” Jasovic told reporters in
Ljubljana.  Nova Ljubljanska, in which the government and  Belgium ’s  KBC
Groep NV (KBC)  are the largest owners, wants to raise 400 million
euros ($525 million) to improve its capital ratio by mid-2012.
It will probably report a loss in 2011 for a third consecutive
year after bad loans depleted its reserves.  Shares Plunge  Mercator, which rose for three consecutive sessions before
today, dropped the most in a month. The stock fell 15 euros, or
9 percent, to close at 152 euros in Ljubljana, giving the
company a market value of 572 million euros.  “It’s a very bad signal on how Slovenia operates and how
very close it is to the spirit of socialism,” Andraz Grahek,
head of asset management at KD Funds LLC in Ljubljana said in an
e-mail. “NLB is in a very poor state and was doing what all
European banks do, divesting non-core assets to lower the need
for fresh capital.”  The current battle is the eighth attempt to sell Mercator.
Earlier this year,  Pivovarna Lasko (PILR) , the biggest owner of
Mercator, announced it would add its 23 percent stake to shares
of other owners, making the current 52 percent for sale. Agrokor
later announced its bid and opened exclusive talks with the
sellers.  Croatia ’s largest privately owned company offered 43
percent premium to the current stock price, or 221 euros per
share, valuing Mercator at 832 million euros.  Other Owners  Another Slovenian seller,  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor (KBMR)  d.d.,
yesterday agreed to sell its 5.2 percent stake, while
Pivovarna’s approval is on hold pending a takeover offer of the
beermaker.  Slovenia’s market securities agency began an investigation
into the takeover bid for Pivovarna Lasko, agency director
Damjan Zugelj said by phone today. The agency found that the
takeover bid by Eastons Capital, based in  Las Vegas , “isn’t
valid” because of it was incomplete, Pivovarna Lasko said in a
statement today.  The management of Mercator refused to allow due diligence
to the buyers, while the  Finance Ministry  opposes the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development’s participation in a
“possible hostile takeover” of Mercator by Agrokor since the
transaction would have “negative implications” for the
country’s  economy , it said on Dec. 16.  “I am opposed to the sale and Nova Ljubljanska isn’t doing
its job properly,” Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic, who won a snap
election on Dec. 4 to take over the government and a former head
of Mercator said yesterday.  Instead of its sale, Jankovic prefers Mercator take over
 Konzum d.d. (KNZMRA) , the retail arm of Agrokor.  EBRD, IFC  Agrokor has said the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and the International Finance Corp, the financing
arm of the  World Bank , as well as a unit of  JP Morgan Chase (JPM)  &
Co., are its partners in the takeover bid.  The Slovenian Finance Ministry said on Dec. 16 that it
opposes the EBRD’s participation in a “possible hostile
takeover” by Agrokor since the transaction would have
“negative implications” for Slovenia’s economy.  “It’s difficult to say when we will sign the sale
contract,” Ivan Crnjac, an executive vice president at Zagreb-
based Agrokor, said yesterday in an interview with public
broadcaster  TV Slovenija . “It’s a pure lie that the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development isn’t involved as they
are supporting this transaction. We have the financial structure
of the transaction in place and secured.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  