-- Herpes Virus Makes Oysters a Scarce Delicacy Over France’s Holiday Season
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-21T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/herpes-virus-makes-oysters-a-scarce-delicacy-in-france-s-holiday-season.html
Thomas Catonnet listens for the
tell-tale death rattle at his oyster farm in  France ’s Arcachon
Bay, as a falling tide exposes victims of a lethal virus
ravaging the nation’s 157-year-old shellfish industry.  “You smell a particular odor and you hear the sound of
shells,” said Catonnet, 33, sorting baby oysters in a wooden
shack near the end of a 20-kilometer (12-mile) sandbar that
shelters the bay from the Atlantic Ocean west of the city of
Bordeaux. “A putrid smell. Nobody understands it.”  A herpes virus has decimated oysters along France’s 5,500-
kilometer coast for a fourth season, making the shellfish an
ever-more exclusive treat for year-end holiday meals that
account for half of the country’s oyster sales.  Farm-gate prices for oysters have jumped 65 percent in
three years because of the disease, said Goulven Brest, head of
France’s  shellfish-growers committee . He frets that high prices,
which help keep growers like Catonnet afloat, and fewer oysters
threaten an industry with 630 million euros ($823 million) in
sales in 2009.  “The consumer is losing interest in the product because we
have less to market,” Brest said. “We can’t charge more. We’ve
reached a price beyond which demand will plummet.”  Retail prices for oysters in Paris have climbed to between
14 and 17 euros a dozen in some neighborhoods, from 12 to 14
euros a dozen in 2010, he said.  Wholesale prices  in October
climbed 8.2 percent from a year earlier and 26 percent from two
years ago, according to the  National Institute of Statistics  and
Economic Studies in Paris.  ‘La Mortalite’  The disease killing France’s Pacific oysters, dubbed “la
mortalite” by growers, first emerged in 2008. It mostly strikes
oysters under a year old, research by the  Institut Francais de
Recherche pour l’Exploitation de la Mer  shows.  Between 70 and 80 percent of France’s young stock died this
year, according to the institute. Identified as a variant of
Ostreid herpesvirus 1, or  OsHV-1 , the disease starts killing
oysters when water temperatures reach about 16 degrees Celsius
(61 degrees Fahrenheit).  “In 2008, researchers were stunned by the scale and
distribution of the phenomenon,” said Marion Le Foll, a
spokeswoman for the institute. All oyster regions in France have
been hit, she said.  “Ifremer studies show there’s a tremendous genetic
diversity in Pacific oysters; we can’t explain the mortality
through a lack of genetic diversity,” Le Foll said.  Tumbling Production  Oysters are typically left to grow for three years before
they’re shipped to markets, restaurants and fish stores across
France, ready for the table. Last year was the first in which
the virus made a noticeable dent in sales.  France’s oyster harvest plunged 38 percent in 2010 to
80,000 metric tons from about 130,000 tons a year earlier,
according to the shellfish-growers committee. Production is
little changed this year, according to Brest.  The death of young oysters in Arcachon Bay, whose sandy
beaches and sunny weather have attracted holidaymakers since the
19th century, is a particular concern. The basin, which  gave
birth  to France’s oyster-farming industry in 1854, produces
about 70 percent of the nation’s naturally grown oyster spat,
known as “naissains.”  Catonnet said about 60 percent of his spat died this year,
matching the proportion of losses in 2010. The deaths extended
into November as a long summer kept the bay unseasonably warm.  “We still had mortality late in the season,” he said.
“We lost a little every day.”  Billions of Eggs  Catherine Roux, an oyster farmer in Cap Ferret, buys spat
from Catonnet and raises them to a marketable size. Higher
selling prices aren’t making up for the lower stock, she said.  “It’s not enough to compensate,” she said. “Oysters are
in short supply.”  The  Pacific oysters  in Arcachon Bay, introduced from  Japan 
in the 1970s, spawn billions of eggs twice a year. In summer,
they take about 18 days to develop into larvae, says Christian
Lapegue, an oyster farmer on the bay.  Farmers place larvae collectors in the bay that are taken
out of the water from November to February. The baby oysters’
death becomes apparent by February, said his son Yannick.  “You don’t see the same thing from oyster grower to the
next,” the 37-year-old said. “It depends on the location.”  In the bay, farmers grow oysters in rows of meshed plastic
bags on wire stands that dry out at low tide. They use flat-
bottomed aluminum boats to reach their oyster parks.  The shellfish may be handled 25 times over a three or four-
year period as they’re turned, cleaned or moved to bigger wire
bags before reaching restaurant size, said Lapegue senior.  Trying to Adapt  Some of Arcachon Bay’s 300 oyster growers are trying to
adapt to their virus-ravaged crop. Catonnet said he’s placing
more larvae collectors, although he says the extra work means
“economically speaking, it’s not really viable.”  Catonnet, who ships spat and oysters up to 18 months to
farmers in Normandy and Brittany, has started selling table-
ready oysters in the nearby city of  Bordeaux  for extra cash.  “I don’t like it, but with the mortality we have to try
and earn the same money with fewer oysters,” said Catonnet, who
produces about 30 tons of oysters a year with one employee.  The government provides assistance, although it’s laughably
meager, said Catonnet, whose business is still profitable. If he
had to do it all over again, he wouldn’t be an oyster farmer.  “I’ve been in the business for 10 years,” he said. “In
the same situation today, I wouldn’t do it again.”  In Piraillan, Veronique Lenoir, 47, charges holidaymakers
for a tour down the wheelbarrow-wide, crushed-shell paths of the
oyster-farming village. That’s added to earnings after her
oyster output fell to 5 tons from as much as 8 tons in 2008.  “Some businesses will go under,” she said. “We’ll end up
with a dozen oyster farmers in a little corner of the bay.”  Oyster Quality  One positive outcome of the diminished stock is that the
oysters are meatier and better looking as farmers take greater
care of them.  “They’re beautiful,” Brest said. “They have a handsome
shape and there’s more meat inside.”  That may not be enough to create loyal consumers. The
shortage of the shellfish has shrunk the oyster-selling season
outside big cities to December and January from between
September and May previously, according to Brest. Oysters also
don’t travel well, making imports not an option.  The industry is in a vicious spiral, Brest says: with
smaller quantities available, the number of retail points will
shrink after the festive season because the oysters are too
expensive. That in turn means consumers will see less and less
of the shellfish, which may bring down demand and prices.  “That could cost us very dearly,” Brest said. “If prices
fall again, it will be the whole industry that dies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 