-- Essar Energy Chairman Ruia Steps Down Temporarily Amid Probe
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2011-12-21T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/essar-energy-chairman-ruia-steps-down-temporarily-amid-probe-1-.html
Essar Energy Plc (ESSR) , an Indian oil
refiner and power-plant operator, said Chairman Ravi Ruia will
temporarily step aside as Indian authorities investigate a sale
of licenses to run mobile-phone services.  “This decision follows allegations by  India ’s Central
Bureau of Investigation,”  Port Louis , Mauritius-based Essar
Energy said yesterday in a statement. The CBI this month filed
charges against Ravi Ruia and Essar Group Directors Anshuman
Ruia and Vikash Saraf over the 2008 sale of phone licenses.  The authorities allege the executives concealed facts
relating to the extent of Essar Group’s stake in Loop Telecom
Ltd. and used Loop as a front company to secure licenses. Ruia
and Essar deny the charges, which aren’t related to Essar Energy
or its subsidiaries, the company said.  An Indian court headed by Special Judge O.P. Saini asked
the Essar Group officials yesterday to appear before it on Jan.
27 as it probes charges linked to the sale of phone permits.  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , a
federal lawmaker, government officials and company executives
are already on trial for conspiring to grant licenses to
unqualified companies for personal benefit in 2008. The
country’s auditor says the first-come, first-served award of
permits may have lowered government revenue by as much as $31
billion. All those on trial deny wrongdoing.  Essar Teleholdings Ltd., Loop Telecom and its unit Loop
Mobile India Ltd., named as accused parties in the case, were
also summoned by the judge.  Small Stake  Essar in a  statement on Dec. 12 said it held only 2.15
percent in Loop at the time it applied for a license and did not
violate the law.  The scandal surrounding the wireless sale has weakened
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government, lowered investor
confidence in the $1.7 trillion economy, stalled legislation and
led to street protests.  With yesterday’s court decisions, 19 people and six
companies stand accused of involvement in the alleged scandal.  Twelve of the people have been freed on bail as their
trials continue. Those released include three executives of
billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance ADA Group and federal
lawmaker Kanimozhi. Raja remains in custody in the capital’s
Tihar prison.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Pratap Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  