-- Estonia Gas Grid Nationalization Seen as Last Option, Ansip Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2011-12-21T13:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/estonia-gas-grid-nationalization-seen-as-last-option-ansip-says.html
Estonia’s government would only
consider nationalizing AS Eesti Gaas’s natural-gas transmission
network as a “last option” as it seeks to develop the market
for the fuel, Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  said.  “Estonia has a record of privatization in many
industries,” Ansip said yesterday in an interview in the
capital, Tallinn. “We wouldn’t want to start moving in the
opposite direction without an urgent need. Still,
nationalization is not completely ruled out.”  Ansip’s ruling Reform Party published plans last year to
unbundle the gas industry and reduce dependence on  OAO Gazprom ,
Eesti Gaas’s biggest owner and the sole supplier of gas to
Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania . The government should nationalize
Eesti Gaas’s pipelines to create a functioning energy market,
Elering AS, the country’s power grid operator, said last month.  The Economy Ministry has drafted a bill to separate
ownership of gas sales and transmission by 2015. Lithuania
announced a similar plan at Lietuvos Dujos AB last year, drawing
criticism from Gazprom and  Germany ’s  E.ON AG , which also has a
stake in Eesti Gaas.  Estonia should decide on splitting Eesti Gaas’s sales and
transmission units by 2015, nationalizing the grid and building
a regional or local LNG terminal, Taavi Veskimagi, chief
executive officer of Elering, said in the foreword of a report
by  Poeyry Oyj (POY1V) , a Finnish consulting company, on Nov. 29.  The three Baltic nations are also seeking EU support to
build a liquefied natural gas terminal in the region, saying
they’re being charged more for Russian gas imports than western
European countries and citing supply risks from their neighbor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  