-- Ethiopia Convicts Two Swedish Freelance Journalists of Aiding Terrorism
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2011-12-21T11:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/ethiopia-convicts-two-swedish-freelance-journalists-of-aiding-terrorism.html
An Ethiopian court found two Swedish
freelance journalists guilty of supporting terrorism and
entering the country illegally, said Jens Odlander,  Sweden ’s
ambassador to the Horn of Africa nation.  Martin Schibbye and Johan Persson, who face as long as 15
years in jail, will probably be sentenced next week, Odlander
said by phone today from  Addis Ababa , the capital. They were
arrested with members of the Ogaden National Liberation Front
rebel group in July. Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt 
and  Amnesty International  called for their immediate release.  “Our starting point is and remains that they have been in
the country on a journalistic mission,” Reinfeldt said today,
according to a statement e-mailed by the Foreign Ministry.
“They should be freed as soon as possible and be able to rejoin
their families in Sweden.”  Ethiopia’s state minister of communications,  Shimeles Kemal , accused the reporters of undergoing weapons training and
allying themselves “with objectives of a terror organization.”  “They have gone too far so that their conduct did not
constitute pure journalistic activity,” he said today in a
telephone interview from Addis Ababa.  Under Ethiopia’s 2009  anti-terrorism law , “rendering
support to terrorism” can include providing “moral support”
or giving advice.  Self-Determination Struggle  Schibbye  testified  that they entered Ethiopia to report on
Vancouver-based  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI) , which has  projects  in the
Ogaden region. He also said the weapon he was shown holding in a
video taken from his laptop computer was the gun of a hotel
guard in Somalia he planned to interview.  The ONLF has been fighting for self-determination in the
ethnic Somali region since 1984. In April 2007, the banned rebel
group attacked an exploration site operated by  China ’s Zhongyuan
Petroleum Exploration Bureau, killing 65 Ethiopians and nine
Chinese workers.  “There is nothing to suggest that the two men entered
Ethiopia with any intention other than conducting their
legitimate work as journalists,” Claire Beston, Amnesty
International’s Ethiopia researcher, said in an e-mailed
statement from  London . “The government chooses to interpret
meeting with a terrorist organization as support of that
group.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  