-- Heungkuk Life Dispute With Goldman Sachs Goes to Arbitration
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2011-12-22T00:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/heungkuk-life-insurance-lawsuit-against-goldman-sachs-withdrawn.html
Heungkuk Life Insurance Co.’s 
lawsuit against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  over a collateralized
debt obligation was withdrawn from New York state court after
the two sides agreed to resolve the dispute through arbitration.  Heungkuk sued New York-based Goldman Sachs in federal court
in  Manhattan  in March over a $1 billion collateralized debt
obligation known as Timberwolf, accusing the company of fraud
and seeking more than $47.3 million in damages. The Seoul-based
insurer filed a similar state-court suit in April.  The federal case was voluntarily dismissed in May,
according to court records. The two sides have agreed to
“pursue the extrajudicial resolution” of the case in state
court, according to court documents filed today. The state case
was withdrawn “without prejudice,” meaning the claims can be
re-filed.  The case will be resolved through arbitration, Jon Pickhardt, an attorney with Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan in
 New York  who is representing Heungkuk, said in a phone
interview.  Timberwolf was called “one shi**y deal” by a bank
executive in a 2007 internal e-mail written eight days after the
Heungkuk investment, according to the lawsuits. The e-mail was
released publicly by U.S. Senate lawmakers last year.  Criminal Complaint  Heungkuk filed a criminal complaint against past and
present employees of Goldman Sachs in  South Korea  relating to
its purchase of a CDO securitization from the firm, the New
York-based company said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on Aug. 9.  “The filing does not represent any judgment by a
governmental entity, but starts a process whereby the prosecutor
investigates the complaint and determines whether to take
action,” Goldman Sachs said in the filing.  Heungkuk Life and Heungkuk Fire & Marine Insurance Co.
filed a complaint with the Seoul Central District Prosecutors’
office on June 28 against nine Goldman Sachs executives and
employees, accusing them of fraud, Lee Yun No, an official at
Heungkuk Life, said on July 5.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on today’s court filing.  The cases are Heungkuk Life Insurance Co. v. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., 650978/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan); and Heungkuk Life Insurance Co. v. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., 11-cv-1856, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 