-- Euro Area’s Newest Member Stands by Currency, Estonian Premier Ansip Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2011-12-21T11:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/euro-area-s-newest-member-stands-by-currency-premier-says.html
Estonia , the newest member of the
euro region, will stand by the single currency because its
benefits outweigh the uncertainty caused by the region’s debt
crisis, said Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip .  “The euro remains more trustworthy than small national
currencies,” Ansip said yesterday in an interview in the
Estonian capital, Tallinn, citing a run this month on  Swedbank
AB (SWEDA) ’s offices in neighboring Latvia, which doesn’t use the euro.
“The euro’s exchange rate, looking over the longer term,
doesn’t indicate any significant weakness.”  Estonia, a Baltic state that boasts the European Union’s
fastest-growing economy, has clearly benefited from its adoption
of the euro, Ansip said. Increased investor confidence, easier
access to export markets and the elimination of  currency risk 
for 90 percent of borrowers whose loans were already denominated
in euros, can all be attributed to the single currency, he said.  Ansip’s comments underscore the 17-nation euro’s resilience
and the attractions of membership even as the sovereign debt
crisis that emerged in  Greece  more than two years ago poses a
risk to the global economy.  The single currency has gained 3.9 percent since then-Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  requested outside aid in April
of last year. The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.3151 as of 11:44
a.m. in Frankfurt.  ‘Not Overly Pessimistic’  “While I’m not overly pessimistic about the future, I’m
far from denying that problems are there,” Ansip said.  The debt crisis will take as many as two decades to end and
private companies will have to play a bigger role to resolve it,
he said. Estonia rejects increased intervention by the  European
Central Bank , and rather supports reducing public spending and
boosting the efficiency of the economy in part through more
effective tax collection, he said.  “I absolutely don’t understand how some hope to regain the
markets’ trust by borrowing money from the same markets that
don’t trust them or piling up even more debt or by trying to
borrow to erect some kind of firewalls,” Ansip said. “The
crisis developed over 10 or 20 years in some countries and it
can’t end overnight.” Resolving the problem “is a long and
rather painful process that will take 10 or 20 years.”  Europe ’s economic growth shouldn’t be driven by public
spending, Ansip said, rebuffing economists including  George
Magnus , a senior adviser at UBS AG, who argue that Europe-wide
austerity would push the region deeper into the crisis.  Less government stimulus would allow “bigger creative
freedoms” for private companies, boosting the region’s
competitiveness, Ansip said.  Private-Sector Role  “I’m convinced that the private sector will take on a
larger role as soon as the public sector shrinks,” Ansip said.
“Estonia,  Latvia  and Lithuania show that this can be done.
Falling public-sector spending has led to a significant
activation of the private sector.”  About a fifth of the 5,000 companies set up with Finnish
capital in Estonia were founded in the past two years, he said.  Estonia will have a  budget surplus  this year after being
the only member of the trading bloc except Sweden to avoid a
2010 deficit, Ansip said. Year-end public debt will be 5.8
percent of gross domestic product, the lowest in EU, while
government reserves make up 12 percent of GDP.  Latvian spending cuts and tax increases since 2008, its
international bailout, will reach 17.8 percent of GDP by the end
of next year, Finance Minister Andris Vilks said earlier this
month.  Lithuania ’s deficit reduction totaled 12 percent of GDP
in 2009-2010, while Estonia narrowed its budget gap by more than
10 percent in 2008-2009.  The $19 billion economy grew 8.8 percent from a year
earlier in the first nine months, driven by export demand from
Sweden and Finland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  