-- European Banks Facing Funding Squeeze Devour Record ECB Emergency Funding
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2011-12-21T14:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/european-banks-devour-ecb-emergency-funds-amid-frozen-markets.html
European banks borrowed enough cash
from the  European Central Bank  at its first three-year offering
to refinance almost two-thirds of the debt they have maturing
next year amid concern that markets will remain frozen.  The 523 euro-area lenders took a record 489 billion euros
($638 billion) from the Frankfurt-based central bank in 1,134-
day loans today, more than economists’ median estimate of 293
billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey. That equals about 63
percent of the European bank debt maturing in 2012, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts.  “The perceived stigma attached to central bank borrowing
has not prevented euro-zone banks from making extensive use of
the ECB’s offer,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING
Group in Amsterdam. “The take-up of loans is massive.”  By flooding the banking system with cheap money, policy
makers are attempting to stave off a looming credit crunch by
encouraging banks to maintain lending. Politicians, including
French President Nicholas Sarkozy, are also pushing the banks to
use the cash, which is borrowed at a current interest rate of 1
percent, to purchase higher-yielding southern European sovereign
debt, thereby forcing down borrowing costs in the region.  Barclays Plc estimates the lending will inject 193 billion
euros of new money into the system, with 296 billion euros
accounted for by maturing loans.  Bond Yields Rise  Banks have become increasingly reliant on the ECB for
funding after the market for bank debt seized up and U.S. money
markets withdrew lending. Senior unsecured bank bond sales have
tumbled 80 percent to 14.6 billion euro since the markets
constricted at the end of July compared with the year earlier
period, according to Morgan Stanley data.  Government bond yields rose on the news as traders
questioned whether banks would be willing to risk buying more
southern European sovereign debt when their investors are urging
them to reduce their holdings. Italian 10-year government bond
yields climbed 12 basis points to 6.69 percent while the rate on
comparable Spanish debt surged 17 basis points to 5.2 percent.
The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS)  rose 0.6
percent by 2:30 p.m. in London.  Demand for so-called carry trades, whereby banks borrow at
a low rate to invest in higher yielding  government bonds , will
be limited to struggling domestic lenders that already have
significant holdings and have few options to make profits
elsewhere, analysts said.  ‘Little Incentive’  “Cross-border and large domestic banks have little
incentive to use the money for carry trades because they are
worried about the impact of holding sovereign debt on
investors,” said Huw van Steenis, head of European bank
research at Morgan Stanley in London.  Banks, including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , have been cutting their
holdings of southern European debt this year on concern that the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis is spreading.  Euro-area banks need to refinance more than 600 billion
euros of debt maturing next year, about three-quarters of which
is unsecured, the  Bank of England  said in its financial
stability report this month. That’s 35 percent more than in
2011, the bank said.  “Banks represent about 80 percent of lending to the euro
area,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  told the European Parliament
this week. “The banking channel is crucial to the supply of
credit.” He predicted banks will experience “very significant
funding constraints” for all of 2012.  The ECB will hold a second auction of unlimited three-year
cash in February, allowing banks to pre-fund themselves for all
of next year and beyond, say analysts.  “Large take-up is an important positive,” said Jernej Omahen, a Goldman Sachs analyst in London.  “European banks
seem firmly on their way to fully pre-fund all bond maturities
for 2012, and possibly 2013, through the ECB.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  