-- Euro Drops to Record Low Versus Aussie Dollar Amid Debt Crisis
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2011-12-21T06:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/euro-drops-to-record-low-versus-aussie-dollar-amid-debt-crisis.html
The euro dropped to a record low
against the Australian currency amid speculation the 17-nation
region’s sovereign-debt crisis is spurring investors to
diversify into non-European assets.  The euro dropped against 11 of its 16 major counterparts
this year as the region’s leaders struggle to halt a two-year-
old crisis that began in  Greece .  Australia  last month became one
of only 14 nations to hold the AAA rating from all three main
credit-rating firms.  Standard & Poor’s  said Dec. 5 that Germany
and France may be stripped of their top grade and put 15 euro
countries on review for possible downgrade.  “European pension funds will act aggressively to diversify
into higher-rated sovereign debt as the universe of top-rated
nations diminishes,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of
currency sales in Sydney at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s
biggest brokerage. “Australia will benefit from these flows,
and the Aussie dollar will continue to gain against the euro as
investors move out of the European currency.”  The euro fell as low as A$1.29135 before trading at
A$1.2929 as of 4:44 p.m. in Sydney, a 0.4 percent decline from
yesterday in  New York . The currency may drop to A$1.22 by the
end of January, Magnus said.  Australian sovereign bonds have provided a 14 percent
return, including reinvested interest, since Dec. 31, the best
performance after the U.K. and  New Zealand , Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. German government securities rose 9
percent while U.S. Treasuries advanced 9.6 percent.  “With a soft landing expected in  China , the risk of
holding growth-sensitive currencies is lower,” Magnus said.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said yesterday the nation will
keep its export policies such as tax rebates “basically
stable” next year, according to a statement posted on the
central government’s website yesterday. China is Australia’s
largest trading partner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  