-- European Stocks Decline as ECB Funding Fails to Ease Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2011-12-21T17:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/european-stock-index-futures-advance-adidas-k-s-sap-might-be-active.html
European stocks  fell for the first
time in three days as lenders sought more funds from the
 European Central Bank  than economists had predicted, reducing
optimism that the debt crisis will be contained.  SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s largest maker of business-management
software, tumbled the most in two years as U.S. rival Oracle
Corp. reported sales and profit that missed analysts’ estimates.
 Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  led a  gauge of banks (SX7P)  lower.  Konecranes Oyj (KCR1V) 
slipped 3.6 percent in Helsinki after announcing a restructuring
of its operations.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  declined 0.5 percent to 237.29
at the close of trading. The benchmark measure rallied as much
as 1.4 percent after the ECB agreed to provide three-year loans
to euro-area banks to keep credit flowing to the economy, before
erasing its advance two hours later.  “It’s another slight shrug of the shoulders,” said
 Richard Hunter , the London-based head of equities at Hargreaves
Lansdown Plc. “The underlying story hasn’t changed with
 Europe ’s debt crisis. The hope is that this money finds its way
back into sovereign debt in the new year.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 14 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  slid 0.6 percent, while
 France ’s CAC 40 retreated 0.8 percent and  Germany ’s DAX declined
1 percent.  ECB Loans  The Frankfurt-based ECB awarded 489 billion euros ($640
billion) in 1,134-day loans, more than economists’ median
estimate of 293 billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey. The
ECB said 523 banks asked for the funds, which it will lend at
the average of its  benchmark rate  over the term of the loans.
They start tomorrow.  The banks borrowed enough cash to refinance almost two-
thirds of the debt they have maturing next year amid concern
that markets will remain frozen.  “The added liquidity is being seen as just another quick
shot in the arm rather than anything more meaningful,” Yusuf Heusen, a sales trader at IG Index in  London , wrote in e-mailed
comments. “As a result hopes of an upbeat run to Christmas seem
to be waning.”  The  Stoxx 600  gained 2 percent yesterday, its biggest
advance since Nov. 30, as German business confidence
unexpectedly rose for a second month. The measure has still  lost
14 percent  this year amid mounting concern that policy makers
will fail to stop at least one member of the euro area from
defaulting.  German Bond Sales  German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government reduced its
planned bond sales next year to 250 billion euros, compared with
270 billion euros proposed in the budget and 283 billion euros
that it sold this year. The federal government will sell 170
billion euros in bonds and 80 billion euros in shorter
maturities, the Frankfurt-based Federal Finance Agency said as
it presented the provisional bond calendar for 2012 today.  The head of the world’s biggest bond fund said he sees a
more than one-in-three chance that the euro area will break
apart and trigger a financial crisis akin to the one that
devastated the global economy in 2008.  “It would be the equivalent of a sudden stop” in which
financial markets seized up, Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer of Pacific Investment Management Co.  in  Newport Beach ,
 California , said. “It would be really, really messy.”  European Union leaders will hold a summit on Jan. 30 to
discuss jobs and economic growth, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy 
said.  Zero Growth  “I’m preparing this meeting intensively,” Van Rompuy said
in a video message posted on the EU’s website. “It will be
focused on jobs, and that’s a big challenge in a context where
 zero growth  is expected in most of our economies. In some of
them, there will even be a recession.”  SAP lost 6.1 percent to 39.92 euros, the largest decline
since October 2009, and competitor  Software AG (SOW)  fell 4.9 percent
to 27.25 euros.  Cap Gemini SA (CAP) , a computer-services company,
retreated 4.9 percent to 24.09 euros.  Oracle, the second-largest business-software maker, posted
earnings before some costs in the quarter ended Nov. 30 of 54
cents a share, on revenue excluding certain items of $8.81
billion. Analysts had projected profit of 57 cents and sales of
$9.23 billion, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, dropped 4.4 percent to
70.8 euro cents and France’s  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA slid 3.4
percent to 16.63 euros. A  gauge of banks  in the Stoxx 600
slipped 0.7 percent.  Konecranes, Lagardere  Konecranes, the Finnish maker of container cranes,
retreated 3.6 percent to 13.92 euros after saying it’s
restructuring European operations and must cut 100 jobs.  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  rose 1.9 percent to 19.17 euros as La Tribune
reported that the owner of the Europe 1 radio station has held
talks with California-based private-equity firm Hellman &
Friedman LLC to sell its 20 percent stake in  Canal Plus  for
close to 1 billion euros. The newspaper cited unidentified
people.  The French publisher favors a sale of the holding rather
than an initial public offering, and mandated Lazard Ltd. to
find a buyer, La Tribune said. Hellman & Freidman and Lagardere
both declined to comment, according to La Tribune.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  