-- Euro-Region Consumer Confidence Declines More Than Estimated
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2011-12-21T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/euro-region-consumer-confidence-declines-more-than-estimated.html
European  consumer confidence  dropped
more than economists forecast in December to the lowest in more
than two years, adding to signs of a deepening economic slump in
the 17-nation euro region.  An index of  household sentiment  in the single-currency area
fell to minus 21.2 from minus 20.4 in November, the Brussels-
based European Commission said in an initial estimate today.
That’s the lowest since August 2009. Economists had forecast a
drop to minus 21, the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey showed.  Europe ’s economy is edging toward a recession as
governments toughen budget cuts to contain the fiscal crisis,
undermining consumer demand. Unemployment increased in October
to the highest in more than a decade and  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s
largest cosmetics maker, said on Nov. 7 that  consumer confidence 
is “weak and markets are proving difficult.”  “The debt crisis will determine the development of
 consumer spending  well into 2012,” said Jens Kramer, an
economist at NordLB in Hanover, Germany. “People are worried
and holding back spending as a result. The euro-region economy
will slip into a recession in the current quarter.”  The euro-region economy may expand 0.3 percent in 2012
instead of a previously forecast 1.3 percent, the  European
Central Bank  said on Dec. 8. Consumer spending will increase 0.1
percent next year, down from a previous estimate of 0.8 percent,
before rising 0.9 percent in 2013, it said.  Austerity measures in countries from Spain to Greece and
Italy have left households reluctant to spend just as companies
step up job cuts. Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest
engineering company, plans to eliminate as many as 1,600
positions at its health-care division.  “We are tackling the last quarter with confidence” even
though the situation remains difficult in southern Europe,
L’Oreal Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon said on Nov. 7.  The commission is scheduled to publish its monthly report
on euro-area  economic confidence , which includes the consumer-
confidence gauge, on Jan. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  