-- Teva Clears $3 Billion Buyback, Forecasts Restrained 2012 Growth
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2011-12-21T16:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/teva-says-board-clears-3-billion-share-buyback-program.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
forecast lackluster profit growth for next year and said it may
buy back as much as $3 billion worth of its own shares to return
money to investors.  Earnings excluding some costs will be $5.48 to $5.68 a
share in 2012, Chief Executive Officer Shlomo Yanai said on a
call with investors today. Analysts at  Leerink Swann  expected an
estimate of $5.55 to $5.85. The world’s largest generic-drug
company also indicated it may not meet its long-term target of
$31 billion in sales by 2015, which Yanai described as an
“aspirational goal.”  Teva, whose American depositary receipts fell as much as
4.9 percent, reported its first decline in quarterly earnings in
four years last month. The plan to return money to shareholders
suggests Teva will slow the pace of acquisitions after spending
$6.5 billion on Cephalon Inc., analysts said.  “They admit they have nothing better to do with the
money,” Gilad Alper, an analyst for Excellence Nessuah
Brokerage, said via e-mail. “So it’s good in that they pay
money to investors rather than buy problematic companies. But
it’s an admission of the poor potential in the marketplace.”  Teva’s acquisitions in recent years have included  Germany ’s
Ratiopharm GmbH and Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc. of the U.S. in a
strategy to broaden a brand-name portfolio that has been
dominated by multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone.  Copaxone’s Peak  Copaxone’s annual sales will probably peak at $3.8 billion,
though a generic competitor will take a while to reach the
market, Teva executives said on the conference call.  “There may also be some disappointment because perhaps
some investors were expecting a dividend increase and that
wasn’t delivered,” said Natali Gotlieb, a Tel Aviv-based
analyst for Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd.  The buyback program will probably be completed in three
years, the company said in a statement. At current prices, $3
billion would buy about 8 percent of the Petach Tikva, Israel-
based drugmaker. The timing of repurchases and amounts spent
will depend on the share price and market conditions, Teva said.
No shares will be bought before fourth-quarter earnings are
published in February, the company said.  “There’s a feeling that there needs to be a change in how
the Teva management views their relationship with investors,”
Gotlieb said. The buyback plan is therefore “very good news.”  Teva expects revenue of about $22 billion next year, up
from an estimated $18.3 billion to $18.6 billion this year.  The company, whose shares have  dropped (TEVA)  21 percent this year
in U.S. trading, doesn’t plan to make major acquisitions in
2012. It may make smaller purchases, worth as much as “a few
hundred million dollars” and form partnerships in  emerging
markets , according to Yanai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in london at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  