-- Ex-Brown University Student Drops Suit Aainst School Over Rape Allegation
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2011-12-21T22:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/ex-brown-university-student-drops-suit-aainst-school-over-rape-allegation.html
A  Brown University  freshman
dismissed from the college after being accused of raping a
fellow student dropped a lawsuit against the school and the
family of the alleged victim.  William McCormick III, who was expelled from Brown in 2006
two weeks after he enrolled, and his parents agreed to drop the
suit, according to a filing today in federal court in
Providence,  Rhode Island . No details were given on the
dismissal.  McCormick and his parents sued Brown; Marcella Dresdale,
the student who said she was assaulted; and her father, Richard,
in 2009. They claimed the university falsely accused him of
sexual assault and that the Dresdales had libeled him and caused
him to be expelled.  “The McCormicks and the Dresdales have resolved all of the
disputes between them which are the subject of the lawsuit to
their mutual satisfaction,”  J. Scott Kilpatrick , a lawyer for
the McCormicks, said in a statement over the telephone. “The
McCormicks and the Dresdales have agreed to not make any further
statements or comments on the matter.”  The plaintiffs had won the court’s approval in October to
obtain information from Brown about the fundraising activities
for the university by Dresdale, an alumnus.  “The university is not a party to the settlement and did
not participate in any settlement negotiations,”  Marisa Quinn ,
a spokeswoman for Brown in Providence, said in an e-mail. “The
university stood ready at all times during this litigation to
prove in court that it had acted appropriately and in accordance
with applicable laws, policies and procedures.”  No criminal complaint was filed in connection with the
reported assault.  The case is McCormick v. Dresdale, 09-0474, U.S. District
Court, District of Rhode Island (Providence).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  