-- Ex-Bear Stearns Fund Managers Cioffi, Tannin Seek Narrowing of SEC Suit
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2011-12-21T15:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/ex-bear-stearns-fund-managers-cioffi-tannin-seek-narrowing-of-sec-suit.html
Former  Bear Stearns Cos.  hedge-fund
managers  Ralph Cioffi  and  Matthew Tannin , acquitted in 2009 of
criminal charges they misled investors who lost $1.6 billion,
asked a federal judge to toss out part of a related civil case
brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Cioffi and Tannin, in their request to U.S. District Judge
Frederic Block in  Brooklyn , New York, said they can’t be sued
for statements they didn’t make and over so-called scheme
liability. The request, made in October, was made public
yesterday.  In November 2009, a federal jury found Cioffi and Tannin
not guilty of conspiracy and securities and  wire fraud  in the
first criminal trial stemming from a federal probe of the
collapse of the subprime-mortgage market. Cioffi, 55, was
portfolio manager for the  hedge funds . Tannin, 50, was their
chief operating officer.  “Despite the complete acquittal of Mr. Cioffi and Mr.
Tannin, the SEC has persisted in pursuing this action based on
the same underlying facts,” lawyers for the men wrote in the
filing.  The SEC opposed the motion in a November filing, also made
public yesterday. The regulator’s case requires a lower standard
of proof than a criminal conviction. Block has set a Feb. 13
trial date for the SEC suit.  Supreme Court Ruling  Cioffi and Tannin said that, under a June U.S. Supreme
Court ruling involving Janus Capital Group Inc., they can’t be
held liable for alleged misstatements in monthly reports to
investors because they only assisted in the documents’
preparation.  “Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin did not have ultimate authority
or control over the content or communication of the” reports,
they wrote.  In addition, no evidence in the case shows any of the
deceptive conduct required for the SEC to prove a scheme to
defraud investors, the men said. The agency’s allegation that
they misled lenders to the funds also doesn’t amount to a scheme
to defraud, they said.  “There can be no dispute that Cioffi and Tannin were the
‘makers’” of the misstatements in the documents to investors,
the SEC said in its response.  It also said Cioffi and Tannin are wrong that a scheme to
defraud doesn’t include one based on misrepresentations without
a “deceptive act.”  ‘Huge Bet’  In 2006, the men made “a huge bet” on subprime mortgages
that turned against them with the downturn of the housing
market, the SEC said.  “Cioffi and Tannin attempted to conceal these poor
investment decisions from existing and new investors in the
funds, as well as from financial institutions that served as
counterparties,” the agency wrote.  The two money managers were indicted in June 2008, a year
after their hedge funds failed. Bear Stearns collapsed less than
a year after the funds failed, and was purchased by New York-
based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The SEC claims the two men misled investors about the
funds’ deepening financial troubles and their own holdings in
the investment pools.  According to the government, Cioffi and Tannin conspired to
defraud their clients by publicly touting the health of the
funds, made up mostly of subprime mortgage-backed securities.  Bankruptcy Filing  The hedge funds, which filed for bankruptcy in July 2007,
were the Bear Stearns High-Grade Structured Credit Strategies
Enhanced Leverage Master Fund Ltd. and the Bear Stearns High-
Grade Structured Credit Strategies Master Fund Ltd.  The two funds failed when prices for collateralized debt
obligations linked to home loans fell amid rising late payments
by borrowers with poor credit or heavy debt.  The men claimed in e-mails and conversations to be adding
their own money to the funds in the months immediately prior to
their collapse, according to the government. Neither man added
any money to the funds, once valued at $20 billion, the U.S.
alleged.  The defense in the criminal trial argued Cioffi and Tannin
were innocent of any wrongdoing and had remained honestly
optimistic about the funds’ health.  Jurors interviewed after the verdict in the criminal case
said Cioffi and Tannin had worked to save the funds and that e-
mails presented by the government as evidence both went against
and favored the defendants.  Securities Fraud   Both men were charged with one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud, two counts of wire fraud and two counts
of securities fraud. Cioffi was charged with one count of
 insider trading , stemming from his transfer of $2 million --
one-third of his holdings in the funds -- to another Bear
Stearns fund he supervised that was profitable.  The two men were acquitted of all the charges.  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Cioffi, 08-cv-2457, and the criminal case is U.S. v. Cioffi, 08-
CR-00415, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn,  New York , federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 