-- Ex-Dow Scientist Who Stole Secrets Gets 7 Years, 3 Months Prison
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/ex-dow-scientist-gets-more-than-seven-years-in-prison-for-stealing-secrets.html
An ex- Dow AgroSciences LLC (DOW) 
researcher who stole  trade secrets  from his former employer to
benefit a Chinese university was sentenced to seven years and
three months in prison, prosecutors said.  Kexue Huang, 46, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District
Judge William T. Lawrence in Indianapolis, according to an e-
mailed statement from U.S. Attorney Joseph Hogsett’s office.  “The United States Attorney’s Office takes seriously its
obligation to protect Hoosier businesses from economic
espionage,” Hogsett said in the statement. Hoosier is a
nickname for people from Indiana.  Huang, a Chinese national, pleaded guilty in October to
economic espionage. He also admitted to stealing trade secrets
from the Minneapolis-based grain distributor Cargill Inc., the
U.S. Justice Department said in October. Financial losses from
his conduct exceed $7 million, the U.S. said.  It’s the first such prosecution in  Indiana  under a
provision of the Economic Espionage Act that bans trade-secret
theft to benefit a component of a foreign government, the
government said. Eight such cases have been brought since the
law was enacted in 1996, the U.S. said.  James Edgar, Huang’s attorney, didn’t immediately respond
to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the sentencing. Huang
has been in federal custody since he was indicted and will begin
serving his sentence immediately, said Tim Horty, a spokesman
for the U.S. Attorney’s office in Indianapolis. The government
will seek to deport him after his sentence, Horty said in a
phone interview.  Pesticide Research  Huang worked for the Indianapolis-based unit of Midland,
Michigan-based Dow Chemical Co., where he researched the
development of organically derived pesticides, from 2003 to
2008.  While at Dow, he shared confidential information with at
least two people, one of whom conducted research first at the
Hunan Normal University in  China  and later in Dresden,  Germany ,
according to a plea agreement, which didn’t name the people.  In 2008 Huang went to work for Cargill as a
biotechnologist. He admitted that while at Cargill he stole one
of the company’s trade secrets -- a key component in the making
of a new food product -- which he gave to a student at Hunan
Normal University, the U.S. said in a statement yesterday.  The cases are U.S. v. Huang, 10-cr-102 and 11-cr-163, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Indiana (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  Chicago  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 