-- News Corp. Must Pay Legal Fees for Phone Hacker Mulcaire; Coulson Loses
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2011-12-21T17:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/ex-news-corp-phone-hacker-mulcaire-wins-bid-for-legal-fees-from-company.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. is
required to pay the legal fees of  Glenn Mulcaire , the British
private detective at the center of the phone-hacking scandal at
its now-defunct News of the World tabloid, a U.K. judge ruled.  Mulcaire, 41, had a valid contract to have his fees and
potential damages paid by the company in exchange for his
cooperation in dozens of civil lawsuits, a judge ruled today in
 London . In a separate judgment today, former News of the World
editor  Andy Coulson  lost a similar suit to have his fees covered
by the company as he faces a criminal phone-hacking probe.  Mulcaire “always said he was acting on the instruction”
of the company “and he clearly needs legal representation to
deal with the numerous cases,” his lawyer,  Sarah Webb , said in
an e-mailed statement. The ruling will probably result in  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s News International unit paying another 750,000 pounds
($1.2 million) in legal fees, she said.  News Corp., based in  New York , shut the News of the World
in July to contain damage from the five-year-old scandal, which
triggered a  judge-led inquiry  into the ethics of the U.K. press.
Police probes into phone hacking, computer hacking and police
bribery by journalists have led to the arrests of at least 21
people, including Coulson in July, Mulcaire earlier this month
and a 52-year-old female police officer detained today.  Related Allegations  Coulson, who quit as editor in 2007 after Mulcaire pleaded
guilty to phone hacking, may appeal today’s ruling, his lawyer
Jo Rickards said in a statement. The decision is inconsistent
with the ruling in Mulcaire’s case, she said.  “Mr. Coulson’s severance agreement included an explicit
clause specifying that News International would meet the legal
costs arising from his defense of proceedings resulting from his
role as editor of News of the World,” Rickards said. “The
allegations against him clearly relate to that role.”  Coulson resigned in January as U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s press chief as the phone-hacking scandal widened and
has denied wrongdoing. In the ruling today, Judge Alan Supperstone said his severance deal could only apply to job
duties that weren’t illegal.  Mulcaire, who started working for the tabloid in 2002, was
previously arrested in 2006 and jailed for six months for
intercepting phone messages for members of the British royal
family and five celebrities. He and the company have been sued
70 times by victims since then.  300,000 Pounds  News International has paid Mulcaire more than 300,000
pounds in legal fees in relation to the first 38 cases. With
dozens of lawsuits still pending, News Corp. stopped the
payments in July after lawmakers suggested to Murdoch and his
son James the company was buying his silence.  Webb, Mulcaire’s lawyer, said at a trial earlier this month
that her client requested a separate 750,000-pound payment from
the company in June 2010 in exchange for providing the identity
of reporters who instructed him to hack phones. The company
didn’t pay the sum, and he never named names.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s U.K. unit,
declined to comment. The company had argued the agreement with
Mulcaire wasn’t binding and that he had stopped assisting them
by refusing to name the journalists involved in hacking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  