-- Expert-Networking Executive Fleishman Gets 2 1/2 Years in Fraud Scheme
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2011-12-21T22:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/expert-networking-executive-fleishman-gets-2-1-2-years-in-fraud-scheme.html
Former Primary Global Research LLC
executive James Fleishman was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison
for helping pass confidential information to hedge-fund managers
as part of an insider-trading scheme.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff sentenced Fleishman, 42, of
Santa Clara, California, today in federal court in Manhattan. A
jury convicted him in September of two conspiracy charges for
what the U.S. said was a scheme to obtain and pass confidential
information from technology-company employees who moonlighted as
consultants for Mountain View, California-based Primary Global,
a so-called expert-networking firm.  “Insider trading has been a subject of prosecutions in the
Southern District of New York and elsewhere for at least the
last 30 or 40 years and yet the prosecutions have not done
enough to deter this serious and sophisticated crime,” Rakoff
said before he imposed the sentence.  Since last year, at least 15 people were charged with
insider trading by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s
office in a nationwide crackdown on expert-networking
consultants who give hedge-fund managers confidential
information. At least twelve defendants pleaded guilty,
including Noah Freeman, a former portfolio manager with SAC
Capital Advisors LP, and Samir Barai, the founder of Barai
Capital Management LP.  Request Denied  Rakoff said Fleishman must report to prison Feb. 7. Defense
attorney Ethan A. Balogh asked the judge to recommend Fleishman
serve his time at Taft Correctional Institution in Taft,
California. Rakoff denied Fleishman’s request to remain free on
bail while he appeals his conviction.  Fleishman didn’t speak at his sentencing and Balogh
declined to comment after the hearing.  The day after Fleishman was found guilty, Rakoff sentenced
Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant who was also
convicted by a jury, to four years in prison for her role in the
scheme.  Cooperating witnesses testified at Fleishman’s trial that
the nonpublic information was passed to his clients, fund
managers who paid Primary Global, also known as PGR, for
consultation calls.  ‘Active Role’  Fleishman had asked to be sentenced to 12 months’ home
detention. Prosecutors asked in court papers for a sentence
within the nonmandatory guideline range, which was from seven
years and three months to nine years. He faced as long as 25
years.  “He took an active role in recruiting clients,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney Antonia M. Apps told Rakoff today.  Flieshman was convicted of conspiracy to commit securities
fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud.  Earlier this month, Rakoff rejected Fleishman’s bid to have
his conviction thrown out or to be granted a new trial on the
grounds that prosecutors failed to establish any of the acts
taken to further the scheme occurred in New York.  “The sentencing of James Fleishman stands for the
proposition that if business as usual means violating the
securities laws then business as usual has to stop,” Bharara
said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 