-- MF Global Holdings Says More Units Move Toward Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2011-12-21T21:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/mf-global-holdings-says-more-units-move-toward-bankruptcy-1-.html
MF Global Holdings Inc.  won
permission to have three more units join it in Chapter 11
bankruptcy, as a lawyer said more units are likely to file for
protection from creditors next year.  MF Global Capital LLC, MF Global Market Services LLC and MF
Global FX Clear LLC can consolidate their cases with that of the
parent company, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan 
said today. The units sought protection Dec. 19 after a decision
by the Chapter 11 trustee,  Louis Freeh .  “People had threatened to take action” and seize assets
of the three units, so Freeh decided to put additional
subsidiaries into bankruptcy, said Lorenzo Marinuzzi, a lawyer
for Freeh.  More are likely to enter bankruptcy in January, Marinuzzi
told the judge.  One of the units has $6.3 million in cash, related to the
termination of its own trades, he said. They are unregulated
entities not subject to the rules of the Securities Investor
Protection Act, which authorized the takeover of the company’s
main operating unit, now liquidating in a separate court
proceeding. The money is believed to be related to house
accounts, and not that of customers, Marinuzzi said.  The new units can use existing cash-management systems and
continue intercompany transactions, the judge said after asking
if customers of the failed brokerage will be protected if the
units held any of their money from the segregated accounts.  Rights Protected  Lawyers told Glenn that customers’ rights will be
protected.  These debtors hold $22.4 million, said Brian Matsumoto, a
lawyer for the Justice Department office that oversees
bankruptcies.  MF Global Holdings, once run by  Jon Corzine , a former New
Jersey governor and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-chairman, filed
the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a wrong-way $6.3
billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s
most indebted nations.  About $1.2 billion may be missing from segregated customer
accounts, according to James Giddens, the trustee appointed to
liquidate the company’s brokerage.  Freeh is coordinating with Giddens and foreign trustees
overseeing units in places including  Hong Kong  and  Australia ,
and is studying the company’s organizational and transactional
history, Marinuzzi said today.  “The process of putting all the pieces together is going
to take some time,” Marinuzzi told Glenn.  MF Global Holdings filed for bankruptcy to apportion
returns to creditors, including bondholders and lenders such as
JPMorgan, while Giddens is overseeing distributions to customers
at MF Global Inc. Giddens has set in motion distributions that
will return around 72 percent to customers.  MF Global Holdings’ Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing listed assets
of $41 billion and debt of $39.7 billion. Corzine quit as CEO on
Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 