-- Facebook Ordered to Overhaul Its European Service After Data-Privacy Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2011-12-21T17:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/facebook-must-change-european-service-after-data-privacy-probe.html
Facebook  Inc., the world’s biggest
social networking site, will overhaul its service in Europe over
the next six months as a result of an investigation into how the
social network handles personal data.  Facebook “has agreed to a wide range of best practice
improvements” to its service that will get a formal review in
July, the Irish data-protection agency said today, after
concluding a three-month audit. Facebook’s Ireland operation is
responsible for all the  Palo Alto , California-based company’s
users outside the U.S. and  Canada , the agency said.  “This was a challenging engagement both for my office and
for Facebook Ireland,” Billy Hawkes, Ireland’s data-protection
commissioner, said in an e-mail. The  report  said there has to be
“increased transparency and controls for the use of personal
data for advertising purposes” and “the deletion of data held
from user interactions with the site much sooner.”  The agency began reviewing Facebook’s compliance with Irish
and European Union data-protection rules three months ago and
conducted an on-site audit of the U.S. company’s offices there.  Facebook agreed to improve the information users get on
what happens to deleted or removed content and to simplify
explanations of its privacy policies.  Geographical Spread  “This is a real way for Facebook to test this relatively
new and prominent service,” said Tanguy Van Overstraeten, head
of data protection at law firm Linklaters LLP. “They are faced
with their own success. They have to tackle so many different
positions because of the geographical spread and rules that may
be different from one country to another.”  Facebook said it would work closely with privacy
commissioners and regulators to demonstrate its compliance with
legal requirements.  “The people who use Facebook take privacy and data
protection seriously and so do we,” Richard Allan, Facebook’s
director of public policy for  Europe , said in a  blog post  in
response to the Irish audit.  In the U.S., Facebook last month agreed to settle
complaints by the Federal Trade Commission that it failed to
protect users’ privacy or disclose how their data could be used.
The proposed 20-year agreement would require Facebook to get
clear consent from users before sharing material posted under
earlier, more restrictive terms, and would compel independent
reviews of Facebook’s privacy practices.  Subject to Scrutiny  Facebook is tied in by the FTC and by the commitment they
have given the Irish data protection agency in the final
recommendation “to ensure that before they produce anything,
new product, new use, that they’ll be subjecting it to
scrutiny,” said Gary Davis, deputy commissioner at the Irish
data-protection agency.  In Ireland, the company agreed to “phase in” more
transparency and control for the use of personal data for
advertising purposes and to users to delete friend requests,
tags or messages and to give users more control over their
addition to groups.  “They can be very transparent, but it must be done in a
fashion that it is legible,” said Van Overstraeten. “This
should be a shared burden” between authorities raising more
awareness among users on privacy matters and “companies
designing ways to be transparent in a legible manner.”  Watchdogs from several of the EU’s 27 nations have said
they will probe possible privacy violations in a feature on
Facebook that uses facial-recognition software to suggest people
to tag in photos without their permission. A German data-
protection agency said it may fine Facebook over facial-
recognition. Norway’s privacy watchdog is also investigating.  Constant Interaction  Facebook, which is considering raising about $10 billion in
an initial public offering a person with knowledge of the matter
said last month, noted the agency acknowledged the pace at which
it offers new products and features requires constant
interaction with regulators.  “This report is not the conclusion of our engagement with
Facebook Ireland,” said the Irish agency’s Davis. “Taking a
leadership position that moves from compliance with the law to
the achievement of best practice is for Facebook Ireland to
decide.”  The Irish audit was planned before the office received  22
complaints  related to an Austrian law student’s experience with
how the social-networking service kept storing data users had
removed from their pages.  The Irish agency can’t impose fines. If companies don’t
comply, it can pursue summary proceedings that can result in a
maximum fine of 3,000 euros ($3,900). If convicted of serious
breaches of data policy, a court may fine a company as much as
100,000 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at   cscinta@bloomberg.net  