-- Fed ‘Punted’ on Capital, Liquidity Limits in Dodd-Frank Plan
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-12-21T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/fed-punted-on-capital-liquidity-limits-in-dodd-frank-plan.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s plan to boost
supervision for U.S. banks stopped short of setting minimum
liquidity levels and delayed decisions on risk-based capital and
leverage until international regulators weigh in.  While companies must conduct stress tests and set internal
liquidity limits under the Fed guidelines released yesterday,
regulators didn’t specify how much cash lenders must hold. The
central bank said it would wait for the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  to implement capital surcharges. The
industry will have a chance to comment on the proposal and may
have more time to challenge rules.  “The Federal Reserve punted on its Dodd-Frank mandate to
develop enhanced capital and liquidity rules for all
systemically important financial firms,” Joe Engelhard, senior
vice president of Washington-based investment advisory firm
Capital Alpha Partners LLC, said in a note to clients yesterday.
“This seems to have engendered a relief rally, but it will also
mean some prolongation of regulatory uncertainty.”  The Fed, acting on a mandate of the Dodd-Frank Act, is
developing standards geared toward averting another financial
crisis and taxpayer bailout of the biggest financial firms. The
rules target banks with assets of at least $50 billion -- such
as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  -- and other firms deemed “systemically important.”  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S. lenders climbed 4.1 percent
yesterday, compared with a 3 percent gain for the broader
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The bank index has slumped 30
percent this year and the S&P has slipped 1.3 percent.  Capital Surcharges  The Fed said it would implement capital surcharges for U.S.
banks based on guidelines issued by the Basel committee. The so-
called Basel III rules give global banks until 2019 to increase
their core  capital ratios  to as much as 9.5 percent of risk-
weighted assets.  It hasn’t been determined whether there will be a surcharge
for U.S. banks with at least $50 billion in total assets that
aren’t deemed global systemic institutions, according to a Fed
official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The Fed’s
interpretation of Dodd-Frank’s intent was to design standards
that are proportional to the systemic footprint of a financial
institution, the official said.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The strength of the central bank’s rulemaking hinges on how
regulators react to public comment, former Fed Governor Randall S. Kroszner said in a telephone interview.  ‘Phased-In Approach’  “While these rules will require considerable review and
comment from the industry, we are pleased to see the Fed is
taking a phased-in approach to a number of these measures,”  Ken Bentsen , executive vice president for public policy and advocacy
at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, a
trade group in  Washington , said in an e-mailed statement.  The Fed said its liquidity rules will build on March 2010
guidance and require that banks run stress tests to determine if
they can withstand four scenarios, including overnight, 30-day
and one-year crises. Only “unencumbered” and “highly liquid”
assets may be considered within the first 30 days. Regulators
requested comments on the definition of those assets.  The Fed’s latest liquidity rules aren’t “a dramatic
departure,” said Dwight C. Smith III, a partner in Washington
at law firm Morrison & Foerster LLP. “There are elements that
are new but they won’t force changes in the business.”  The Basel rules would require banks to keep enough cash or
other easily liquidated investments on hand to survive a 30-day
crisis, starting in 2015. The Basel committee stipulated the
size of cash “outflows” banks should expect to experience in a
crisis, including a minimum 5 percent of deposits and at least
10 percent of corporate credit lines.  ‘Liquid Assets’  The Clearing House Association, a group that includes 17 of
the world’s biggest banks including JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank AG
and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , wrote in a Nov. 2 letter to U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  that the Basel rules
“significantly understate the stock of liquid assets that firms
could use to meet their short-term funding needs.”  It still “makes sense” for the Fed to delay rules until
the central bank can better study the issue and align its
thinking with international regulators,  Darrell Duffie , a
finance professor at  Stanford University ’s Graduate School of
Business in  California , said in a telephone interview.  “They don’t want to cause a migration of banking outside
the U.S. until they understand the full implications,” Duffie
said.  Systemically Important  The Fed gave specific guidelines for other rules, imposing
curbs on dealings between a bank or other systemically important
firm and a single counterparty. Regulators would limit a firm’s
capital exposure to 10 percent if the company and the party on
the other side of its transactions each have at least $500
billion of assets or are dubbed systemically important. This is
stricter than Dodd-Frank, which has a 25 percent limit.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, said in a regulatory filing that its credit risk to any
single counterparty didn’t exceed 2 percent of the New York-
based firm’s $948.9 billion in total assets as of Sept. 30.  Regulators will compel the biggest banks to follow a
tougher standard for risk management and demand more rigid
oversight by corporate boards. The rules would set triggers for
regulatory enforcement toward weak firms.  “They are going to look at each institution to look at
what is the appropriate scope of supervision they should
exercise,” said Michael Bleier, a partner at law firm Reed
Smith LLP and a former Fed lawyer. “They are going to try to
not get too significantly involved in changing their business
model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 