-- Adviser to Eddie Murphy’s Ex-Wife Arrested
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   M i c h a e l   S e r r i l l
-- 2011-12-21T23:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/financial-adviser-to-actor-eddie-murphy-s-ex-wife-arrested-in-fraud-case.html
Troy Stratos, a self-described movie
producer who left a trail of debt in  Europe  and  North America ,
was arrested in Los Angeles yesterday for allegedly defrauding
the ex-wife of comedian Eddie Murphy of at least $7 million.  Stratos, 45, was charged with mail fraud,  money laundering 
and obstruction of justice in a federal indictment unsealed
yesterday in  Sacramento , California. He’s accused of persuading
Nichole Murphy, 43, to turn over more than $8 million of a
divorce settlement, saying he would invest it in Dubai and the
 United Arab Emirates  where he said he had connections and she
could earn more interest.  Instead, he transferred the money into personal accounts,
according to the indictment. Stratos leased a Rolls Royce and
moved the staff of his movie production company into Murphy’s
mansion in Granite Bay,  California , near Sacramento, prosecutors
said.  “I’m ecstatic that he’s going to be brought to justice,”
Nicole Murphy said in a phone interview.  After taking the divorce money, Stratos persuaded Murphy to
refinance houses owned by her and her mother and to take money
out to pay for expenses while her nest egg was invested abroad,
according to the indictment.  Stratos also allegedly told Murphy that members of Middle
Eastern royal families were interested in buying her house and
that she should lease luxury cars to have on the property to
make it more enticing. The buyers would take the cars as part of
the package, according to the charges.  No Deal  In fact, Stratos lived in the house and drove the cars, and
there was never any deal arranged, prosecutors said.  Stratos was scheduled to appear at a hearing today at 3
p.m.  Los Angeles  time where a judge will decide whether he’ll be
set free on bail. If bail is denied, Stratos will be transferred
to a prison in Sacramento, Lauren Horwood, a spokeswoman for the
U.S. Attorney there said.  Stratos was the subject of a March profile in Bloomberg
Markets, the monthly magazine of Bloomberg News. Yesterday’s
indictment names the victim as “NM.” Nicole Murphy sued
Stratos for fraud in federal court in California in September
2010, making the same allegations.  Erik Syverson, an attorney for Stratos at Miller Barondess
LLP in Los Angeles, didn’t immediately respond to a phone
message.  Paris Arrest  Until recently, Stratos had an unpaid $2.1 million civil
judgment against him in  Hawaii . Dennis Rush, a real estate agent
in Maui, told Bloomberg News in February 2011 that Stratos had
convinced him to help fund the production of a jazz CD by Nancy
Wilson, who had married Stratos’s biological father.  The CD never got produced, and Rush sued. Stratos paid the
judgment in November, Rush said at the time.  In August 2009, Stratos was arrested in Paris at the
Radisson Blu Le Metropolitan, a luxury hotel near the Eiffel
Tower, for nonpayment of 32,000 euro ($41,600) in bills at two
hotels and for fraud, according to French court documents. At
that time, police confiscated two black ledgers, meticulously
kept by Stratos, showing loans, gifts and investments in his
projects totaling just under $1 billion over the years, said
 Gary Peters , a Paris-based investment manager for three wealthy
families who says he was hoodwinked by Stratos after being
introduced to him by a member of a royal family from the  Middle
East .  Peters said he fronted Stratos 150,000 euros for purported
emergency treatment of testicular cancer, a full-time driver and
a portion of his hotel bills after Stratos told him he had been
robbed of his passport and credit cards.  Private Investigator  At the time, Stratos was going by the name David Burton,
according to the documents. Peters says he called the French
police after concluding that Stratos had defrauded him.  Stratos remained in a Parisian jail for six weeks, until a
friend bailed him out. A French judge dropped the case on Sept.
28, 2010, saying that while Peters gave Stratos money, there
wasn’t evidence that Stratos had convinced him to do so through
deceit.  The  law firm  representing Stratos this year hired a private
investigator, Bill Branscum. Branscum had previously worked for
Nicole Murphy as she prepared her suit against Stratos, the
investigator said earlier.  Recently, Stratos offered Peters $61,000 and told him that
Branscum would meet him and give him the check, Peters said.
Branscum even sent Peters a photograph of the cashier’s check
drawn on an account at Preferred Bank in Torrance, California.
The two men never met up. Branscum declined to comment for this
story.  ‘First True Love’  “I wish I’d been paid back my money and I’m sad for all
parties concerned,” Peters said in a telephone interview today.
“All this begs the question of where all this money is coming
from.”  Stratos and Nicole Murphy met in Sacramento when they were
teenagers. He once referred to her in a letter, obtained by
Bloomberg Markets, as his “first true love.”  Stratos and Murphy reconnected soon after she was divorced
from  Eddie Murphy  in August 2005. He became her financial
adviser after living for a year in  Vancouver ,  Canada , where he
ran a company called Next Level Media. Later, he went to Europe,
and to  Egypt , where he planned to make a trilogy of films about
the pharaohs.  Earlier this month, Stratos booked recording time at the
Village Recorder, a studio in Los Angeles where the  Rolling
Stones  recorded “Angie,” said  Jeff Greenberg , the owner.  ‘The High Road’  Like Rush, Greenberg had a judgment against Stratos. His
was $50,717.98 for recording work done in several years ago.
Stratos paid the judgment in recent weeks, and Greenberg agreed
to let him use the studio again, if he paid first.  “I was hoping he had turned over a new leaf and had taken
the high road,” Greenberg said. “He started yelling at my
staff because we demanded money up front.”  The case is U.S. v. Stratos, 2:11-cr-0537, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento). 