-- Fortress CEO Mudd Takes Leave Amid SEC’s Fannie Mae Lawsuit
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2011-12-21T15:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/fortress-chief-daniel-mudd-takes-leave-amid-sec-s-lawsuit-over-fannie-mae.html
Daniel Mudd  will take a leave of
absence as chief executive officer of  Fortress Investment Group
LLC (FIG)  after he was sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission over his role as former CEO of Fannie Mae.  Fortress co-founder Randal A. Nardone will take over as
interim CEO effective immediately, the New York-based manager of
buyout and hedge funds said today in a statement.  “I have requested a leave of absence from my position as
chief executive officer to ensure that any time or attention I
need to focus on matters outside of Fortress will not affect the
business or operations of the company,” Mudd said in the
statement.  Mudd and former Freddie Mac CEO  Richard Syron  were sued
Dec. 16 for understating by hundreds of billions of dollars the
subprime loans held by the firms.  Fannie Mae , the government-
sponsored enterprise that issues almost half of all mortgage-
backed securities, and Freddie Mac, the McLean, Virginia-based
mortgage company, had “agreed to accept responsibility” for
their conduct, the SEC said.  In a statement the day the lawsuit was filed in Manhattan
federal court, Mudd denied the charge, saying the U.S.
government and its investors were aware of “every piece of
material data about loans held by Fannie Mae.”  Fortress said in a Dec. 16 statement that the complaint
against Mudd “does not relate to Fortress, and this matter has
not impacted our company or our business operations.”  Earlier Notification  In the suit, the SEC said it wants financial penalties and
disgorgement, and an order barring Mudd from serving as an
officer or director of another company.  Fortress dropped 2.1 percent to $3.30 at 10:04 a.m. in  New
York  after falling as much as 3.9 percent. The firm’s shares
have declined 42 percent this year.  The SEC in March sent Mudd a Wells notice, informing him
that he could face claims for his role in the firm’s collapse.
Under last year’s Dodd-Frank law, regulators must sue or drop
such cases within six months. The SEC’s director of enforcement
can grant investigators an extra 180 days to work a case and,
beyond that, SEC commissioners have the power to extend the life
of a probe indefinitely. Under the SEC’s rules, investigators
weren’t required to notify Mudd if the inquiry was closed or
extended.  Fannie Mae, based in  Washington , and  Freddie Mac  were
created by Congress to encourage homeownership by making it
easier for people to acquire loans. The two were seized and
placed under U.S. control in 2008 as losses on soured loans
pushed them to the brink of insolvency, and they have been
sustained by more than $150 billion in U.S. aid.  Replaced Wesley Edens  Mudd, the son of former CBS Evening News television
reporter Roger Mudd, joined Fannie Mae in 2000, serving as chief
operating officer before being named CEO four years later. Prior
to Fannie Mae, the Washington, D.C., native led  GE Capital  as
its CEO and previously worked at  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  and the  World Bank .  He joined Fortress in July 2009, 10 months after the
government ousted him from Fannie Mae, replacing  Wesley Edens ,
the firm’s co-founder and current co-chairman.  Fortress, founded as a private-equity firm in 1998, was the
first alternative-asset manager to offer shares to the public
when it raised $634 million in its February 2007 IPO. The firm
oversaw $43.6 billion in assets as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  