-- French Assembly Approves Armenian Genocide Law as Turkey Opposes Measure
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2011-12-22T13:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/french-assembly-to-vote-on-armenian-genocide-as-turkey-wields-lobby-power.html
France ’s lower house of parliament
approved a bill making it a crime to deny the Armenian genocide,
as Turkey warned that its booming economy means it can hurt
companies such as Airbus SAS and  Electricite de France SA. (EDF)   The motion was backed in a voice vote and now moves to the
Senate which hasn’t set a timetable to debate it.  The law would punish denial of any genocide recognized by
French law with as long as a year in prison and a 45,000-euro
($59,000) fine. The measure, presented by a member of President
Nicolas Sarkozy’s party, has been rewritten to remove direct
references to Turkey and Armenians. The French parliament voted
in 2001 to recognize the World War I massacres of Armenians as
genocide. In 2006, the lower house voted to criminalize its
denial, though the bill later failed in the Senate.  Turkey says the killing of Armenians in the then  Ottoman
Empire  wasn’t genocide, and its politicians and business leaders
have pressed France to drop the bill and warned of economic
consequences if it doesn’t.  “Sarkozy’s preposterous steps right now are based on vote
calculations and will harm France-Turkey relations,” Turkish
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told reporters yesterday.
The premier said he would announce initial sanctions if the bill
passed, adding that the government has also planned a second and
third wave of measures.  Even though almost all the lawmakers who spoke in the
debate mentioned the wartime killings of Armenians and
criticized Turkey, saying it was not facing up to its history, a
member of Sarkozy’s political party insisted it wasn’t aimed at
Turkey.  ‘Fight Denial’  “This law is not a law against Turkey, which is a great
country, and it is not a law aimed at pleasing any ethnic
group,” said Renaud Muselier, a member of Sarkozy’s Union for a
 Popular Movement  who represented the party in the debate. “It
is a law that allows us to fight denial.”  After the French lower house approved the 2006 bill,
Erdogan blocked Gaz de France SA’s participation in the 7.9
billion-euro Nabucco pipeline and suspended military relations.
Turkey last year temporarily withdrew its ambassador from the
U.S. after a  House of Representatives  committee approved a
resolution recognizing the killings as genocide.  “The French political system is not looking at the correct
situation,” Volkan Bozkir, head of the Turkish parliament’s
foreign affairs committee, said on Dec. 20 after a two-day visit
to Paris alongside representatives of the Turkey’s top business
groups. Instead of citing the examples of 2001 and 2006, he
said, “they should look at  Turkey  today and make the correct
calculation.”  Banking Crisis  The country was in the midst of a banking crisis in 2001,
while in 2006 its application to join the European Union was
still progressing, Bozkir said. Now, “Turkey’s EU application
is almost stopped, so Turkey’s hands aren’t tied, and Turkey’s
economy is one of the strongest in the world.”  Including trade and investment, France and Turkey have a
$20 billion relationship, Bozkir said. “There are opportunities
to expand this cooperation in energy and airplanes,” he said.
“But when a Turkish businessman has a choice between an
unfriendly country and a friendly country, there is a negative
psychology that can affect his choice.”  Bozkir cited  Turk Hava Yollari AO (THYAO)  or  Turkish Airlines  as an
“expanding company.” The state-controlled carrier is adding
routes and planes and placed an order in March for 13 Airbus SAS
jets. It has an option to buy another 10 for 2013 delivery. The
Toulouse-based manufacturer has also held talks with low-cost
Turkish carriers Atlasjet and Pegasus Airlines.  Top 10  Christopher Buckley, Airbus’s vice president for  Europe ,
 Asia  and the Pacific region, said in an April interview that
Turkey is in the top 10 of “strategically important markets”
and may spend $50 billion on planes by 2029.  Electricite de France SA is lobbying to build a nuclear
plant on Turkey’s northern Black Sea coast, Istanbul-based Aksam
newspaper reported in August. Turkey has also held talks with
Japanese and Korean companies.  “France is about to commit a political sin,” Turkish
Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said yesterday. “In the  energy
industry , the recently maturing France-Turkey relations may not
be able to withstand this.”  Turkey’s economy grew an annual 8.2 percent in  the third
quarter , a pace only exceeded by  China  among the Group of 20
major economies.  Renault, BNP Paribas  French carmakers including Renault SA control a fifth of
Turkey’s market and French banks including  BNP Paribas SA (TEBNK)  have
assets in the country exceeding $20 billion. French direct
investment in Turkey between 2002 and 2010 was $4.8 billion, the
Turkish embassy in Paris says.  Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  summoned more than 20
local executives last week from French companies including
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Groupama SA  to lobby against the bill.  The Turkish government says mass killings of Armenians took
place as part of clashes in which thousands of Turks and
Armenians died after Armenian groups sided with the invading
Russian army. Armenians say 1.5 million ethnic Armenians were
killed from 1915 to 1923 in a deliberate campaign of genocide.  About 20 countries including Greece, Canada and  Russia ,
Turkey’s second-biggest trading partner behind  Germany ,
recognize the events as genocide.  Bernard Accoyer, the president of the National Assembly,
has opposed the bill on the grounds that parliament shouldn’t
legislate about history. Defense Minister Gerard Longuet, in an
interview today with France2 television, said parliament was
independent from the government, but added that “lawmakers
don’t make the best historians.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  