-- French Doctor Benhamou Gets Sentenced to Time Served in Inside-Tip Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-12-21T17:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/french-doctor-benhamou-gets-sentenced-to-time-served-in-inside-tip-case.html
Yves Benhamou, a French physician
who passed inside information on drug trials to FrontPoint
Partners LLC fund manager Joseph F. “Chip” Skowron, was
sentenced to the time he already served in custody.  Benhamou pleaded guilty in April to  securities fraud ,
making false statements to the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
and two counts of conspiracy for passing tips that  Human Genome
Sciences Inc. (HGSI) ’s hepatitis C drug trials were being halted. He
was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge George Daniels in
 Manhattan  federal court.  In sentencing Benhamou, 51, to the 24 days he spent in
custody after his arrest in November 2010, Daniels cited his
cooperation with the government’s investigation and his
importance to his patients in  France . Benhamou, who was born in
Morocco, is a specialist in diseases of the liver.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Pablo Quinones told Daniels that
Benhamou’s cooperation “put the nail in the coffin” of the
government’s case against Skowron, who pleaded guilty and was
sentenced last month to five years in prison.  “I cannot find the words to express how sorry I am and how
much regret I feel,” Benhamou told Daniels.  Federal Guidelines  Federal sentencing guidelines, which aren’t binding, called
for Benhamou to receive 108 to 135 months in prison, according
to a pre-sentencing report prepared for the judge.  “Mr. Skowron manipulated and corrupted him,” Benhamou’s
lawyer, David Zornow, told Daniels in the hearing today.  Skowron, a Yale University-educated physician from
Greenwich,  Connecticut , was sentenced last month to five years
in prison. He admitted that after Benhamou passed him the non-
public information, FrontPoint sold its stock, avoiding
$30 million in losses, according to the U.S.  Daniels ordered Benhamou to pay $6 million in restitution,
for which he and Skowron are jointly liable. He also sentenced
Benhamou to three years of supervised release. Daniels told him
to report to probation officials before returning to France and
if he travels to the U.S.  The case is U.S. v. Benhamou, 11-CR-336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  