-- Friendly Ice Cream Cancels Auction After No Bidders Challenge Sun Capital
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2011-12-21T21:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/friendly-ice-cream-cancels-auction-after-no-bidders-challenge-sun-capital.html
Friendly Ice Cream Corp. , the
76-year-old restaurant chain, will cancel an auction after
receiving no offers to compete with its proposed sale to the
private-equity firm Sun Capital Partners Inc.  Yesterday’s deadline to submit bids for tomorrow’s proposed
auction passed with no challengers stepping up to test Sun
Capital, according to an e-mail from Ross M. Kwasteniet a lawyer
for Friendly.  The company will notify the bankruptcy court today of the
cancellation. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross will consider
approving the sale to a Sun Capital unit at a hearing scheduled
for Dec. 29.  Sun Capital, Friendly’s current owner, will pay about
$75 million and retain ownership through its unit while allowing
the Friendly’s chain to slough off debt.  Friendly, which opened in 1935 with one shop in
Springfield,  Massachusetts , sought  bankruptcy protection  in
October citing the struggling economy and rising commodity
costs.  Debt is about $297 million and assets are valued at more
than $100 million, according to court documents.  The Wilbraham, Massachusetts-based company, commonly known
as “Friendly’s,” closed 63 sites as part of the bankruptcy
filing. Another 424 locations will stay open, Friendly said.  Accord With Creditors  Sun Capital, based in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , reached a
settlement with the committee of unsecured creditors and Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corp. allowing it to use about $50 million in
debt to bid for the company, according to a transcript of a
court hearing provided by Kwasteniet.  Since there was no competition, Sun Capital didn’t need to
use the debt.  The creditors and the PBGC disputed Sun Capital’s ability
to use debt forgiveness to bid at the auction, known as credit
bidding. The creditors argued the notes owned by the Sun Capital
unit should be treated like equity.  Sun Capital will make a $2.5 million cash payment, which is
expected to go to unsecured creditors, as part of the
settlement.  The case is In re Friendly Ice Cream Corp., 11-13167,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 