-- Spanish, Italian Notes Decline as ECB Loans Top Forecast; Bunds Advance
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2011-12-21T16:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/german-10-year-bonds-drop-for-third-day-before-ecb-allots-three-year-cash.html
Spanish  two-year government notes 
fell for the first time in nine days amid fading optimism that
the  European Central bank ’s three-year loans to euro-area banks
will restore confidence in sovereign borrowers.  Italian two-year note yields  rose from a seven-week low,
after the Frankfurt-based ECB allotted 489 billion euros ($645
billion) in 1,134-day loans, almost double the median estimate
of 293 billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
German  10-year bonds  rose, snapping a two-day drop as demand
increased for the region’s benchmark assets. Italian debt stayed
lower even as the ECB was said to buy the securities.  “Italy and  Spain  are under pressure, they’ve had a good
run,” said  Richard McGuire , a fixed-income strategist at
Rabobank International in London. “We don’t know how much of
this is due to banks in  Europe  being in trouble and having
problems financing themselves.”  Spain’s two-year yields advanced 29 basis points, or 0.29
percentage point, to 3.64 percent at 4:42 p.m. London time. They
fell as much as 11 basis points before the announcement. The 2.5
percent security due October 2013 fell 0.49, or 4.9 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 98.00. Ten-year Spanish yields rose
21 basis points to 5.27 percent, trimming a six-day decline.  Italy’s two-year yields advanced 11 basis points to 5.09
percent, after falling to 4.74 percent, the least since Oct. 31.
They pared an increase of as much as 31 basis points after the
ECB was said to buy Italian bonds.  ECB Collateral  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.5 percent after rising as
much as 1.4 percent before the ECB’s announcement.  The ECB said 523 banks asked for the funds, which will be
lent at the average of its benchmark rate, currently 1 percent,
over the period of the loans. They start tomorrow.  Yields on  government bonds  in Italy and Spain fell in the
days after the ECB announced the loans on Dec. 8 as banks bought
the securities to use them as collateral in today’s tender.
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has suggested banks could use
the loans to buy even more government debt.  Spanish and Italian two-year note yields have fallen more
than 1 percentage point since Dec. 8.  The three-year loans are a form of quantitative easing,
 John Taylor , founder of currency-hedge fund FX Concepts LLC said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” with
 Erik Schatzker .  “Three-year money at a low price -- you can give it back
after a year -- it’s a giveaway. What scares me is what the hell
are they going to do with it? They’ll buy Spanish and Italian
debt,” Taylor said.  ‘Hoovering’ Up  Banks have been “hoovering them up as collateral and now
they don’t need them immediately for this reason,” said Eric Wand, a fixed income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
in  London , referring to Italian and Spanish debt. “That’s why
they are cheapening, they are back to asking more fundamental
questions.”  The European Central Bank bought Italian government bonds
today, according to three people with knowledge of the
transactions, who declined to be identified because the trades
are confidential. A spokesman for the ECB in  Frankfurt  declined
to comment on asset purchases.  Barclays estimates today’s operation will inject 193
billion euros of new money into the system, with 296 billion
euros accounted for by maturing loans. The ECB also lent banks
$33 billion for 14 days in a regular dollar offering, up from
$5.1 billion a week ago, and 29.7 billion euros for 98 days.  Bund Issuance  German 10-year yields fell two basis points to 1.93
percent. Two-year note yields increased two basis point to 0.23
percent.  Bunds rose as the nation’s Federal Finance Agency said
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government lowered planned debt sales
next year. The government will sell 250 billion euros of
securities in 2012, compared with 270 billion euros slated in
the budget and 283 billion euros sold this year, the Frankfurt-
based finance agency said today.  German bonds have handed investors a 2.4 percent gain this
month, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, extending
the year-to-date return to 9 percent. Spanish bonds advanced 6.6
percent in 2011, while Italian securities lost 4.7 percent, the
indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 