-- Gingrich Summer Slump Forces Catch-Up
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-12-21T16:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/gingrich-summer-slump-forces-catch-up-amid-late-campaign-surge.html
By the time  Newt Gingrich  finally
arrived at Hy-Vee Supermarket in Mount Pleasant, Iowa, the crowd
had overflowed the store’s small cafe, past the flower shop and
into the aisles.  “He’s got most of the things I’m looking for,” said  Bruce
Weber , a 70-year-old retiree who waited more than 45 minutes to
see the former U.S. House speaker.  Yet even as Gingrich has top standing in the polls, large
crowds and plenty of buzz in the Republican presidential
primary, he’s still struggling with the basics of his late-
surging campaign.  Trailing in cash, he can’t put up commercials to defend
himself against attack ads. After a walkout by his senior staff
in June, he needs to hire replacements quickly as important
campaign-filing deadlines approach.  “What we’re talking about here is a candidate who never
really had the opportunity to put a national team in place and
is now playing catch-up money-wise and organizationally,” said
Corey Lewandowski, a Republican strategist and  New Hampshire 
director of Americans for Prosperity, an anti-tax group that is
staying neutral in the race. “The question for him now is, has
his campaign already peaked?”  Snapshot in Time  Gingrich’s schedule today offers a snapshot of a campaign
enjoying a rapid ascent, while still vying against longer-term
headwinds.  First, he received endorsements from House speakers in
states with the nation’s two earliest nominating contests, Kraig Paulsen of Iowa and  William O’Brien  of New Hampshire.  Their support, said Gingrich, will help build support in
the critical early voting states.  “I’m thrilled to have their endorsement and I think it
does help at a grassroots level,” he said in  Des Moines , Iowa.  The press conference in the state Capitol was interrupted
by a handful of protesters calling Gingrich the “corporate 1
percent candidate.”  “This is the 1/10 of the 1 percent,” said Gingrich, as
the activists were removed from the room. “All noise, no talk,
trying to drown out conversations.”  Later today, Gingrich will attend an evening rally in
Arlington,  Virginia , where he will make a last push to gather
the 10,000 signatures he needs by tomorrow to qualify for the
ballot -- his latest near-miss with a primary election filing
deadline.  Getting Organized  “The challenge for us is to get the popular support
organized fast enough,” Gingrich said in Davenport, Iowa. “We
barely made it in  Ohio ; we may barely make it Thursday in
Virginia.”  Gingrich’s tight finish in meeting Ohio’s Dec. 7 ballot-
qualifying deadline came about three weeks after Fergus Cullen,
a former New Hampshire Republican Party chairman, reported on
the NH Journal website that the former speaker’s campaign
submitted a sloppily written slate of 27 proposed delegates --
13 short of the state’s guideline -- to qualify for the Jan. 10
primary. Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and several
of the other candidates turned in typewritten lists of 40
delegates.  Missed  Missouri  Deadline  A few days later, Gingrich failed to qualify for Missouri’s
Feb. 7 primary, a decision he later told reporters was a
deliberate one in keeping with his policy of not participating
in nonbinding contests. Neither  Iowa ’s nor New Hampshire’s races
bind delegates, and Gingrich is campaigning actively in both
places.  He told reporters yesterday he would be on the ballot
everywhere he needed to be and conceded the advantages held by
Romney.  “He’s been running for president for six years; he’s
raised billions of dollars,” Gingrich told reporters in
Ottumwa, Iowa. “Of course, he has a huge organization
advantage.”  His campaign, by contrast, is ramping up after a summer
slump during which his poll numbers stalled in single digits
well into the fall.  Precinct Captains  In Iowa, Gingrich is still looking for precinct captains,
who mobilize supporters to attend the Jan. 3 caucuses. On a Dec.
17 tele-town hall, his campaign asked supporters interested in
the job to “press one.”  After spending much of the summer focused on getting their
campaign message out through social media, Gingrich’s nine full-
time aides in Iowa are now working to set up the standard
infrastructure of a statewide campaign. His campaign plans an
eight-day bus tour through 44  Iowa  cities starting on Dec. 27.  “It was very non-traditional,” said Katie Koberg, an Iowa
senior adviser who rejoined the campaign in late-November after
quitting as part of the mass staff resignation in June. “Now
we’re doing some traditional” campaigning.  Gingrich’s  New Hampshire  office opened on Nov. 11, and he
now has 15 paid aides in the state and five field offices, said
spokesman Mattheau LeDuc.  Still, Gingrich’s team sometimes may not be prepared for
the crowds that flood his events. Aides set out about a dozen
chairs for a Dec. 19 event at a security company in Davenport,
leaving most of the several hundred voters standing.  In contrast, at a Romney event in New Hampshire Dec. 20,
three aides with laptops sat at a check-in table typing in the
names and addresses of attendees who hadn’t RSVP’d, building on
the campaign’s mailing list and roster of potential volunteers.  Structural Challenges  The Gingrich campaign’s structural weaknesses could become
more pronounced if the nominating contest becomes a protracted
one, which new Republican Party rules are likely to produce
because early states will award delegates proportionally.  “The challenge for Gingrich is that nationally he must
either have enough money to play into the deep states or get a
bounce out of Iowa,” said Steve Grubbs, a Davenport-based
strategist and former state Republican Party chairman who was
Iowa chairman of  Herman Cain ’s now-suspended presidential bid.
“That’s why he’s got to turn things around in Iowa quickly or
he may be relegated to being an intellectual voice in the
race.”  ‘Needs to Bounce’  Right now, Grubbs said, Iowa is “Gingrich’s to lose, but
he needs to bounce instead of continuing his decline” because
he can’t answer the television attacks against him.  As of yesterday, Gingrich had spent just one-fifth of the
amount of money on advertising promoting his candidacy as his
opponents and their backers had spent attacking him and his
record, according to Kantar Media’s CMAG, a New York-based
company that tracks the expenditures.  Restore our Future, a political action committee supporting
Romney, had spent about $670,000 on commercials criticizing
Gingrich as someone with “a ton of baggage,” and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  had spent about $50,000 on
spots charging the former speaker with “serial hypocrisy.”  Gingrich, who has pledged to stay positive, has spent about
$136,000 on his commercials. He has run two in the state and
plans to air a third, Christmas-themed ad over the weekend.  “Whatever organization he can cobble together, he needs to
do that, but his team had such a late start that that will be
very difficult,” Grubbs said. “If you don’t have an
organization, then what you must do is to win by enough to make
up for lack of an organization.”  Knowing he can’t saturate the market with attack ads,
Gingrich is focusing his criticism on those running them against
him.  “Unanswered negative ads work in the short run unless they
bounce back and discredit the person who is running them,” he
told reporters. “You now understand my entire strategy for the
next two weeks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  