-- GM Is Said to Hire Hackett to Identify North America White-Collar Job Cuts
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2011-12-21T21:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/gm-is-said-to-hire-hackett-to-identify-north-america-white-collar-job-cuts.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  has hired
management consultant  Hackett Group (HCKT)  to help identify areas to
cut an undetermined number of white-collar jobs, said two people
familiar with the matter.  Hackett Group, based in Miami, will help identify
opportunities for cuts and efficiency improvements at
headquarters and elsewhere in  North America , said the people,
who asked not to be identified revealing private plans. GM has
been trimming engineers and other white-collar staff, said Jay Cooney, a spokesman, who declined to comment on whether the
Detroit-based automaker had hired Hackett Group.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has been wringing out
costs in recent months as he pushes the automaker to improve
margins. The goal is to beat  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s forecasted
earnings before interest and taxes of 7 percent of sales and
target  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s 10 percent. GM won’t use mass cuts or
buyouts as it did before its 2009 bankruptcy, Cooney said.  “We are streamlining our business, looking for
efficiencies, and to this extent, there will be some headcount
reductions and it will be on a global basis,” Cooney said in an
e-mail. “GM is continually seeking ways to improve our
operating performance and reduce complexity to deliver a world-
class cost structure and profit margins.”  Gary Baker , a spokesman for Hackett Group, said he couldn’t
comment on whether the company is working for GM.  GM rose 3.2 percent to $20.32 at the close in  New York .
They have slid 45 percent this year. Hackett Group slipped 0.5
percent to $3.92.  Akerson’s Push  Akerson and Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann have made
presentations to staff at GM offices in recent months, making
the case that GM’s 6 percent margins need to at least match
Ford, if not reach Hyundai. To get there, GM has been trimming
its white-collar staff, scrutinizing costs and reviewing options
to restructure its European business.  “The No. 1 challenge has been margins,”  Peter Nesvold , an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York, said in a phone
interview. “Margins peaked in 2010. It has been down ever since
because of vehicle launches and rising materials costs.”  GM is measuring margins using a forecast of this year’s
earnings before interest and tax relative to revenue from Morgan
Stanley Investment Banking. Based on $150 billion in annual
revenue, GM would increase its EBIT by 1 point for every $1.5
billion in savings.  GM is reassigning some engineers who work on product
development or processes and reassigning them to vehicles or
parts. In some cases, jobs are eliminated.  Global Contest  GM, which is poised to take back the global sales crown
from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , wants to beat Ford’s and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s 7 percent forecasted EBIT margins, said  Jim Cain , a
spokesman.  Ammann has been talking about Hyundai’s 10 percent
forecasted margin as a stretch goal, Cain said.  “The way we talk about Hyundai is more of a proof point
that we need a sense of urgency,” he said in a phone interview.  In the first nine months of this year, GM posted an
operating margin of 5 percent, compared with 6.7 percent for
Ford, 7.7 percent for Volkswagen and 10 percent for Hyundai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Boosting margins just with white-collar cuts and efficiency
improvements will be difficult, especially if the comparison is
Hyundai, said Adam Jonas, a New York-based analyst at Morgan
Stanley. Hyundai benefits from the weak won and because the
company builds many different vehicles on just a few car
platforms, he said.  “White-collar cost is almost a rounding error for GM,”
Jonas said in a phone interview. “Hyundai has a currency
advantage and great global platform sharing. Making white-collar
staffing cuts is not going to get it done.”  GM has 141,000 hourly employees and 69,000 salaried
employees. At the end of 2008, it had 170,000 hourly workers and
73,000 salaried workers, according to company filings.  GM is working to cut vehicle architectures to 14 from 30 by
2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  