-- Green Goods Grab Wal-Mart’s Attention
-- B y   S i o b h a n   W a g n e r
-- 2011-12-21T18:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/green-goods-grab-wal-mart-s-attention.html
     Companies looking to supply products to Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. will get “further ahead faster” if they come up with
green ideas, says Fred Bedore, senior director for
sustainability at the world’s largest retailer. Wal-Mart
announced last year it wants to cut 20 million metric tons of
greenhouse gas emissions from its supply   chain by the end of 2015.  The retailer said in October that initiatives to reduce
waste and improve the efficiency of its transportation fleet
returned $800 million to the business in the last year.  Bedore said the retailer is also trying to reduce its
in-store carbon footprint with energy efficient light-emitting
diodes, or LEDs. He spoke with Bloomberg New Energy Finance's
Climate & Carbon Brief.  Q. What’s the incentive for Wal-Mart’s suppliers to
cut  greenhouse gases ?   A. Large and small suppliers really get sustainability
these days. It’s about using sustainability as another lens to
look for ways to reduce costs, improve efficiency, generate
revenue, build their brand as well as our brand. When you look
at this particular project, in many instances it’s a
conversation starter. It’s a way to engage with Wal-Mart
around something very specific and action oriented and from
those conversations spring new ideas, further discussion and
ultimately projects we can partner together on. Really it’s a
way to get further ahead faster.  Q. How much does Wal-Mart rely on LED technology?
A. It’s gotten to the point now where we opened a few stores
this year, most recently in Wichita [ Kansas ] where actually
the store lighting itself is all LED lights. When you look at
some of the unintended consequences we found out that because
the lights were cooler it meant that our freezer cases would
run cooler, which means less energy. It’s better for the
customer because we’re lowering costs.  Q. Wal-Mart plans to have solar panels installed at more
than 75 percent of its stores in  California  by 2013. What’s
the business sense in these investments?   A. Similar to any other project, whether it’s building a
store, acquiring new trucks for our private fleet, building
new distribution centers, building new  information
systems , everything has a particular return on investment, a
particular hurdle rate that we look to cover and these
projects are no different. We have to make sure we look for a
return on investment not only for our shareholders but that’s
how we continue to drive costs out of the system and
inefficiencies out of the system to make sure we’re delivering
on that mission to help our customers save money and live
better.  Q. Wal-Mart aims to reduce packaging by 5 percent by
2013, compared with 2008 levels, saving an estimated $3.4
billion annually. What have you done so far?   A. Recently one of our buyers started engaging with one of
our suppliers around wire ties. That ended up being a project
that extended globally. We ended up reducing a billion feet of
wire that would have gone to landfill [each year] because we
didn’t have it in the packaging anymore. The other benefit
that came from that were happier customers because they
weren’t frustrated by trying to pull all these wire ties of
their products after a kid would unwrap a birthday present or
Christmas present. It was better customer engagement, it was
lower cost, it was better for sustainability so it won along
multiple fronts.
 