-- Greece’s Creditors Said to Resist Pressure From IMF to Take On More Losses
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s ,   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2011-12-22T16:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/greece-s-lenders-said-to-resist-imf-pressure-for-further-losses.html
Greece ’s creditors are resisting
pressure from the  International Monetary Fund  to accept bigger
losses on holdings of the indebted nation’s government bonds,
said three people with direct knowledge of the discussions.  Lenders want the 70 billion euros ($91 billion) of new
bonds the government will issue in return for existing
securities to carry a coupon of about 5 percent, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the negotiations
are private.  The IMF is pushing for creditors to accept a smaller coupon
in order to reduce Greece’s debt-to-gross domestic product ratio
to 120 percent by 2020, a key element of the Oct. 27 agreement
by European Union leaders, the people said. National Bank of
Greece SA’s Chairman Apostolos Tamvakakis told shareholders in a
meeting in  Athens  today that he hopes talks on the debt swap
will end soon.  Greece’s debt will balloon to almost twice the size of its
economy next year without a write-off accord with investors, the
IMF said on Dec. 13. The IMF and EU leaders are trying to bring
the country’s debt down to a sustainable level.  The 46-member Bloomberg Europe 500 Banks and Financial
Services index traded up 2 percent in  London . The measure is
down 32 percent this year.  As part of Greece’s 130 billion-euro second bailout,
investors would take a 50 percent hit on the nominal value of
206 billion euros of privately owned debt. Exchanging bonds for
securities with a 5 percent coupon would leave investors with a
65 percent loss in the net present value of their holdings of
Greek government debt, the people said.  Seniority Agreement  Both sides have agreed that the new bonds should be
governed by  English law  and that private bondholders should have
the same seniority after the swap as the IMF and the European
Financial Stability Facility, two of the people said.  The sides have also agreed that the deal should include
collective action clauses that would ensure lenders participate
in the swap, the people said.  Vega Asset Management LLC resigned this month from a
committee of Greek creditors negotiating the debt swap with
European authorities, because the Madrid-based hedge fund
refused to accept a net present value loss exceeding 50 percent,
according to a Dec. 7 e-mail sent to other panel members, which
was obtained by Bloomberg News.  The committee includes representatives of  AXA SA (CS) ,
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and the National Bank of Greece SA.  “Vega needs to start considering all available legal
options to refuse and challenge any exchange” that leads to a
loss of more than 50 percent, Vega wrote in the e-mail. “Vega
wants to avoid any conflicts of interest where its own legal
strategy could compromise the ability of other members of the
committee to reach an agreement.”  Vega Chief Executive Officer Ian Shackleton declined to
comment on the hedge fund’s resignation from the committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  