-- Gross’s Reversal Too Late as Total Return Headed for Redemptions
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2011-12-21T20:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/gross-s-reversal-too-late-as-total-return-headed-for-redemptions.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest mutual fund, reversed course after missing a Treasuries
rally in early 2011 by raising his stake in the debt to the most
in a year. The reversal may have come too late to prevent the
Total Return Fund’s first year of redemptions.  Investors pulled $348 million from the bond fund in
November, bringing withdrawals in 2011 to $2.3 billion and
putting the fund on track for its first calendar year of net
redemptions since inception in 1987, according to data compiled
by research firm Lipper. The $241 billion fund, run by Pacific
Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California , returned
3.6 percent this year through yesterday, trailing 71 percent of
competing funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The moment he stumbled it was going to be a big story,”
 Eric Jacobson , director of fixed-income research at research
firm Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . “If it quickly becomes
conventional wisdom, it can become a bigger problem for them,
but notionally the amount of withdrawals is not that much.”  Gross, in an October letter to clients titled “Mea
Culpa,” called 2011 a “stinker” of a year after he shunned
Treasuries in the first half and missed a rally as investors
rushed to the safety of government-backed debt amid the European
sovereign-debt crisis. After eliminating Treasuries from the
portfolio in February, Gross has piled back into the securities,
bringing government and Treasury debt to 23 percent as of Nov.
30.  Avoiding Risk  Treasuries have returned 9.6 percent this year through
December 20, in what would be their best year since the
financial crisis of 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Investors may continue to avoid risk in the first
part of 2012, Pimco’s Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian,
who shares the title of chief investment officer with Gross,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Dec. 19.  Mark Porterfield , a Pimco spokesman, said the firm doesn’t
comment on client deposits and redemptions.  The Pimco  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  had redemptions last month even
as investors put $15.7 billion into U.S. taxable bond funds in
the four weeks ending Nov. 30, according to data from the
 Investment Company Institute  in  Washington .  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that the fund was
on track for its first year of redemptions since inception.  Pushing Into Stocks  Withdrawals from Total Return this year were largely
concentrated in the first quarter, when clients pulled $6.7
billion. The fund had $25.7 billion in net deposits in 2010 and
enjoyed its best year in 2009, taking in $51.4 billion,
according to Lipper.  Pimco, known for its bond funds for almost four decades,
has sought to reduce its reliance on fixed-income by pushing
into stock funds, exchange-traded funds and assets that can
preserve their value in rising and falling markets. It hired
former U.S. Treasury official Neel Kashkari in December 2009 to
oversee an expansion into equity funds.  The fund’s performance this year is Gross’s worst relative
to peers since at least 1995, the earliest year for which
Bloomberg has rankings for the fund. In the five years ending
Dec. 20, the fund advanced 7.9 percent to beat 98 percent of
competing funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross’s performance has bounced back in the past month when
he beat 98 percent of peers, helped by a rebound in riskier
assets such as corporate credit and non-U.S. holdings.  Total Return has 43 percent of assets in mortgage-backed
securities, 20 percent in non-U.S. developed markets and 10
percent in emerging market bonds, according to data posted on
its website.  Pimco, owned by Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , manages
about $1.3 trillion in assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  