-- Growth Energy Says Keeping Renewable Fuel Standard Is Priority
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2011-12-21T21:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/growth-energy-says-keeping-renewable-fuel-standard-is-priority.html
Growth Energy , an ethanol trade
group, said one of its priorities for 2012 will be persuading
U.S. lawmakers to stick with a government mandate for the nation
to use escalating amounts of the biofuel.  Under a  law  signed in 2007, U.S refiners are required to
utilize 15 billion gallons of renewable fuels such as ethanol by
2015 and 36 billion gallons, including the cellulosic variety
and biodiesel, by 2022.  The industry will make it a priority to counter critics who
contend that the standard and ethanol, which is made mostly from
corn in the U.S., lead to higher food prices, Growth Energy
Chief Executive Tom Buis and President Jim Nussle said today on
a conference call with reporters.  That will help identify arguments that may come up if
there’s any congressional consideration of doing away with the
policy, they said.  Buis said he’s already heard critics alluding to
modifications of the so-called Renewable Fuels Standard. A tax
credit that’s helped the industry since  Jimmy Carter  was
president is set to expire at the end of this month.  Denatured ethanol for January delivery rose 1.7 cents, or
0.8 percent, to settle at $2.157 a gallon on the Chicago Board
of Trade. Futures have fallen 9.3 percent this year and are
headed for the first yearly decline since 2008.  The Environmental Protection Agency granted a request from
Growth Energy this year to boost the allowable amount of ethanol
in gasoline to 15 percent from 10 percent, a measure that still
hasn’t been implemented at a majority of U.S. filling stations,
Nussle said.  Poet LLC, in  Sioux Falls ,  South Dakota , is the largest U.S.
ethanol producer, followed by  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  in
Decatur,  Illinois .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 