-- Gundlach Steers Clear of Mortgage REITs
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2011-12-21T17:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/gundlach-steers-clear-of-mortgage-reits.html
Investors should avoid real estate
investment trusts that buy U.S. mortgage-backed securities
because they’ll continue to cut dividends as homeowners
refinance mortgages at lower rates, said DoubleLine Capital LP’s
 Jeffrey Gundlach .  “I expect further dividend cuts in the quarters ahead and
would avoid MBS REITS for the time being,” Gundlach, who heads
the $21 billion Los Angeles-based money manager, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Mortgage REITs including  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) ,
 Hatteras Financial Corp. (HTR)  and Capstead Mortgage Corp. announced
dividend reductions this month, while rivals  American Capital
Agency Corp. (AGNC) ,  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO)  and MFA Financial
Inc. maintained their quarterly payouts. The industry’s shares
have returned 0.65 percent over the past 12 months, assuming
reinvested dividends, declining 5.7 percent since mid-year as
loan rates fell to record lows, according to a  Bloomberg index. (BBREMTG)   “I sold all MBS REITS a few months back,” said Gundlach,
whose main bond fund has beaten 99 percent of rivals this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “I figured the
dividends were going to be cut.”  The trusts are lowering payouts because prepayments are
increasing on government-backed securities, most of which are
carried by REITs above 100 cents on the dollar, which means
“their yields are going lower,” Gundlach said.  Record  Mortgage Rates   Interest rates  on 30-year loans averaged 4.08 percent last
week, the lowest on record, according to surveys by the
Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association, as monetary
policy by the  Federal Reserve  and  Europe ’s debt crisis restrains
benchmark yields that guide consumer borrowing costs.  Gundlach’s view contrasts with Wunderlich Securities, which
recommends investors should be “overweight” mortgage REITs.
They trade at a  discount  to book value and can still reinvest
proceeds from prepayments at “attractive,” though lower,
yields relative to their funding costs, Merrill Ross, an analyst
at Wunderlich, said in a Dec. 19 report.  “Despite what was, in most cases, modest dividend
pressure, we continue to believe the group is undervalued,”
Ross said.  The weekly  pace  of applications for mortgage refinancings
has slowed 28 percent since this year’s peak in August after
homeowners locked in lower borrowing costs, though remains
almost twice as high as in February, Mortgage Bankers
Association data released today show.  Flatter Yield Curve  Bose George, Jade J. Rahmani and Ryan O’Steen, analysts at
Keefe Bruyette & Woods in  New York , wrote in a Dec. 12 report on
their outlook for 2012 that “we expect investment opportunities
for mortgage investors including the mortgage REITs to remain
reasonably attractive” next year.  “The main driver is slowing prepayments relative to the
back half of 2011,” they said. That “should help offset a
flatter yield curve,” or narrower difference between the short-
term rates at which REITs borrow and the long-term yields on
their investments, the analysts said.  Gundlach oversees the $14.9 billion  DoubleLine Total Return
Bond Fund (DBLTX) , which has returned 9.4 percent this year, primarily
investing in mortgage debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net  