-- Micron Has Second Consecutive Loss on Falling Memory Prices
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2011-12-21T23:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/micron-has-second-consecutive-quarterly-loss-on-falling-memory-chip-prices.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of computer-memory chips, reported its second
consecutive quarterly loss as prices declined amid lackluster
demand for personal computers.  The net loss was $187 million, or 19 cents a share,
compared with net income of $155 million, or 15 cents, a year
earlier, the Boise, Idaho-based company said in a statement
today. Revenue in the first quarter ended Dec. 1 fell 7.2
percent to $2.09 billion. Analysts on average estimated a loss
of 8 cents on sales of $2.12 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The average price of Micron’s dynamic random access memory,
or DRAM, which provides the main memory in PCs, fell 12 percent
in the quarter and has slid another 20 percent so far in the
current period, the company said. Floods in  Thailand  have left
PC makers short of hard-disk drives, leading them to trim
purchases of other components. That has resulted in a 10 percent
to 15 percent drop in DRAM orders, Micron said.  “Business is not going gangbusters,” said  Daniel Berenbaum , an analyst at MKM Partners LLC in  New York , who
recommends buying Micron shares. Berenbaum anticipates that the
slowdown will force rival chipmakers to exit the industry or
join forces. “Micron will be a survivor in the latest round of
consolidation,” he said.  Micron shares were little changed in extended trading.
Before the report, they fell 4.3 percent to $5.54 at the close
in New York. The stock has dropped 31 percent this year.  ‘Catalyst and Consolidator’  Micron, which has previously acquired the operations of
other companies exiting the memory business, will consider
further deals, Chief Executive Officer Steve Appleton said on a
conference call with analysts.  “If there’s something there that makes sense, then we’re
going to take a look,” he said. “I think we really have been
the only catalyst and consolidator in the main DRAM field that’s
been successful.”  While Micron’s DRAM selling price fell from the previous
period, the company said it shipped 14 percent more chips.
Inventory was little changed from the fiscal fourth quarter at
$2.1 billion, and cash and short-term investment fell 11 percent
to $1.92 billion after Micron spent $750 million on new plants
and equipment.  Micron’s PC-maker customers will be able to ship 20 million
more machines in the calendar first quarter compared with the
fourth after an increase in hard-disk supply, Micron estimated.  Alone in U.S.  The company is the only remaining U.S.-based maker of DRAM
after Asian manufacturers forced out the pioneers of the
industry, including  Intel Corp . and Texas Instruments Inc.
Producers’ inability to match supply to demand in DRAM has hurt
earnings as prices for the chips, which are traded on commodity
exchanges in  Asia , often fell below the cost of production.  Micron has reported an annual profit in only four of the
past 10 calendar years. The company goes head-to-head with  South
Korea ’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s second-largest
chipmaker behind Intel.  Micron has lessened its dependence on DRAM by following
Samsung and Toshiba Corp. into the market for Nand  flash memory ,
chips that provide the storage in portable electronics such as
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 