-- If Paul Wins Caucuses, Iowa Is Loser: Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2011-12-21T00:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/if-ron-paul-wins-caucuses-iowa-will-be-loser-margaret-carlson.html
He who surges last surges best.  Newt Gingrich  rose from the dead too soon -- or at least with too
little money to protect himself on the cluttered airwaves of
Iowa.  Three weeks before Republicans vote in the Jan. 3 caucuses
there, Gingrich is being hammered by negative ads from rival
campaigns and their supporters and he’s slipping badly. Nate Silver, the numbers wonder at the New York Times,  gives 
Gingrich, the front-runner just weeks ago, only a 15 percent
chance of winning Iowa.  Who is benefiting from Gingrich’s decline? First,
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, who is coming on strong at
just the right moment. Second, any state not named Iowa.  We are forever indebted to the Hawkeye State for the Eskimo
Pie (from Christian Nelson, in Onawa) and the largest butter
sculpture in the world (at the state fair). But let’s not kid
ourselves. There’s nothing representative about Iowa. Non-
Hispanic whites make up 88.7 percent of the state’s 3 million
citizens, compared with 63.7 percent of the country at large.
Hispanics are 5 percent of Iowans, blacks 2.9 percent.
Demographics aren’t the only anomaly. Unemployment in Iowa is
less than 6 percent, the seventh-lowest rate in the nation.  A record 115,000 Republicans turned out to vote in the 2008
caucuses -- that’s right, less than 4 percent of Iowans makes a
record. And since 1976, Iowans have picked the Republican
nominee only three times.  Just a Fluke  The caucuses command outsized attention largely because of
a fluke in 1976, when an unknown governor from  Georgia  ran a
stealth campaign to claim victory in the Democratic caucuses.
 Jimmy Carter  went on to become president. Prior to that, the
caucuses were such nothing-burgers that they failed to merit a
mention in either Theodore H. White’s “The Making of the
President 1972” or Timothy Crouse’s “The Boys on the Bus.”  Paul’s late surge this year may help nudge Iowa back toward
political obscurity. Giving the nod to a novelty candidate like
Paul would further undermine Iowa’s already shaky claim to
first-in-the-nation status.  Paul has many fine qualities as a candidate, which his
furious supporters are quick to point out whenever the news
media treats his campaign as a sideshow. In a year when voters
crave authenticity, Paul exudes it. He eschewed earmarks before
it was cool and, according to the  Associated Press , as a
practicing physician he rejected Medicaid payments, instead
taking whatever a patient could afford, including a batch of
fresh shrimp once in return for delivering a baby.  Yet Paul is seriously out of step with much of the
 Republican Party  and most of the U.S. He has long championed the
gold standard and lenient drug laws while opposing U.S.
interventions abroad, the  Federal Reserve  and the income tax. A
unique politician? Yes. The Republican nominee? Never.  Paul’s  rise  isn’t the only factor hastening Iowa’s
irrelevance. Iowa’s stock in trade is retail politics, which
enables voters to take the personal measure of a candidate in a
way the hurried contests that follow don’t allow.  Iowa ’s diners
used to be so crowded with candidates you could hardly muster a
quiet cup of coffee without a glad-handing politician stopping
by to curry favor.  Now candidates are too busy preparing for debates -- there
have been 13 so far, along with numerous forums -- to court
voters in the traditional ways, which most candidates don’t much
like anyway. Last week in  New Hampshire ,  Mitt Romney  was
explaining his most recent stance on gay marriage to a tough-
looking Vietnam veteran when he learned that the guy across the
table was the vet’s husband. Candidates face no such awkward
moments when they campaign inside a 30-second ad.  Strange Bedfellows  Republican activists in Iowa now  fear  that if Paul’s well-
organized campaign prevails, Iowa’s preeminence in national
politics will be in tatters. Complicating their worry is the
fact that Paul’s boosters in Iowa include some of his closest
competitors. After last week’s debate, Romney strategist Stuart Stevens, who is eager to see Gingrich cut down, all but ceded
victory to Paul. Meanwhile, Gingrich spokesman R.C. Hammond,
eager for an excuse if his boss falls short, emphasized that
Paul’s supporters have been working single-mindedly toward an
Iowa victory for years.  Paul’s followers -- many of them young and intensely
devoted to Ayn  Rand , others older and mysteriously devoted to
Rand regardless -- are fired up. They’ll be out caucusing no
matter how dark the night or cold the weather.  Gingrich’s troops, by contrast, are in danger of going
AWOL. After more than a week as the target of unrelenting, and
largely unanswered, attack ads, robo-calls and fliers, Gingrich
is sinking fast in polls. This week, he called his opponents’
behavior “reprehensible.” (Romney,  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry 
and Paul are responsible for most of the negative barrage.) To
stanch the bleeding, Gingrich is undertaking a 44-stop tour
punctuated by daily town hall meetings via conference call.  For Romney, who has failed to rise much even as Gingrich
falls, it’s tolerable to be beaten by Paul in Iowa provided
Romney regroups to win the New Hampshire primary on Jan. 10.
Gingrich, too, will live to fight another day should Paul take
Iowa. In other words, if Paul wins, everyone wins, because no
one really loses. Except for Iowa, which has it coming.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Margaret Carlson  in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 