-- India Local Rating Raised by Moody’s to Match Foreign Grade
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2011-12-21T06:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/india-local-rating-raised-by-moody-s-to-match-foreign-grade.html
Moody’s Investors Service raised
 India ’s local-currency debt rating by one level to the lowest
investment grade, scoring it the same as foreign-currency bonds
and keeping a stable outlook for  Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  Moody’s doesn’t see “justification for a rating bias in
favor of either local currency or foreign currency government
debt,” the ratings company said in an e-mailed statement today.
The Baa3 rating “incorporates credit strengths such as a large,
diversified economy, robust medium-term growth prospects and a
strong domestic savings pool that facilitates the financing and
refinancing of the government’s relatively high debt burden.”  Moody’s had rated India’s rupee sovereign debt at Ba1, the
highest junk grade, before today, while the foreign-currency
debt is rated at Baa3, a level shared by Namibia, Tunisia and
Iceland. India’s weak “fiscal metrics” remain a constraint for
the nation’s rating as government debt levels are higher than
similarly rated nations, the company said.  “The stable outlook on India’s rating reflects Moody’s
medium-term assessment of the country’s growth, fiscal, and
balance of payments outlook, relative to other countries,” it
said. “Moody’s expects India’s growth downturn to persist over
the next two quarters, but notes that growth rates will remain
above the average for similarly rated peers.”  Economic expansion is already waning after the central bank
raised  interest rates  by a record to tame the fastest inflation
among the so-called BRIC nations that include  Brazil ,  Russia  and
 China . India’s gross domestic product grew 6.9 percent in the
three months ended Sept. 30, the weakest expansion since the
second quarter of 2009.  Growth Outlook  Moody’s said it expects growth to slow to below 7 percent
in the fiscal year through March 2012 and anticipates the  budget
deficit  to widen to about 7.6 percent of GDP in the period.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond has
risen 39 basis points this year, to 8.31 percent, as inflation
remained above 9 percent, while increased supply of bonds damped
demand. The  Reserve Bank of India  has increased borrowing costs
13 times starting March 2010 to contain price gains, and expects
inflation will cool to 7 percent by the end of March.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price  inflation  was 9.11
percent in November.  Missing Targets  “The fiscal deficit is vulnerable to cyclical downturns,
and the government is expected to miss budgetary targets this
Year,” Moody’s said. “Still, due to high nominal growth,
government’s debt-to-GDP ratios have been declining over the
last five years, including during the global financial crisis.”  India’s finance ministry in November pitched for a higher
rating in a meeting with Moody’s officials, R. Gopalan,
secretary in the department of economic affairs, said Nov. 15.
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said Oct. 4 that it may be
hard to meet his goal of cutting the budget deficit to a four-
year low of 4.6 percent of GDP.  “Improvement in government finances, coupled with
enhancements to the investment climate and a reduction in
infrastructure bottlenecks, could lead to the rating being
considered for an upgrade from current levels,” Atsi Sheth and
Andrew Schneider, sovereign analysts at Moody’s, said in a
report today.  Still, a sustained rise in debt or “continued worsening of
the balance of payments well beyond the period of current global
uncertainty could trigger a downgrade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  