-- Indian Cabinet’s Anti-Graft Bill Brings Vow of Further Protests
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2011-12-21T06:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/indian-cabinet-s-anti-graft-bill-brings-vow-of-further-protests.html
India ’s cabinet approved powers for
a graft-fighting agency that fell short of demands made by
activists, who pledged to next week renew protests against the
government that had earlier won nationwide support.  The bill agreed by ministers in a meeting late yesterday
and due to be presented to lawmakers tomorrow excludes direct
oversight of the country’s leading criminal investigation  force 
and the lower rungs of India’s bureaucracy from the scope of the
proposed anti-corruption body. The legislation grants the agency
the right to probe a serving prime minister apart from when
issues of national security are involved.  The government is “creating an anti-corruption body
without any investigating power,” Arvind Kejriwal, a leader of
demonstrations that roiled Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
administration in August and a freedom of information
campaigner, told the Times Now television channel. The new body
will be so weak it will resemble a “post office” where
complaints are delivered yet never probed, he said.  Singh is seeking to pass one of the most divisive bills of
his premiership in this parliamentary session, which has been
extended by three days so the law can be debated. Opposition
parties also criticized yesterday’s cabinet draft for lacking
teeth. The ruling Congress party wants to counter charges it has
failed to crack down on graft as it prepares to contest five
regional elections early next year and bids to revive a policy
process derailed by corruption allegations.  Anna Hazare , a 73-year-old campaigner against corruption
who became a household name in India with a 13-day fast in
August styled on protests held by independence hero  Mahatma Gandhi , vowed to hold a three-day hunger strike from Dec. 27 in
Mumbai if the government fails to accept his group’s demands. He
also urged his supporters to seek arrest from Dec. 30 to Jan. 1,
echoing a tactic used to confront British colonial rule.  Government Backtrack  Hazare and his supporters say the government backtracked on
an August pledge that the anti-graft body, to be called the
Lokpal, would be given control of key functions of the  Central
Bureau of Investigation , including appointing its chief. They
also want the junior government officials that Indians blame for
everyday acts of petty bribery to be brought within the ambit of
the agency.  “The intentions of the government are not honest,”
Hazare, whose protests have tapped middle-class anger over graft
and according to opinion polls by  Nielsen Holdings NV  dented
support for Singh’s Congress, told reporters yesterday from his
home village in the western state of Maharashtra.  Cabinet Corruption  The government agreed to the inclusion the office of the
prime minister provided certain conditions are met. The graft-
fighting body will be able to probe a serving premier if six of
the Lokpal’s nine members agree, according to the bill.  Singh is under pressure to crack down on corruption after a
series of scandals, including one linked to a 2008 sale of
mobile-phone licenses. Former Telecommunications Minister
 Andimuthu Raja , government officials and company executives are
on trial in  New Delhi  over the issue. Their actions might have
cost the country $31 billion in revenue, according to a report
last year by India’s chief auditor. All deny wrongdoing.  India needs to improve investor sentiment and bolster
growth, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in a Dec. 16
statement. India’s  inflation  of 9.1 percent in November is the
highest among the so-called BRIC nations, which include Brazil,
Russia and  China , and the $1.7 trillion economy expanded at its
slowest pace in two years in the last quarter.  Games Graft  “The whole affair has been very embarrassing for the
government, they have been held to ransom by a small group of
activists,” said Ramesh Dixit, a political analyst at  Lucknow
University  in the capital of  Uttar Pradesh , India’s biggest
state and one of those going to the polls next year. “The
government has again and again been forced to concede ground.”  Other bureaucrats have been jailed on charges they
illegally benefited from contracts stemming from last year’s
staging of the Commonwealth Games in New Delhi.  India fell four places in this year’s annual ranking of
corruption to a position below Liberia and  Colombia . The world’s
second-most populous nation came 95th out of 183 countries in
the 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index  compiled  by Berlin-based
 Transparency International .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  