-- Indian Court Asks Essar Officials to Appear in Telecom Probe
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2011-12-21T10:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/indian-court-asks-essar-officials-to-appear-in-telecom-probe.html
An Indian court asked three
officials of the  Essar Group  to appear before it on Jan. 27 as
it probes charges linked to a 2008 sale of licenses to run
mobile-phone services.  Special Judge O.P. Saini today admitted charges filed by
the  Central Bureau of Investigation  this month against Essar’s
Vice Chairman Ravi Ruia and Directors Anshuman Ruia and Vikash
Saraf for cheating and conspiring to provide incorrect
information to the government while applying for permits.  The  New Delhi  court noted charges against the founders of
Loop Telecom Ltd., Kiran Khaitan and her husband I.P. Khaitan,
and summoned them for the same date. The CBI has said Essar used
Loop as a front company to secure additional spectrum and
licenses in contravention of telecommunications policy.  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , a
federal lawmaker, government officials and company executives
are already on trial for conspiring to grant licenses to
unqualified companies for personal benefit in 2008. The
country’s auditor says the first-come, first-served award of
permits may have lowered government revenue by up to $31
billion. All those on trial deny wrongdoing.  Essar Teleholdings Ltd., Loop Telecom Ltd. and its unit
 Loop Mobile (MKB)  India Ltd., named as accused parties in the case,
were also summoned by the judge. Essar denies the allegations
against the company and its officials, saying the charges relate
to the interpretation of a contractual clause.  Essar in a  statement on Dec. 12 said it held only 2.15
percent in Loop at the time it applied for a license and did not
violate the law.  The scandal surrounding the wireless sale has weakened
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government, lowered investor
confidence in the $1.7 trillion economy, stalled legislation and
led to street protests.  With today’s court decisions, 19 people and six companies
stand accused of involvement in the alleged scandal.  Twelve of the people have been freed on bail as their
trials continue. Those released include three executives of
billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance ADA Group and federal
lawmaker Kanimozhi. Raja remains in custody in the capital’s
Tihar prison.  -- Editors:  Mark Williams , Sam Nagarajan  To contact the reporters on this story:
P.S. Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  