-- IPad Beat on Power, Speed by New Non-Clones: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2011-12-21T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/ipad-beat-on-power-speed-by-new-non-clones-rich-jaroslovsky.html
We’re finally beginning to see some
distinctive 10-inch Android tablets that are more than iPad
knockoffs.  Earlier this year, Sony released its wedge-shaped Tablet.
Now, two more entries provide features and functionality beyond
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s offerings:  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357) ’s Eee Pad
Transformer Prime and the Droid Xyboard 10.1 from  Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc.  and  Verizon Wireless .  Granted, every Android tablet comes at an automatic
disadvantage to the iPad: Unlike in wireless phones, where the
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  operating system is attracting a rapidly growing
number of applications, the marketplace for tablet apps remains
thin. Meanwhile, the iPad has more than 140,000 apps, and they
tend to be higher-quality.  A prerequisite for luring developers is getting more
Android tablets into users’ hands. And that means giving
customers more reasons to buy them.  The Transformer Prime offers several. It is as pretty a
tablet as you’re likely to find anywhere. It weighs about 1.3
pounds and measures less than a third of an inch thick, making
it marginally thinner and lighter than the iPad 2. The metallic
back has a cool, spun finish marred only by the ill fit of the
Apple-style multipin cable used for charging the device. The
tablet’s angled edges leave even more of the connector’s metal
exposed than does the iPad’s, which has a similar issue.  Paperclip Rescue  My time with the Transformer Prime didn’t start
auspiciously. The unit from Asus appeared to charge normally but
refused to boot. Eventually, with the help of a handy paperclip,
I was able to reset it.  Under the hood, the Prime is powered by  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ’s
Tegra 3 quad-core microprocessor. A chip that powerful is
overkill for many tablet tasks, like reading e-books. But if you
play games, you’ll quickly gain an appreciation, as I did
through many sets of Zen Pinball and frantic races in Riptide
GP. The play was fast and fluid and graphics on the 10.1-inch
screen were little short of stunning.  All that, of course, requires battery power and a lot of
it. The Transformer does pretty well on that score. I got more
than seven hours on a charge, using it to surf the Web, check e-
mail and watch a movie. While that’s considerably less than on
an iPad, the Transformer also offers an option to downshift the
computer into two lower-power modes to extend battery life.  Transforming the Transformer  There’s one other way to keep things going: buying and
attaching the optional $150 metallic keyboard that gives the
Transformer Prime its name, converting it into a netbook-PC
replacement. The keyboard has its own six-hour battery, plus an
SD expansion-card slot and a USB port. Using the keyboard and
intense battery management, Asus claims you can coax up to 18
hours of use between charges.  The Transformer Prime comes in two Wi-Fi-only models, one
with 32 gigabytes of storage for $500, the other with 64
gigabytes for $600 -- both $100 cheaper than the comparable
iPads. They run “Honeycomb,” Google’s first-generation tablet
operating system. An upgrade to the new version of Android,
“Ice Cream Sandwich,” is promised. If you’re looking for an
iPad alternative, you can’t do much better.  Speed Demon  Unless, that is, your most important criterion for a tablet
is how fast it connects to the Internet when you’re on the move
or don’t have a Wi-Fi connection. In that case, the Droid
Xyboard 10.1 -- known outside the U.S. as the Xoom 2 -- is the
way to go.  The Droid Xyboard runs on  Verizon (VZ) ’s LTE 4G network, the
fastest wireless data network out there, and it is mighty swift:
Using Ookla’s SpeedTest app, I regularly registered download
speeds of 10 to 20 megabits per second in the  San Francisco  Bay
Area.  That’s faster than many home broadband connections, and it
makes the Xyboard roar when it’s engaged in Internet-intensive
tasks like surfing the Web, downloading apps or streaming movies
and videos. Unlike some LTE phones, battery life isn’t terrible.  I got about six hours of continuous use on the high-speed
Verizon network. You can expect to do better in normal use,
since I was deliberately trying to stress the battery by doing
things like streaming videos and not taking advantage of Wi-Fi
networks. And at 1.3 pounds, the Xyboard is right in line with
the Transformer Prime and iPad 2.  Unfortunately, several other aspects of the Xyboard are
less satisfying. Although it also runs the Honeycomb operating
system (and will be upgradeable), it feels noticeably more
sluggish than the Transformer when it comes to things like
scrolling through apps or even waiting for the screen to
reorient itself when you turn the unit sideways.  Tacky to Touch  Perhaps some of the difference stems from its less powerful
dual-core processor -- but I’ve used plenty of tablets with
dual-core processors that felt zippier than this.  Matters aren’t helped by a water-repellent coating Motorola
has added to the Xyboard’s touchscreen. It’s supposed to help
protect against accidental spills, but I found it a little tacky
to the touch.  Then there’s the price. The Xyboard starts at $530 for a
16-gigabyte version, up to $730 for 64 gigabytes. At first
glance, that seems to be $100 cheaper than the comparable iPad 2
models. But there’s a big difference: While Verizon and  AT&T
Inc. (T)  allow users of 3G-equipped iPads to decide month by month
whether they want service, Verizon requires Xyboard buyers to
sign a two-year contract. Otherwise, the price zooms to an
uncompetitive $700 for even the least expensive model.  At those prices, the Droid Xyboard’s appeal may be limited
to those with a real need for speed. Still, being the fastest
tablet -- or in the case of the Transformer Prime, the most
powerful -- counts for something.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 