-- Miramax Film Licensing Totals $325 Million, Chairman Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2011-12-21T02:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/miramax-film-licensing-totals-325-million-chairman-says.html
Miramax, the owner of films
including “Pulp Fiction,” has signed licensing agreements
valued at $325 million since the studio was sold by  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  to investors including  Colony Capital LLC  and construction
executive Ronald Tutor.  The new business includes deals of varying lengths with
digital distributors including  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC,
Miramax Chairman Richard Nanula confirmed in an interview today.
The total is revenue foreseen over the contracts’ life.  The agreements provided Miramax Film NY LLC with collateral
that helped reduce the company’s borrowing costs in a $500
million refinancing that closed on Dec. 2. The studio, run by
Chief Executive Officer Mike Lang, is focused on selling a
library of more than 700 movie and television titles and has no
plans to make new films.  “Mike Lang and his team securing all of these new
contracts was pivotal in the financing,” said Nanula, a
principal at Tom Barrack’s  Santa Monica , California-based based
Colony Capital.  Filmyard Holding LLC, an entity that includes Colony
Capital and Tutor, agreed to buy Miramax from Disney for $660 in
July 2010.  Colony had sought to raise $550 million in the refinancing,
including $142 million for a dividend to its owners, people with
knowledge of the situation said in November.  The yield on $350 million of BBB-rated debt dropped to 6.3
percent, a person with knowledge of the deal said on Dec. 2. The
$150 million of BB-rated debt was priced to yield 13 percent.  The value of the licensing agreements was reported earlier
by the entertainment website The Wrap.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  