-- Mirror Reporter Contradicts Morgan on Hacking at U.K. Daily Mirror Tabloid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2011-12-21T17:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/mirror-reporter-contradicts-piers-morgan-on-phone-hacking-at-u-k-tabloid.html
A former reporter at the  Daily
Mirror  U.K. tabloid contradicted evidence given by  CNN 
broadcaster  Piers Morgan , saying that phone hacking took place
on a daily basis at the newspaper’s show business desk.  James Hipwell, the former “City Slicker” columnist who
went to jail for using stock tips to manipulate the market, told
the British inquiry into press standards that phone hacking took
place when Piers Morgan edited the newspaper.  “It seemed to be a generally accepted method to get a
story,” Hipwell testified today. In the second half of 1999,
“I’d go as far as to say it happened every single day.”  Piers Morgan, the host of CNN’s “Tonight” program and the
editor of  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) ’s Daily Mirror between 1995 and
2004, yesterday told the inquiry that he wasn’t involved with
phone hacking when he oversaw the tabloid.  The British government set up the inquiry after revelations
that journalists at News Corp.’s News of the World hacked into
voice-mail messages of murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler .  Rupert Murdoch ’s company shut the Sunday tabloid and abandoned its bid
for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  in July
after the practice was shown to be widespread.  Morgan was very close to the show business desk, Hipwell
said. “It was very unlikely he didn’t know what was going on,”
the former reporter said. “Nothing that really happened on that
desk, happened without Piers knowing about it.”  ‘Acknowledged Liar’  Desmond Browne, a lawyer for Trinity Mirror, told the
inquiry that Hipwell was “an acknowledged liar.” The company
“does not accept” Hipwell’s testimony, he said. Rich Ellis, a
spokesman for Trinity Mirror, declined to comment.  Hipwell was convicted in 2005 of creating a “misleading
impression” about share values by encouraging readers to invest
in companies he held stakes in.  The inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, previously heard
testimony that phone hacking may have extended to other
tabloids, including  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sun, the Daily Mirror and the
Daily Mail & General Trust Plc’s Mail on Sunday. News Corp. has
admitted liability in some cases, while the other publishers
have denied the claims.  Ex-Beatle  Paul McCartney ’s former wife Heather Mills today said she
never played Piers Morgan any voice mails after the inquiry was
told that he had heard a recording of a phone message left by
the ex-Beatle. Mills said she’d be happy to attend the inquiry,
according to a statement on her  website .  U.K. police plan to publish their account of how voice
mails belonging to Milly Dowler were deleted when the inquiry
reconvenes in January, the police’s lawyer Christina Michalos,
said today. The police said last week that an investigator
working for the News of the World didn’t erase messages.  The investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , won a court bid to force
News Corp. to pay his legal fees. A judge in  London  ruled that
the company was contractually obligated to pay the fees.  The police are separately investigating phone hacking and
bribes to law enforcement officers by journalists at the News of
the World. A 52-year-old Metropolitan Police officer was
arrested today as part of the probe.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  