-- Hirst, Warhol Prices Outperform S&P 500 in Art-Investment Index for Decade
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2011-12-21T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/hirst-warhol-prices-outperform-s-p-500-in-art-investment-index.html
Art by  Damien Hirst  and  Andy Warhol 
outperformed the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index over the past 10
years, according to a new measure by  Artnet AG  designed to rank
the performance of art as an asset.  Since 2002, Hirst’s prices have increased almost threefold,
though they had risen fivefold through 2007 and have since
fallen, according to a graph compiled by Artnet using its new
product. Warhol has performed even better, with prices gaining
fourfold and almost returning to peak 2007 levels this year. The
 S&P 500  has risen about 7 percent in the decade.  Art is gaining ground as an alternative investment, with
many new collectors coming from the financial industry and from
 emerging markets , Hans Neuendorf, the Chief Executive Officer of
Artnet, said in an interview in Berlin. The company’s new
product is designed to help investors compare value.  “This makes investing in art much more reliable,”
Neuendorf said. “Art has been a good investment over the past
10 years, but there are big differences in performance among
artists. It’s more interesting to look at individual artists, in
the same way that you look at stock-market segments, or
individual companies.”  The art market has sustained its boom as stocks and bonds
collapsed this year. While the S&P has fallen 1.3 percent,
annual sales of contemporary art rose 35 percent from the
previous year at the main 2011 auctions at  Sotheby’s (BID)  and
 Christie’s International , according to Bloomberg News
calculations. New buyers from the U.S.,  Russia ,  Asia  and the
 Middle East  raised the bidding.  Lichtenstein, Richter  Records were set for painters including  Roy Lichtenstein ,
L.S. Lowry, Clyfford Still and  Gerhard Richter .  “There are more and more collectors, and people will pay
more and more for art,” Neuendorf said. “Art as an investment
form has only really been discovered in the last years.”  Hirst underperformed in Artnet’s index of the top 50
contemporary artists, which more than tripled over the decade.
His prices peaked in 2007, with an average sale price of
$901,214, Artnet data shows. That was a year before his
“Beautiful Inside My Head For Ever” auction in  London , which
took $126.6 million with fees on Sept. 15, 2008, the day Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the biggest bankruptcy in history.  Thomas Galbraith, head of analytics at Artnet, said he
wants eventually to refine the data even further so that
investors can “compare the performance of Warhol’s Elvises
versus his Marilyns,” he said. Artnet also plans to be able to
compare the price of an artist’s works by medium, he said. The
market reports can be purchased individually for $50.  ‘Insane’ Prices  Neuendorf, who is 74, said he doesn’t see current art
prices as unsustainable, even if they are “insane.” Having led
Artnet through the collapse of the Neuer Markt, a German stock
exchange that specialized in technology stocks and lost its last
member in 2003, he has some experience of bubbles.  “The banks have now been rescued and these people who earn
several million still will earn millions, and they are often the
same people who buy art at high prices,” said Neuendorf, who
also co-founded  Art Cologne  in 1967.  “There is enough money for art, and there is a lot of cash
sloshing around the world looking for places to invest,” he
said. “The absolute value and the quality of the art doesn’t
play a role -- just the relative value. It’s a competition among
people who see art as a status symbol.”  Artnet operates a website comprising a database of prices
of art sold at auction and an online art auction site, which
Neuendorf said he expects to expand after the business grew 25
percent in 2010.  Warhol Online  The highest price so far paid at an Artnet online auction
was $1.3 million for a Warhol. The average price per artwork is
about $10,000, Neuendorf said.  “People want to buy art online because it is fast, simple
and the transaction costs are very small,” Neuendorf said.
“The auction business is growing very fast -- it will continue.
It takes a while to grow trust.  “The other auction houses have taken 250 years to get
established,” he said. “Perhaps we will take 10.”  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 