-- Italy’s GDP Contraction Might Indicate Fifth Recession Since 2001: Economy
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2011-12-21T11:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/italian-gdp-shrinks-in-third-quarter-signaling-fifth-recession-since-2001.html
The Italian economy contracted in
the third quarter, signaling the country may have entered its
fifth recession since 2001 as the government adopts new
austerity measures that will further weigh on growth.  Gross domestic product  declined 0.2 percent from the second
quarter, when it expanded 0.3 percent, national statistics
institute Istat said in Rome today. It was the first contraction
since the final three months of 2009 and matched the median
forecast in a survey of 23 economists by Bloomberg News.  Consumer spending  declined 0.2 percent from the second
quarter, with investment contracting 0.6 percent. Exports grew
1.6 percent in the quarter, while imports fell 1.1 percent.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government faces a final vote
as soon as tomorrow on its 30 billion-euro ($39 billion)
emergency budget plan that aims to shield Italy from the
region’s debt crisis and bring down record borrowing costs. The
measures, which seek to balance the budget in 2013, mark the
third austerity package this year and the spending cuts and tax
increases likely deepened the contraction in the final quarter.  “Italy technically entered a recession as we expect an
even more marked contraction in the fourth quarter of minus 0.6
percent,” said  Chiara Corsa , Milan-based economist at UniCredit
SpA. “Looking at today’s data, they show that the main drag
came from domestic demand, both consumptions and investments.”  Weak Data  Household spending declined 0.2 percent from the second
quarter, while imports fell 1.1 percent. Investments slipped 0.6
percent.  Confindustria, the nation’s employers lobby, forecast last
week that GDP, which has trailed the euro-region average for
more than a decade, will contract 1.6 percent next year. The
group predicted that the euro area’s third-largest economy will
shrink every quarter until the second half. A contraction in the
final three months of this year would mark the second quarterly
contraction, the technical definition of a recession.  “We are already in a recession, look at the numbers, we
are in recession,” Development Minister  Corrado Passera  said on
Dec. 15 when Confindustria presented its report. The economy is
“worse” than the government expected when it came to power a
month ago, he said.  Recent data offer evidence of the country’s economic
decline. Industrial orders dropped 1.6 percent in October from
the previous month while industrial production fell 0.9 percent
over the same period, a Dec. 20 report showed. Unemployment
jumped to a 17-month high of 8.5 percent in October, with youth
unemployment topping 29 percent.  Plant Closing  Fiat SpA (F) , the country’s biggest manufacturer, closed its
Termini Imerese plant in Sicily last month as part of a plan to
reduce costs and improve productivity at its Italian facilities
as sales of its cars in  Italy  slump. Fiat agreed with unions to
pay 21 million euros to support early retirement for 640 of the
workers.  Monti, who took office a month ago as head of an unelected
government of non-politicians, is seeking to show investors he
can tame a 1.9 trillion-euro debt, bigger than that of  Spain ,
Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland combined. Concern about Italy’s
ability to finance its borrowing is sapping demand for Italian
bonds and forcing the country to offer record returns to attract
investors. The Treasury paid 6.47 percent at a sale of five-year
debt on Dec. 14, the highest since 1997 and almost three times
what  Germany  last paid to borrow for 10 years.  U.K. Deficit  Elsewhere in  Europe , Britain’s budget deficit narrowed more
than economists forecast in November as  tax revenue  eased and
the government’s fiscal squeeze restrained spending. Net
borrowing excluding support for banks fell to 18.1 billion
pounds ($28.5 billion) from 20.4 billion pounds a year earlier.  Bank of England  policy makers said the pace of their bond
purchases is close to the market’s capacity as some signaled
further stimulus might be needed next year to weather Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis, according to the minutes of their Dec. 7-
8 meeting released today.  In  Asia ,  Japan ’s exports fell and the central bank lowered
its assessment of the economy for a second straight month.
Shipments dropped a more-than-expected 4.5 percent in November
from a year earlier, a Ministry of Finance report showed today.  In the U.S., the National Association of Realtors releases
revised existing home sale data and the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  publishes a report on weekly mortgage applications.  With European governments struggling to find a lasting
solution to a debt crisis that has increased sovereign borrowing
costs and pushed economies from Italy to  Greece  and Portugal
into recession, the  European Central Bank  has introduced a menu
of measures designed to avert a credit crunch.  ECB Lending  The ECB said today it will lend euro-area banks more than
economists forecast for three years in its latest attempt to
keep credit flowing to the economy during the crisis. The
Frankfurt-based ECB awarded 489 billion euros in 1,134-day
loans, more than economists’ median estimate of 293 billion
euros in a Bloomberg News survey.  With concern about Italy’s solvency on the rise, the
country’s lenders are becoming increasingly dependent on the ECB
to find funding. UniCredit SpA and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA are among
Italian banks that will use bonds guaranteed by Italy as
collateral for loans from the ECB, two people with knowledge of
the matter said yesterday.  The plan, which is part of Monti’s budget package, allows
the Treasury to offer guarantees for bonds issued by banks in
order to give them access to ECB liquidity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  