-- Itau Chile Reports Fall in Value of Short-Term Fund Assets
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-12-21T20:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/itau-chile-reports-fall-in-value-of-short-term-fund-assets-1-.html
Itau  Chile  Administradora General de
Fondos SA, a unit of  Brazil ’s Itau Unibanco Holding SA, is
changing the way it values five short-term fixed-income mutual
funds after “significant declines” in the investments.  The company will start valuing the assets in the funds at
market rates, it said  in a statement  to the securities regulator
today. The funds affected all invest in debt with maturities of
less than 90 days, yields of which have climbed in Chile in the
past month.  Itau is among at least seven fund managers in Chile to have
announced a similar change today, including the local fund
management units of ING Groep NV and Banco Bilbao Vizacaya
Argentaria SA.  Chilean rules  allow funds that invest in short-
term securities to value their assets using the yield they were
bought at unless the difference between that method and the
market price is greater than 0.1 percent of the portfolio’s
value.  “During the last few weeks, the term deposits market has
been experiencing a substantial rise in  interest rates  and a
tightening of liquidity, a situation that escalated yesterday,”
Itau said in an e-mailed statement. “The degree of variation
surpassed regulatory limits.”  The company made no changes in the methodologies it uses to
mark securities to market, it said.  Money-market funds managed by 13 Chilean asset managers
posted losses of at least 0.1 percent yesterday, according to
data from the country’s mutual fund association.  “ Money market funds  are valued at purchase value and there
are minimum standards for the deviations between portfolio value
and market value,” said Macarena Ossa, planning and development
manager at the Chilean mutual funds association. “All the fund
managers follow a process when that happens and they shift to
mark-to-market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  