-- J&J Must Defend Securities-Fraud Lawsuit Over Drug Recalls
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2011-12-21T21:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/j-j-must-defend-securities-fraud-lawsuit-over-drug-recalls-judge-rules.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
largest health products company, must defend a lawsuit claiming
it misled investors about quality control-failures at
manufacturing plants that led to recalls, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Freda Wolfson in Trenton, New Jersey,
ruled Dec. 19 that the securities fraud suit against J&J,
Colleen Goggins, the former head of its consumer group, and
another executive may go forward. She dismissed claims against
Chief Executive Officer William Weldon and Peter Luther,
president of the McNeil Consumer Healthcare division. The judge
didn’t rule on the merits of the class-action, or group,
lawsuit.  The case focuses on recalls of over-the-counter drugs made
at McNeil plants in Las Piedras,  Puerto Rico , and  Fort
Washington ,  Pennsylvania . Investor Ronald Monk said that J&J and
its executives made misleading statements about details of the
recalls and that he suffered stock losses after the true reasons
for the recalls became public. As part of a so-called phantom
recall, J&J even hid its recall of a batch of Motrin tablets,
Monk said.  “Plaintiff’s assertion that Goggins attended the Feb. 19,
2010, meeting where the phantom recall was discussed
sufficiently alleges that she had knowledge of the recall when
she testified” at a Congressional hearing “that she did not
have such knowledge,” Wolfson said in a 55-page opinion.  William Price , a J&J spokesman, declined to comment on the
ruling. William Phillips, a lawyer for J&J, Weldon, Goggins and
Luther, didn’t immediately return a call.  ‘Red Flags’  In October, Wolfson dismissed a similar suit claiming that
J&J directors ignored “red flags” foreshadowing product
recalls and government probes of manufacturing defects and
marketing practices.  Recalls have dogged J&J the past two years, led by the
withdrawal of more than 40 brands of children’s Tylenol, Motrin
and other medicines with foul odors or faulty ingredients. J&J
shut one factory for an overhaul last year and signed a consent
decree in March expanding U.S. oversight at three plants.  J&J and the individual executives urged the judge to
dismiss the complaint because Monk failed to allege enough facts
to show that the defendants had a “wrongful state of mind” when
making the allegedly misleading comments.  Wolfson said Monk may file a new complaint to address flaws
she identified in the present one. James Cecchi, a lawyer for
Monk, didn’t immediately return a call.  The case is Monk v. J&J, 10-cv-4841, U.S. District Court,
District of  New Jersey  (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net , and
David Glovin in New York federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 