-- Japan’s AAA Credit Rating Cut for First Time by Tokyo-Based R&I
-- B y   K y u n g   B o k   C h o   a n d   R o c k y   S w i f t
-- 2011-12-21T07:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/japan-s-aaa-credit-rating-cut-for-first-time-by-tokyo-based-r-i.html
Tokyo-based Ratings & Investment
Information Inc. cut  Japan ’s sovereign ranking for the first
time, citing “uncertain” prospects for economic recovery.  R&I lowered Japan’s foreign- and domestic-currency issuer
ratings one step to AA+ from AAA, the company said in a
statement today. The company had put Japan on its ratings
monitor for a downgrade on Nov. 30.  Japan’s outstanding government debt “would inevitably rise
for an extensive period of time” even if the sales tax rate
were increased, said the statement. Real gross domestic product
is likely to contract this fiscal year as the strong yen and
effects from a record earthquake in March weigh on the economy,
it said.  “Prospects for economic revitalization are also
uncertain,” the ratings company said. “R&I can no longer
consider the government’s ability to adjust fiscal conditions on
its own to be at a level required for the highest rating.”  The  Bank of Japan  lowered its assessment for the nation’s
economy for a second straight month today while refraining from
boosting monetary stimulus. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and
his policy board kept the central bank’s asset-buying fund at 20
trillion yen ($257 billion), and its credit-lending program at
35 trillion yen, it said in a statement in  Tokyo .  “The major root cause for Japan’s worsening finances is an
economy that isn’t growing,” said Tadashi Matsukawa, who helps
manage the equivalent of $1.7 billion in bonds at PineBridge
Investments Japan Co. “Cutting government expenditure is
difficult in that voters are generally reluctant to pay and
prefer to receive.”  Japan’s finances are “getting worse and worse,” bringing
Japan closer to a downgrade,  Takahira Ogawa , the Singapore-based
director of sovereign ratings at  Standard & Poor’s , said on Nov.
24. Moody’s Investors Service reduced Japan’s rating one step to
Aa3, the fourth-highest level, on Aug. 24, while  Fitch Ratings 
cut its outlook on Japan’s AA-local grade to “negative” in
May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rocky Swift in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  