-- Khodorkovsky Conviction Should Be Quashed, Kremlin Council Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2011-12-21T14:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/khodorkovsky-conviction-should-be-quashed-kremlin-council-says.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s human
rights council urged overturning jailed former  Yukos  Oil Co.
owner  Mikhail Khodorkovsky ’s second conviction, criticizing it
for a number of legal violations.  Khodorkovsky,  Russia ’s richest man when he was arrested on
the tarmac of a Siberian airport in 2003, was convicted of fraud
and  tax evasion  in 2005 and again in December 2010 on related
charges, in what he calls a politically motivated campaign. He’s
serving a 13-year sentence.  The businessman’s latest conviction contravenes Russian law
by punishing him for the same crime that he was found guilty of
in 2005, the council said today on its website. The oil
embezzlement charges at the center of his second trial also
relate to legally valid oil sale contracts, the council added.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said last week that if he is
re-elected as president next March he would consider a request
by Khodorkovsky for a presidential pardon provided he admits his
guilt. Putin, who was president from 2000 to 2008, when Medvedev
replaced him at the Kremlin, has said Khodorkovsky has blood on
his hands and “thieves should sit in jail.”  The council’s recommendation probably won’t lead to
Khodorkovsky’s release, said Alexei Mukhin, head of the Moscow-
based Center for Political Information.  “This council has little weight,” he said in a phone
interview. “It’s a consultative body that can only advise the
president that it supports a certain course of action.”  The human rights council called in July for an amnesty for
economic crimes that would apply to Khodorkovsky, whose company
was dismantled and sold at auction to cover more than $30
billion in back-tax claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  