-- Kim Death May Intensify N. Korea Debate in South’s Elections
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a r i e - F r a n c e   H a n
-- 2011-12-22T05:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/kim-death-may-intensify-north-korea-debate-in-south-s-elections.html
Kim Jong Il ’s death may intensify
voter focus in South Korean presidential and legislative
election campaigns on policy toward a nuclear-armed neighbor now
undergoing its first political transition since 1994.  Voting for the South’s 299-member National Assembly takes
place in April, followed by a presidential election in December.
The victory of Independent candidate Park Won Soon in the Seoul
mayoral race in October has already boosted the opposition.  The contests will set the next phase of policy toward the
North after decades of shifts between openness, engagement and
antagonism for decades. Before Kim’s demise, criticism that a
tough stance by President  Lee Myung Bak  had provoked hostilities
including the sinking of a South Korean warship had paid off for
the opposition with a slide in Lee’s approval rating.  “A whole lot depends on how the present government
responds to Kim Jong Il’s death,” said Yong Chool Ha, a
professor of political science at the University of  Washington ’s
Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies. “The debate
will become more intense and more lively as to how to deal with
the future of  North Korea .”  Elections in South Korea,  Russia  and the U.S., and a
leadership transition in  China , will also complicate the
international response to North Korea, Adam Wolfe, an economist
at Roubini Global Economics, wrote in a report this week.  ‘Take Blame’  Lee and his  Grand National Party  already have come under
fire for not knowing of Kim Jong Il’s death before it was
announced on Dec. 19, two days after his passing. Both ruling
and opposition lawmakers have called for National Intelligence
Service director Won Sei Hoon to step down.  “The director should take the blame and resign from his
post for not knowing about Kim’s death until the TV
broadcasts,” Park Young Sun, a member of the opposing Liberty
Forward Party, said in an interview yesterday. “Because he had
no clue, the president, along with all of the ministers
overseeing national security matters, had no knowledge.”  South Korean authorities have responded to Kim’s death by
raising the military and civilian cyber alerts one step above
their standard levels. The government has pledged to stabilize
financial markets as needed.  The  Kospi index (KOSPI)  fell 3.4 percent on Dec. 19 before
rebounding in the following two sessions. The benchmark was down
0.2 percent at 12:55 p.m. today in Seoul, compared with a 0.6
percent drop for the MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index.  Nuclear Test  Lee’s approval rating has dropped more than half from 76
percent when he took office in February 2008. Under his single
five-year term that ends in February 2013, North Korea detonated
a second nuclear device and last year unveiled an advanced
uranium enrichment program.  While no opposition party members have officially declared
their candidacy, the perceived GNP frontrunner is Park Geun Hye,
the daughter of former president Park Chung Hee. In an opinion
article published on the Foreign Affairs website in August, Park
had signaled a softening toward North Korea.  “Forging trust and sustainable peace on the Korean
peninsula represents one of the most urgent and crucial tasks on
Asia’s list of outstanding security challenges,” Park wrote,
proposing a “trustpolitik” based on verifiable actions.  Inward, Outward  “The uncertain security situation after Kim’s death will
make this election inward and outward looking at the same
time,” said Hoon Jaung, a professor of political science at
Chung-Ang University in  Seoul . “The Korean voter will take more
of an interest in national security issues.”  North Korea will become “more open” under Kim Jong Il’s
son and successor, Kim Jong Un, according to 48 percent of South
Koreans in a Gallup Quick Poll e-mailed to reporters today. The
report found 42 percent believe there will be no change from the
elder Kim’s rule, while 62 think Seoul should provide financial
aid on the condition that Pyongyang abandons its missiles and
nuclear program.  The telephone poll of 532 adults was taken on Dec. 20 and
has an error margin of 4.2 percentage points.  The GNP has also struggled to kick-start growth, with the
Bank of  Korea  this month projecting Asia’s fourth-biggest
economy to grow 3.7 percent next year, the slowest pace in three
years, as the deepening European debt crisis crimps exports.  Torpedo Attack  Lee has rolled back the “Sunshine Policy” of engagement
with the North pioneered by his two predecessors, arguing that
the openness rewarded the North for provocations.  A multinational panel blamed the March 2010 sinking of a
South Korean warship that killed 46 sailors on a North Korean
torpedo attack, a charge the communist nation denies. In
November of last year North Korea fired artillery on Yeonpyeong
island, killing two soldiers and two civilians, the first
shelling of South Korean soil since the 1950-1953 war.  Last year’s violence had already caused some swing voters
to favor a harder-line stance, said Han-Wool Jeong, executive
director of the Center for Public Opinion Research at the East
Asia Institute in Seoul.  “The conservative press is likely to stir more hostility
toward North Korea,” he said. “This is an issue that’s
unlikely to become a positive for the opposition, which has been
supporting the Sunshine policy for years.”  Eighty percent of  South Korea ’s 20 largest business groups
are concerned the death of Kim Jong Il will pose a risk to their
business, the Herald Business reported Dec. 20, citing its
survey of executives at the companies. Nine of them responded
they will factor in the risk for their business plans for next
year, according to the report.  North’s Behavior  Who ultimately benefits from Kim’s death may depend on how
North Korea itself behaves, said Jae Ku, director of the U.S.-
Korea Institute at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced
International Studies in Washington.  “At a certain level it could help the conservatives
because the public may realize how dangerous North Korea is,”
he said. “But if North Korea becomes belligerent, then the
opposition could begin to blame the ruling party for not
engaging North Korea and creating a situation that could lead to
war.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net ;
Marie-France Han in New York at 
 mhan30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  