-- Krueger Counters Charges Obama Regulations Slowing U.S. Growth
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2011-12-21T17:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/krueger-counters-charges-obama-regulations-slowing-u-s-growth.html
Alan Krueger, President  Barack Obama ’s top economist, said uncertainty over regulations and
government policy isn’t a major obstacle to U.S. growth,
countering Republican criticism of the White House.  “A number of commentators have claimed that uncertainty is
holding back the  U.S. economy ,” Krueger said in speech in
Charlotte,  North Carolina , according to a text released by the
White House. “The evidence, however, suggests just the
opposite.”  Krueger, 51, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, cited record corporate profits and a
Bloomberg review of government data that found more new federal
regulations were issued in the first 33 months of the George W. Bush administration than in the same period under Obama.  “If regulatory uncertainty was hurting companies, why
would  corporate profits  be at record levels,” Krueger said.
“Companies themselves rarely cite regulatory burdens as a
reason for layoffs.”  Republicans in Congress have charged that business
investment and economic growth have been slowed by the Obama
administration’s regulatory policies, particularly the overhauls
of financial regulation and health care that the White House
backed.  Krueger said the slow pace of the U.S. economic recovery
stems primarily from the after-effects of the 2008 financial
crisis, the erosion of middle-class incomes during the past
decade and the debt overhang from the collapse of the housing
bubble.  ‘Balanced Approach’  He said the “clear” solution is a “balanced approach”
that in the short term stimulates demand for goods and services
and in the long term brings down government  deficits .  He said renewing the two percentage point cut in  payroll
taxes  and extended  unemployment benefits , both of which are due
to expire Dec. 31, “would provide a boost to economic growth in
the coming year.”  Krueger’s speech to the Charlotte World Affairs Council was
his first since succeeding Austan Goolsbee as Obama’s chief
economist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 