-- Rugby’s Boost to Growth May Fade With New Zealand Holding Rates: Economy
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2011-12-22T02:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/new-zealand-gdp-expanded-faster-than-forecast-on-rugby-world-cup-spending.html
New Zealand ’s economy grew faster
than analysts estimated last quarter on Rugby World Cup spending,
a boost the central bank may look past as it awaits more lasting
recovery signs before raising record-low  interest rates .  Gross domestic product  rose 0.8 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from the previous quarter, when it increased 0.1
percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in a report released today
in Wellington. Growth was faster than the 0.6 percent median
projection in a Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists.  Investors bet Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard will see
the tourism windfall as a temporary lift and hold the official
cash rate at 2.5 percent until late next year, as the central
bank forecasts a stronger recovery in 2012 on rebuilding of
earthquake-devastated Christchurch. Deutsche Bank AG economist
 Darren Gibbs  pushed back his prediction for Bollard’s next
increase to September from June today.  “We can expect a softer run of GDP numbers over the next
few quarters as the Rugby World Cup impact washes out of the
data,” said  Mark Smith , an economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd.
in Wellington. “We continue to look for a December 2012 start
to the tightening cycle, barring a global meltdown.”  New Zealand’s dollar fell after the data. It bought 76.83
U.S. cents as of 1:41 p.m. in Wellington from 77.08 cents
immediately before the report. The currency known as the kiwi is
down 13 percent since Aug. 1 when it reached 88.43 cents, the
highest level since exchange-rate controls were removed in 1985.  Weaker Confidence  Since New Zealand won the rugby tournament Oct. 23, reports
have shown business and consumer confidence have weakened as the
European debt crisis and construction delays inhibit a rebound
from an earthquake that rocked the country’s second-biggest city
in February. Reports showed manufacturing contracted in October
and November.  New Zealand’s growth “was achieved against a backdrop of
global uncertainty,” Finance Minister  Bill English  said in an
e-mailed statement. “We face challenges from increasingly
volatile global financial markets, reduced demand for our
products in some markets and a high kiwi dollar.”  Asian stocks snapped a two-day rally as lenders sought more
cash from the  European Central Bank  than economists had expected,
reducing optimism that the region’s debt crisis will be
contained. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.4 percent to
112.80 as of 9:38 a.m. in Tokyo, with almost two shares falling
for each that rose.  Japan ’s Outlook  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, Japan’s Cabinet
Office is due to release its estimate for growth for the year
starting April 2012 after a meeting at 3 p.m.  Tokyo  time. A
report on  Taiwan ’s unemployment rate is expected to show it was
little changed at 4.31 percent in November, according to the
median estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  In  Europe  yesterday, a report showed consumer confidence
dropped more than economists forecast in December to the lowest
in more than two years, adding to signs of a deepening economic
slump in the 17-nation bloc. An index of household sentiment in
the single-currency area fell to minus 21.2 from minus 20.4 in
November, the Brussels-based European Commission said in an
initial estimate.  In the day ahead, a report may show U.K. gross domestic
product expanded 0.5 percent in the third quarter from the
April-June period, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, unchanged from a previously
reported growth rate for the third quarter.  American Consumers  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report may show GDP
climbed at a 2 percent annual rate from July through September,
unchanged from a Nov. 22 estimate. American  consumer confidence 
may have risen for a fifth straight month, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey before the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan’s final estimate for December.  New Zealand’s economy grew 1.9 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, less than the 2.2 percent year-on-year pace
estimated by economists. Growth in the fourth quarter of 2010
and the first quarter this year was revised lower after updated
data on metal product manufacturing, the report showed.  Bollard on Dec. 8 forecast a third-quarter expansion of 0.6
percent, down from 0.8 percent in his September projections. He
signaled he would leave the benchmark rate unchanged until the
middle of next year, saying domestic activity was “modest” and
there is a risk global economic conditions will deteriorate.  Most of the 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect
Bollard will hold borrowing costs until at least September.
There was a 22 percent chance of a rate cut next month and no
possibility of an increase seen until at least December next
year, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps
trading today.  Global Slowdown  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
last month cut forecasts for global economic growth in 2012 amid
concern that the European debt crisis may damp demand.  In the third quarter, the production-based measure of New
Zealand’s GDP was led higher by output from the retail and
hospitality industries amid spending by 80,000 foreign visitors
and local fans on dining, accommodation and souvenirs around the
Rugby tournament, which began Sept. 9. Retail trade rose 1.8
percent while accommodation and restaurant output increased 4.8
percent, the most since records began in 1987.  Manufacturing advanced 2.3 percent as meat and dairy
production rose the most in nine years. Much of the increased
output went into inventories, the statistics agency said.  Limiting growth, construction fell 2.2 percent, led by non-
residential building and trade services. Farm production and
forestry also declined.  Spending on food and other non-durable goods led a 1.5
percent gain in household consumption, the most since the first
quarter of 2007, the statistics agency said.  Exports of goods, which make up 30 percent of the economy,
declined 1.8 percent, led by dairy and meat, today’s report
showed. Exports of services, which include tourist spending in
New Zealand, surged 7.2 percent. Imports rose 3.1 percent
including fees paid to host the Rugby cup.  Investment fell 1.9 percent, as spending on residential
buildings sank to an 18-year low. Business investment in fixed
assets dropped while spending on plant and machinery increased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  