-- Nigerian Stocks Target Month-High as Asset Law Drives Purchases
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2011-12-21T16:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/nigerian-stocks-target-month-high-as-asset-law-drives-purchases.html
Nigerian stocks gained a fourth day
and headed for a month-high as institutional investors buy
stocks to comply with asset holding laws in the country, Compass
Investments and Securities Limited said.  The  All-Share Index (NGSEINDX)  gained 1.5 percent to 20,416.76, the
highest since Nov. 14, reducing its loss this year to 18
percent.  “Institutional investors such as pension fund
administrators and insurance companies want to ensure that their
portfolios meet their year-end requirements,” Emeka Madubuike,
managing director of Lagos-based Compass, said by phone today.
These investors are required by the Nigerian law to invest a
certain minimum amount of their assets in equities, “and this
must affect the demand side,” he said.  Fidelity Bank Plc (FIDELITY) , a Nigerian lender that sought to buy
Afribank Plc, one of the lenders taken over by government in
August, led the gainers. The stock rose by the maximum daily
limit of 5 percent, its biggest daily increase since Aug. 15, to
1.47 naira.  Custodian and Allied Insurance Plc (CUSTODYI) , a Nigerian
insurer, increased by the maximum daily limit of 5 percent, the
highest daily jump since May 3.  Nestle Foods Nigeria Plc (NESTLE) , the
biggest food company by market value, surged 5 percent to 445.66
naira, the most since Jan. 25, 2002, while  Access Bank Plc (ACCESS) ,
which acquired  Intercontinental Bank Plc (INTERCON) , one of the eight
lenders bailed out by the central bank two years ago, rallied 5
percent to 4.66 naira.  First Bank of Nigeria Plc (FIRSTBAN) , the country’s third-biggest
lender by market value, advanced a fifth day, its longest
winning streak since Oct. 31, gaining 5 percent to 9.32 naira,
while  Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc ,  Nigeria ’s biggest producer of
the sweetener by market value, climbed a third day, soaring 4.9
percent to 4.5 naira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  