-- Nigerian Senate Votes to End Deals With Rusal, Global Steel
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2011-12-21T12:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/nigerian-senate-votes-for-ending-deals-with-rusal-global-steel.html
Nigeria ’s Senate voted for the
cancellation of the sale of 12 state-owned companies, including
an aluminum smelter sold to United Co. Rusal Plc of  Russia  and a
steel company bought by Global Steel Holdings Ltd. of  India .  The process of privatizing the companies “was marred by
political interference and injustice,” according to a Senate
investigative report approved by lawmakers yesterday in Abuja,
the capital. “There was inadequate transparency and failure to
comply with the privatization procedure.”  The lawmakers want the affected companies to be “re-
advertised for sale. President Goodluck Jonathan must endorse
the decision for it to take effect.  Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, bought a 77.5
percent stake in the Aluminum Smelter Co. of Nigeria, or Alscon,
based in Ikot Abasi in the southeastern state of Akwa Ibom, in
2007. Pramod Mittal’s Global Steel Holdings bought 80 percent of
the 1 million-ton capacity Delta Steel Co. Ltd. in 2005. The
plant is located in the southern city of Warri.  Rusal (486)  today expressed its “surprise at the position of the
Senate of Nigeria.” The privatization process for Alscon was
“in accordance with the international and Nigerian laws and the
privatization guidelines” of the Nigerian government, the
Moscow-based company said in an e-mailed statement. A call to
Global Steel Holdings’ Nigerian unit, Delta Steel, was not
answered.  Some of the other deals affected by the Senate’s vote
include the sale of the Hilton hotel to Transnational Corp. of
Nigeria Plc and the Sheraton Hotel and Towers to Hans Gremlin
Nigeria Ltd. The investors failed “to deliver on fundamental
provisions of the share purchase agreements and post-acquisition
plans,”  The lawmakers also want the government to fire Bolanle Onagoruwa, head of the Bureau of Public Enterprises, the
privatization agency. The agency won’t comment on the decision,
Chukwuma Nwokoh, a spokesman, said by phone today from Abuja.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  