-- North Korea Capitalist Enclave’s Workers Return After Leaving on Kim Death
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2011-12-21T04:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/north-korea-capitalist-enclave-s-workers-return-after-leaving-on-kim-death.html
North Korean workers at the Gaeseong
industrial center were shocked and left their posts when they
heard news of  Kim Jong Il ’s death on Dec. 19, said a South
Korean businessman who operates a factory in the capitalist
enclave inside the communist country.  “They were in a state of distraction and just went home,”
Ok Sung Seok, who’s run the  Nine Mode Co.  shirt-making company
in Gaeseong since 2007, said by phone in Seoul today. “I was
back there yesterday. Passing across the border by bus went as
normal and my staff are back at work.”  About 940 South Koreans regularly visit Gaeseong, located
about 10 miles (16 kilometers) inside North Korea, and about 442
will be there today, said Choi Boh Seon, a spokesman for the
 Unification Ministry  in  Seoul .  The Gaeseong complex, which opened in 2005 as one product
of the engagement policy pursued by the administration then in
office in  South Korea , produced $1.4 billion worth of goods as
of October this year, according to data on the website of the
Unification Ministry.  South Korean workers have become accustomed to shocks from
North Korea after the sinking of the warship Cheonan last year
and the shelling of Yeonpyeong island by the regime in Pyongyang,
said Ok.  “Our employees have a manual for how to operate in a
crisis and are used to this,” he said. “The workers and their
families in South Korea aren’t shaken.”  The South Korean government yesterday said that it would
temporarily ban its citizens from visiting  North Korea , except
for Gaeseong.  There are 123 companies operating at Gaeseong, including
Ok’s Nine Mode. They employ more than 48,000 North Korean
workers, according to the Unification Ministry.  North Korean’s leadership is undergoing a leadership
transition after Kim Jong Il died Dec. 17 of a heart attack
brought on by mental and physical strain, the official Korean
Central News Agency said on Dec. 19. His son, Kim Jong Un, is
the designated successor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 Bmiller30@bloomberg.net  