-- Norway Crime Unit Imposes Short Selling Fine on Four Firms
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2011-12-21T13:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/norway-crime-unit-imposes-short-selling-fine-on-four-firms.html
Four banks were fined for violating
 Norway ’s ban on uncovered short selling last year, the country’s
economic crime prosecutor said.  The banks were fined 400,000 kroner ($68,053) each for
providing and performing uncovered short selling in Reservoir
Exploration Technology ASA in April last year, the Oslo-based
National Authority for Investigation and Prosecution of Economic
and Environmental Crime said today in a statement. The fines
were accepted.  The financial regulator this year reported four banks,
including Nordea Bank AB’s local unit, for violating the
country’s ban. The Financial Supervisory Authority also reported
Fondsfinans ASA, First Securities ASA and Svenska Handelsbanken
AB to the police for an investigation into the violation.  The regulator uncovered the trades in connection with a
share sale by Reservoir Exploration in March and April last
year. The watchdog found that many investors had started selling
the shares before they had been delivered and registered.  Fondsfinans accepted the fine and regretted the incident,
while noting that the sale happened after the shares were
registered and delivered on time, according to a statement by
Fondsfinans’ Chief Executive Officer Nils Erling Oedegaard.  “We have accepted that our handling can be characterized
as a negligent violation, and has therefore adopted the fine,”
Tor Arne Olsen, a spokesman for First Securities AS said via e-
mail today.  Lars Saethre, a spokesman for Handelsbanken, said the bank
has admitted “some mistakes” and has accepted the fine.
“Given the result of the process and the size of the fine, we
see no reason to take this any further,” according to Nordea
spokesman Rune Kibsgaard Sjoehelle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  