-- Obama Tells Boehner Senate Payroll Tax Plan Is ‘Only Option’
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2011-12-21T18:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/obama-tells-boehner-senate-payroll-tax-plan-is-only-option-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  urged House
Speaker  John Boehner  to allow a vote on Senate legislation for a
two-month extension of the payroll tax cut, saying it’s the
“only option,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  The president called the Ohio Republican today in an effort
to break the impasse over the tax cut, which is set to expire on
Dec. 31. Carney said Obama also called Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid . The White House is “confident” the Senate bill can
pass the House, he said.  “The ball is in the House’s court,” Carney said at a
briefing. He declined to characterize Boehner’s response.  Obama has said the only way to avert a  payroll tax  increase
for workers in January is for the House to send him a two-month
deal the Senate passed Dec. 17.  The Republican-controlled House voted 229-193 yesterday,
with no Democratic support, to reject the two-month bipartisan
Senate measure and call for a yearlong extension of the  tax cut .  Asked what Obama offered Boehner to get a vote, Carney
said, “there is no political quid pro quo here.”  House Republicans  say they want to extend the tax cut for a
full year rather than the two months approved by the Senate.
Carney said that while Obama wants the yearlong extension, the
shorter term plan will give lawmakers time to work out
differences over how to pay for it.  Reid Letter  Reid, in a letter to Boehner today, reiterated that he
won’t negotiate on a longer-term extension of the tax cut and
other expiring laws until the two-month deal is completed.  “I am fully confident that we can work out our differences
and find common ground on a yearlong extension,” the Nevada
Democrat wrote. “But in the meantime, families should not have
to worry that they will wake up to a tax increase on Jan. 1,
2012.”  Carney said Reid repeated during his conversation with
Obama the commitment to get the tax cut extended for the full
year.  The lower payroll-tax rate of 4.2 percent is set to expire
Dec. 31, when the employee portion of the tax that funds  Social
Security  would return to 6.2 percent. Extending the tax cut was
a central element of the jobs plan that Obama proposed in
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  