-- Tokio Marine Paying a Premium for Delphi as Japanese Insurers Look Abroad
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2011-12-22T07:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/tokio-marine-agrees-to-acquire-delphi-financial-for-2-66-billion-in-cash.html
Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766)  agreed to
pay a 71 percent premium in its $2.7 billion cash bid for the
U.S.’s Delphi Financial Group Inc. as Japanese insurers face
waning demand from an aging population at home.  Japan ’s second-largest casualty insurer’s bid for the
Wilmington, Delaware-based company that sells workers’
compensation and group-life insurance is the industry’s third-
biggest bonus for a cash takeover of more than $1 billion since
at least 1995, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares
of Tokio Marine fell 1.7 percent to 1,713 yen at the close in
Tokyo, while Delphi soared 73 percent in New York.  Japanese insurers are looking overseas as they grapple with
an aging society and declines in returns on securities holdings
in the aftermath of the nation’s record earthquake and tsunami
in March. The acquisition will boost Tokio Marine’s overseas
profit contribution to 46 percent of earnings from 37 percent,
the company said yesterday when it announced the bid.  “The prospect for revenue and business growth within the
domestic non-life insurance and life insurance businesses has
strengthened as Tokio Marine expands overseas,”  Standard &
Poor’s  analysts including Reina Tanaka said in a report
yesterday. “The acquisition of  Delphi (DFG)  is also in line with its
aggressive expansion overseas including in  emerging markets .”  Local rivals have said they are also looking to boost
assets outside Japan. NKSJ Holdings Inc., Japan’s third-largest
non-life insurer, may increase the amount it will spend for
acquisitions abroad to counter declining demand at home,
President Masatoshi Sato said in an interview in August.  Paying a Premium  Tokyo-based Tokio Marine will pay $43.875 for each of
Delphi’s Class A shares and $52.875 for every Class B share, the
two insurers said in a statement yesterday. Delphi shareholders
will also receive $1 in cash through a special dividend,
according to the statement.  The purchase value marks a premium of 71 percent, based on
the 20-day average price of Delphi’s publicly traded Class A
shares and accounting for the one-time payout to existing Delphi
investors after the deal closes, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Tokio Marine paid an 81 percent premium for
Philadelphia Consolidated Holding Corp. in 2008, according to
the data.  “The premium paid in this acquisition may have a negative
impact on the company’s shares in the short term,” said Wataru Otsuka, a research analyst at Nomura Securities Co. in a report.  Spending Spree  Tokio Marine has spent more than $6 billion since 2002 on
purchases from the U.K. to  China  as a shrinking population
weighs on growth at home. The latest acquisition is the largest
since it paid $4.7 billion for Philadelphia Consolidated.  The company said it will fund the latest purchase through
its own cash and debt. Tokio Marine cut its full-year earnings
forecast by 89 percent to 10 billion yen ($129 million) earlier
this month, after estimating 100 billion yen of payouts linked
to the floods in  Thailand .  “This merger is a plus for Tokio Marine,” said Takashi
Hiroki, Tokyo-based chief strategist of Monex Inc., an online
securities company. “We will probably see more mergers and
acquisitions as the market in Japan shrinks.”  S&P maintained its ratings for Tokio Marine’s units, adding
that it will monitor the acquisition process.  Delphi shares had dropped 12 percent in 2011 before the
acquisition was announced. The shares surged $18.57, or 73
percent, to $44 in  New York  trade yesterday, the biggest jump
since 1990 and to the highest close since April 2007.  “Tokio Marine Group has been seeking continued expansion
of its international insurance business as a major driving force
of its mid to long term growth strategy,” Shuzo Sumi, president
of the company, said in the statement. “The acquisition of
Delphi is an important step in this development, serving to
further diversify our business mix in the  United States .”  Life Insurance  The purchase of the 24-year-old company will strengthen its
existing property and casualty insurance in the U.S., and also
gives it a foothold in the country’s life insurance market,
according to the statement. The U.S. insurance industry is
estimated at 89 trillion yen, the world’s largest.  The transaction will give Delphi “access to substantial
resources to take advantage of acquisitions and other new
business opportunities,” Robert Rosenkranz, chairman and chief
executive officer of the U.S. company, said in the statement.  Tokio Marine  is buying more overseas assets as the Japanese
currency strengthened. The yen climbed 4.4 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  this year, the best performer among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The insurer agreed in December 2007 to pay 442.2 million-
pound ($880 million) for Lloyd’s of London insurer Kiln Ltd.  Tokio Marine was advised by  Macquarie Capital , while
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP provided legal counsel. Lazard Ltd. was
the financial adviser to  Delphi ’s special committee of
independent directors, along with law firm Cravath Swaine &
Moore LLP, while Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell LLP provided
legal counsel to the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  