-- Old Mutual Rises to Highest in Three Years on Sale of Skandia Finnish Unit
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2011-12-21T15:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/old-mutual-agrees-to-sell-its-finnish-operations-to-skandia-life-assurance.html
Old Mutual Plc (OML) , the third-biggest
U.K. insurer, rose to its highest in Johannesburg since before
the 2008 global financial crisis after saying it will sell the
Finnish unit of Skandia Life Assurance Co. Ltd. to  Finland ’s
banking co-operative, the OP-Pohjola Group, to cut debt.  Old Mutual rose as much as 2.1 percent and closed 0.7
percent higher at 16.81 rand in Johannesburg, its highest close
since June 2008. In London, the stock added 0.8 percent to 130.4
pence as of 3:23 p.m.  “The transaction is part of Old Mutual’s commitment to
streamlining its business,” the London-based insurer said in a
statement today. The Finnish unit had gross assets of 1.3
billion euros ($1.7 billion) at the end of September, Old Mutual
said, without disclosing the sale price.  On Dec. 15 Old Mutual, founded in  South Africa  in 1845,
announced the sale of its Nordic unit to Skandia Liv for 2.1
billion pounds ($3.3 billion). The cash sale of Skandia
Insurance Co. Ltd. included Old Mutual’s long-term savings and
banking operations in Sweden, Denmark and  Norway , while
excluding the Finnish business. Old Mutual, Africa’s biggest
insurer, bought Skandia AB in June 2006 for 56 billion kronor
($8 billion) to enter Scandinavia and bolster sales in the U.K.  “Skandia Finland is small, but if you add that to the
Nordic sale, it will now enhance the special dividend payable to
shareholders,” Patrice Rassou, head of equities at Sanlam
Investment Management in  Cape Town , said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “ Old Mutual (OML)  is now definitely enhancing value,
and it’s hard to justify the large discount to embedded value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  