-- Olympus Tokyo Offices Raided as Prosecutors Investigate $1.7 Billion Fraud
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2011-12-21T05:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/olympus-tokyo-offices-searched-by-japan-prosecutors-amid-accounting-fraud.html
Japanese prosecutors raided offices
of  Olympus Corp. (7733)  in  Tokyo , more than a month after the camera
maker admitted to a $1.7 billion accounting fraud that hid
investment losses over more than a decade.  Officials from the Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office
and police entered Olympus offices in Tokyo today, the company
confirmed in a statement. Footage from public broadcaster NHK
showed investigators entering the building of three companies
Olympus used in its scheme.  Olympus last week restated more than five years of earnings
to avoid being automatically delisted from the  Tokyo Stock
Exchange  after admitting to the 13-year cover-up. The company
inflated fees to advisers on the 2008 acquisition of Gyrus Group
Plc and overpaid in purchasing three Japanese companies with the
intention of increasing goodwill, an independent panel
investigating the fraud said Dec. 6.  Prosecutors were probably waiting “until the company
completed filing restatements, which saved it from automatic
delisting,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600
million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “I’m
expecting a strict investigation to be carried out.”  Olympus fell as much as 5 percent in Tokyo to 1,012 yen and
changed hands at 1,048 yen at 2 p.m. The company’s market value
has tumbled 58 percent since the Oct. 14 dismissal of former
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Woodford , who had challenged
former Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa and the Tokyo-based company’s
board about inflated takeover payments.  Wider Implications  How  Japan  handles the scandal has wider implications for
investment in the country, according to Josh Shores, a London-
based principal at Southeastern Asset Management Inc. The
 Memphis , Tennessee-based fund is Olympus’s biggest overseas
shareholder, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Some  “very late” raid of Olympus “which we were
anticipating in late October as a buy signal should not be
viewed as such now,” said Amir Anvarzadeh, the Singapore-based
manager for Asian equity sales at BGC Partners. “This could
very well be a delayed reaction by Japan’s bureaucrats to
finally stamp their authority on what looks to be an open and
shut case of financial fraud.”  The world’s biggest maker of endoscopes was being searched
for suspected violation of the Financial Instruments and
Exchange Act, according to NHK.  Hiding Losses  Kikukawa’s home is also being searched,  Kyodo News 
reported, without citing anyone. Kyodo also said the prosecutors
are searching the offices of three Japanese companies acquired
by Olympus.  Olympus admitted Nov. 8 Kikukawa, Hisashi Mori, fired as
executive vice president, and Hideo Yamada, a former company
auditor, colluded to hide losses from securities investments in
the 1990s.  Three former Olympus chairmen and at least three senior
aides were “rotten to the core,” according to the Dec. 6
findings of an independent investigative panel. Others
“involved in the fraudulent accounting one way or the other”
should be “fully eliminated” from the company, it said.  ‘Yes Men’  The company’s corporate culture created “yes men” who
failed to stop or denounce senior managers, the panel said. The
failure of Olympus’s corporate governance eroded all Japanese
companies’ credibility and highlighted the need to break from a
tradition of unthinking deference to superiors, it said.  The panel report traced a global network of mostly Japanese
advisers who used offshore companies in the  Cayman Islands  and
 British Virgin Islands  to hide impaired financial securities and
channel funds to conceal those losses.  The company began making financial investments after 1985
as a strong yen hurt operating profit, the panel said. When
Japan’s stock-market bubble burst at the end of 1989, it
purchased high-risk products and structured bonds in an effort
to recoup the loss. In late 1990, the company had a little less
than 100 billion yen of unrealized losses, and this swelled to
118 billion yen by 2003, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  