-- Monti’s Budget Plan Gets Final Approval in Italy Parliament
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2011-12-22T17:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/monti-s-emergency-budget-plan-set-for-final-approval-by-italian-parliament.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
emergency budget plan won final approval in Parliament today as
Italy struggles to tame surging borrowing costs before facing 53
billion euros ($69 billion) in debt repayments early next year.  The Senate voted 257 to 41 to approve the 30 billion-euro
package in a confidence vote in  Rome . The legislation, dubbed by
Monti the “Save Italy Decree” and the nation’s third austerity
plan since June, was passed by the Chamber of Deputies in a 402-
to-75 vote last week.  The plan includes a pension overhaul, a levy on primary
residences and a crackdown on tax cheats, all measures aimed at
convincing investors Monti is serious about cutting the euro
region’s  second-largest debt  and meet the commitment of
balancing the budget in 2013. It may also push  Italy , which must
sell 440 billion euros in debt next year, deeper into a
recession that is forecast to begin in the current quarter.  “The austerity package will be sufficient to bring the
deficit-to-GDP ratio down to zero,” UniCredit SpA economists
Chiara Corsa and Loredana Federico, both based in Milan, wrote
in a note to investors today. “The pension reform is by all
means a major achievement, which shows the government’s
commitment to reduce public spending in a structural way.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond rose to 6.92
percent, up 13 basis points from yesterday. The difference with
equivalent-maturity German bonds climbed to 497.3 basis points.  Italy’s ‘Credibility’  “Our country’s credibility is essential to overcome the
crisis, just as it’s also essential for our economy to return to
growth,” Monti told Senators before the vote.  Monti, who leads an administration made up of unelected
ministers, relied on the support of former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of Liberty party and the  Democratic Party ,
Parliament’s main groups. The  Northern League , Berlusconi’s
former governing ally, voted against the package, as did the
Italian Values party of former magistrate Antonio Di Pietro.  “The ‘Save Italy Decree’ won’t save Italy, it will bury
it,” Northern League leader Umberto Bossi said before today’s
vote, according to Ansa newswire. “It’s got too many taxes and
above all, it doesn’t create jobs.”  Italy’s economy shrank 0.2 percent in the third quarter
from the previous three months, when it grew 0.3 percent,
statistics institute Istat said yesterday. The government
forecasts a shrinking economy in the fourth quarter, 0.6 percent
growth in 2011 and a 0.4 percent contraction next year.  Record Costs  Italy’s 10-year bond yield reached a euro-era record 7.48
percent on Nov. 9, three months after the  European Central Bank 
started buying the country’s bonds to fight the debt crisis. The
Treasury had to pay 6.47 percent to sell five-year debt at its
last auction on Dec. 14, the most in more than 14 years.  Italy has to repay about 53 billion euros in the first
quarter from the euro region’s total maturing debt of 157
billion euros, according to UBS AG. It owes a further 3.2
billion euros in interest payments based on the average five-
year yield of the past three months.  Monti’s emergency package, which also aims to balance the
budget in 2013, will cut 0.5 percent from gross domestic product
over the next two years while reducing public debt,  Bank of
Italy  Governor Ignazio Visco told Parliament on  Dec. 9.  Some of
the drag on growth may be offset if borrowing costs are brought
down, he said.  ‘Buy Bonds’  “To overcome the sovereign debt crisis, it’s vital that
everybody look at our debt with confidence,” Monti told upper-
house lawmakers. “It is essential that Italians buy  government
bonds  and treasury bills, whose yields are very high. We must
trust ourselves.”  Italy will remain in a recession until the second half of
next year, employers’ lobby Confindustria said in a Dec. 15
report. The $2.3 trillion economy will contract 1.6 percent in
2012 after growing 0.5 percent this year, the lobby said.  Monti said last week his government is preparing a plan to
spur economic growth led by Development Minister  Corrado Passera , a former chief executive officer of  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank. The plan will seek to overhaul
 labor laws  and the welfare system, Monti said.  The vote came one day after the  International Monetary Fund 
concluded a short visit to Rome as part of its monitoring
program. The two-person IMF team “received updates on budgetary
developments” and discussed the missions “requested by the
Italian authorities” that will take place early next year, the
Washington-based lender said yesterday in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  