-- Moody’s Says U.K. ‘Strength’ Doesn’t Fully Shield Rating From Euro Crisis
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-21T08:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/moody-s-says-u-k-strength-doesn-t-fully-shield-rating-from-euro-crisis.html
Moody’s Investors Service said the
U.K.’s “strengths” aren’t enough to completely shield its top
 credit rating  from the euro-area debit crisis and the government
must stick to its deficit-reduction program.  “The U.K. sovereign faces rising challenges, which means
that there’s a reduced ability to absorb further macroeconomic
or fiscal shocks,”  Sarah Carlson , an analyst at Moody’s in
London, said in an interview after the company published a
report on the U.K. late yesterday. The outlook on the Aaa rating
“is stable, but certainly the amount of headroom that existed
before has reduced.”  Britain’s  Office for Budget Responsibility  cut its growth
forecasts last month, prompting Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  in his autumn fiscal update to extend spending
cuts by two years to trim the  budget deficit . The U.K. recovery
has lost traction as officials in  Europe , Britain’s biggest
trading partner, struggle to contain the region’s debt crisis.  “The autumn statement gave a pretty good indication that
the government remains committed to the fiscal consolidation
program,” Carlson said. “This commitment is an important
contributor to the Aaa rating and that certainly supports the
stable outlook.”  Carlson also said the outlook on the rating “is going to
be sensitive to future developments in the euro area.” While
the U.K. “isn’t a member of the monetary union, it is certainly
not immune to this crisis,” she said.  ‘Chilling Effect’  Osborne has pledged to stick to his deficit-reduction plan,
saying it is necessary to shield the economy from the euro-area
turmoil that has pushed up bond yields for countries including
Spain and  Italy .  “We welcome Moody’s assessment,” the U.K. Treasury said
in a statement. “However, as Moody’s report points out, the
U.K. is not immune to the problems facing our trading partners
in the euro area; the crisis is having a chilling effect across
Europe and it is important that the euro area continues to take
decisive action to fix their problems.”  The pound rose for a second day against the dollar and was
up 0.3 percent at $1.5709 as of 8:05 a.m. in London. It traded
at 83.53 pence per euro, after reaching an 11-month high of
83.40 pence yesterday.  The 10-year U.K.  gilt  was little changed, with the yield at
2.094 percent. It declined to 2.034 percent on Dec. 16, the
lowest on record.  Growth Outlook  As part of yesterday’s report, Moody’s cut its U.K.  growth
forecast  next year to 0.7 percent from a previous prediction of
1.5 percent.  “If there’s any additional weakening in the macroeconomic
outlook, or need to support the banking system, this could
temporarily set back the government’s efforts,” Carlson said.  Moody’s said the U.K. has “significant structural
strengths” and scores highly on long-term economic
fundamentals, institutional strength, government financial
strength and susceptibility to event risk. It also has
“substantial flexibility” as it is not in a currency zone.  While European Union nations not in the euro area “can be
expected to be somewhat cushioned,” Moody’s said, it added that
“no EU sovereign rating can be considered immune.”  The statement yesterday from Moody’s is an annual update on
the U.K. and not a ratings action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  