-- Mortgage Redefaults Fall in Third Quarter After Larger Payment Reductions
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2011-12-21T16:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/mortgage-redefaults-fall-in-third-quarter-after-larger-payment-reductions.html
Homeowners whose mortgage payments
were changed under a program aimed at reducing  foreclosures 
redefaulted at a slower rate after lenders gave more generous
modifications, the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency said today.  About 18 percent of modified loans were at least 90 days
delinquent within a year in the third quarter, compared with 20
percent in the previous three months, according to the
Comptroller’s “Mortgage Metrics Report.”  Delinquencies  for
loans 30 to 59 days late decreased 3.3 percentage points from
the previous quarter, to about 34 percent.  Modifications implemented during the first quarter of 2011
defaulted at a higher rate than modifications from the previous
two quarters because the payments weren’t lowered as much,
according to the report. That’s because a bigger share of the
recent modifications were under banks’ proprietary programs
rather than the government plan, according to Bruce Krueger,
lead mortgage expert for the Comptroller, a division of the U.S.
Treasury Department.  “More people qualify but they don’t get as good of a
modification,” Krueger said in a conference call today. “It’s
not as successful.”  The most recent redefault rate contrasts with 2008, when
more than half of loans defaulted again within a year, according
to previous “Mortgage Metrics” reports.  Payment Reductions  The average modification implemented in the third quarter
reduced payments by about 24 percent, or $382 a month. Loans
reworked under the U.S. government’s Home Affordable
Modification Program lowered payments by 35 percent on average,
or $567.  Almost 1.95 million homeowners have been offered trial loan
modifications since Jan. 1, 2009, and 883,000 have received
permanent modifications as of Oct. 31, under the HAMP program,
the Treasury Department  reported  Dec. 7. About 145,000 of the
permanent modifications were canceled because of missed
payments, a 16 percent redefault rate.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration said in 2009 that
its loan-modification program would help as many as 4 million
homeowners. About 2.58 million homeowners started modifications
under proprietary programs offered by banks and loan servicers
as of September, according to the Treasury Department.  Foreclosures, Short Sales  Total loan modifications and alternative payment plans for
delinquent borrowers fell 2.4 percent during the third quarter
from a year earlier to 458,899, according to the Comptroller’s
report. Loan servicers completed 172,785 foreclosures and
foreclosure alternatives, such as short sales, during the
period.  The Comptroller’s report covers about 62 percent of all
first-lien mortgages in the  United States , worth $5.6 trillion
in outstanding balances.  Mortgage  delinquencies  declined in the third quarter to
their lowest rate since the end of 2008 as fewer borrowers
missed payments while foreclosures were little changed, the
 Mortgage Bankers Association  reported Nov. 17.  Mortgage-default notices, auctions and foreclosure sales
declined 14 percent in November from a year earlier as lenders
reduced evictions for the holiday season and slowed foreclosure
processing amid investigations by state attorneys general over
documentation used to seize homes, RealtyTrac Inc. said Dec. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  