-- Mortgage Bonds Miss Out on Rally as Europe Bank Sales Loom: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2011-12-21T17:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/mortgage-bonds-miss-out-on-rally-as-europe-bank-sales-loom-credit-markets.html
U.S. mortgage bonds that lack
government backing are trading at about the lowest prices in
more than a year, even as riskier assets from high-yield company
bonds to stocks rally, with investors bracing for sales of home-
loan debt by European banks.  A group of prime jumbo-mortgage securities tracked by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. as a benchmark fell to 93.3 cents on the
dollar this month, the lowest level since August 2010. A set of
 subprime  bonds tumbled to a two-year low of 28.1 cents.  Banks across  Europe  have pledged to cut more than 950
billion euros ($1.2 trillion) of assets during the next two
years, after regulators made them increase core capital to 9
percent by June instead of in 2019, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Combined with the greater difficulty of trading in
the $1.1 trillion market of non-agency mortgage bonds and
concern that the U.S.  housing market  has yet to bottom, the
threat of the region’s banks unloading their holdings is helping
to depress values.  “The European banks are scrambling for capital and the
traditional route” of selling shares isn’t available as
investors shun their equity securities, said Reza Ali, who heads
Prosiris Capital Management LLC, a New York-based hedge fund
that’s gained 10.7 percent since starting in July. “There are
big question marks that don’t exist to the same degree for
 corporate bonds ” and structured debt in the U.S. including
collateralized loan obligations, aircraft-backed notes and
commercial-mortgage securities.  Default Swaps Tumble  Even as European leaders wrestle with resolving their
sovereign-debt crisis, economists surveyed by Bloomberg have
raised their forecasts for U.S. growth in the current quarter to
2.8 percent from 2.3 percent in November.  That’s bolstered average prices of U.S. speculative-grade
company bonds, which climbed 3.5 percent since September, while
those for commercial-mortgage securities gained 1.8 percent,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 stock index advanced 9.7 percent through yesterday.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold company bonds worldwide rather than government
debentures was unchanged yesterday at 271 basis points, or 2.71
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Average yields were 4.054
percent.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit risk held at about the
lowest level in a week. The Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.2
basis point to a mid-price of 126.7 basis points as of 11:51
a.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Bondholder Protection  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Endurance International Group Inc.’s $350 million  term
loan , which backs the acquisition of the company from Accel-KKR
Co. by Warburg Pincus LLC and GS Capital Partners, rose in
initial trading.  The six-year debt began trading at 99.5 cents on the
dollar, according to data provider Markit Ltd. The financing was
sold to investors at 98 cents, Bloomberg data show.  Boost Core Capital  Credit Suisse Group AG arranged the deal for Burlington,
Massachusetts-based Endurance, Bloomberg data show. The loan
pays interest at 6.25 percentage points more than the London
interbank offered rate, with a 1.5 percent floor.  The $1.1 trillion  market  for non-agency residential
mortgage bonds is being roiled as European regulators, seeking
to stem the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, ordered banks in
October to increase core capital to 9 percent of risk-weighted
assets by the end of June.  Bond prices had tumbled from April through June as the
 Federal Reserve  attempted to sell $31 billion of the securities
acquired in its 2008 rescue of American International Group Inc.
The central bank then halted the auctions, citing “prevailing
market conditions.”  European banks that may need to sell assets to bolster
their  capital ratios  hold about 169 billion to 249 billion euros
of dollar-denominated securitized debt, including more than 60
billion euros of non-agency residential-mortgage securities,
Morgan Stanley analysts estimated last month.  Buyers Await  “The linkages between the sovereign crisis in Europe and
securitized product markets on both sides of the Atlantic are
not as tenuous as they might seem at a first glance, and go well
beyond generic  risk aversion  that the crisis has engendered,”
the analysts including Vishwanath Tirupattur in  New York  wrote
in a Nov. 14 report.  Hedge funds Och-Ziff Capital Management Group and Marathon
Asset Management LP have said they’re awaiting the opportunity
to be buyers.  “The vast majority of assets that have to be sold have not
been sold,” Och-Ziff Chief Executive Officer Daniel Och said
Dec. 6 at an investor conference in New York.  In the U.S., data is signaling the economy is
strengthening. Housing starts increased 9.3 percent to a 685,000
annual rate in November, exceeding the highest estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg and the most since April 2010,
Commerce Department figures yesterday showed. While construction
is improving,  home prices  around 20 U.S. cities are down 31.3
percent from a 2006 peak, according to an S&P/Case-Shiller
index.  ‘Products to Off-Load’  The set of fixed-rate prime-jumbo mortgage securities
tracked by JPMorgan reached 94.3 cents on the dollar as of Dec.
19, after falling as low as 64.2 cents in November 2008 and
compared with this year’s high of 97.2 cents in February. The
subprime debt fell to 15.9 cents in April 2009 before soaring to
37.3 cents in April and dropping to 28.4 this week.  Jumbo mortgages  are larger than the limits for government
supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , currently $417,000 in most
places. Subprime home loans went to borrowers with poor or
limited credit records.  Marathon CEO Bruce Richards favors non-agency mortgage
bonds at the cheaper prices, he told Bloomberg Television on
Dec. 1. Later that day, Richards said at the Bloomberg Link
Hedge Funds Summit that there will be “tremendous amounts of
assets sold” by European banks “in the next one year, two
years and many years to come.”  ‘Sensitive’ Disposal  In their 2012 outlook reports, analysts at JPMorgan,
Barclays Capital and Nomura Securities International Inc. cited
the potential supply from European banks’ sales of home-loan
bonds as a possible challenge for the market.  European bank sales of non-agency bonds won’t prove
problematic, said Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage bonds at Los
Angeles-based TCW Group Inc. He estimates they will total $10
billion to $15 billion in 2012.  “While that’s not a small number, to date they have been
sensitive to the manner in which they dispose of their legacy
assets and we don’t expect that to change,” Whalen said. “If
that is the case, we believe the market can accommodate the
supply without significant weighing on prices.”  He pointed out that Dexia SA, which is now being broken up
after running out of short-term funding, said in August it had
sold $8.8 billion of mortgage bonds. The market has been lagging
behind other risky assets because it has been “abandoned” by
traditional investors after credit-rating downgrades, said
Whalen, whose firm oversees $120 billion in assets.  ‘Large Chasm’  Europe’s banks may delay asset sales as they pursue
lawsuits against issuers and underwriters, and because they are
sitting on “unrealized losses” on the securities that would
undercut the capital relief, the Nomura analysts said in a Dec.
7 report.  “European accounts” exploring potential sales with
Further Lane Securities LLC are often finding a “large chasm”
between what the bonds can be sold for and the values at which
firms hold them on their books, said  David Castillo , the San
Francisco-based head of sales and trading at the broker.  “Let’s just say their marks are not necessarily on target
right now,” he said.  Potential sales may also be depressed because many of the
holdings are in “some way guaranteed by the government,” such
as with  Germany ’s Landesbanks or support provided to ING Groep
NV by the  Netherlands , according to the  Barclays Capital 
analysts.  “Although we estimate that the bulk of non-agency holdings
in Europe are in run-down portfolios, even a few distressed
sales could push the market lower in this environment,” they
wrote in a Nov. 21 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  