-- Canadian Stocks Rise as U.S. Oil Supplies Drop Most Since ‘01
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2011-12-21T21:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/most-canadian-stocks-fall-as-energy-companies-drop-rim-rallies.html
Canadian stocks  rose for a second
day, led by energy producers, after the U.S. reported the
biggest weekly drop in oil inventories since 2001.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-
largest energy company by market value, gained 1.4 percent.
 Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s second-biggest gold producer by
market value, lost 1.7 percent as the metal retreated.
BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  surged 9.8 percent
after Reuters reported the company has declined “takeover
overtures” from companies including Amazon.com Inc.  The oil-inventory report it “an indication that
consumption is stronger than what everyone expected,” Tony Demarin, chief investment officer of BCV Asset Management in
Winnipeg, Manitoba, said in a telephone interview. The firm
oversees about C$300 million ($293 million). “Why else would
oil inventories go down? The economy is doing better than people
are giving credit for,”  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  advanced 36.65
points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,753.53.  The index has slipped 13 percent in 2011 after surging 50
percent in the previous two years as economists have cut global
growth forecasts due in part to the European debt crisis. Energy
and raw-materials companies, which make up 48 percent of
 Canadian stocks (SPTSX)  by market value according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, have led the declines.  Inventory Plunge  The  S&P/TSX Energy Index  climbed as crude oil rose for a
third day after the U.S. reported almost five times the drop in
inventories that analysts had forecast, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Canadian Natural increased 1.4 percent to C$36.75.  Nexen
Inc. (NXY) , an oil and gas producer with operations on five
continents, rallied 4.6 percent to C$15.98.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ,
the owner of the country’s biggest pipelines system, rose 1.4
percent to C$44.33.  Corridor Resources Inc. (CDH) , which explores for oil and gas in
eastern  Canada , sank 38 percent, the most in 11 years, to C$1.13
after saying it has been unable to find a joint-venture partner
for its shale-gas prospect in  New Brunswick .  The U.S. Dollar Index climbed after the European Commission
estimated that  consumer confidence  in the region fell to the
lowest since August 2009 and Swiss Finance Minister Eveline
Widmer-Schlumpf said the country is considering  capital controls 
to weaken the franc.  Mining Shares  Raw-materials stocks in the S&P/TSX dropped. Goldcorp
declined 1.7 percent to C$46.10.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) ,
the country’s second-largest publicly traded copper producer,
slipped 1.5 percent to C$18.81. San Gold Corp., which mines in
Manitoba, slumped 7.7 percent to C$1.79 after soaring 41 percent
yesterday on drilling results.  Banro Corp., which is developing gold projects in  Africa ,
rallied 8.1 percent to C$3.60 after saying the Twangiza mine in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo is on schedule for full
production in the first quarter.  The S&P/TSX Telecommunications Services Index rose to the
highest since January 2008 a day after a person familiar with
the discussions said Globalive Communications Corp., the owner
of Wind Mobile, is in talks to buy fellow carrier Mobilicity.
Both companies are closely held.  A decline in competitors would benefit other industry
companies, Phillip Huang, an analyst at UBS, said in a note to
clients dated yesterday.  BCE, Telus  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , the country’s biggest wireless
carrier, gained 0.9 percent to C$38.60.  BCE Inc. (BCE) , Canada’s
largest phone company, advanced 1.3 percent to C$41.26, the
highest close since July 2007.  Telus Corp. (T) , the country’s No. 3
wireless carrier, increased 1 percent to C$57, the highest since
October 2007.  RIM jumped 9.8 percent to C$14.17 after closing at the
lowest since December 2003 yesterday. Reuters cited unnamed
people familiar with the situation in its  report  that Amazon is
among companies that have approached the Waterloo, Ontario-based
company about a potential takeover bid.  Microsoft Corp. and Nokia Oyj have considered making a
joint bid for RIM, the Wall Street Journal  said today , citing
unnamed people familiar with the matter. Representatives of RIM,
Amazon, Microsoft and Nokia declined to comment on the reports.  RIM shares tumbled 78 percent this year through yesterday
as the company lost smartphone market share to Apple Inc. and
phones using Google Inc.’s Android operating system.  Open Text Corp. (OTC) , Canada’s largest software company, slumped
5.4 percent to C$51.25 after Oracle Corp. reported second-
quarter earnings below the average analyst estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  