-- Tougher Wall Street Clawbacks Are Needed, New York City Comptroller Says
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2011-12-21T15:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/tougher-wall-street-compensation-clawbacks-necessary-nyc-comptroller-says.html
New York City Comptroller John C. Liu, who oversees $108 billion in pension funds, said  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanley should
target senior executives’ pay to prevent improper or risky
practices.  Liu filed shareholder requests with the three New York-
based banks to toughen their so-called clawbacks, which allow
the firms to reclaim pay awarded to employees who acted
improperly. The lenders, which now limit clawbacks to individual
wrongdoers, should target supervisors as well, Liu said in a
statement today. The city’s pension funds held $483.3 million in
shares of the firms through Dec. 19, according to the statement.  Perverse incentives and bad compensation practices helped
cause the financial crisis by encouraging Wall Street employees
to disregard risk in the pursuit of profit, according to a  study 
last year by the Council of Institutional Investors. Liu
targeted the three firms as they have each paid more than $100
million over the past 18 months to settle charges of improper
conduct tied to mortgage-backed securities.  “No one should profit or be rewarded with bonuses when
engaged in improper or unethical behavior,” Liu said in the
statement. “These tougher clawback provisions will not only
recover money that shouldn’t have been paid in the first place,
but also set the tone for a stronger standard of conduct for
company executives as well as their bosses.”  ‘Material’ Losses  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, and Goldman Sachs, the
fifth-biggest, only try to recoup executive compensation after
“material” losses, which creates “unrealistically high legal
and financial standards,” Liu said. The proposal would delete
the word “material” from the requirement, according to the
statement. The two firms as well as  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-
biggest U.S. bank, should make any clawback actions public,
according to the proposals.  Goldman Sachs, led by Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , agreed to pay $550 million in July 2010 to settle
regulators’ claims it misled investors in products tied to
subprime mortgages. JPMorgan agreed to pay $153.6 million to
settle a similar suit in June. Morgan Stanley agreed to pay $102
million in June 2010 to settle claims by  Massachusetts  that the
firm financed and securitized unfair residential loans.  Jeanmarie McFadden, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the comptroller’s request, as did  David Wells  at
Goldman Sachs and  Howard Opinsky  at JPMorgan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  