-- Overseas Investors Jump Back Into South Korean Stocks After Death of Kim
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2011-12-22T09:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/overseas-investors-jump-back-into-south-korean-stocks-after-death-of-kim.html
Foreign investors bought the most
 Kospi index (KOSPI)  stocks in three weeks as some fund managers
overlooked possible political upheaval in  North Korea  to buy
equities in South Korea,  Asia ’s cheapest major market.  Overseas  investors  purchased a net 329.9 billion won ($287
million) of shares in Kospi companies yesterday, the most since
Dec. 1, according to data from Korea Exchange Inc. A net 564.9
billion won was sold during the previous two days, the data
showed, after the death of North Korean leader Kim Jong Il
sparked concerns over succession in the totalitarian nation.  The Kospi slumped 3.4 percent on Dec. 19 when Kim’s death
was announced, dragging the gauge’s valuation to 1.1 times net
assets, the cheapest level since Nov. 27. The index rallied 4
percent since then as the government pledged to take action to
soothe markets and maintain growth in Asia’s fourth-largest
 economy . The Kospi climbed 3.1 yesterday as better-than-
estimated U.S. housing data boosted the outlook for  South
Korea ’s overseas shipments.  “With the case of North Korea, one should not extend that
to something too dramatic, and one should use that as an
opportunity to buy stocks because the Korean exporters are very
strong,” Khiem Do, the Hong Kong-based head of multi asset
strategy at Baring Asset Management Ltd. said on Bloomberg
Television yesterday. He declined to comment on whether Baring
Asset had bought stocks when reached later by phone.  Cheapest Market  The Kospi trades at 8.8 times estimates for next year’s
earnings, the cheapest in Asia after Pakistan and  Vietnam ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225
Stock Average is at 12.8 times, while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index is at 9.2 times.  The Korean gauge fell less than 0.1 percent today as
foreign investors sold a net 25 billion won.  Export-related stocks climbed yesterday, led by  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , as U.S. data showed the nation’s housing starts
increased 9.3 percent to a 685,000 annual rate in November,
exceeding the highest estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  South Korea has so far seen little impact to its economy
since Kim’s death, Deputy Finance Minister Kang Ho In told
reporters yesterday in  Seoul .  The nation will take “preemptive” action to cope with any
impact on its markets and economy from Kim’s demise, Finance
Minister Bahk Jae Wan said at a meeting in Seoul on Dec. 19.
While risks from North Korea are rising, the South has recovered
quickly from any North Korea-related shocks in the past, Bahk
said.  Kim’s Successor  The Kospi fell 0.8 percent on July 11, 1994, the first
trading day after North Korea announced the death of  Kim Il
Sung ,  Kim Jong Il ’s father. The gauge advanced 18 percent in the
next four months.  The focus now is on Kim Jong Il’s successor, his son Kim Jong Un, who is thought to be in his late 20s and who was named
to senior military and party posts last year in the first
official notice that he was being groomed to take over. North
Korea’s state media called for citizens to “loyally follow”
the younger Kim, according to a Dec. 19 statement.  “If you look at the past, historically when you have these
tensions between the North and South or in the last leadership
change in North Korea, the markets basically had a very short-
term reaction before it starts recovering,” Lee King Fuei, a
Singapore-based  fund manager  at Schroders Plc, which oversees
about $326 billion of assets globally, said by phone yesterday.
“At this point in time, there’s nothing to suggest that that
transition will not be smooth.”  Won, Bonds  The won gained for a second day yesterday, jumping 1.3
percent to 1,147.60 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It weakened 0.6 percent today, though is still 0.2
percent stronger than its closing price on Dec. 16, before Kim’s
death was announced by North Korean state television.  Yields on South Korea’s 3.5 percent won-denominated bonds
due in September 2016 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 3.51 percent yesterday, according to Korea Exchange
Inc. prices. The yield reached 3.57 percent on Dec. 19, the
highest level since Nov. 2. Bonds were little changed today.  “The main risk is you have a transition of power which
could result in instability or a coup and so on because the son
is quite young,” Andrew Salton, head of investment at Dah Sing
Bank Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said in a phone interview yesterday.
“So it’s really no clearer than it was before if there is any
change in direction for North Korea.”  -- With assistance from Kyoungwha Kim in Seoul. Editors: Darren
Boey, Richard Frost  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  