-- Tax Politics Pose Risk for Republicans
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2011-12-21T14:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/payroll-tax-politics-pose-risk-for-house-and-senate-republicans.html
A rare showdown between House and
Senate Republicans over a temporary extension of the payroll tax
cut poses a political threat to the party’s members on both
sides of the Capitol heading into the 2012 elections.  It feeds into President Barack Obama’s campaign narrative
that  House Republicans ’ obstructionism has resulted in a do-
nothing Congress at a time when middle-class Americans need help
in a struggling economy. At the same time, it fuels Tea Party
opposition to Senate Republicans who teamed with Democrats to
pass a two-month extension instead of a longer-term fix.  “The Republican leadership knows that this is potentially
a very serious political liability,” said Ron Bonjean, a
Republican strategist and former director of communications for
former House Speaker Dennis Hastert. “Democrats can use it as a
weapon against them in the coming election year,” said Bonjean,
who predicted that House Republicans will ultimately agree to a
deal.  Republican senators such as  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana  are
already coming under fire from local Tea Party activists like
Monica Boyer, who said Lugar’s support for a temporary extension
is “just kicking the can down the road.”  “There’s just so much that’s building up and so much anger
on the ground,” she said. “He doesn’t listen to us” and “it
is 100 percent why we are going after him and why we’ve had
enough,” said Boyer, co-founder of Kosciusko County Silent No
More, her local Tea Party Group.  Senate, House Votes  The Senate on Dec. 17 passed the temporary tax-cut
legislation by a vote of 89-10 -- with the support of 39
Republicans, among them Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky. Yesterday the Republican-controlled House rejected the
bipartisan Senate plan, which also extended  unemployment 
benefits.  While the House Republicans’ position may play well with
the Tea Party voting base, it hurts their image with the broader
public, said  Jennifer Duffy , a Senate analyst at the nonpartisan
Cook Political Report.  “I don’t think Senate Republicans look all that bad here,
but I think House Republicans sure do,” said Duffy. “And I
wouldn’t be surprised to see the Senate guys just sort of throw
them over the side.”  ‘Getting Killed’  This morning on CNBC, Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee
Republican who voted against the two-month extension, said
“there is no question” that Republicans are “getting killed
right now.”  “House Republicans are losing the public opinion battle,”
Corker said -- a view shared by the Wall Street Journal’s
editorial board, which typically supports Republican positions.  “Republicans have thoroughly botched the politics,” the
board said in an editorial published today. “At this stage,
Republicans would do best to cut their losses and find a way to
extend the payroll holiday quickly.”  Obama said yesterday that the compromise reached in the
Senate is “the only viable way to prevent a tax hike” on Jan.
1 while lawmakers negotiate a yearlong extension. He accused
House Republicans of trying “to wring concessions from
Democrats on issues that have nothing to do with the  payroll tax 
cut” and said, “this is not a game.”  Keystone XL Pipeline  The Senate’s $33 billion tax-cut extension plan would
require Obama to decide within 60 days on TransCanada Corp.’s
Keystone XL oil pipeline and would prevent physicians from
getting hit with a 27.4 percent cut in  Medicare  reimbursements
that could hurt health-care access for the elderly and disabled.  Duffy cited these provisions as a victory for Senate
Republicans, along with the fact that the measure would
forestall a tax increase on the American people.  Massachusetts Senator  Scott Brown , a Republican supporter
of the temporary bill who faces a difficult re-election fight
against Democratic challenger  Elizabeth Warren , decried the
decision by House Republicans to scuttle the short-term measure.  “Of all the ugly partisanship that has disappointed the
nation this year, this latest episode will hurt hard-working
Americans directly and immediately,” he said in a statement.  Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican who also voted in
favor of the two-month plan, said in a statement that while he
was “concerned” about the temporary measure, he supported it
because of the pipeline and the provision for doctors’ fees.  Get to Work  Todd Young, an Indiana Republican congressman, said his
home-state senator, Lugar, and others like Hatch and Brown were
wrong to support a stopgap bill.  “They’re home warming themselves around the Christmas
fire,” he said. “They need to get back to work.”  Young said he isn’t “staking my position on this based on
the best political thing” and the political fallout remains to
be seen.  Even so, economists are forecasting that failure to extend
the payroll tax cut and long-term benefits for unemployed
workers into 2012 may slow the recovery. Growth could be reduced
next year by as much as one percentage point, economist  Ward McCarthy  said Dec. 19 on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Michael Feroli , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s New York-based chief
U.S. economist, assumes 0.5 percent growth in the first quarter
and 1.5 percent in the second if the payroll tax cut and
 unemployment benefits  aren’t extended. If they are extended for
the year, he expects growth of 2.5 percent in the first half of
the year, he said in a Dec. 16 note to clients.  Vulnerable Republicans  Lugar’s and Hatch’s votes for the temporary measure won’t
be a political winner, said  Nathan Gonzales , political editor of
the Rothenberg Political Report in  Washington . The two senators
are among the most vulnerable to primary challenges, even after
Representative Jason Chaffetz of  Utah , Hatch’s best-positioned
competitor, decided against a run, he said.  Their payroll-tax stance “gives their challengers a more
current vote to point to and say ‘this is why we need to make a
change,’” said Gonzales. “It’s something specific and current
they can point to against the incumbent.”  Both the Tea Party Express, a national group, and the
Washington small-government advocacy organization FreedomWorks
have endorsed Lugar’s Republican challenger, state treasurer
Richard Mourdock, who lacks the incumbent’s fundraising base and
name recognition. Democrats are defending 23 seats in the
Senate, including six open slots, while Republicans are
defending 10 this cycle. Republicans need to gain four seats to
control the Senate.  Senate Candidates  Duffy also sees a risk to some House Republicans who may
want to run for the Senate, such as Jeff Flake of Arizona and
 Connie Mack  of  Florida . While Flake and six of his House
colleagues rejected his party’s position against the Senate
measure, “they just get tarred” regardless, said Duffy.  House Democrats hastened to turn the standoff into a
fundraising appeal. Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California 
sent a letter to supporters saying middle-class Americans could
see their taxes increase by $1,000 on Jan. 1 unless Republicans
“back down from their extreme stance.”  House Republicans remained emphatic that the Senate will
have to be the first to blink.  “I could just sit here and go, ‘This is the best deal
you’re going to get,’ hold my hands and wait,” said
Representative Steve King of Iowa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  