-- Penguins Out in Cold as Spanish Firms Freeze Holiday Spending
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2011-12-21T23:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/penguins-out-in-cold-as-spanish-firms-freeze-holiday-spending.html
Employees of Spain’s  Laboratorios
Farmaceuticos Rovi SA (ROVI)  had to party without the penguins.  The Antarctic animals sporting Rovi’s scales logo welcomed
workers to past Christmas celebrations at the Faunia nature
theme park in Madrid. The drugmaker cut this year’s budget by
almost 60 percent to about 25,000 euros ($32,600), Chief
Financial Officer Javier Lopez-Belmonte said.  “We don’t want to splurge amid these economic times,” he
said. “We had musical concerts, comedians, all with great
pomposity in luxury sites. This year we did something more
austere and functional in a more modest location,” while still
giving employees a chance to meet the company’s chairman. Rovi
invited about 350 of its 830 employees to the Dec. 16 event.  Christmas parties have gone the way of Spain’s AAA credit
rating as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , sworn in yesterday, 
tries to revive a stagnant economy, reduce the 23 percent
unemployment rate and prevent the country from being overwhelmed 
by the sovereign debt crisis.  “We’re suffering a lot because some regions aren’t paying
their bills to us and banks don’t want to lend us money,” said
Carlos Rodriguez, secretary general of  Prim SA. (PRM)  The medical
products supplier has suspended all spending on leisure
activities, including a champagne reception in a hotel for
current and former employees, because “the time isn’t right to
celebrate anything.”  The Party’s Over  Companies are scrimping on parties and gifts regardless of
performance, said Xavier Oliver, marketing professor at IESE
business school.  “Some firms slash Christmas spending because they would
feel ashamed of giving free and expensive dinners while others
are losing their jobs,” he said.  Aragonesa de Lotes SL , a gift basket distributor based in
Zaragoza, has seen corporate cutbacks of as much as 50 percent.
Hampers of nougat, wine, champagne and ham costing 30 euros to
40 euros are outselling the 50-to-60 euro items popular last
year, general manager Cristobal Lopez said.  “The environment is really challenging and we don’t expect
a recovery in at least two years,” said Lopez, who founded the
company in 2007. “People are used to the crisis by now and it
will be a ‘sad Christmas’ again. Lots of companies have already
gone out of business so it can’t get much worse.”  Paltry Presents  Consumers are cutting back on festive food and presents,
which Spaniards traditionally give on Jan. 6, or 12th day of
Christmas, to mark the three kings’ arrival in Bethlehem.  Spain 
is the only country forecast to cut spending out of nine
European countries, including  Germany ,  France  and the U.K., as
retail sales are lower than they were in 2005, the U.K. Centre
for Retail Research said.  Paloma Losada, a 28-year-old interior designer, will spend
Christmas with her parents in Galicia to save money. Almost half
her colleagues have been fired and she doesn’t feel like
celebrating much. Even as she keeps her job, Losada wants to
save as much as she can, avoiding department stores such as El
Corte Ingles SA.  “I’m thankful I still have a job, but I need to be
cautious,” Losada said as she walked out of a Lidl discount
supermarket in  Madrid . “I will buy own brands and spend much
less on gifts. These aren’t times to be partying.”  Consumer lobby group Fuci says Spanish consumers will cut
Christmas spending by 17 percent to 560 euros on average, the
biggest slump since consumption started to fall in 2008.  Frozen Salary  Reme Leal, a 29-year-old accountant at Ernst & Young LLP in
Madrid, will spend less than that after her salary’s been frozen
for two years. She’ll cut back to about 400 euros, and will buy
mostly clothes instead of cologne or toys. She’s doing more
shopping at  Carrefour SA (CA)  than more expensive stores.  El Corte Ingles, Spain’s biggest department store operator,
is responding to perceptions of higher prices with 40 percent
discounts. It’s confident the move will pay off by attracting a
wider range of consumers, a spokeswoman said.  “The crisis has taught consumers how to buy cheaper
stuff,” IESE’s Oliver said. “The passion for consumption won’t
fade out. We can’t help going shopping, but we now realized we
have to find better deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  