-- Peru Bourse Predicts End of IPO Drought as Humala Backs Private Investment
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2011-12-21T16:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/peru-bourse-sees-end-of-ipo-drought-as-humala-defends-private-investment.html
Peru  may have its busiest year of
initial public offerings in at least a decade as the
government’s defense of private investment and growth bolsters
investors’ sentiment, according to the head of the country’s
main securities exchange.  Companies from the mining, construction and agricultural
industries may sell shares for the first time in Peru next year,
said Francis Stenning, chief executive officer of Bolsa de
Valores de Lima.  “We expect a very active market for IPOs next year,”
Stenning said yesterday in an interview from the exchange.
“Peru’s expansion is putting pressure on companies to come to
the market to fund their growth. We just need to clear a few
things from the table.”  Peru’s President  Ollanta Humala , who took office July 28,
has shown his willingness to preserve policies that fueled the
fastest economic growth in  Latin America  over the past decade by
quelling protests against a $4.8 billion gold mine being
developed by Newmont Mining Corp., Stenning said. The protests,
in a country where mining stocks dominate the market, have added
to concern that  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis would slow
growth, he said.  IPOs planned for this year in Peru didn’t proceed because
of concern generated by the presidential elections and anti-
mining protests, and as Europe’s crisis threatened to crimp
global demand for commodities, Stenning said.  Planned IPOs  Port operator  Andino Investment Holding SA  plans to raise
about $70 million in January, in what would be Peru’s first IPO
since fishmeal producer  Pesquera Exalmar SAA (EXALMAC1)  sold $100 million
of stock in November last year. State-owned companies including
 Petroleos del Peru SA  probably will proceed with the sale of
minority stakes in the first half of 2012, Stenning said.  Rising public and private investment will fuel 5.5 percent
growth in Peru next year, the fastest in the region, after 6.8
percent expansion this year, central bank President Julio Velarde said Dec. 16.  South America ’s sixth-largest economy has
grown an average 6.4 percent annually in the last decade.  The  Lima General Index (IGBVL)  retreated 0.1 percent to 19,358.83
at 11:17 a.m. local time and has slid 17 percent this year. The
gauge plunged a record 12 percent June 6 after Humala won the
country’s presidential election, sparking concern he would
increase state control of the economy. Stocks rose 10 percent in
the two weeks after he asked Velarde to remain in his post July
17.  High-Speed Trading  Humala replaced 10 ministers in his cabinet Dec. 11 as he
seeks to speed up the resolution of social conflicts slowing
investment in new mines. Peru is the world’s top silver
producer, number three in copper and sixth in gold.  “The president has sent a clear message that investment is
not going to stop,” Stenning said. “The best way to accomplish
social inclusion is with more investment and employment.”  Bolsa de Valores de Lima plans to implement a new trading
platform to boost volume and allow for further integration with
Latin American bourses, Stenning said. The exchange has started
talks with prospective providers of a system that would permit
high-speed and algorithm trading and may be modeled on a
platform created by the Santiago bourse last year.  “We expect to have approved the providers, signed the
contract and begun the works for implementation” next year, he
said.  The project would help “homogenize” systems used in Mila,
the stock market combination formed by Chile, Colombia and Peru,
Stenning said, declining to give investment estimates. Mila
began allowing investors to buy and sell stocks in the other two
countries through their local brokers in May. In a subsequent
stage, the member exchanges may form a single trading platform.
 Mexico  is considering joining Mila.  Bolsa de Valores de Lima also plans to introduce direct
 market access  to its current platform in the first half of next
year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  