-- Peru Bank Regulator Says Cap ‘Last Resort’ for Lowering Rates
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/peru-sees-interest-rate-ceiling-as-last-resort-in-bid-to-pare-loan-costs.html
Peru ’s chief banking regulator is
working with lenders to bring down annual interest rates on
loans that run as high as 120 percent by promoting competition
and best practices, saying a cap on rates is “a last resort.”  The regulator aims to help banks assess the risk of lending
to clients, enabling them to charge less for loans, the
Superintendent of Banks, Insurance and Private Pension Funds,
Daniel Schydlowsky, said in a Dec. 20 interview in Lima.  “Ceilings are a last resort,” said Schydlowsky, a former
Harvard University professor who was appointed Superintendent in
August. “We want to bring rates down in an efficient and
effective way, and we’re getting cooperation from the financial
system.”  Ollanta Humala’s June 5 election as president led to calls
from his party to impose a ceiling on interest rates. Humala’s
campaign platform said high rates were preventing smaller
businesses from obtaining credit. Chilean President Sebastian Pinera is seeking congressional approval to lower the maximum
 interest rate  on loans to consumers and smaller businesses from
above 50 percent.  If the regulator doesn’t succeed in cajoling Peru’s banks
into reducing interest rates in the next two to four years,
Congress may seek to impose a cap, Schydlowsky said.  Interest rates on consumer loans average 39 percent in
Peru, while loans to the smallest companies carry an average 33
percent rate, according to the Superintendency’s  website . Some
lenders charge high-risk clients who don’t have a steady income
as much as 120 percent for 90-day loans, which is “very high”
Schydlowsky said. The central bank has kept its  reference rate 
at a two-year high of 4.25 percent since June.  Best Solution  Lenders that lack the technology or expertise to calculate
lending risks effectively charge their clients more, which
encourages competing lenders with superior  risk assessment  to
offer similar rates, Schydlowsky said.  “The bank that’s better at calculating the customer’s risk
is pricing at the second- or third-best bank’s prices,” he
said. “Not all banks are created equal. You don’t solve that by
a ceiling. You solve it by getting the laggard bank to be
swifter.”  Schydlowsky, a former Peruvian central bank director, has
taught economics at  Boston University  and The American
University in  Washington  and published four books. He was an
economic adviser to former President Alejandro Toledo during his
2001 to 2006 term and has been a consultant to the  World Bank 
and the  United Nations .  Competition, Technology  As many as five foreign banks are likely to establish or
expand operations in Peru next year, which will increase
competition and eventually put downward pressure on interest
rates, he said. Four lenders currently provide 84 percent of all
loans, according to the country’s banking association.  Chile’s  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD)  will probably open a consumer finance
unit in Peru next year, while  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (1398) , Bank of  China  Ltd,  Japan ’s Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. and  Brazil ’s Itau Unibanco Participacoes SA may open
offices, lured by Peru’s region-beating economic growth and the
local industry’s “good” profits, he said.  Chile’s Ripley Corp SA and Colombia’s BanColombia SA may
expand existing financial operations in the country, he said.  The introduction of mobile-phone banking to Peru next year
will help lenders lower costs and charge less for loans,
Schydlowsky said.  ‘Much Safer’  Peru’s outstanding bank loans rose 16 percent in November
from a year earlier to 125 billion soles ($46.3 billion),
according to the Andean country’s banking association. The non-
performing loan ratio fell seven basis points to 1.52 percent.  Peruvian banks passed stress tests conducted by the
regulator and are well-prepared in case a worsening debt crisis
leads European banks to sever foreign credit lines, Schydlowsky
said.  Banks have begun increasing their  capital requirements  to
an average 13.7 percent, from 10 percent previously, and they
have “ludicrously high” liquidity ratios equivalent to 37
percent of short-term liabilities in local currency and 49
percent in foreign currency, he said.  Around 10 percent of local banks financing comes from
overseas, compared with 25 percent at the time of the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “We’re much safer than last time around,” he said.
“We’re covered against everything we can think of.”  The Andean nation may pioneer a credit risk system designed
to increase the cost of lending to investors, such as mining
companies, who haven’t taken steps to mitigate the effects of
their activities on the local community or the environment,
Schydlowsky said.  The regulator will consult the banking industry on its
proposals and aims to introduce the legislation by 2013, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 