-- Philips Predicts Weaker Market for Health-Care Gear in 2012
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2011-12-21T08:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/philips-predicts-shrinking-market-for-health-care-gear-in-2012.html
Royal Philips (PHIA)  Electronics NV
forecast weakening demand for health-care equipment in  Europe 
next year as deteriorating economies crimp spending on body
scanners and heart monitors.  The Dutch company has imposed controls on discretionary
spending and scaled back hiring plans as it seeks to “prudently
manage the situation,” Steve Rusckowski, chief executive
officer of Philips Healthcare, said in an interview.  “Things in Europe have gotten more uncertain,” the
executive said by phone. “This will undoubtedly effect sales in
the market.  Philips, which competes with General Electric Co. and
 Siemens AG (SIE)  in health-equipment markets, is responding to a
market decline that withered orders from hospitals in the second
and third quarters. Chief Executive Officer Frans van Houten
already announced a companywide savings plan, involving 4,500
job cuts, as Philips also battles slowing demand in consumer
electronics and lighting markets.  Siemens is cutting as many as 1,600 jobs at two health-care 
units after falling behind competitors including  Roche Holding AG .  Rusckowski said his division will benefit from the overhaul
of Philips. He didn’t provide specific details.             In
health care, Philips still expects the global market to show
growth of 4 percent to 5 percent this year, with a ”low single
digit’’ expansion in the U.S., Rusckowski said.
Shares of the company rose 0.3 percent to 15.48 euros as of 9:07
a.m. in the Dutch capital.  New Products  Philips this week received U.S. approval for its
Heartnavigator, a tool to simplify and minimalize invasive
surgery during heart-valve replacements. That market is expected
to grow 50 percent, Rusckowski said.  Rusckowski is betting product development will help win
market share from Siemens and  General Electric. (GE)  Philips is
looking to become co-leader in the field of imaging equipment, a
16 billion-euro market that’s projected to grow by 3 percent to
5 percent a year.  The Amsterdam-based company set a target for its health-
care unit of earnings before interest, taxes and amortization as
a percentage of sales to grow to 15 percent to 17 percent by
2013 versus 13.3 percent in the second quarter of this year.  Philips shares have lost 32 percent this year, reducing its
market value to 15.7 billion euros ($21 billion). Siemens has
declined 21 percent and General Electric is down 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  