-- Pilot in Plane Crash That Killed Greenhill Bankers Reported Ice, NTSB Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2011-12-21T23:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/pilot-in-plane-crash-that-killed-greenhill-bankers-reported-ice-ntsb-says.html
The pilot of a plane that crashed in
 New Jersey , killing five people including two Greenhill & Co.
bankers, had reported that ice was forming.  “The pilot did confirm with air-traffic control that he
was picking up some ice,” Ralph Hicks, a U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board investigator, said today at a media
briefing. “He was in icing conditions. How much ice was on the
plane we don’t know, and we may never know.”  Greenhill managing directors Jeffrey F. Buckalew and Rakesh Chawla, and Buckalew’s wife Corinne and their two children, died
yesterday aboard the single-engine plane that crashed on
Interstate 287 in Harding, New Jersey. The plane was owned by
Buckalew, an experienced pilot, according to a statement from
New York-based advisory firm Greenhill.  While the plane was equipped with a de-icing system,
investigators don’t know if it was activated, Hicks said.
Searchers are still collecting pieces of the plane today after
retrieving about 40 percent of the wreckage yesterday, said
Robert Gretz, an NTSB investigator.  “We’re in the early fact-finding phase,” Hicks said.  The Socata TBM 700 turboprop, which seated six people, took
off from Teterboro, New Jersey, at 9:50 a.m. and crashed about
14 minutes later, Gretz said. It was en route to DeKalb-
Peachtree Airport near Atlanta, according to  flightaware.com .  ‘Descending Spiral’  The plane reached 18,000 feet during the flight, Hicks
said. He said that most witnesses described a “descending
spiral” of the plane before it crashed.  Investigators will reconstruct the plane in  Delaware , Hicks
said. While the aircraft didn’t have a so-called black box with
flight data, it is possible to retrieve some information from
computer chips in on-board equipment, he said.  “It’s going to take us many months to go through all the
data that we have,” he said. “The aircraft was very
fragmented. We haven’t even verified that we have all of the
plane.”  The plane’s records were held at a maintenance facility in
Groton,  Connecticut , and will be analyzed by the NTSB. The
agency intends to publish a preliminary report in about a week,
without specifying a cause of the crash, Hicks said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  