-- Plaxico Burress Experienced Jets-Giants Rivalry From Other Side in 2007
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/plaxico-burress-experienced-jets-giants-rivalry-from-other-side-in-2007.html
The last time  New York ’s National
Football League teams met in a regular-season game was in 2007,
when receiver Plaxico Burress wore Giants’ blue instead of Jets’
green and hauled in Eli Manning’s decisive fourth-quarter
touchdown pass.  Burress, 34, joined the Jets during the offseason after
being released from prison, where he served 20 months on a
weapons charge for accidentally shooting himself in the leg at a
Manhattan nightclub.  Burress played with the Giants from 2005 to 2008 and caught
the winning touchdown pass in the  Super Bowl  during his final
season. Facing his former team on Christmas Eve may give Burress
extra incentive in a rivalry game that already has high stakes,
with area bragging rights and NFL playoff berths on the line.  “Emotionally, I know he’s thrilled about this game,” Jets
quarterback  Mark Sanchez  told reporters yesterday. “It means a
lot to him because he played there for so long. He’s playing in
New York still, but for a different team.”  Burress has eight touchdown catches this season, tied for
the team lead with  Santonio Holmes . The duo this weekend will
face a Giants secondary that ranks 29th out of 32 NFL teams this
season, surrendering 257.5 yards passing a game.  Burress’s production has dropped recently. His lone
reception over the past two games was a nine-yard touchdown
catch during the fourth quarter of last week’s loss to the
 Philadelphia Eagles , when the Jets were behind 45-13.  While Burress wasn’t available to reporters yesterday, Jets
coach  Rex Ryan  said he’s expecting bigger things from Burress
this week. Ryan went back to his college days at Southwestern
Oklahoma State to illustrate how a player can find motivation
from facing his former team.  Ryan’s Learned Lesson  “My old football coach, we had a running back that
transferred from Panhandle State, which is even smaller than
Southwestern,” Ryan said. “He never played. The whole year,
never played. We go to play Panhandle State, he starts the kid
and he goes for about 150 yards. I learned then that there is
something special about it and I recognize it.”  With two regular-season games left, the Jets are 8-6, the
same record as the  Cincinnati Bengals  as they pursue the final
wild-card playoff berth in the American Football Conference.  The Giants are 7-7 and one game behind the  Dallas Cowboys 
in the National Football Conference East division.  The team that loses this week at MetLife Stadium in  East
Rutherford ,  New Jersey , risks falling out of playoff contention.
While there’s plenty of incentive for every player on the field,
Sanchez said he knows there’s another level of significance for
Burress this week.  “He’s done a heck of a job for us this year,” Sanchez
said. “If it’s him with 10 catches, great. If it’s one catch,
fine. And he knows the most important thing is to get a win. So
we’ll keep that as all of our focus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  