-- Putin Must Beat Own Economic Record as Russian Golden Decade Comes to End
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2011-12-22T14:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/putin-must-beat-his-own-economic-record.html
Vladimir Putin  may be his own
toughest competition in next year’s presidential race.  Putin, now prime minister, is trying to persuade voters he
can repeat the performance of his first two terms in the
Kremlin, when the economy grew at an annual average of 7.1
percent from 2000 to 2008.  Gross domestic product  in Russia, the world’s biggest
supplier of energy, may rise 4.5 percent this year, according to
government forecasts, even after a boost from record oil prices.
Russia’s main export blend of the fuel has averaged $109 a
barrel in 2011, more than the $46 a barrel in 2000-2008.  Putin’s failure as prime minister to match the burst of
growth under his presidency may push him to raise spending on
favored groups, such as the military, to woo support before
March 4 elections. United  Russia , the party Putin chairs, won
less than half the balloting in a parliamentary vote Dec. 4.
Tens of thousands of people protested the following weekend in
Moscow after international observers said there was evidence of
ballot-box stuffing. More protests are planned for Dec. 24.  “His authoritarianism is precipitated on his ability to
deliver increased welfare to a large portion of the society,”
said Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels, in a phone
interview. “If he doesn’t do that, his political model is going
to be damaged.”  ‘Golden Decade’  Putin’s ascent to the presidency in 2000 marked the
beginning of a “golden decade,”  Alexei Kudrin , who was finance
minister during the entire period, said at a conference in
Moscow last week. Spending surged fourfold on rising energy
prices, leading to a 68-percent, 10-year rise in the economy, he
said, adding, “That’s never going to happen again.”  President  Dmitry Medvedev , 46, proposed in September that
Putin, 59, return to the presidency. A showing of less than 50
percent in March would force Putin into a runoff. The premier
says Medvedev, whom he handpicked to move to the Kremlin because
of a constitutional limit on serving more than two consecutive
terms, may now become prime minister.  Putin is almost certain to survive a runoff because voters
remember how bad things were under former President Boris Yeltsin, said  Michael Ganske , head of emerging-market research
at Commerzbank AG in  London , in a phone interview.  ‘Strong Improvement’  “He’s a leader that after Yeltsin brought Russia back to
power and economic improvement,” Ganske said. “The Russians
traded off the lack of free speech and democracy. The majority
still believes in a strong leadership. There’s been a strong
improvement in average living standards in the last 12 years
under Putin.”  Medvedev said in January that Russia should target growth
of at least 8 percent annually within five years to keep up with
the so-called BRIC countries, the largest emerging markets.
Putin yesterday told a business lobby group that Russia would
target expansion of 6 percent to 7 percent annually to make the
economy one of the world’s five largest within five years.  The goal is also to lift per capita GDP to more than
$35,000 from about $20,700 and create 25 million “quality”
jobs “from scratch,” Putin told the group.  He also touted his economic record last week, including
what he said was a 40 percent increase in pensions last year, in
a 4 1/2-hour television program during which he answered
questions from viewers around Russia.  ‘Would Be Me’  Asked by a reporter after the call to use the skills he
developed as a judo champion in the 1970s to identify his
greatest challenger in the presidential poll, Putin said: “That
would be me, probably.”  Growth rates have slowed since a collapse in global  oil
prices  pushed Russia’s Urals crude blend from $143.50 a barrel
in July 2008 to $32.34 five months later. The economy contracted
7.8 percent in the following year.  Urals crude is on track to average $109 a barrel this year,
up from $78 last year and the previous record of $95 in 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Russia may be
benefiting from unrest in the  Middle East  that toppled leaders
in Libya and Egypt and prompted Saudi Arabia to boost social
spending to quell potential violence.  Saudi Arabia’s fiscal break-even point jumped to $91 a
barrel this year from $78 in 2010, Alia Moubayed, senior
economist Barclays Capital, said yesterday in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene.
“That obviously is related to the huge fiscal stimulus package
that Saudi Arabia has put in place over the last year.”  Euro Threat  The sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  threatens to reduce
growth in the region, which accounted for 49 percent of Russian
trade last year. Growth in  China , which was responsible for
another 9.5 percent, may  slow  to 8.5 percent in 2012, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Without the Middle East turmoil, oil could be about $70 a
barrel, Ksenia Yudaeva, chief economist at  OAO Sberbank (SBER) ,
Russia’s largest lender, said in a telephone interview Dec. 14.  Net capital flows out of Russia may top $80 billion this
year,  Alexei Ulyukayev , a central bank first deputy chairman,
told a conference last week. That’s more than double the net
departure of $33.6 billion last year. It would bring the total
since 2007, the last year of inflows, to more than $300 billion,
according to central bank  data .  New Spending  Higher political risk after this month’s election, which
stripped United Russia of a supermajority in the parliament that
had allowed it to change the constitution unilaterally, may spur
additional outflows, Fitch Ratings said in a statement Dec. 19.  The new spending Medvedev is proposing for the military,
including for equipment and salaries, will total 2.1 trillion
rubles through 2014, or about 3 percent of GDP that year, Kudrin
told reporters on Sept. 24 in Washington. He also announced he
wouldn’t join a Medvedev-led government.  “That’s equivalent to the financing in 2011 for the entire
education system, including every university, school and special
educational institution,” Kudrin said. “I regret that this
wasn’t adequately discussed at United Russia’s congress.”  Medvedev ordered Kudrin to resign two days later over his
disagreement. On Nov. 4, he signed changes into law that more
than doubled most military and police salaries effective Jan. 1
and raised their pensions by at least half.  ‘Rainy-Day Savings’  For now, Russia can afford the expenditure, said  Neil Shearing , senior emerging-markets economist at  Capital Economics 
in London, in an e-mailed report yesterday.  “The government has $120 billion in rainy-day savings that
it could unleash in order to buy back support,” he wrote.  Higher energy prices have benefited some of Russia’s
largest oil producers, including  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) ,  TNK-BP  and  OAO
Gazprom Neft . They all forecast record profit this year.  OAO
Gazprom , the state-run gas export monopoly, will also have its
most profitable year, according to projections compiled by
Bloomberg. All have outperformed the benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  this
year, as has the  Micex Oil & Gas Index  of 14 stocks.  Another plus for Putin is the low danger of inflation. Real
wage growth slowed from an average 15 percent a year during his
presidency to 1.6 percent since the beginning of 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Putin said yesterday that
consumer prices will rise 6.2 percent to 6.3 percent this year.
That would be the least since the collapse of the Soviet Union
two decades ago.  ‘Fortunate Situation’  “Putin is in a fortunate situation because inflation has
been decreasing rapidly and will decrease further,” Aurelija Augulyte, a Copenhagen-based emerging-market analyst at  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) , said in a phone interview. “Right now, consumers are
pretty confident, wages are increasing and inflation is
decreasing. There are further promises of public-sector wage
increases and pension hikes.”  That doesn’t encourage Boris Zhuravlyov, 68, a physiology
professor who runs a laboratory at the Russian Academy of
Medical Sciences. While he said his economic situation has
improved by “maybe 25 percent” since 2000, “They’ve forgotten
about us. There’s not nearly enough financing” for education
and research.  Zhuravlyov said he voted this month for the Just Russia
party, which calls for greater social spending, and hadn’t
decided yet whom he would support in the presidential election.  Oil Revenue Constraint  Further pay growth for state workers may be constrained as
Russia becomes more dependent on oil revenue. The minimum price
to balance the budget is $115 a barrel, Capital Economics’
Shearing wrote, and may rise to $125 per barrel by 2015 based on
increases in the draft budget for 2012-2014.  While the surge in capital outflows from Russia should be
monitored, it doesn’t yet pose a threat to the country’s BBB
sovereign credit grade, Fitch said Dec. 19. The nation benefits
from a positive capital account, meaning it exports more goods
and services than it imports, the company said.  Russia is rated Baa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, the
company’s third-lowest investment grade. Fitch and  Standard &
Poor’s  both rate Russia’s long-term foreign currency debt at
BBB, their second-lowest investment level.  The Finance Ministry said in August that Russia was
underrated because of its low public debt as a percentage of the
economy and that it would strive to achieve an A rating. Gross
government debt this year will be equivalent to about 11.7
percent of GDP and rise to 16.8 percent in 2015, the
 International Monetary Fund  said last month. That is lower than
any of the euro’s 17 members except Estonia.  Prokhorov’s Challenge  Putin’s approval rating fell to 63 percent this month from
67 percent in November and 79 percent a year ago, according to a
 poll  by the Moscow-based Levada Center published today. The
survey of 1,600 people, conducted Dec. 16 to 20, had a margin of
error of 3.4 percentage points.  Moscow city authorities have authorized a rally for as many
as 50,000 people for Dec. 24 as opposition parties and
politicians seek to turn anger over the election results into a
challenge for Putin’s re-election campaign. Kudrin and
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who is running against Putin in
the race, have both said they may attend.  Prokhorov, who owns the  New Jersey Nets  basketball team and
is ranked by Forbes magazine as Russia’s third-wealthiest person
with an $18 billion fortune this year, would be a “worthy,
strong competitor,” Putin said last week during the television
program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  