-- QPR Targets Aston Villa Striker Darren Bent, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2011-12-21T10:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/qpr-targets-aston-villa-striker-darren-bent-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  QPR in Bent Swoop?  Queens Park Rangers may make an offer for Aston Villa
striker  Darren Bent  during the January transfer window, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  QPR manager  Neil Warnock  has made a striker his top
priority and the club’s Chairman Tony Fernandes is ready to back
a move for Bent, the newspaper said.  Villa would want a fee similar to the 24 million pounds
($37.8 million) it paid for the 27-year-old in January this
year, the Mirror added.  Arsenal Mulls Loans  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger is considering different loan
options, including Manchester City’s Wayne Bridge, to strengthen
his defensive line-up after injuries to all four specialist
fullbacks, the  Guardian  reported.  The Sun  reported that Bridge has been told by City manager
 Roberto Mancini  it is time to move on. The fullback hasn’t
started a Premier League game for City since October last year.  “I hope he will go,” the paper quoted Mancini as saying.
“It’s difficult for a player to stay here every day then, on a
Saturday, nothing.”  United Targets Rodriguez  Manchester United  leads the race to sign Independiente
midfielder Patricio Rodriguez ahead of Benfica, Udinese and
Marseille, the  Daily Mail  reported. The 15 million-pound rated
player has been scouted by United six times in the last three
months, the newspaper said.  Cahill Chelsea-Bound  Chelsea will sign Bolton’s  Gary Cahill  for 7 million pounds
in January, the  Daily Mirror  reported. Bolton has agreed to sell
the England player to avoid losing him on a free transfer when
his contract expires at the end of June, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 