-- Rajoy Prepares to Appoint Finance Minister After Becoming Spain’s Premier
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2011-12-21T13:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/rajoy-prepares-to-appoint-finance-minister-after-becoming-spain-s-premier.html
Mariano Rajoy  took over as Spain’s
prime minister, backed by the strongest majority in three
decades, and prepared to appoint a finance minister who will be
tasked with reordering public finances and creating jobs.  Rajoy, 56, swore his oath before King Juan Carlos in  Madrid 
before heading to the Moncloa Palace to take over from Prime
Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero . Rajoy, whose  People’s
Party  won 185 of the 350 seats in Parliament, will name his
ministers at a news conference at 7:30 p.m. in Madrid.  Rajoy is under pressure from investors, the European
Commission and rating companies to say how he will revive a
stagnant  economy , reduce the 23 percent unemployment rate and
prevent  Spain  from being overwhelmed by the sovereign debt
crisis. While he has promised to “reshape” the public sector,
he still hasn’t said how he will cut the euro region’s third-
largest budget deficit while keeping the pledge he reiterated
this week to raise pensions.  “If we don’t have something amazing by Jan. 5 we should
start to worry,” Gayle Allard, an economics professor at IE
business school in Madrid, said in an interview. “He’s been
very cryptic, discreet.”  Election Victory  Rajoy has been waiting to take over since Nov. 20, when he
defeated the outgoing Socialists in the national election and
secured the largest majority any Spanish party has won since
1982. Spanish law didn’t allow Parliament to reconvene until
last week, and the inaugural confidence vote was held yesterday.
He holds Cabinet meetings on Dec. 23 and Dec. 30, and has told
unions and employers to present him with proposals for a labor-
market overhaul around Jan. 6, which is a holiday in Spain.  As  Spain , along with  Italy , has become the focus of the
euro region’s debt crisis, the European Commission said
yesterday it was expecting “details and the announcement of
concrete measures in the coming days and weeks.”  In his inaugural speech on Dec. 19, Rajoy’s only detailed
spending pledge was to raise pensions on Dec. 30. He said every
other part of the budget could be reduced, and he plans to
announce emergency spending cuts on the same day.  The new government will need to balance cuts with the risk
of tipping Spain back into recession. The economy stagnated in
the third quarter, and the Bank of Spain estimates it will
contract in the last three months of the year.  Spain’s 10-year borrowing costs, which rose to a euro-era
record of 6.78 percent on Nov. 17, eased to the lowest in two
months yesterday, at 5.06 percent, after the  European Central
Bank  extended its liquidity measures for banks. The yield was
5.27 percent today, 333 basis points more than equivalent German
securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  