-- Rand Strengthens for Fifth Day as ECB Lends More-Than-Expected to EU Banks
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2011-12-21T16:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/rand-climbs-for-fifth-day-as-european-liquidity-boost-supports-risk-assets.html
The rand strengthened for a fifth
day, the longest winning streak in two weeks as the  European
Central Bank  said it will lend banks more than forecast for
three years, lifting demand for higher-yielding risk assets.  South Africa’s currency appreciated as much as 1.7 percent
against the dollar and traded 0.2 percent stronger at 8.1958 as
of 3:35 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand has gained 2.5 percent
this week, making it the best-performer of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. For the year, the rand is the worst
performer with a 19 percent slump against the U.S. currency.  The ECB awarded 489 billion euros ($645 billion) in 1,134-
day loans to euro-area lenders, more than economists’ median
estimate of 293 billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey. The
ECB said 523 banks asked for the funds, which will be lent at
the average of its  benchmark rate  -- currently 1 percent -- over
the period of the loans. They start tomorrow.  “Support lent to the European situation from the ECB has
increased risk appetite and that, together with exporter flows,
has pushed the rand a bit stronger,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief
dealer at Johannesburg-based Bidvest Bank Ltd., which runs South
Africa’s largest chain of moneychangers, said by phone.  The rand has ended December higher in seven out of the last
10 years to 2010 as exporters switch their proceeds into the
South African currency, while importer demand for dollars falls.
This year, exporter selling has been “soaked up by risk-off
demand for dollars,” de Vleeschauwer said.  “I think with sentiment turning slightly positive we have
seen the exporter flows now being bigger than the importer
flows,” de Vleeschauwer said. “I would be treating this with a
bit of caution though because we need the momentum to be
sustained.”  South Africa ’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 advanced for a
fifth day, driving the yield 8.7 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, lower to 6.801 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  