-- RBS Said to Complete 1.36 Billion-Pound Loan Sale to Blackstone
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2011-12-21T11:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/rbs-said-to-complete-1-36-billion-pound-loan-sale-to-blackstone.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, sold 1.36 billion
pounds ($2.1 billion) of real-estate loans to a Blackstone Group
LP-managed fund, three people with knowledge of the talks said.  RBS will provide 550 million pounds in debt to help
Blackstone buy the assets, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks aren’t public. The private-equity
firm, which together with RBS is creating a company to hold the
loans, is buying the investments for about 29 percent less than
face value, two of the people said.  Blackstone, the world’s largest buyout firm, will manage
the real-estate loans and will buy a 25 percent stake.
Edinburgh-based RBS plans to sell its 75 percent stake in the
joint venture with Blackstone by 2013, one of the people said.  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , 51, has shrunk
the lender’s assets by 40 percent to 1.45 trillion pounds since
the 2008 financial crisis, when it received the world’s biggest
bailout and ceded an 83 percent stake to the U.K. government.  Officials at RBS and Blackstone declined to comment. The
talks were reported earlier by the CoStar Finance Blog. RBS
named Blackstone as the buyer for the portfolio of commercial
real estate loans in July. The sale was codenamed “Project
Isobel” by the lender.  Today’s transaction follows  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s
agreement to finance the sale of $2.8 billion of property loans
to Apollo Global Management LLC in December, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  