-- Real Reasons That Bankers Don’t Like Basel Rules: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2011-12-21T00:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/real-reasons-that-bankers-don-t-like-basel-rules-clive-crook.html
The  Federal Reserve , according to
reports, has decided that big U.S. banks will have to comply
with an emerging new global rule on capital. It’s a move the
banks have fought, arguing that it will increase their costs and
discourage lending.  If they are about to lose this argument, that’s good news.
The new rule isn’t too demanding. It’s not demanding enough.  Under the proposed new Basel framework, all banks will have
to raise more capital than before: a minimum 4.5 percent of
risk-weighted assets (plus a 2.5 percent capital conservation
buffer), against 2 percent previously. In addition, eight U.S.
banks, and 21 others elsewhere, have been deemed systemically
important -- meaning that their failure would threaten the wider
financial system. They might have to raise as much as an extra
2.5 percent.  This is too strict, say the banks. Capital in the form of
equity is expensive to raise, they say, so requiring more of it
will make lending less profitable and shrink the supply of
credit. Governments really ought to make up their minds, say the
banks. With economies still weak, regulators should be
encouraging new lending -- and here they are, about to do the
opposite.  The banks’ case is superficially plausible thanks to a
popular fallacy: the idea that equity sits idle and unused on a
bank’s balance sheet as a kind of overhead. In fact, equity is
just another source of funds. The proceeds from a sale of equity
can be lent out or applied to other purposes just as readily as
proceeds from, say, taking a deposit.  Equity’s Advantage  The all-important difference is that equity can absorb
losses, whereas deposits have to be repaid in full. Thanks to
that loss-absorbing capacity, the more equity a bank has, the
less likely it is to fail. Selling additional equity does not
constrain the amounts of other funds it can access or the amount
of lending it can do.  Shareholders do have to be paid a return -- so perhaps the
banks are right that being forced to raise more capital would
raise their cost of funding? On the face of it, no. A bank with
more equity is a safer bank, so the required rate of return on
its equity will be lower. Standard financial theory tells us
that altering the mix of equity and other instruments changes
the way risk and return are spread around, but not the overall
cost of funding.  Many academic studies have rebutted the banks’ argument. A
much-cited  paper  by Stanford’s  Anat Admati  and colleagues --
“Fallacies, Irrelevant Facts, and Myths in the Discussion of
Capital Regulation: Why Bank Equity Is Not Expensive” -- should
have ended this debate once and for all. It dismantles the
banks’ position step by painstaking step.  The study makes the crucial distinction between the
interests of bank managers, bank shareholders and the public at
large. Managers are being disingenuous. They do have reasons,
valid after a fashion, for opposing higher  capital requirements ,
just not reasons they can admit. The one they emphasize -- cost
of funding and its effect on future lending -- is fit for public
use, but bogus.  What might their real reasons be? If banks sell more
shares, it’s true that the return on equity will fall. If
managers’ pay is tied to return on equity (as it often is), they
will be worse off. Shareholders, on the other hand, shouldn’t
mind, because the risk of their investment is reduced in
proportion. Taxpayers, of course, would be better off -- less
likely to be stuck at some point with the cost of bailing out
the bank.  In other ways, the undeclared interests of bank managers
and shareholders are aligned. The U.S. tax code, for instance,
strongly discriminates in favor of debt and against equity.
(Interest payments are a deductible business expense, whereas
dividends and  capital gains  are taxed.) If you force banks to
raise more equity, you reduce the value of this implicit
subsidy.  No More Handouts  Curbing the benefits of both kinds of subsidy -- the tax
preference granted to debt, and the likelihood of a bailout if
the bank fails -- would be bad for bank shareholders and
managers and good for taxpayers. So let’s be clear: What banks
really dislike about the proposed new rule is that it limits
their access to handouts from the rest of us. You can understand
their reluctance to say so.  If the new rule on capital is not too strict, how much
stricter should it be? On this I recommend another  study :
“Optimal Bank Capital,” by  David Miles  and colleagues at the
 Bank of England . This paper starts by listening politely to the
banks’ arguments and bends over backward to recognize ways in
which higher capital requirements might after all raise banks’
cost of funding.  It then considers a base case -- generous, I think, to the
banks’ view of the matter -- in which a doubling of capital
increases the banks’ cost of funding 0.2 percentage points. The
researchers estimate that this would raise the cost of capital
for the wider economy by less than a tenth of a percentage
point. Long-term gross domestic product would fall, as a result,
by between 0.1 and 0.2 percent.  In return for this tiny reduction in output, a doubling of
bank capital would cut the risk of a financial breakdown that
could potentially cause vastly more damage. Nobody should need
reminding how bad the downside risk can be. A financial collapse
can cut GDP by 10 percent or more in the short term, with long-
lasting or even permanent effects.  Weighing probabilities, Miles and his colleagues look at a
series of simulations, searching for the capital ratio that
minimizes the overall cost. Converting their numbers to Basel
definitions, they recommend a ratio of 20 percent of risk-
weighted assets, more than double what is currently proposed.  The banks call that unthinkable. I call it the lower end of
what makes sense. Pay no attention to the bankers’ complaints.
The new Basel rule is no more than a modest step in the right
direction.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed here are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 