-- Red Giant Stars May Be Shaped by Jupiter-Size Planets, Research Shows
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2011-12-21T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/red-giant-stars-may-be-shaped-by-jupiter-size-planets-research-shows.html
As with children, the development of
stars is influenced by the company they keep.  Astronomers have observed a former red giant star that is
orbited by two planets comparable in size to Earth, according to
an article in the journal  Nature . The star’s cooling outer
envelope may have been stripped by the planets, leaving only an
exposed core.  Red giants  are among the last stages of life for sun-sized
stars that have expanded to about 100 times their size. The sun
will become a red giant about 5 billion years from now,
engulfing Mercury and vaporizing the small planets like Earth.
Today’s discovery shows that these red giants may be influenced
by larger planets that are perhaps the size of Saturn or
Jupiter.  “It really is a big discovery that planets can influence
the destiny of a star,” said Valerie Van Grootel, one of the
study’s authors and a research fellow at Universite de Liege in
 Belgium , in an e-mail.  The discovery was an accident, because the research team
had been trying to study pulsating stars, not find new planets,
said Elizabeth Green, an astronomer at the  University of
Arizona . The scientists used the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration’s Kepler  Space Telescope  to observe flickers from
a star that were too faint to be the celestial body itself
pulsing.  Best Explanation  The best explanation was the existence of two small
planets, passing in front every 5.76 and 8.23 hours, Green said.
That means those planets are closer to their star than Mercury
is to the sun.  The tight orbit is the smoking gun for the planets being
engulfed by the  red giant . Red giants’ outer layers are so far
from the inner core that they aren’t as influenced by gravity.
As the planets passed through, they dispersed the envelope. That
interaction probably also pulled away the gassy atmospheres
surrounding the planets, leaving behind the scorched centers.  A similar phenomenon has been observed with two stars very
close together. This is the first time astronomers have
discovered planets contributing to a star’s evolution, the
report said.  Previously, it had been a mystery as to why a red
giant might lose almost its entire envelope without a companion
star, said Van Grootel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 