-- Regime Collapse in North Korea Unlikely Amid Support From China, Han Says
-- B y   M a r i e - F r a n c e   H a n
-- 2011-12-21T04:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/regime-collapse-in-north-korea-unlikely-amid-support-from-china-han-says.html
Former South Korean Foreign Minister
Han Sung Joo said the situation in  North Korea  is stable after
Kim Jong Il’s death and that a regime collapse is unlikely.  “With the support they will be getting from  China  and at
least the temporary solidarity or unity of the leadership, I
think there is little chance of a collapse in North Korea
anytime soon,” Han said today in an interview today with
Bloomberg Television.  Kim Jong Il’s son, Kim Jong Un, was designated the
country’s leader on Dec. 19 in an official statement announcing
his father’s death and North Korea’s military pledged its
support. The official Korean Central News Agency called him a
“great successor” to carry on his father’s legacy.  “The situation is pretty much in control,” Han said.  Asked who he thought was in charge in North Korea, Han
said, “It’s a combination of the uncle, Mr. Jang Song Thaek,
and the military leader, Ri Yong Ho, and his close colleagues.
The future of North Korea will depend on how well these two
individuals and two groups can cooperate with each other, with
Kim Jong Un as the figurehead leader.”  Han was foreign minister when  Kim Il Sung ,  Kim Jong Il ’s
father, died in July 1994.  “The difference is that they have a successor who had only
about 15 months of understudy,” Han said. “At that time, Kim
Jong Il was already in training for about 20 years and so they
have more of a serious task to carry over this time.”  Any rapid changes in inter-Korean relations are unlikely,
Han said.  “I don’t think any rapid breakthrough is quite feasible
now because in order to do that, you would need a strong leader
on the part of North Korea, and at the moment North Korea
doesn’t have that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie-France Han in New York at 
 mhan30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  