-- Research on Lethal Bird Flu May Be Censored on Concern at Terrorism Risk
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2011-12-21T08:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/research-on-lethal-bird-flu-may-be-censored-on-concern-at-terrorism-risk.html
Scientists agreed not to publish
certain details of research showing how lethal bird flu can be
made contagious after a  U.S. biosecurity panel  asked that it be
kept secret for security reasons.  The study at Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam described
the genetic changes needed to make the H5N1 avian influenza
strain spread easily among ferrets and potentially people. The
research is under review for publication in the journal Science.
It was commissioned by the U.S. National Institutes of Health,
the center said yesterday in a  statement  on its website.  Knowing the genetic sequence of a deadly, infectious strain
may enable it to be recreated through reverse engineering. The
censorship was requested by the National Science Advisory Board
for Biosecurity, formed in the aftermath of the 2001 anthrax
attacks and to advise the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services. The panel called for certain data to be kept secret
after determining the risks of publishing it outweigh the
benefits, the Erasmus Medical Center said.  “Of all the potential infectious disease threats we have
out there, H5N1 is by far the most scary and the most lethal,”
 Malik Peiris , chair of virology at the University of  Hong Kong ’s
School of Public Health, said by telephone. The research “shows
that the H5N1 influenza virus can acquire transmissibility for
humans; the work is done in ferrets, but that’s the best
surrogate for human transmission.”  The Dutch scientists, led by Ron Fouchier, passed the H5N1
strain between ferrets in a chain of transmission that enabled
the virus to evolve and become better adapted to its mammalian
hosts.  Aerosol Transmission  “We have discovered that this is indeed possible, and more
easily than previously thought,” Fouchier said in a Nov. 27
press release. “In the laboratory, it was possible to change
H5N1 into an aerosol transmissible virus that can easily be
rapidly spread through the air. This process could also take
place in a natural setting.”  A similar study led by Yoshihiro Kawaoka, from the
 University of Wisconsin , is under review for publication in
Nature, the Washington Post reported yesterday.  ‘Regard to Severity’  “The H5N1 virus is in a league of its own with regard to
severity in humans,” Peiris said. “If such a virus becomes
pandemic and spreads, the world will come to a halt, there’s no
question about it.”  Avian flu is a serious public health concern with the
potential to cause a deadly pandemic, according to the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention. Since 2003, more than 500
people have been infected with the H5N1 strain and about 60
percent have died, according to the Atlanta-based agency.  Most people became infected through contact with sick birds
and the virus isn’t easily transmitted from person to person,
according to the  World Health Organization .  Editors of Science are taking the panel’s request seriously
and will be evaluating how best to proceed, Bruce Alberts, the
journal’s editor-in-chief, said in a statement.  Science’s response is contingent on the government
developing a plan so withheld information can be provided to
researchers who request it “as part of their legitimate efforts
to improve  public health  and safety,” Alberts said.  ‘Have Reservations’  “The researchers have reservations about this
recommendation but will observe it,” the Dutch center said in
the statement. The research data may be shared with the
scientific community, subject to an obligation of
confidentiality, it said.  Nature recognizes the motivation behind the U.S. panel’s
unprecedented recommendations, said Philip Campbell, the
journal’s editor in chief, according to an article posted on its
 website . It’s discussing with interested parties how
“appropriate access to the scientific methods and data could be
enabled,” he said.  “I am not convinced that withholding scientific know-how
will prevent the highly unlikely scenario of misuse of
information, but I am worried that it may stunt our progress
towards the improved control of this infectious disease,” said
 Wendy Barclay , Imperial College’s Chair in Influenza Virology,
said in distributed comments from  New Zealand ’s Science Media
Centre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  