-- Revisions Will Show Fewer U.S. Existing Homes Purchased From 2007 to 2011
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-21T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/revisions-will-show-fewer-u-s-existing-homes-purchased-from-2007-to-2011.html
Fewer existing homes were sold since
2007 than previously estimated, painting an even bleaker picture
of the industry that precipitated the U.S. recession, a report
from the National Association of Realtors will show today.  “Although there are downward revisions for total sales in
recent years, there is little change to previously reported
monthly comparisons or characterizations based on percentage
change,” Walter Molony, a spokesman for the group, said in an
e-mailed statement last week. He said the revisions will include
comparable reductions in inventories and no change in prices.  CoreLogic Inc., a real-estate analytics company, released a
report in February showing that 3.3 million existing homes were
sold in 2010, less than the 4.91 million tallied by NAR. Today’s
report will also show that  purchases  increased to a 5.05 million
annual rate in November from 4.97 million the prior month,
according to the median  forecast  of 71 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The range of November estimates, from a low of 4.38 million
to a high of 5.25 million, was wider than normal because some
economists factored in assumptions for the NAR revisions while
others didn’t.  Housing, which helped trigger the 18-month recession that
ended in June 2009 when subprime borrowers defaulted, is showing
signs of stabilizing as builder confidence improves and
construction picks up. Nonetheless, another wave of foreclosures
will probably push prices down further as more marked-down
properties come on the market.  ‘Steep Correction’  “Housing’s done an incredibly steep correction,” said
 John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “In general, demand for houses is
still pretty weak. We have a big supply, a big shadow
inventory.”  The NAR data are due at 10 a.m. in Washington.  Figures from other trackers of home sales show a slower
pace of purchases compared with NAR. CoreLogic, based in  Santa
Ana ,  California , monitors sales figures through property records
at local courthouses, while NAR follows sales through the
multiple-listing services used by real-estate agents.  NAR tallies in recent years may have been overstated
because the consolidation of listing services could have caused
distortions in the data, according to  Lawrence Yun , chief
economist at the Realtors’ group. He said estimates of direct
sales by owners may also have been overstated.  Market Strains  “The benchmark revision to the NAR data should be watched
extra carefully by long-term investors, as we expect the
revision to reflect the ‘strains’ in housing markets that we
find in” figures from  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , Herrmann, who
is projecting demand will be revised down by about 9 percent,
said in a research note this week.  The  median value  of an existing house fell to $162,500 in
October from $170,600 a year earlier, according to NAR data. The
value plunged from a July 2006 record of $230,300 to a low of
$156,100 in February.  There are signs the industry may be stabilizing. Builders
 broke ground  on more houses in November than at any time in the
past 19 months and construction permits climbed to the highest
level since March 2010, Commerce Department data showed
yesterday.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  index 
of builder confidence rose in December for a third straight
month, reaching the highest level since May 2010.  No Slowdown  “November is a time that historically sales slow down,”
 Larry Sorsby , chief financial officer at builder  Hovnanian
Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , said on a Dec. 15 call with analysts. “And
this year we’ve not seen as dramatic a slowdown as we have in
recent prior years. The market feels a little bit better than we
would have expected.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder Index of
12 builders surged yesterday after a report showed housing
starts climbed. The gauge jumped 6.4 percent, compared with a 3
percent increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  The Obama administration this month started a new version
of the federal Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP, after
the original plan helped less than a quarter of the people
targeted to lock in lower  mortgage rates .  Federal Reserve policy makers reiterated at a meeting this
month that they will keep the benchmark  interest rate  near zero
until at least mid-2013. The central bank in September decided
to reinvest maturing housing debt into new mortgage-backed
securities instead of Treasuries.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  