-- Romney, Gingrich Ignore Culprits in Financial Crisis Blame
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2011-12-21T18:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/romney-gingrich-bid-to-pin-crisis-on-government-ignores-culprits.html
The leading Republican candidates
for president have embraced an explanation of the financial
crisis that has been rejected by the chairman of the Federal
Reserve, many economists and even three of the four Republicans
on the government commission that investigated the meltdown.  Both former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney lay much of the blame on U.S.
government housing policies, saying they led to the real estate
crash that almost brought down the banking system and has cost
homeowners  $6.6 trillion  since 2006.  Unregulated private lenders who sought profits in risky
subprime loans were bigger contributors to the crash than
federal housing policy, critics of the Republican argument say.
They also point to simultaneous housing bubbles in other
countries beyond the reach of U.S laws and surges in the value
of non-housing investments such as corporate bonds.  “It’s just completely wrong,” said  Joseph Gagnon , a
former Fed economist who’s now a fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington .  While the candidates’ view may be in the minority, it has
stoked a debate over the government’s role in the economy that’s
central to the 2012 presidential campaign. President Barack Obama cited Wall Street misdeeds last year in signing the most
comprehensive new financial regulations in more than 75 years.
Republicans vow to repeal that law, which includes provisions
aimed at curbing abusive mortgage industry practices.  Pressuring Banks  The Republicans say the federal government pressed banks to
make risky housing loans under a 1977 law called the Community
Reinvestment Act, helping inflate  home prices  and ultimately
sparking the crash.  “The reason we have the housing crises we have is that the
federal government played too heavy a role in our markets,”
Romney said in a Nov. 9 Republican debate. “The federal
government came in with  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac, and Barney Frank and  Chris Dodd  told banks they had to give loans to people
who couldn’t afford to pay them back.”  Gingrich has suggested jailing Frank, the former chairman
of the House Financial Services Committee, and Dodd, who headed
the Senate Banking Committee until his retirement this year.  That was before Bloomberg News reported on Nov. 16 that the
former speaker had privately been paid $1.6 million to $1.8
million as a consultant for Freddie Mac.  Global Bubble  The Community Reinvestment Act can’t explain why house
prices in the U.K., Ireland,  Spain  and  France  doubled earlier
this decade and almost doubled in  Australia . All have suffered
steep losses since then, with  Ireland ’s home prices dropping 38
percent by December 2010 from the 2006 peak.  Nor did  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage companies
seized by the government in 2008 after their stake in subprime
loans pushed them to the brink of collapse, have anything to do
with commercial real estate, where prices rose by 91 percent in
the seven years to October 2007. Housing prices increased by 107
percent between January 2000 and July 2006, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller Composite-20 Home Price Index.  Losses on subprime mortgage-backed securities didn’t start
shaking financial institutions until 2007, three decades after
the CRA was introduced and 15 years after affordable housing
goals were established for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  The companies were required by a separate 1992 law to
increase purchases of mortgages given to low- or moderate-income
borrowers to 50 percent of their total in 2001 from 30 percent
in 1993.  ‘Red-Lining’  The CRA was enacted to combat “red-lining” by lenders
that often refused to serve  low-income  borrowers. Under the law,
government regulators evaluate banks’ provision of credit and
use their performance in approving mergers.  At the bubble’s peak in 2005-06, only 6 percent of all
subprime loans involved lenders or borrowers governed by the
law, according to  Federal Reserve  data. “The available evidence
seems to run counter to the contention that the CRA contributed
in any substantive way to the current mortgage crisis,” Fed
economists Neil Bhutta and Glenn Canner  wrote  in 2009.  Still, if Republicans are overstating housing policy’s role
in causing the crisis, the administration has done little to
address shortcomings in the home-finance system, including
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, whose losses have cost taxpayers
$169 billion to date and could total $311 billion by 2014, the
Federal Housing Finance Agency said in October.  SEC Charge  “You all said you all would come forth at the beginning of
this year with a real proposal” to reform the system, Senator
 Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, said of the administration
at a Dec. 6 Senate Banking Committee hearing. “The year is
almost over and you have not done that.”  The Securities and Exchange Commission on Dec. 16 charged
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s former chief executives and four
other top officials with securities fraud, alleging they
deliberately understated the companies’ exposure to subprime
loans by hundreds of billions of dollars. Without admitting or
denying liability, the two companies agreed not to contest the
charges and to cooperate in the SEC’s cases against the
individual executives.  Magnifying the depth of the housing slump that contributed
to the recession, the number of existing homes sold in the U.S.
was revised down by an average 14 percent since 2007, the
National Association of Realtors said today in Washington.  Threat From Government  The Republican message may dovetail more with public
sentiment. In a Gallup Poll released on Dec. 12, 64 percent of
respondents said “big government” is the main threat to the
country, compared with 26 percent who said “big business.”  R.C. Hammond, a Gingrich spokesman, didn’t reply to two e-
mails requesting comment. Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Romney,
e-mailed several comments the candidate has made on the crisis,
including a passage in his 2010 book “No Apology” that says
responsibility for the 2008 panic shouldn’t “be laid solely at
the feet of  Wall Street  and the private sector.”  Edward Pinto , a resident fellow at the American Enterprise
Institute and former chief credit officer at Fannie Mae, said a
1995 push by President  Bill Clinton  to expand home ownership
lowered mortgage-underwriting standards and encouraged private
lenders to make ever-riskier loans.  Pinto blames community activists, Congress and Fannie Mae
for “a race to the bottom” on lending standards, which meant
that by 2007, 40 percent of home loans involved down payments of
less than 3 percent. Competition from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
drove lenders to ignore traditional safeguards such as loan-to-
value, or LTV, limits and required down payments, he said.  ‘Government’s Fingerprints’  “You look at the growth in mortgages you look at the
leverage, the decline in LTVs -- you look at all of those
things, and government’s fingerprints are all over it,” he
said.  By 2008, almost half the nation’s 55 million loans -- 26.7
million -- were “high risk” or effectively subprime, according
to Pinto, who uses his own methodology for loan classification.
The nonpartisan Government Accountability Office says there were
just 4.59 million subprime loans active as of the end of 2009.  “We are aware of such claims but have not seen any
empirical evidence presented to support them,” Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke wrote on Nov. 25, 2008.  About 60 percent of all subprime loans were extended to
middle- or higher-income borrowers or neighborhoods, then-Fed
governor Randall Kroszner said in a December 2008 speech.
Another 20 percent were given to low-income borrowers by nonbank
lenders that weren’t subject to the anti-discrimination law.  No ‘Meaningful’ Contribution  Kroszner, a University of Chicago economist appointed to
the Fed by President  George W. Bush , said it’s “hard to imagine
how this law could have contributed in any meaningful way to the
current subprime crisis.”  The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, established by
Congress in 2009, concluded that “collapsing mortgage-lending
standards and the mortgage securitization pipeline” were among
several contributors.  “Problems with U.S. housing policy or markets do not by
themselves explain the U.S. housing bubble,” former House Ways
and Means Committee Chairman Bill Thomas, economist Douglas Holtz-Eakin and Keith Hennessey, a onetime White House economic
adviser, wrote in a dissent.  Other analysts say the lure of profits, not government
encouragement, prompted companies to get into subprime. From
2001 to 2005, private lenders’ share of mortgage-backed security
issuance rose to 55.2 percent of the market from 19.7 percent.  Leading the Way  “The private sector led the way; there’s no question about
it,” says Kathleen Engel, author of “The Subprime Virus” and
a professor at Suffolk University Law School.  Even as the U.S. housing boom neared its peak in the middle
of the last decade, bubbles were inflating elsewhere. High
savings rates in Asian economies and Middle East oil-producers
created a pool of capital searching for high returns.  Douglas Elliott , a former managing director at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said a quarter-century of strong financial market
performance lulled investors into a false sense of security.
Their risk appetite manifested itself in commercial real estate,
high-yield corporate bonds and sovereign debt, not just housing.  “Commercial real estate seems to have been in a bigger
bubble than residential real estate, and there was absolutely no
intentional government policy to encourage commercial real
estate,” said Elliott.  Likewise, creditors earlier in this decade saw almost no
difference in lending to  Germany  or  Greece . From 2003 through
2005, the average yield on German 2-year bonds was 2.44 percent
compared with 2.5 percent on similar Greek debt. On Dec. 20,
Greece had to offer investors a 146.6 percent yield to hold its
debt while Germany paid just 0.21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 