-- Romney Tells Gingrich to ‘Take Heat’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2011-12-22T02:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/romney-tells-gingrich-to-take-heat-.html
Republican presidential front-
runners  Mitt Romney  and  Newt Gingrich  announced endorsements and
traded barbs over advertisements as both campaigned in New
Hampshire.  “The speaker would like to say, ‘Look, we shouldn’t have
any negativity,’ but, look, if you can’t handle the heat in this
little kitchen, the heat that’s going to come from Obama’s
hell’s kitchen is going to be a heck of a lot hotter,” Romney
said of Gingrich this morning on  MSNBC . “We have to show that
we, as a  Republican Party  and as a candidate, that we can stand
up to the barrage that’s going to come from the Obama world.”  Gingrich, who called the ads aimed at him “dishonest,”
said that after the Iowa caucuses, he would consider holding a
rally in New Hampshire with  Massachusetts  expatriates to call
attention to the differing visions of government that he and
former Massachusetts Governor Romney hold. Gingrich said he
would call it, “Please Don’t Turn America into Massachusetts.”  The two candidates, separated by two points in the daily
national Gallup tracking poll, are feuding over ads being funded
by a pro-Romney political action committee.  Going After Gingrich  The group has been airing commercials that go after
Gingrich, a former House speaker, on a variety of issues,
including the $1.6 million consulting payments he received from
 Freddie Mac , the government-chartered mortgage company that lost
millions in the housing crisis at taxpayers’ expense.  The pro-Romney PAC, Restore Our Future, has spent more than
$2.5 million on ads and direct mail against Gingrich, Federal
Election Commission records show.  “I suspect we’ll have to fight our way back,” Gingrich
told reporters in Manchester. “Most of the negative advertising
is shamefully dishonest.”  Some Gingrich backers said the ads were hurting the former
speaker. “Attack ads usually do have an impact,” said  New
Hampshire  state Representative Duane Erickson.  Romney said he had no control over the ads, which are
funded by his supporters and can’t be coordinated with the
campaign.  At a Keene restaurant where he announced his endorsements,
Romney told reporters, “that’s the point of a campaign, to point
out distinctions” that allow voters “to make their decision on
an informed basis.”  Virginia Rally  In Arlington, Virginia, tonight, Gingrich suggested Romney
meet him in a 90-minute one-on-one debate in Iowa next week
where Romney could explain the negative ads.  “We’ll find out tomorrow how he likes the heat, and
whether he wants to come in the kitchen -- or whether, in fact,
he’s just a normal national politician with clever consultants
and lots of money and no willingness to stand up and tell the
truth,” Gingrich said at a rally with supporters.  Gingrich, who as recently as Dec. 19 suggested he might
“barely” gather enough signatures to make it onto  Virginia ’s
ballot, told the crowd that he would meet tomorrow’s deadline.  Even so, he said he was still trying to capitalize on his
surge in opinion polls.  “We weren’t ready for it yet because we don’t have the
structure and we don’t have the money to compete at that level,
so we had to scramble a little bit,” Gingrich said.  Bus Tour  Romney, who is in the midst of a four-day New Hampshire bus
tour where the first-in-nation primary will be held on Jan. 10,
campaigned with U.S. Senator  Kelly Ayotte , former Senator  Judd Gregg  and the head of a local Tea Party group. Later, the
campaign announced the endorsement of Senator Mike Johanns of
 Nebraska  and three former Iowa and New Hampshire House speakers.  Such endorsements can help voters who may not be familiar
with those seeking their support, lawmakers said.  “I get a lot of phone calls as to whom I’m supporting and
why,” said incoming Keene Mayor Kendall Lane, who also endorsed
Romney today. “That’s part of the judgment around here.”  A few hours later, Gingrich stood on a podium in a downtown
Manchester hotel and received the backing of state House Speaker
WilliamO’Brien. Earlier in the day, Gingrich was endorsed by
Iowa House Speaker Kraig Paulsen.  Romney, who owns a home in New Hampshire, leads in opinion
polls in the state, though Gingrich has closed the gap. A Nov.
29-Dec. 6 CNN-Time magazine poll of likely voters put Romney
ahead, 35 percent to 26 percent. Four years ago, Romney lost the
primary to Arizona Senator  John McCain , who went on to win the
Republican nomination.  The polls are still fluid, Gregg said in an interview
before appearing on the podium with Romney in Keene.  “People decide late,” Gregg said. “They listen to
everyone. The one thing that’s predictable about New Hampshire
is that it’s unpredictable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Manchester, New Hampshire, at
   jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Arlington, Virginia, at
   jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 