-- Troops Are Gone but Iraq War Is Not ‘Over’: Meghan L. O’Sullivan
-- B y   M e g h a n   L .   O ’ S u l l i v a n
-- 2011-12-21T00:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/troops-are-gone-but-iraq-war-is-not-over-meghan-l-o-sullivan.html
While Americans have been welcoming
the “end” of the war in Iraq over the past few days, a
political crisis of serious proportions has been unfolding in
 Baghdad .  The fragile governing coalition that has teetered between
dysfunction and collapse for the past year appears to be
splintering, strained by personality clashes, governance
disagreements and sectarian rivalries coming to a head.  Only a matter of hours after the last convoy of U.S. troops
exited, the Iraqi government issued an arrest warrant for one of
the nation’s vice presidents on terrorism charges; the prime
minister urged Parliament to eject one of his deputies for
calling him a dictator in the news media; unruly protests
followed a vote in favor of greater provincial autonomy; and
Iraqiya -- the Sunni-dominated political coalition in an uneasy
alliance with the party of Prime Minister Nouri Al-Maliki, a
Shiite -- walked out of Parliament. Meanwhile, Iraqi
parliamentary leaders of various stripes are gathering in the
northern Kurdish region, likely to debate their options for
opposing Maliki’s “centralizing tendencies” and increasingly
strong grip on power.  Some observers will point to this series of events as
further proof that the U.S. should not have spent a moment
longer trying to stabilize what is inherently an unstable
country. But that is vastly oversimplistic. In actuality, the
events of the last few days -- and the weeks and months ahead --
are better understood in the context of two specific
developments.  Institutions Are Fluid  First was the withdrawal of all U.S. troops from  Iraq  well
before the nascent political institutions had gelled. (Yes, that
decision is widely viewed as having been made by the Iraqis
themselves, but there is little question that the Barack Obama
administration could have done much more to change their minds
had it wanted to.)  The U.S. military presence in Iraq served several purposes,
such as training Iraqi soldiers and police and helping them
provide security. But for some time now its most meaningful
function was as psychological ballast for the governmental and
civic institutions so painstakingly crafted by Iraqis, with
American and international help, since 2003. For eight years
there has been a persistent tension between Iraq’s fledgling
democratic institutions and the traditional Iraqi political
culture -- which tends toward the authoritarian and the
centralized.  In this competition, the new institutions survived and
gradually strengthened in significant part because there was the
perception that the U.S. was standing behind them. As long as
American forces were in Iraq -- even in small numbers -- few
thought that more “traditional” methods of resolving political
disputes (through force or coercion or extra-judicial means)
would be tolerated. The events of the weekend suggest that the
departure of U.S. forces has removed that ballast and shifted
the scales in favor of Iraq’s traditional political culture --at
least for the moment.  The second frame through which to view the events of recent
days is the spectrum of unresolved political issues, most
important of which is disagreement over Iraq’s federal
character. The  constitution  calls for a federal state, although
the breadth and depth of this federalism have long been
disputed.  Although many Iraqis were and are willing to accept a
Kurdistan Regional Government with significant autonomy, far
fewer believed the concept of federalism had any meaningful
application to the rest of Iraq. The 2005 constitution provided
a rough road map for areas other than the Kurdish region wanting
to claim greater autonomy from Baghdad, but many Iraqis at the
time considered this a theoretical gesture.  Opposition Is Fierce  Over the past year, however, several of Iraq’s Arab
provinces -- frustrated with Baghdad and seeing the success of
the Kurds -- have sought to move in this direction. These
tentative steps have generated fierce opposition, from some who
live in those provinces and especially from Maliki, and many in
his Cabinet, who specifically but not exclusively see the
dangers of oil-rich provinces assuming greater control over
their resources. Longstanding disputes between Baghdad and the
Kurdish regional government over the extent of the latter’s
powers mean that both the road to and the endgame of a more
federal Iraq are contested and ill-defined.  All this came to a head in the last week when Baghdad
opposed the latest effort of an Iraqi province -- ethnically and
sectarian-mixed Diyala Province, northeast of Baghdad -- to
position itself to “become a region” and assume greater
powers. Quickly, demonstrations and clashes with local security
forces broke out in the province, and Diyala’s governor fled to
the Kurdish region.  These developments were ostensibly an impetus behind
Iraqiya’s walkout in Parliament. Even more significantly, they
will almost certainly weaken the enthusiasm of the Kurds for
supporting Maliki without further concessions.  The manner in which the current political crisis is
resolved will be a harbinger for Iraq’s political path in the
years ahead. If tensions are resolved in a way that clarifies
and strengthens Iraq’s political institutions and reinforces
support for them among all political, sectarian and ethnic
factions, Iraq’s overall trajectory is much more likely to point
upward, albeit at a modest slope. If, however, force is used to
quell federal aspirations, to silence opposition and to
consolidate the government’s power, one might anticipate a slide
to a less democratic, more unstable Iraq.  In the past, the U.S. would have played a significant, if
not necessarily determinative, role in resolving such a crisis.
No doubt, the current ambassador to Baghdad, Jim Jeffrey, is
busy trying to help Iraqis defuse the situation and chart a
sensible way forward.  Consequences for Region  How this -- and future -- Iraqi political blowups are
resolved matters hugely for the  United States . Troops or no
troops, the course Iraq takes has major bearings on American
interests. Iraq’s orientation in the months and years ahead will
be of great consequence for regional stability and the direction
of continuing Arab revolutions, for international oil markets
and their ability to meet rising energy demand, and for how the
international confrontation with  Iran  will be resolved.  All of this underscores how modestly we should regard
claims that the Iraq War is over. Yes, we have “ended” the
aspect of the war that was in our power to end: the American
military presence in Iraq. But it is far from the end of U.S.
interests in Iraq. And it is not the end of Iraq’s ability to
stabilize or inflame events in a critical part of the world.  For Iraqis, it is not the end of the difficult transition
out of dictatorship and its many ugly legacies. For thousands of
American families who lost loved ones, and tens of thousands of
U.S. troops wounded, it is not the end of the struggle. Nor is
it the end of America’s obligation to these veterans.  Hopefully, it is also not the end of the U.S.’s ability to
think strategically about Iraq or to influence events there in
favor of post-Saddam Hussein institutions over traditional
political culture. As the Obama administration rightly
underscored during Maliki’s visit to  Washington  last week, there
are many ways in which the nonmilitary connections between Iraq
and the United States can be strengthened.  Maintaining financial and other support for the large U.S.
Embassy and civilian effort in Iraq will be critical. So, too,
is translating still-nascent U.S. business interests in Iraq
into real commercial ties between the two countries.
Consolidating intelligence and other security links will be an
important aspect of a transformed bilateral relationship, as
will be continued mechanisms for discussing regional issues and
aligning interests where possible.  Each dimension of a new, robust, nonmilitary relationship
will be difficult to fashion and maintain. We have seen this
already in waning congressional interest in Iraq and in Iraqi
reluctance to take a tougher stand against the violence waged by
the neighboring Syrian regime against civilians. So, rather than
talk of ending the war in Iraq -- which makes such efforts more,
not less, difficult -- we should talk of transcending the
military relationship and realizing a more mutually beneficial
one.  (Meghan L. O’Sullivan, a professor at Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government and former deputy national security
adviser, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Meghan L. O’Sullivan at  Meghan_OSullivan@hks.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 