-- Rubber Jumps to One-Week High as U.S. Data Boost Growth Outlook
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2011-12-21T08:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/rubber-jumps-to-one-week-high-as-u-s-data-boost-growth-outlook.html
Rubber jumped to a one-week high
after U.S. housing data beat estimates, boosting optimism that
the largest economy will expand and support raw-material demand.  The May-delivery contract gained as much as 3.1 percent to
279.7 yen a kilogram ($3,597 a metric ton), the highest level
since Dec. 14, before settling at 277.9 yen on the  Tokyo 
Commodity Exchange. It has slumped 33 percent this year, heading
for the worst performance in three years.  Asian  stocks (MXAP)  extended a global rally after a U.S. report
showed builders broke ground in November on 685,000 houses, the
most since April 2010. Equities and commodities also advanced as
concerns about  Europe  eased after  Spain  sold 5.64 billion euros
($7.38 billion) of bills, more than the maximum target, and
after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged support for exports.  “The good result of Spain’s bill sales and upbeat numbers
on U.S. housing improved investor sentiment,” Makiko Tsugata,
an analyst at research company Market Risk Advisory in Tokyo,
said today by e-mail. “Price movements were exaggerated by thin
trading as market participants declined ahead of holidays.”  Rubber also advanced after oil climbed for a third day in
 New York , boosting the appeal of natural rubber as an
alternative to synthetic products made from petroleum. Crude for
February delivery rose as much as 1.2 percent in New York,
extending yesterday’s 3.4 percent rally on signs of economic
recovery and concern shipments from Iran may be curbed.  Heavy Rains  Prices are supported by concerns that heavy rains in
 Thailand ’s south and Malaysia may disrupt latex tapping and cut
supplies, said Chaiwat Muenmee, analyst at Bangkok-based
commodity broker DS Futures Co.  The  Thai cash price  gained 0.7 percent to 105.65 baht
($3.38) per kilogram today, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand.  Global demand is forecast to climb to 27.2 million tons
next year, boosted by an expected increase in consumption of
natural and synthetic rubber, according to the International
Rubber Study Group.  Synthetic demand may rise 5.5 percent next year, while that
for natural rubber may grow 4.6 percent, the group said in a
statement yesterday. Global natural rubber output may rise 5.1
percent next year, it said, without giving a volume.  May-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
climbed 1.4 percent to close at 25,275 yuan ($3,986) a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  