-- Russia’s Summa May Finish Rotterdam Urals Terminal in 2013
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2011-12-21T11:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/russia-s-summa-may-finish-rotterdam-urals-terminal-in-2013.html
Summa Group, a shareholder in
 Russia ’s biggest crude-export facilities in Novorossiysk and
Primorsk, may start operating a $1 billion  oil terminal  in
Rotterdam earlier than planned, a company official said.  “We have an aggressive schedule, it should be do-able in
2013, 2014,” First Vice President Alexander Vinokurov, 29, said
in a Dec. 16 interview in Moscow, where the company is
headquartered. He previously gave 2015 as a completion date for
the 3 million-cubic-meter facility. That’s about a 10th of the
port’s current liquids capacity.  The construction of the terminal in Europe’s largest port
has the backing of Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , who met
with Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  in Moscow two months ago.
The terminal may become a European trading hub for Russian Urals
crude, the Kremlin said at that time. Geneva-based Vitol Group,
the world’s largest independent oil trader, is a shareholder.  Buyers will be able to purchase Urals to be loaded from
Rotterdam, said Vinokurov, who joined Summa in August. “We will
provide a core part of the logistics chain,” he said.  The project may help raise the status of  Urals  to that of
an international benchmark, Vinokurov said. Russian oil, which
accounted for 26 percent of Rotterdam’s crude last year, is
priced against the  Brent  benchmark in northwest  Europe . Urals
contains more sulfur and is heavier than grades from Libya or
 Nigeria , making it more difficult to process into premium,
lighter fuels such as gasoline or jet fuel.  Urals Benchmark  “There is talk of improving Urals quality somewhat but
even now a case could be made for it to be a benchmark if there
was a stable supply in the heart of Europe,” Vinokurov said.  Russia is the biggest supplier of crude to the European
Union, according to EU data. The Baltic port of Primorsk, which
handles more sea-bound shipments than any other port, will
supply the Rotterdam terminal.  The facility is being built by Shtandart TT BV, in which
Summa has a stake of 75 percent. The rest is owned by VTTI,
which is half owned by Vitol.  Vinokurov previously worked for Morgan Stanley in  London 
and was co-head in Russia for TPG Capital, the  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based private equity company.  Rotterdam has storage capacity of 30 million cubic meters
for crude, oil products and chemicals, according to the port’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  