-- S. Korea’s Power Utilities Pledge to Raise Renewables Portfolios
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2011-12-22T03:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/s-korea-s-power-generators-pledge-to-raise-renewable-portfolios.html
South Korea ’s 13 power utilities
pledged to increase the use of renewable sources for electricity
generation as the government plans an alternative-energy quota
in 2012 to reduce emissions.  The generators signed contracts with the government to
cooperate on meeting the mandatory quotas and to install
renewable-energy power generators at all their sites by 2013,
the  Ministry of Knowledge Economy  said in an e-mailed statement
today.  The generators, each with more than 500 megawatts of
capacity, include six units of state-run  Korea Electric Power
Corp. (KEP) , Posco Power Corp., GS Power Co. and Korea District
Heating Corp.  Korea Energy Management Corp.  will provide
technical and other aid as an accredited approval organization
for the renewable portfolio standard, or RPS, according to the
statement.  The quota will increase investment in cleaner energy as
South Korea’s government seeks to bolster the nation’s share of
the world markets for solar and wind-power equipment to 15
percent of each by 2015. South Korea had 11 percent of the
global solar market and 4 percent of the wind market in 2010,
according to government data.  The quota for electricity generated by renewable sources
will be raised to 10 percent in 2022 from 2 percent in 2012, the
ministry said today. As current solar-energy technology is less
economically viable, the government will impose separate energy
quotas on those generators in the first five years to foster the
industry, the ministry said.  South Korea announced a voluntary goal in December to
reduce its emissions of  greenhouse gases  blamed for global
warming.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  