-- S. Korea to Increase Overseas Crude, Gas Spending by 34%
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2011-12-21T05:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/s-korea-to-increase-overseas-crude-gas-spending-by-34-1-.html
South Korea,  Asia ’s fourth-largest
crude importer, plans to increase by 34 percent its investment
in 2012 to develop overseas oil and gas fields as it seeks to to
reduce reliance on energy imports.  The country will spend $11.8 billion next year to develop
overseas crude and gas fields, the  Ministry of Knowledge Economy 
said in an e-mailed statement today. The investment is part of
the nation’s plan to own crude and gas assets capable of
producing 20 percent of its overall energy consumption next
year, the ministry said.  The government plans to “aggressively” develop energy
resources, the ministry said, adding that the competition to
acquire assets may “intensify next year” amid rising
uncertainty over global supply and demand outlook. The
government will fund $7.8 billion of the proposed investment,
with private companies contributing the rest.  South Korea  is aiming to cut back on imports of crude and
metal resources, which account for more than 60 percent of its
overall imports. It is targeting that overseas metal assets
owned by Korean companies will be able to supply 32 percent of
the country’s overall needs.  Korea National Oil Corp., the state-run energy developer,
will continue oil and gas exploration projects in Iraq and in
the Ulleung Basin off South Korea’s eastern coast next year, the
ministry said.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s biggest importer of
liquefied natural gas, aims to continue exploring gas in
deepwater wells off the coast of  Mozambique , and plans to make a
bid for a fourth round of exploration rights in  Iraq  in March.  State-run Korea Resources Corp. will focus on buying coal
and copper assets, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  