-- Sapporo Favors Vietnam Over China as Tropical Beer-Guzzling Grows: Retail
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   C h e n g   H e r n g   S h i n n
-- 2011-12-22T09:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/sapporo-favors-vietnam-over-china-because-more-guzzlers-are-there-retail.html
Japanese brewers are looking past
 China ’s $57 billion beer market to a country with less than one-
tenth the population: Vietnam.  Japan ’s oldest beer maker,  Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501) , pulled
out of China in 2004 and is boosting production in Vietnam.
Rivals  Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. (2502)  and Kirin Holdings Co. have
bought Southeast Asian companies to help offset domestic beer
sales that have slumped for at least six years.  The brewers are making the fastest growing major economy,
China, a lesser priority because of slowing population growth
and strong competition. The Japanese companies’ push to tap
younger markets in Southeast Asian countries such as Vietnam may
boost sales and margins. It also pits them against global brands
including Amsterdam-based  Heineken NV (HEIA)  and Copenhagen-based
 Carlsberg A/S .  Vietnam “has 90 million people whose average age is 28
years and love to guzzle beer,” said Yoshiyuki Mochida, who
heads Tokyo-based Sapporo’s international business. “It’s an
era of the warring states for business in Vietnam. If you fall
asleep there, your head will be lopped off.”  Vietnam retail beer sales will probably rise 20 percent to
96 trillion dong ($4.6 billion) this year, or less than a tenth
of China’s 360 billion yuan ($57 billion), researcher
Euromonitor International estimated. The country’s beer
consumption per capita was 27.2 liters last year, trailing
China’s 31.5 liters and equivalent to about a third of that in
the U.S., according to  research  by Kirin.  Asahi dropped 0.1 percent to 1,694 yen at the close of
trading in  Tokyo . Kirin rose 1.7 percent to 939 yen and Sapporo
climbed 0.3 percent to 303 yen.  Beer Prices  While China accounted for 71 percent of the Asia-Pacific
region’s beer market by volume last year, it contributed 16
percent of profit, Heineken Chief Executive Officer Jean Francois van Boxmeer said Dec. 8. The average price of beer in
China is about 25 euros ($33) per 100 liters, compared with 51
euros in  India , 60 euros in Vietnam and 182 euros in  Australia ,
he said.  Asahi is looking at  Indonesia , Vietnam, Thailand, the
Philippines and Malaysia for potential acquisitions, said
company President Naoki Izumiya. China’s beverage market will be
hurt from 2015 by slower population growth from the nation’s
one-child policy, he said.  Japanese brewers (2503) , serving a home market with per-capita
consumption of 45.4 liters, need to look to countries such as
Vietnam for growth. The Japanese beer industry’s 2010 domestic
sales by volume, including lower-malt drinks, is 18 percent
lower than a decade ago after sliding for six consecutive years,
according to Kirin’s research.  Facing the Facts  “Consumption is tied in with population and we have to
face this fact squarely,” Kirin Chief Executive Officer Senji Miyake said.  Kirin has a head start in Southeast  Asia , said Akane Nakagawa, an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley, with an
“outperform” rating on the stock and a 1,500 yen price target.
Sapporo, which  started  beer production in Southeast Asia last
month, is next, she said.  While Asahi lags behind the other two, it may benefit from
synergies as it integrates Malaysia’s nonalcoholic drink maker
Permanis Sdn., which it acquired in the second half of 2011,
Nakagawa said.  Nakagawa has a “neutral” rating on Asahi, which has
gained 7.7 percent this year, compared with 18 percent declines
for both Sapporo and Kirin. The broader Topix index has lost 20
percent in the period.  Chinese Giants  Southeast Asia offers opportunities because of a relative
absence of competition, said Mikihiko Yamato, an analyst at JI
Asia who recommends buying Kirin shares. The “best-case
scenario” would be for the Japanese companies to buy closely
held beverage makers where they can negotiate directly with the
owners, he said.  Japanese brewers have found China a tough place to do
business because a handful of brands dominate China’s beer
industry.  “Their market share there can’t rise,” said Tokushi Yamasaki, an analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital. “Competition
is too fierce in China.”  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) , the maker of Snow beer
with SABMiller Plc., has a 22 percent share,  Tsingtao (600600)  Brewery
Co., part-owned by Asahi, has 14 percent, and  Anheuser Busch
InBev NV (ABI)  has 12 percent, according to Euromonitor.  Shares of  China Resources  fell 1.5 percent to HK$27.05 at
the close in  Hong Kong . Tsingtao dropped 0.6 percent to 33.16
yuan at close in  Shanghai .  “There are giants in the Chinese beer market and we have
no chance to go it alone,” said Kirin’s Miyake. “There is
still a chance for us in Vietnam from our market analysis.”  Population Growth  China’s population is also aging. People over 60 years old
accounted for 13.3 percent of the population last year, nearly 3
percentage points higher than in 2000, according to government
statistics.  The median age of Vietnam’s population is 27.8 years,
compared with 35.5 years for China’s 1.3 billion people,
according to the CIA World Factbook.  Vietnam’s population  will
grow 1.2 percent to 90.4 million next year, according to
 International Monetary Fund  estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Government estimates in China, which put in place a one-
child policy in 1979, show population growth slowing in the
decade through 2010, compared with the previous 10-year period.  The total population of Indonesia, the  Philippines ,
Vietnam,  Thailand  and Malaysia will expand to 553 million in
2016 from 519 million this year, according to IMF estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Japan’s will probably  contract  1.1
percent to 127 million in the same period, the data show.  Higher Margins  Southeast Asia also offers the potential for higher beer
margins. Asahi’s operating margin of 9.7 percent in the third
quarter compares with 27 percent for the Philippines’  San Miguel
Brewery Inc. (SMB)  and 22 percent for PT Multi Bintang Indonesia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Kirin owns about 48
percent of San Miguel Brewery, which dominates the Philippine
beer market.  Vietnam may be an easier market to break into because the
beer market isn’t dominated by a few low- and mid-priced brands.
Saigon Beer-Alcohol Beverage Corp.’s Saigon has the biggest
market share of 33 percent, according to Euromonitor, while the
Heineken brand has 7.7 percent.  Carlsberg’s namesake has 1.1 percent and other brands it
sells, including Huda and Tuborg, have at least 8 percent.
Japanese brewers’ shares were too small to be tracked by the
researcher.  ‘No Cultural Walls’  Vietnam, which has become a production hub for companies
from  Intel Corp.  to  Honda Motor Co. , is aiming for 6 percent
gross domestic product growth next year, Prime Minister Nguyen
Tan Dung has said. Japan’s economy is set to expand 1.66 percent
next year, according to the median of nine economist forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  The chances of Japanese brewers succeeding in Southeast
Asia are high, said Mitsubishi UFJ’s Nakagawa. “Vietnamese have
no problems consuming Japanese products and there are no
cultural walls.”  Local and global competitors may be pressured as the
Japanese brewers come in. “Among the imported beer makers,
 Carlsberg  and Heineken will see a hit with the Japanese brewers
coming in,” said Mizuho Securities analyst Hiroshi Saji. “But
the market as a whole will expand, so everyone should gain.”  ‘Welcomes Competition’  Heineken “welcomes competition” and is already competing
with Japanese companies in other Asian markets, John-Paul
Schuirink, a spokesman, said by e-mail. The company has been
gaining market share in Southeast Asia, he said.  Asahi, which entered China in 1994, bought about 20 percent
of  Tsingtao (168)  after facing competition from local brands. Kirin,
which faced similar difficulties, formed a soft-drink venture
with China Resources Enterprise.  Sapporo pulled out of China after about eight years and
exports small amounts from Japan. It intends to increase beer
production as much as fivefold in Vietnam by 2019. Mochida said
his company will now “go hunting and be concentrating on
Southeast Asia for the next 10 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  