-- HSBC Holdings to Sell Japanese Private Banking Business to Credit Suisse
-- B y   J a m e s   G u n s a l u s   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2011-12-21T09:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/hsbc-to-sell-japan-private-bank-business-to-credit-suisse-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  agreed to sell its
Japanese private banking business to  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  as
 Europe ’s largest bank by market value cuts assets to reduce
expenses and prepare for tighter capital rules.  The sale of the unit, which had assets under management of
$2.7 billion as of Oct. 31, is expected to be completed in the
second quarter of next year, London-based HSBC said in a
statement today, without disclosing the price.  Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  is reversing HSBC’s
expansion over the past two decades, selling assets and cutting
jobs as the European debt crisis saps profit and global
regulators boost  capital requirements . The bank in July agreed
to sell almost half its U.S. branches to First Niagara Financial
Group Inc. for about $1 billion and has also sold part of its
Russian consumer banking unit.  “This is clearly not a fire sale,” Sandy Mehta, the Hong
Kong-based CEO of Value Investment Principals Ltd., said today
in a telephone interview. “It’s a relatively low-growth area
for them. If they sell it at a reasonable valuation, that is
very positive for HSBC.”  HSBC rose 0.4 percent to 485.65 pence at 8:48 a.m. in
London trading, paring the stock’s decline this year to 25
percent. Credit Suisse gained 0.8 percent to 21.79 Swiss francs
in Zurich.  ‘Tremendous Potential’  Credit Suisse is seeking to expand its  wealth-management 
business in the Asia-Pacific region, where the Zurich-based firm
managed 77.6 billion francs ($83.6 billion) for clients at the
end of September. The bank managed 762.1 billion francs for rich
customers globally.  Credit Suisse started its onshore private banking business
in  Japan  in 2009, focusing on business with ultra-high-net-worth
individuals. HSBC’s unit will be combined with the Swiss bank’s
existing division to expand client coverage through the
integration of offices in Osaka and Nagoya and increase
profitability, Credit Suisse said.  “Private banking continues to be one of Credit Suisse’s
key engines of growth and value, and Asia offers tremendous
potential in wealth management,” Marcel Kreis, Credit Suisse’s
head of private banking in  Asia  Pacific, said in a statement.
“We are firmly committed to enhancing our existing regional
private banking footprint and are committed to dedicating the
appropriate investment and resources to ensure the long-term
success of our business.”  Millionaire Households  Japan’s high-net-worth wealth pool of $4.63 trillion
increased almost 7 percent in 2010 from the previous financial
year, according to Scorpio Partnership, an adviser to wealth
management institutions and family offices.  The number of millionaire households worldwide increased by
12 percent in 2010 to about 12.5 million, led by the U.S. and
followed by Japan, according to the Global Wealth Report
released by  Boston Consulting Group  in May.  HSBC is seeking buyers for its non-life insurance assets
and may consider selling regional units of the business
separately, three people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg
News in October. The sale may value the non-life operations at
$1 billion to $1.5 billion, they said, asking not to be
identified because the sale process is private.  HSBC aims to cut as much as $3.5 billion of expenses over
the next two years as it tackles wage inflation in faster-
growing economies and prepares for stricter capital rules, the
bank said in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Gunsalus in Tokyo at 
 jgunsalus@bloomberg.net 
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  