-- Convicted Lawyer Rothstein Says Two of His Partners Knew of Fraud Scheme
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2011-12-22T15:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/scott-rothstein-says-other-lawyers-at-florida-firm-knew-of-fraud-scheme.html
Scott Rothstein, the  Florida  lawyer
convicted in a $1.2 billion investment fraud, said two of his
former  law firm  partners also knew of the scheme, according to a
transcript of a sworn deposition made public yesterday.  Rothstein, sentenced to 50 years in prison, said his former
partners, Stuart Rosenfeldt and Russell Adler, were aware of the
scheme, according to a transcript of the deposition taken this
month at the federal courthouse in Miami as part of their law
firm’s bankruptcy case. The transcript was posted on the website
of the law firm Conrad & Scherer, which represents some of the
investors seeking to recover money invested in the scheme.  “They knew that we were moving money illegally in and out
of the law firm,” Rothstein said of Rosenfeldt and Adler,
according to the transcript. “At various points in time, they
came to know that there was a  Ponzi scheme  going on, although
the word Ponzi was never utilized.”  Rothstein, formerly of Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, pleaded guilty in January 2010 to five
counts of racketeering,  money laundering  and  wire fraud  after
admitting he sold investors interests in bogus settlements in
sexual-harassment and whistle-blower lawsuits.  Bruce Lehr, a lawyer for Rosenfeldt, said yesterday in a
phone interview that his client wasn’t aware of the Ponzi
scheme.  ‘No Credibility’  “Stuart Rosenfeldt had absolutely no idea of the
wrongdoings of Scott Rothstein until Mr. Rothstein fled the
country,” Lehr said. “Mr. Rothstein, who pleaded guilty and
was sentenced to 50 years in prison, had no credibility then.
The fact that after spending some time behind bars, he has
decided to throw his law partner under the bus has not awarded
him new credibility.”  Adler’s attorney, Fred Haddad, said Rothstein was lying
about his client.  “He didn’t know anything about what Rothstein was doing,”
Haddad said. “I like Scott personally. I’ve gotten drunk with
Scott. But he said at the beginning of his depo that this would
be the first time in his life that he’s told the truth. I think
he still hasn’t reached the first time in his life to tell the
truth.”  Rosenfeldt and Adler haven’t been charged with wrongdoing.  Eight Charged  Eight people, including Rothstein, have been charged in the
probe by the U.S. Of those, Rothstein and five others have been
convicted.  Rothstein, according to the deposition transcript,
described a complicated scheme with what he referred to as
“sub-levels.”  “There were many arms,” he said, according to the
transcript. “There were political arms, there were law
enforcement arms, there were arms all over the place in every
facet, as the judge pointed out when he sentenced me, in almost
every facet of daily life.”  Rothstein named several people he said were involved in the
scheme, including lawyers and other employees of the firm,
according to the transcript. He said in the deposition in
response to lawyer’s questions that other people at the firm
knew nothing of his illegal actions.  ‘Rothstein Lifestyle’  “You’re going to find as you question me, there is a very
large category of people that fell within the -- what we fondly
refer to as living the rock star or the Rothstein lifestyle,”
he said, according to the transcript. “That is, in fact, the
way we paid off a substantial number of the people that we were
ultimately, for lack of a better term, bribing to do our dirty
work.”  Rothstein said, according to the transcript, that he
probably spent about $200 million. He said he and others spent
money on lavish parties, trips, dinners and gifts for wives or
mistresses.  Several other people handled the details of getting money
in from investors and paying the money out, while he helped
convince new investors of the soundness of the investment by
putting on what he called “dog and pony shows,” according to
the transcript. His staff was supposed to be handling the
payments to investors, he said in the transcript.  The case is In re Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA, 09-34791,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Southern Florida ( Fort
Lauderdale ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 