-- SeaMicro Aims for Startup Stardom With Old-School Innovation
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2011-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/seamicro-aims-for-startup-stardom-with-old-school-innovation.html
In Silicon Valley, where startups
race to create the latest smartphone application, game or social
network,  SeaMicro Inc.  is thriving by focusing on a more mundane
task: building servers.  The company is designing computers that require less space
and power than conventional machines yet perform just as well.
The idea is to fill a gap left by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell
Inc. (DELL) , which have curtailed research and development, SeaMicro
Chief Executive Officer Andrew Feldman said in an interview.  “We stepped into a market that isn’t very good at R&D and
isn’t very good at innovation,” said Feldman, whose company
began shipping its first products a year ago. “They became
supply-chain companies. They stopped doing engineering.”  SeaMicro is focusing on the type of servers used by
Facebook Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to provide so-called cloud
services over the Internet -- a market that will almost double
by 2015, according to IDC. By producing machines that uses a
quarter of the power and a sixth of the space, SeaMicro has seen
sales boom, said Feldman, 42. While he declined to give revenue
figures, Feldman estimates that SeaMicro set a sales record for
a Silicon Valley computer-hardware startup in its first year of
shipping products.  The company recently hired its 100th employee and has moved
into a bigger space in  Sunnyvale, California . The new
headquarters is a sea of gray cubicles -- many yet to be
occupied -- an environment more reminiscent of Silicon Valley
pioneers like  Intel Corp. (INTC)  than dot-com startups.  Giant Rivals  Maintaining SeaMicro’s growth will hinge on whether the big
server makers, including Hewlett-Packard and Dell, pursue the
same innovations, said Jeffrey Hewitt, an analyst at Stamford,
Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. The company has made strides in
streamlining the way processors work together, helping SeaMicro
carve out a niche for itself, he said.  “The jury is still out as to whether HP and Dell are
asleep at the wheel,” Hewitt said.  The market for SeaMicro’s servers is still in its early
stages, he said. As it grows, Hewlett-Packard and Dell may place
more emphasis on it, Hewitt said.  Jim Ganthier, a vice president of  Palo Alto , California-
based Hewlett-Packard, said his company isn’t worried about
SeaMicro. Hewlett-Packard has projects in place that will create
more efficient machines, he said. SeaMicro will remain a small
player with niche technology, he said.  ‘On an Island’  “They’re going to be left on an island with their shiny
little box,” Ganthier said.  Even so, Hewlett-Packard’s research budget is smaller today
as a percentage of sales than it was 15 years ago. The company
spent 2.6 percent of revenue on R&D in the most recent fiscal
year, down from 7.1 percent in fiscal 1996.  Dell, meanwhile, says it’s also exploring new technologies.
It “spends a ton of time talking to customers” and builds
products that cater to specific needs, said Steve Cumings, who
handles marketing for data centers at the  Round Rock , Texas-
based company. Dell also resells some SeaMicro servers, making
the companies partners and competitors.  “We’ve been very successful in the market,” Cumings said.
“We look at a lot of new technologies.”  Dell spent 1.1 percent of revenue on R&D in the last fiscal
year, versus 1.8 percent 15 years ago.  SeaMicro was founded in 2007 with investments from Khosla
Ventures, Draper Fisher Jurvetson and Crosslink Capital Inc. The
company’s customer list includes  Skype Technologies SA (MSFT) ,
EHarmony.com Inc., Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. and France
Telecom SA. It also serves all of the major companies that use
data centers to provide cloud services, Feldman said.  Design Innovation  SeaMicro’s biggest innovation is its chip design, he said.
The company’s application-specific integrated circuit, or ASIC,
replaces as much as 90 percent of the separate components on a
server motherboard and links the processors together.  SeaMicro servers rely on Intel’s Atom processor -- a chip
designed for battery-powered devices. That means it doesn’t
require a lot of electricity. The processor isn’t one of Intel’s
more powerful products, though by using a lot of them, SeaMicro
can get the necessary performance with less power.  Often the servers are handling simple tasks, such as
delivering e-mail or a Facebook page. The big computer makers
haven’t adapted to this world of cloud services, Feldman said.  Instead of buying powerful computers designed for the
complex needs of a few internal users, cloud-service providers
want servers to handle millions of customers. That means they
want a much bigger array of cheap, efficient machinery, he said.  “The nature of the work changed,” Feldman said. “It
changed from a small number of users to many users, and from
hard problems to easy problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  