-- SEC’s Court Troubles in Citigroup Settlement Echo in Wisconsin
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2011-12-21T19:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/sec-s-court-troubles-in-citigroup-settlement-echo-in-wisconsin.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, facing growing judicial scrutiny over how it
resolves enforcement matters, was asked by a federal judge in
 Milwaukee  to provide a “factual predicate” for a proposed
settlement with a company accused of accounting fraud.  Certain provisions of the SEC’s settlement with Milwaukee-
based Koss Corp. were “vague,” U.S. District Judge Rudolph T. Randa said in a filing yesterday. The settlement also didn’t
provide enough information to show that penalties against chief
executive officer Michael Koss were fair, the judge wrote.  Randa’s decision comes less than a month after a federal
judge in  New York  rejected the agency’s $285 million settlement
with  Citigroup Inc. (C) , saying he hadn’t been given enough facts to
approve the agreement.  The Citigroup ruling by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
which Randa cited in his opinion, challenged settlement
practices the SEC has had in place for decades and sparked a
debate over whether the agency is reaching expedient agreements
that lack tough sanctions. The SEC has appealed Rakoff’s ruling.  “If other judges start to follow Rakoff’s lead that’s a
big problem for the SEC because they’ll have to try more
cases,” said Adam Pritchard, a securities law professor at the
 University of Michigan Law School .  The SEC in October accused  Koss Corp. (KOSS) , a manufacturer of
stereo headphones, of making materially inaccurate financial
statements for fiscal years 2005 through 2009. The agency said
Michael Koss failed in his roles as CEO and earlier as chief
financial officer in overseeing accounting and finance at the
company.  Enforcement Problems  Randa questioned the adequacy of the Oct. 24 settlement’s
provision that the company promise not to make future violations
of securities laws, saying the agreement is vague and could pose
problems for enforcing it in the future.  The question echoes a concern Rakoff raised about the SEC’s
ability to penalize firms who have been repeatedly accused of
violating securities laws. In his opinion on the Citigroup
settlement, Rakoff called the New York-based bank a
“recidivist.”  Randa also asked the SEC to provide more information to
justify the amount Michael Koss will pay to resolve the claims.
Under the agreement, Koss would forfeit a total of about
$450,000 and 160,000 options, the equivalent of his incentive
bonuses for fiscal years 2008 through 2010, according to the
court filing.  ‘Unjust Enrichment’  “Without any factual predicate for how those disgorgement
terms were determined and what more, if anything, could have
been subject to disgorgement, the Court cannot assess their
fairness and the extent to which they serve the purpose of
disgorgement which is to deprive the violator of unjust
enrichment and thereby further the deterrence objectives of
securities laws,” Randa said in the opinion, noting that Koss
and his family directly or indirectly own in excess of 70
percent of the company’s shares.  Randa asked the SEC to respond by Jan. 24.  Rakoff, in his November opinion, criticized the agency’s
practice of resolving cases without requiring the subject of the
allegations to admit wrongdoing. He said the settlement, which
was meant to resolve claims that Citigroup misled investors in a
$1 billion financial product linked to risky mortgages, didn’t
provide him with “any proven or admitted facts” to inform his
judgment.  In the proposed Koss settlement, the company and the CEO
neither admitted nor denied the claims.  The SEC said in a Dec. 15 statement that Rakoff “committed
legal error by announcing a new and unprecedented standard that
inadvertently harms investors by depriving them of substantial,
certain and immediate benefits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  