-- Serbia’s Top Opposition Party Leads Ruling Democrats in Survey
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2011-12-21T15:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/serbia-s-top-opposition-party-leads-ruling-democrats-in-survey.html
Serbia’s ruling  Democratic Party ,
led by President  Boris Tadic , trails its likely main challenger
in next year’s elections by almost seven percentage points, a
new poll showed.  The opposition  Serbian Progressive Party  would garner 32.6
percent of votes cast while the Democrats would win 25.7
percent, according to the survey conducted Dec. 10-19 by  Partner
Consulting , a Belgrade-based research agency. The Democrats may
stay in power after the vote expected next spring if they work
with their current coalition partners with whom they have led
the country since 2008, said agency Director Miroslav Sutic as
he presented the survey in the capital Belgrade today.  The poll of 1,600 adult Serbians had a margin of error of 3
percent to 5 percent. It also surveyed sentiment about  Serbia ’s
possible integration with the European Union.  Twenty-eight percent said they would approve in a
referendum that their country join the bloc, while 52 percent
were against it. Twenty percent were undecided or said they
wouldn’t vote, Sutic said, without offering comparable results
from an earlier period.  “The sentiment toward the EU was pretty negative because
it was conducted soon after Dec. 9” when the EU delayed
granting Serbia candidacy status over its troubled relations
with Kosovo, its Albanian-dominated breakaway province.  Fifty-two percent of those polled described the three-month
delay as “bad” or “somewhat bad” for Serbia, and as many as
59 percent said the country should drop the EU bid if
recognizing  Kosovo  becomes a condition for full membership, the
survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  