-- Shale Boom Heralds Fifth Year of Gas Declines
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2011-12-21T21:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/shale-boom-heralds-fifth-year-of-gas-declines-energy-markets.html
Booming U.S. natural gas production
from shale formations and slowing demand from households,
factories and power plants are poised to send prices down for an
unprecedented fifth year in 2012.  Gas may tumble 8.2 percent from its 2011 average next year,
as output rises 2.8 percent to a record 67.72 billion cubic feet
a day, according to the Energy Department. Demand will probably
climb 1.7 percent, after a 1.8 percent increase this year, the
department said in its Dec. 6  Short-Term Energy Outlook .  “It’s been practically impossible to turn off the shale-
gas tap,”  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche
Bank AG in  Washington , said in a telephone interview Dec. 14.
“Industrial demand has been rising, but it’s not enough.”  Natural gas has dropped 28 percent on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  this year, the most since 2006, as improved
drilling technology and profits from selling gas liquids
encouraged producers to pump record amounts of the fuel from
shale formations from  Texas  to  Pennsylvania . Futures have
dropped in each of the past three years, the longest stretch of
declines since the contracts began trading on the Nymex in 1991.  Gas at the  Henry Hub  in Erath,  Louisiana , the delivery
point for New York futures contracts, will slip to $3.70 per
million Btu next year, the Washington-based Energy Department
said in its Dec. 6 report. It would be the lowest average price
since 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
spot price for the current year is $4.03 per million Btu.  Citigroup Cuts Forecast  The January contract rose 1.2 percent to $3.164 per million
British thermal units at 4:16 p.m. in electronic trading on the
Nymex after settling at $3.155.  Citigroup Global Markets Inc. cut its forecast for the
average 2012 natural gas price to $3.30 on Dec. 19, citing
production growth and record inventories. The bank previously
predicted $4.10 if a colder-than-normal winter materialized and
$3.85 should temperatures stay close to the 10-year average.  Average year-to-date supply growth has climbed to a
“staggering” 4.5 billion cubic feet a day, J. Marshall Adkins,
an analyst at Raymond James & Associates in Houston, said in a
note to clients Dec. 5.  “With that much gas supply growth, it’s a wonder why
prices weren’t even lower this year” said Adkins, who lowered
his 2012 price estimate to $3.50 per thousand cubic feet ($3.41
per million Btu) from $4.  Improved Technology  The drilling of longer horizontal sections of wells and
fracturing of rocks in multiple locations have helped producers
increase output from formations such as the Marcellus shale in
the U.S. Northeast even as prices fell, Sieminski said.
Production from  shale deposits , where water and chemicals are
pumped underground at high pressure to break apart rock and
release gas, more than doubled from 2007 to 2009, according to
the most recent Energy Department data.  “While our previous outlook anticipated a slow decline in
gas-well completions and connections in 2012, we now believe
they will come to market at about the same pace as in 2011,
resulting in supply growth through 2012 and 2013,” Michael Zenker, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York, said in a
Nov. 1 note. Prices will average $3.80 per million Btu next
year, down from a previous forecast of $4.55, he said.  Rising prices for gas liquids such as ethane and propane,
which are byproducts of natural gas production, have also
supported higher shale output, Sieminski said. The price of
ethane at the Mont Belvieu hub in Texas has climbed 28 percent
this year to 80 cents per gallon, according to data from
Liquidity Partners, a Houston brokerage.  Rig Declines  A drop in drilling rigs and rising exports to  Canada  may
stop the price declines in 2012, said Dan Rice, managing
director of BlackRock Inc.’s global resources team in  Boston ,
who oversees more than $5 billion in assets. Prices may average
$4 next year, rising to $4.50 in the second half of 2012, he
said in an interview on Dec. 14.  The number of  rigs drilling  for gas in the U.S. dropped two
to 818 in the week ended Dec. 16, the lowest amount since Jan.
15, 2010, according to data from Baker Hughes Inc. in Houston.
It was the seventh consecutive weekly decline. U.S. gas exports
to Canada totaled 77.4 billion cubic feet in September, up 56
percent from a year earlier, Energy Department data show.  Production from the Haynesville shale in Louisiana has
averaged 6.8 billion cubic feet a day in 2011, or 11 percent of
total U.S. marketed production,  Scott Hanold , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in  Minneapolis , said by phone Dec. 15. Marcellus
gas is contributing about 3 billion a day, he said.  ‘Incredible’ Growth  “The Haynesville shale is growing at an incredible rate
and has become a meaningful part of overall supply,” he said.
“The bottom line is that it’s going to be tough to absorb this
supply with incremental demand growth in the short term,” said
Hanold, who was the second-most accurate forecaster of natural
gas prices through Sept. 30, based on a Bloomberg ranking of 23
analysts.  This winter will probably be milder than last year in the
Northeast and mid-Atlantic states, limiting heating-fuel demand,
 Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a Nov. 21 revised seasonal outlook.
About 51 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Department.  The period from November through March may be warmer than
last year while still cooler than the 10-year average, Rogers
predicted. In October he said that the coming U.S. winter may be
the coldest in more than 10 years.  Record Supply  Inventories  of gas reached an all-time high of 3.852
trillion cubic feet in the week ended Nov. 18, Energy Department
data show. Stockpiles totaled 3.729 trillion as of Dec. 9, 10.3
percent above the five-year average and 4.3 percent higher than
last year’s level for that time of year.  Consumption may rise at a slower pace in 2012 after
climbing to 67.18 billion cubic feet a day, according to the
Energy Department. Demand from factories, including fertilizer
producers that use gas as a feedstock, may be tepid amid
economic weakness, said  Peter Buchanan , senior economist at CIBC
World Markets Inc. in Toronto.  Industrial demand for gas may climb 0.2 percent next year
after gaining 2.3 percent in 2011, the Energy Department said in
the Dec. 6 Outlook.  U.S. industrial  production  unexpectedly dropped in November
for the first time in seven months, indicating a pause in
manufacturing growth, figures from the  Federal Reserve  on Dec.
15 showed. Output at factories, mines and utilities declined 0.2
percent after a 0.7 percent gain in October. Economists forecast
a 0.1 percent advance, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  “We’re probably going to see slower growth on the
industrial-demand side,” Buchanan said in a telephone interview
on Dec. 15. “The factory sector has lost a bit of momentum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  