-- Shell Shuts Nigeria’s Bonga on Possible Worst Leak in Decade
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2011-12-21T21:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/shell-shuts-nigeria-s-bonga-field-after-oil-leak-at-platform.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, shut its 200,000 barrel-a-day Bonga field off
Nigeria after a leak during a tanker loading caused what may be
the country’s worst offshore spill in more than a decade.  An export line from the  field ’s floating production, storage
and offloading vessel was probably the cause of the leak,
estimated at below 40,000 barrels of crude, Shell said in a
statement today. The oil flow has been halted, it said.  “We’re aware of the incident and we’re working hard with
Shell to contain the spill,” Idris Musa at the  National Oil Spill
Detection and Response Agency  said today from the capital.  The leak is expected to be the worst since a January 1998
Exxon Mobil Corp. spill dumped an estimated 40,000 barrels into
the sea from its Idoho platform, with slicks reported as far west
as Lagos. Shell, the largest foreign oil producer in  Nigeria , has
been criticized by some local people and foreign groups for spills
of crude from its onshore fields.  The Anglo-Dutch company, operating in Nigeria since 1937,
says most spills occur because of pipeline sabotage and oil theft
and it has set up a website to disclose data on leaks.  “Spill response procedures have been initiated and emergency
control and spill risk procedures are up and running,”  Tony Okonedo , a Shell spokesman, said by phone from Lagos, the
commercial capital. Shell is sorry for the leak, Mutiu Sunmonu,
its Nigerian chairman, said in the statement.  Shares Advance  Bonga, Nigeria’s first deepwater discovery, produces almost
10 percent of the country’s crude 120 kilometers (75 miles) off
the coast. Shell planned to export five cargoes of 1 million
barrels each of Bonga crude every month from December to February,
loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News show.  Shell pared an advance of as much as 1.4 percent in London
trading to close the day up 0.4 percent at 2,288 pence. Shell’s
American depositary receipts climbed 0.4 percent to $71.79 at the
close in  New York .  “They averted a potentially much more serious situation,
they figured it out very quickly,”  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview today.
“The market is recognizing the responsiveness of the company.”  Gheit, who has an “outperform” rating on Shell’s American
depositary receipts and owns some, said he’s glad “sanity
prevailed” on the stock market. While the amount of oil spilled
is substantial, he said, this isn’t a “runaway field” like what
BP Plc dealt with in the  Gulf of Mexico  last year.  Yesterday Shell said a Gulf of Mexico drilling operation will
stop for weeks after spilling 319 barrels of drilling fluid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  