-- Silver Lake Founders Said to Cut Stake
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2011-12-21T19:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/silver-lake-s-founders-said-to-cut-stake-as-part-of-leadership-transition.html
Glenn Hutchins , David Roux and Jim
Davidson, who co-founded  Silver Lake  13 years ago and built it
into the largest technology-focused private-equity manager, will
reduce their ownership as part of a broader leadership
transition, according to two people briefed on the matter.  Silver Lake, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , will form a
five-member managing committee, comprised of Davidson and four
younger managing directors, according to one of the people.
Roux, the firm’s 55-year-old chairman, and Hutchins co-chief
executive officer with Davidson, will play a less active role in
day-to-day management, said the people, who asked not to be
named because the information is private.  Silver Lake, which made a threefold profit this year when
it sold Skype Technologies SA to Microsoft Corp., is broadening
ownership and reducing reliance on the founders as it prepares
to raise its fourth flagship investment pool. Longtime
investors, including  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , which backed Silver Lake since its first and most
successful fund in 1999, will have to decide whether to support
the younger ranks of deal makers when the new fund will be
formally marketed in February, according to one of the people.  Davidson, 52, is the only member of the current executive
management to join the new managing committee. Egon Durban, Mike Bingle, Ken Hao and Greg Mondre will join Davidson on the
committee and take a bigger ownership stake, said the people.  Gemma Hart, a spokeswoman for the firm, declined to
comment.  Courting Investors  While competitors  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Providence Equity Partners
Inc. are setting more modest targets for their new funds, Silver
Lake is seeking to raise a similar size fund as its $9.4 billion
predecessor pool. The firm, which invested in new internet
companies including Zynga Inc. and Groupon Inc. through its last
fund that was intended to focus on large companies, has set a
preliminary target of $8.5 billion to $10 billion, according to
a person familiar with the plans.  To win over clients, the firm is using its recent bid for a
stake in Internet company Yahoo! Inc. to show that it’s a
preferred investor among technology companies, according to one
person. The firm is saying Yahoo! prefers Silver Lake as a
partner over TPG Capital, because of its expertise.  Silver Lake, working with Microsoft, venture-capital firm
Andreessen Horowitz and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,
offered to buy a minority stake in Yahoo! for about $16.60,
people familiar with the bidding said last month. That’s less
than an offer made by private-equity firm TPG, two people said.  Flipping Skype  Silver Lake invested about $1.3 billion in capital this
year, including about $350 million to $365 million in Web
registration and hosting company Go Daddy Group Inc. and about
$328 million in Chinese Internet giant Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd., according to an investor presentation.  The firm distributed $6.3 billion to clients across its
three funds this year. It bought Internet-calling service Skype
in November 2009 and sold it 18 months later to Microsoft for
$8.5 billion.  Hutchins, 56, Davidson and Roux formed Silver Lake in 1999
with  Roger McNamee .  Silver Lake Partners  I generated an annual
rate of return of 25 percent, net of fees. Subsequent pools,
Silver Lake Partners II in 2004 and Silver Lake Partners III in
2007, yielded 10 percent and 19 percent, according to the
presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  