-- Singapore Stocks: Ascott, Dyna-Mac Holdings, Neptune Orient
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2011-12-21T09:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/singapore-stocks-ascott-dyna-mac-holdings-neptune-orient.html
Singapore ’s  Straits Times Index 
increased 2.3 percent to 2,673.32 at the close. All except four
companies advanced in the 30-member gauge today.  The following were among the most active shares in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company names.  Ascott Residence Trust (ART)  , the serviced apartment
operator partly owned by CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL SP), gained 2.6
percent to S$1. Ascott Ltd. may inject some of its Malaysian
properties into the Singapore-listed trust,  Malaysia ’s Business
Times newspaper reported, citing Tan Boon Khai, the group’s
general manager for Singapore and Malaysia.  Dyna-Mac Holdings Ltd.  (DMHL SP), a provider of offshore
engineering services partly owned by Keppel Corp. (KEP SP),
jumped 7.5 percent to 43 Singapore cents. The company said it
won provisional contracts valued at S$115 million ($88.2
million) from companies including Modec Inc., Bumi Armada Bhd
and SBM Offshore NV. Keppel, the world’s biggest builder of oil
rigs, rose 2.4 percent to S$9.22.  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL SP), Southeast Asia’s
biggest container carrier, climbed 3.6 percent to S$1.15. The
company said it, Hapag-Lloyd AG and four other shipping lines
agreed to form an alliance to help curb falling rates on the
Asia-Europe trade route amid slowing demand and overcapacity.  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  , the biggest shareholder of
 Australia ’s Gloucester Coal Ltd., jumped 3 percent to S$1.19.
The stock has gained 7.7 percent since Bloomberg News reported
on Dec. 19 that Yanzhou Coal Mining Co,  China ’s fourth-largest
producer of the fuel, plans to buy Gloucester Coal for at least
$2 billion. Noble sought a halt in trading this morning as it
awaits developments in the possible acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  