-- Six Men Guilty of Tax Evasion in Deutsche Bank CO2 Trades
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2011-12-21T13:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/six-men-convicted-of-tax-fraud-in-co2-trades-with-deutsche-bank.html
Six men were convicted of  tax
evasion  by a German court today following a fraud linked to the
sale of carbon-emission certificates to  Deutsche Bank AG .  The six helped to start a chain of trades with the sole
purpose of evading value-added tax, Presiding Judge Martin Bach
said at a hearing today as he sentenced them to as long as seven
years and 10 months in jail. Deutsche Bank, which bought the
securities, should have known the trades were illegal, he said.  “These sales had no economic sense” and deprived the
government of 300 million euros ($394 million) of income, Bach
said at the court in  Frankfurt  today. “The suspects knew or
could have known they were part of a criminal scheme.”  The case is part of the biggest crackdown on emissions-
related tax crimes since  Europe  began its cap-and-trade system
in 2005. German authorities enlisted assistance from 10
countries last year and froze 100 million euros in funds as part
of the probe. Frankfurt prosecutors are investigating a total of
170 people, among them seven Deutsche Bank employees.  The men in court today worked at small trading companies
that bought certificates from suppliers overseas and resold
them. Each sale generated VAT which the buyer could reclaim from
the tax authorities as a refund.  Deutsche Bank, which bought the allowances, set aside 310
million euros in October in case the government seeks the return
of the money.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment on the case, saying the bank hadn’t been
access to the public prosecutor’s files. He said an internal
investigation by an outside  law firm  has so far shown no sign of
criminal involvement by the bank’s employees.  Germany  became the center of that form of tax evasion in
mid-2009 after  France , the Netherlands and the U.K. changed
their tax laws to block illicit trading, Bach said. Germany
changed its rules in 2010 to end the practice, the judge said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Frankfurt via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  