-- Solar Millennium Drops Most Ever After Insolvency Filing
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2011-12-21T18:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/solar-millennium-has-record-drop-after-opening-involvency-proceedings.html
Solar Millennium AG  plunged by a
record in Frankfurt trading after becoming the second publicly
traded German solar company to file for insolvency.  The shares slumped 59 percent to 45 euro cents, the biggest
drop and the lowest price since its listing in 2005. The stock
has lost 98 percent this year, reducing market value to 5.6
million euros ($7.3 million).  The filing cited slow progress in selling U.S. projects and
a failure to reach an agreement to bring in investors to the
Ibersol project in  Spain , the company said in a statement.  “Both transactions would have generated funds beyond the
current need for liquidity which would have laid the foundation
for a further development of the company,” Erlangen-based Solar
Millennium said.  Today’s announcement follows a similar move by German solar
panel maker  Solon SE (SOO1)  last week. The country’s solar energy
companies, including  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and Conergy AG, are struggling
with rising foreign competition including from China as demand
ebbs in Germany, the biggest photovoltaic market.  The insolvency administrator, Volker Boehm from law firm
 Schultze & Braun , went to company headquarters to determine
whether business can be maintained, the firm said in a statement
today.  Solar Millennium yesterday warned that the sale of its
2,250 megawatt-project pipeline wouldn’t be concluded by year-
end. Germany’s  Solarhybrid AG  had asked Tempe, Arizona-based
 First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s biggest maker of thin-film panels,
to form a joint venture to pursue the deal.  Solar Millennium, which had focused on developing solar-
thermal plants in  Europe  and the U.S., had planned to sell
projects including the company’s biggest, the 1-gigawatt plant
near Blythe, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  