-- Solyndra Wins Bankruptcy Court Approval of Second Auction If Sale Fails
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2011-12-21T17:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/solyndra-wins-approval-of-second-auction-if-sale-fails.html
Solyndra LLC , the failed solar-panel
maker that got $535 million in government loan guarantees before
filing for bankruptcy, won court approval of a supplemental
auction of its core assets if it fails to find a buyer willing
to continue operations at an earlier auction.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath today in Wilmington,
 Delaware , gave the company permission to hold an auction in
February for a piecemeal sale of its core assets should the
going concern sale fall through.  The solar-panel maker has twice delayed the auction of its
business after failing to draw any acceptable bids, court
documents show.  Solyndra wants to hold “one auction at the end of February
for the assets that we can sell right away,” Joshua M. Fried, a
lawyer for the company, told Walrath. “Some assets can be sold
immediately, some have to be cleaned” or need permits to be
sold, Fried said. Another auction would be held for the assets
that can’t be sold right away.  The deadline for potential buyers to make an offer for the
so-called turnkey sale, which is intended to sell the business
as a whole and keep operating, is Jan. 17. Solyndra would hold
the turnkey auction two days later if it receives acceptable
bids and, if there’s a sale, a hearing on approval Jan. 23,
court papers show.  The company, based in Fremont,  California , sought Chapter
11 protection Sept. 6. Two days later its offices were raided by
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . The solar-panel maker
listed about $854.1 million in assets and about $867.1 million
in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31.  Congressional Scrutiny  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. The company faces a probe by
Republicans in Congress over the federal loan guarantee it used
to build a $733 million factory.  Congressional Republicans have questioned the size of
government loans made to the fledgling solar-panel maker and
whether the Obama administration properly evaluated its
potential.  The Republicans have also questioned whether political
favoritism may have played a role in awarding the government
loan guarantee due to the company’s ties to an Obama fundraiser,
billionaire  George Kaiser .  Argonaut Ventures, the investment arm of Kaiser’s
charitable organization, holds almost 39 percent of Solyndra’s
parent, 360 Solar Degree Holdings Inc. Kaiser raised or bundled
$50,000 to $100,000 for Obama’s 2008 presidential run.  Grand Jury Probe  In addition to the congressional probe and the FBI
investigation, Solyndra has been subpoenaed by a federal grand
jury, court documents show. The subpoena was disclosed in
billing records submitted to the  bankruptcy court  by its special
counsel, K&L Gates LLP.  The back-up auction would be conducted on an asset-by-asset
basis or lots of similar items, according to court papers.
Potential buyers would have to submit what items they intend to
bid on and present proof that they have the financial
wherewithal to complete the sale. The auction would be held on-
site and online.  Within two business days following the end of that auction
Solyndra will submit a report to the bankruptcy court detailing
the winning bidders and the amounts the paid for each item.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 