-- South Korea’s Top Spy Pressured to Quit After Learning Late of Kim’s Death
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2011-12-21T09:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/south-korea-lawmakers-slam-government-for-delay-in-learning-of-kim-s-death.html
South Korea ’s spy chief faces
mounting pressure to quit after his agency failed to gather any
intelligence on  Kim Jong Il ’s death before it was broadcast on
North Korean television two days later.  National Intelligence Service Director Won Sei Hoon should
resign for his “unacceptable” ignorance and poor management,
Park Young Sun, a lawmaker in the opposition Liberty Forward
Party, said in an interview today. Park joined Kwon Young Se,
head of the National Assembly’s intelligence committee and a
representative of the ruling  Grand National Party , who told CBS
Radio that Won should be made accountable for the lapse.  “The director should take the blame and resign from his
post for not knowing about Kim’s death until the TV
broadcasts,” Park said. “Because he had no clue, the president,
along with all of the ministers overseeing national security
matters, had no knowledge of Kim’s passing.”  Park and Kwon joined the growing criticism directed at the
spy agency for its shortfalls in collecting intelligence on a
regime that’s still technically at war with  Asia ’s fourth-
largest economy. South Korea’s government wasn’t alone in being
blindsided as President  Barack Obama  was notified of Kim’s 
death half an hour after the North Korean broadcasts, according
to the White House.  Chinese Intelligence  An official at the spokesman’s office of the intelligence
agency declined to comment today on the lawmakers’ criticism.  China ’s ambassador to North Korea, Liu Hongcai, learned
that Kim had passed away on the day of his death Dec. 17, South
Korea’s JoongAng Ilbo newspaper reported today, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the matter in Beijing.  The criticism over the intelligence lapse is among the
challenges faced by President  Lee Myung Bak ’s administration at
a time when the government needs to collect more information to
draft measures on how to deal a new nuclear-armed regime. Lee
will meet with heads of ruling and opposition parties tomorrow
to discuss countermeasures, Yonhap News reported.  South Korea responded to Kim’s death and the naming of his
third son Kim Jong Un as successor by raising the military and
civilian cyber alerts one notch above standard levels.  The
younger Kim began asserting his control over the military soon
after his father’s death, ordering units to return to base
before the state media’s Dec. 19 broadcasts, Yonhap reported.  Financial Markets  South Korean financial markets, which dropped on Dec. 19
when Kim’s death was announced, recovered all of their loses as
concerns eased over possible political upheaval in the North.  Former South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung Joo was among
those predicting that Kim’s sudden death won’t lead to chaos in
the communist regime.  “The situation is pretty much in control,” he said today
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. Kim Jong Un is a
“figurehead,” while his uncle Jang Song Thaek and military
leader Ri Yong Ho are in charge, Han said.  At the Gaeseong industrial complex, an inter-Korean
economic zone established six years ago about 10 miles (16
kilometers) inside  North Korea , workers are returning to their
jobs after their initial shock.  “They were in a state of distraction and just went home,”
Ok Sung Seok, who’s run the Nine Mode Co. shirt-making company
in Gaeseong since 2007, said by phone in Seoul today. “I was
back there yesterday. Passing across the border by bus went as
normal and my staff are back at work.”  Younger Kim  Little is known on North Korea’s new designated leader and
the first official notice that he was being groomed to take over
was last year, when the younger Kim was named to senior military
and party posts. While he spent most of his life in North Korea,
Kim Jong Un he studied in  Switzerland  in the 1990s. The third
son of the deceased dictator, he was the favorite, according to
a Japanese chef who wrote a book about his 13 years of cooking
for Kim Jong Il in Pyongyang.  “He was unknown until two years ago,” said  Michael Green ,
senior director of Asian affairs at the National Security
Council under President  George W. Bush  and now at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington . “There are
questions about whether enough legwork was done to keep him
going. One question now is will Kim Jong Un and others around
him do something to prove he’s in command.”  The uncertainty on the Korean peninsula comes as public
discontent over Lee and his party’s administration of an economy
buffeted by inflation and income disparity. The GNP lost the
 Seoul  mayoral race in October and senior lawmakers resigned from
their party leadership posts earlier this month, adding to
turmoil ahead of parliamentary and presidential elections next
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  