-- South Korea to Allow Private Expressions of Condolences Over Death of Kim
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2011-12-21T02:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/south-korea-to-allow-private-expressions-of-condolences-over-death-of-kim.html
South Korea  said private individuals
and groups, who are banned by law from praising the regime in
 North Korea , will be allowed to send their condolences over the
death of  Kim Jong Il .  Condolences will be sent by mail or fax, require government
approval and must conform with laws on inter-Korean cooperation,
Choi Boh Seon, a spokesman for the Unification Ministry in  Seoul ,
said today.  The government expressed “sympathy” to the people of North
Korea yesterday while stopping short of sending an official
delegation to offer its communist neighbor condolences.  There has been no official reaction from North Korea about
the message of sympathy, Choi said today.  The wife of late President Kim Dae Jung and family members
of the late founder of the  Hyundai Group , Chung Ju Yung, will be
allowed to make a private visit to the North, Unification
Minister Yu Woo Ik said yesterday.  Chung herded 1,000 cattle across the border during the
famine in the North in 1998, expressing his desire to reunite
North and South Korea.  Kim Dae Jung traveled to Pyongyang for a landmark summit
with his North Korean counterpart in 2000, part of his so-called
Sunshine Policy that attempted to defuse tension on the divided
peninsula.  Border Closure  President  Lee Myung Bak  rolled back the Sunshine Policy
when he came to office in 2008, saying that North Korea should
not be rewarded for bad behavior.  Travel between the two Koreas, which are still technically
at war after the 1950-53 conflict on the peninsula ended without
a peace treaty, is restricted by both governments.  South Korea has temporarily banned citizens from visiting
North Korea, except for a jointly-run industrial park in
Gaeseong, which is located about 10 miles (16 kilometers) from
the border.  North Korea has closed its land border with  China  before
Kim’s funeral on Dec. 28, the Wall Street Journal reported.  North Korean’s leadership is undergoing a leadership
transition after Kim Jong Il died Dec. 17 of a heart attack
brought on by mental and physical strain, the official Korean
Central News Agency said. His son, Kim Jong Un, is the
designated successor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 Bmiller30@bloomberg.net 
NI ASIA
NI ASIAX
NI BRIC
NI CHINA
NI CIS
NI CMD
NI DEF
NI EEU
NI EM
NI EUROPE
NI GEN
NI GOV
NI JAPAN
NI KOREA
NI MARKETS
NI NASIA
NI NKOREA
NI NORTHAM
NI NRG
NI NUK
NI POL
NI RUSSIA
NI SKOREA
NI US 