-- Rajoy Names Former Lehman Banker de Guindos, Montoro to Top Economy Posts
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2011-12-22T10:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/spanish-premier-rajoy-appoints-montoro-de-guindos-to-economy-ministries.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
named a former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. banker and a budget
professor as his finance chiefs, tasking them with overhauling
an economy that risks being engulfed by the debt crisis.  Luis de Guindos, former deputy finance minister and head of
Lehman in Iberia, was sworn in as minister for economy and
competition today. Cristobal Montoro, budget minister when the
 People’s Party  was last in power, returns to the same post with
further responsibility for public administration. Rajoy created
the roles to replace  Elena Salgado , who did both jobs in the
last government as well as being deputy prime minister.  The PP government inherits from the Socialists a stagnant
economy with a 23 percent  jobless  rate and a banking industry
that is squeezing credit at the fastest pace on record. Spain’s
financing costs last month approached the level that pushed
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts, and the European
Commission expects the nation to miss its budget goal this year.  De Guindos, 51, comes from the PricewaterhouseCoopers and
IE Business School Center for Finance in Madrid, which he led.
He was a board member of  Endesa SA (ELE) , a Spanish power company,
until resigning today, and had been a partner at AB Asesores,
the brokerage Morgan Stanley bought in 1987.  “De Guindos is pragmatic, he understands markets and
understands that the problem Spain has to solve is about
financing,” said  Fernando Fernandez , who also teaches at IE in
Madrid. “Montoro is a very good administrator, he’s austere,
implacable, and more of an operator than an ideologue.”  Bank Capital  “It’s a serious and compact team,” Baldomero Falcones,
chairman of  Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas SA (FCC) , said in an
interview today. “They have a golden opportunity to enact a
series of reforms.”  The PP won a national election last month and pledged a
“cleanup” of the banking system during its campaign. FAES, a
research organization linked to the party, recommended creating
a bad bank to free lenders of toxic assets, and Rajoy asked for
at least two academic reports on how to create such a vehicle,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  De Guindos would apply stricter provisioning rules on banks
to reflect a decline in land prices, he said in an interview in
Madrid on Nov. 11. Banks that need capital and can’t raise it
themselves should get funds from the government or the European
Financial Stability Facility, he said. Guindos was a board
member of Banco Mare Nostrum, which was formed in 2010 from a
merger of savings banks, before resigning today.  ‘Eliminating All Doubts’  Asked whether  Spain  should create a bad bank, he said:
“What’s important to me is eliminating all doubts from the
point of view of the valuation” of land, “and then we’ll have
to see what the other alternatives are.”  He also says austerity must be accompanied by measures to
overhaul the economy and return it to growth and  job  creation.  “The first half is going to be tough,” he said in the
interview. “But if the government quickly comes out with an
overall plan that can change expectations, then the second half
could be much better.”  Rajoy, who secured the largest parliamentary majority any
Spanish party has won in three decades on Nov. 20, has given
scarce details about his plans for the economy. While he has
promised to “reshape” the public sector, he still hasn’t said
how he will cut the deficit while keeping a pledge he reiterated
this week to raise pensions. The Cabinet meets tomorrow and
plans to pass spending cuts on Dec. 30.  Previous Post  Montoro, 61, helped eliminate a budget deficit of 7 percent
of output and shepherd Spain into the euro when he served in the
last PP government that ruled for eight years through 2004. This
time he also has responsibility for public administration, which
Rajoy wants to scale down to avoid overlap between regions, city
halls and the state. Montoro will be in charge of making the
regions meet their budget goals.  A professor of public finance at the University of
Cantabria, Montoro led the party’s economy team in opposition.
He now has to make sure Spain meets its commitment to reducing
the  budget  gap to 4.4 percent of gross domestic product next
year compared with the 6.6 percent shortfall estimated by the
European Commission for this year.  “Montoro knows he must play second fiddle to de Guindos,”
said Javier Diaz Gimenez, an economics professor at the IESE
business school who was taught by Montoro as an undergraduate.
“But this role is his cup of tea -- he comes from a public
finance environment.”  ‘By Law’  Montoro has said that Spain doesn’t need help from the
 European Central Bank , which has been buying Spanish bonds since
August, and should prohibit budget deficits “by law.” Spain’s
10-year bond yielded 5.32 percent today, compared with more than
6 percent before the ECB started propping up the market.  “We don’t need them to come and help us,” he said on Aug.
8. “We need to earn our right to economic stability.”  Rajoy chose a member of the European Parliament who has
specialized in economic issues, Jose Manuel Garcia Margallo, as
foreign minister, and Soraya Saenz de Santamaria as deputy prime
minister. Jose Manuel Soria, an economist, is minister for
energy, industry and tourism, and Fatima Banez leads the labor
ministry. Pedro Morenes is defense minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  