-- Sri Lanka Post-War Growth Stays Above 8%
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2011-12-21T06:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/sri-lanka-growth-holds-above-8-.html
Sri Lanka’s growth accelerated,
exceeding 8 percent for a second straight quarter and reducing
the scope for the central bank to cut  interest rates .  Gross domestic product rose 8.4 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, the statistics department
said on its  website  today. That compares with an 8.2 percent
expansion in the previous quarter and the 8.1 percent median of
five estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The central bank left borrowing costs unchanged on Dec. 16
for an eleventh month even as Europe’s debt crisis curbs Asian
exports and prompts countries from  Thailand  to  Indonesia  to ease
policy. Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said Nov. 29 that Sri
Lanka will probably refrain from rate cuts for the rest of 2011
even as it has room to move, as last month’s 3 percent  currency
devaluation  revives price pressures.  “The central bank should hold rates steady,” said Bimanee Meepagala, a Colombo-based analyst at NDB Aviva Wealth
Management Ltd., the nation’s biggest non-state fund. “With
credit growth and the rupee depreciation, they’ll need to keep a
close eye on inflation.”  The benchmark  Colombo  All-Share  Index (CSEALL) , which has fallen 12
percent this year, was little changed at 10:32 a.m. local time.
The Sri Lankan rupee traded at 113.90 per dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cabraal has kept the benchmark reverse repurchase rate at
8.5 percent since cutting it to that level in January. Consumer
prices in the capital, Colombo, rose 4.7 percent in November,
the smallest increase in 16 months.  Post-War Growth  The economy is expected to expand about 8 percent this year
and next, reducing the need to stimulate growth through lower
rates, Cabraal said Nov. 29.  The island’s growth has rebounded after the end of a 26-
year civil war in May 2009 boosted infrastructure development,
foreign investment and tourism.  The Sheraton Group will invest $300 million in a leisure
project in  Sri Lanka , the nation’s information department said
Dec. 1. Singapore’s Mohamed Mustafa, a department-store operator,
plans to invest $115 million in a hotel and shopping complex in
Colombo, the Ministry of  Economic Development  said Dec. 12.  Foreign direct investments have likely exceeded the 2011
target of $1 billion, the central bank said Dec. 16.  Sri Lanka revised its tourist arrival target for this year
to 800,000, a 22 percent increase from 2010, Nalaka Godahewa,
chairman of the Tourism Development Authority, said Nov. 24.  Rice Harvest  The government said in August it expects a record rice 
output  from the March-September Yala season, after heavy rains
in January and early February caused floods in the northeast and
some central regions of the island, damaging about a quarter of
the crop in the previous growing season.  Sri Lanka’s agriculture expanded 6.2 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, according to today’s report.
Services increased 7.8 percent and industry grew 10.8 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  said last month that Sri
Lanka’s move to devalue the rupee on Nov. 22 will help boost
exports and conserve foreign-exchange reserves. The fund has
disbursed $1.75 billion to Sri Lanka under its $2.6 billion loan
program.  Sri Lankan exports of items including tea, textiles and
gems rose 20.4 percent in September from a year earlier,
compared with a 72 percent gain in January.  Europe  accounts for
35 percent of the Indian Ocean island’s overseas sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  