-- Stanford’s Bid to Avoid Fraud Trial as Mentally Unfit Usually a Long Shot
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2011-12-21T17:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/stanford-move-to-be-found-unfit-for-trial-lasts-forever-in-a-few-cases.html
The evidence that Russell E. Weston Jr. walked into the U.S. Capitol one July day and shot two
police officers dead may have no bearing on whether he’ll ever
be tried, convicted or punished.  Wounded and arrested at the scene in 1997 and diagnosed as
a paranoid schizophrenic, Weston was found mentally unfit to
stand trial and lives in a federal hospital. Unless his
condition improves, by law he will remain forever in legal
limbo, in the hands of mental-health professionals.  R. Allen Stanford, the  Texas  ex-financier accused of
defrauding investors of more than $7 billion, shared an address
with Weston: the federal medical center at Butner,  North
Carolina . And Stanford’s lawyers are asking a federal judge in
Houston to declare him mentally incompetent because a jailhouse
attack and medication robbed him of memory and made him drug-
dependent.  The defense lawyers, having won delays based on Stanford’s
mental state, are trying to put off his trial until he recovers
enough to help them prepare his case, if he ever does.
Prosecutors and a government doctor say he’s faking.  “Most people aren’t malingering or faking it who get to
these hospitals,”  Lisa Monet Wayne , president of the National
Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said in an interview.  That’s because “it’s a miserable existence” to be in a
mental institution, she said.  Mental Hospitals  “Most of us are hesitant to have our clients committed to
a state hospital for an indefinite period of time,” said Wayne,
who practices in Denver. Usually when “you see competency or
insanity raised, they are pretty serious cases” of mental
disorders, she said.  Winning a claim of incompetency is difficult, said  Bruce
Kirwan , an Atlanta criminal-defense lawyer.  “You can be really eccentric and really off the boards and
still know right from wrong and still go to trial,” Kirwan
said. In a 40-year career, he has won incompetency arguments
twice, he said.  The claim is “not very common in any kind of case, less so
in white collar,” said A.J. Kramer, the chief federal public
defender in  Washington , who represents Weston.  Mental incompetency often involves bizarre conduct more
consistent with a violent act than the detailed planning of a
financial crime, Kramer said.  Stanford failed tests designed to expose malingerers, a
psychologist testified yesterday in Houston.  Bizarre Conduct  On every neuropsychological test designed to unmask
feigning, “Mr. Stanford failed,” said Robert E. Cochrane, a
staff psychologist at the Butner center. “That was pretty
strong evidence he was exaggerating the  memory loss .”  A witness for the defense countered that “those tests have
the same shortcomings as a polygraph.”  “They can’t tell you if somebody is lying or not, said
Richard Pollock, a neuropsychologist who examined Stanford.
“They can tell you about the effort level and symptom
validity.”  The hearing on whether Stanford is mentally fit for trial
resumed today.  Findings of mental incompetency have so far kept Jared Lee Loughner, charged in the shopping center shooting rampage in
Tucson,  Arizona , almost a year ago, from standing trial.  Loughner is charged with killing six people, including a
federal judge, and attempting to murder U.S. Representative
 Gabrielle Giffords . The Arizona Democrat, still recovering from
brain injury, was among 13 people injured.  Loughner Findings  In cases where evidence of disability is strong,
prosecutors occasionally go along with the claim of mental
incompetence.  “You don’t have to be drooling but you have to be moving
in that direction” for a prosecutor to agree to such a motion,
said Kent Alexander, a former U.S. attorney in Atlanta.  When mental incapacity is claimed, “prosecutors always
roll their eyes because they are used to seeing people trying to
get out of charges any way they can,” said Alexander, now
general counsel for CARE USA in Atlanta.  Whether a defendant lacks the ability to help lawyers
prepare for trial, as Stanford claims, is a different question
posed at an earlier point in the case than whether one is not
guilty  due to insanity . The standards are different and so are
the ways they are resolved.  Judges and Juries  A judge decides mental competency before the accused is
tried. Trial juries decide on insanity.  To be fit for federal trial, a defendant must have
“sufficient present ability to consult with his lawyer with a
reasonable degree of rational understanding,” the U.S. Supreme
Court said in 1960. A defendant must have “a rational as well
as a factual understanding of the proceedings against him,” the
court said.  Lawyers have to be careful about how to handle mentally ill
clients because they could wind up in the “miserable
existence” of a ward for the criminally insane longer than
their punishment would be on conviction, said Wayne, the Denver
lawyer.  To be found not guilty by reason of insanity, a defendant
must convince a jury that at the time of the crime, he had “a
severe mental disease or defect” which rendered him “unable to
appreciate the nature and quality or the wrongfulness of his
acts,” according to federal law.  Ultimate Release  Defendants who win such an acquittal are hospitalized for
treatment. If they get better and are eventually found by a
judge to have regained sanity, they can be released.  That’s the situation with John Hinckley, tried for the 1981
wounding of President  Ronald Reagan  and three others. Found not
guilty by reason of insanity, Hinckley has since been housed in
a psychiatric facility, St. Elizabeth’s Hospital in Washington.
His lawyers say he is improving.  Persuaded of Hinckley’s progress, a judge has been granting
him more time away from St. Elizabeth’s and gradually increasing
his autonomy during those visits. If Hinckley is found to be
sane, he may be released entirely.  It can be harder to convince a jury that the accused is
insane than to show incompetence pre-trial to a judge, Wayne
said.  “Sometimes you have clients who have breaks with reality
but were sane at time of crime,” she said.  Whatever Loughner’s mental state is, going to trial with an
insanity defense may not be the best idea, she said.  Insanity Defense ‘Hard’  “It’s very hard to win insanity trials,” she said. In
Loughner’s case, it would be especially difficult given the
publicity around the shootings and the nature of the crimes, she
said.  “Juries are very punitive when it comes to these kinds of
cases,” Wayne said. “Most juries reject the idea that your
mental health issue rises to the level of what they believe is
an excuse.”  A documented history of diagnosed mental illness predating
the crime helps the defense, Wayne said.  The Stanford case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta
at   awooolner@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta
at   lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  