-- Stanford’s U.S., Antiguan Receivers Vie in Court for Control of His Assets
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2011-12-21T23:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/stanford-s-u-s-antiguan-receivers-vie-in-court-for-control-of-his-assets.html
U.S.- and Antiguan-appointed
receivers for R. Allen Stanford’s holdings vied in court for
control of his assets as investors await payment for losses in
his alleged $7 billion fraud scheme.  U.S. District Judge David Godbey in  Dallas  today heard
evidence and arguments from attorneys for Ralph Janvey -- whom
he appointed almost three years ago to marshal and liquidate
Stanford’s business and personal holdings -- and from lawyers
for executives of the global auditing firm Grant Thornton --
chosen by an Antiguan court for the same task.  At the heart of Stanford’s alleged fraud are certificates
of deposit sold by his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank
Ltd. to about 28,000 investors. That makes the island nation the
legal center of interest, the two Grant Thornton receivers
contend. Janvey’s lawyer, Kevin Sadler, disagreed.  “The last thing this receivership needs, the last thing
that investors need, is two liquidators of the bank here in the
U.S.,” Sadler told Godbey. “It duplicates work that has
already been done.”  The claims and distributions could be coordinated between
the U.S. and Antiguan receivers, said Gregory Grossman, a lawyer
for the  Grant Thornton  liquidators. “For reasons that have been
mystifying to me, we have been unable to reach a joint
protocol,” he said.  Godbey didn’t make a decision at the end of today’s
hearing, saying he would “take this under advisement.”  ‘Sad to Hear’  “I’m sad to hear the mediation didn’t work,” he told the
attorneys. “I’m sadder that the money going to this to pay
lawyers is not going to compensate the victims.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in February
2009 sued Stanford, alleging that he and his employees lied
about the CDs, telling investors the proceeds were invested in
safe, liquid assets.  In reality, the SEC said, Stanford was spending that money
to fund illiquid real estate ventures, a life of wealth and the
operation of more than 130 companies, including his Houston-
based broker dealer, Stanford Group Co. Later-arriving
investors’ money was allegedly being used to pay off earlier
investors.  The financier, who had been knighted by the government of
Antigua and Barbuda, has been jailed as a flight risk since his
June 2009 indictment by a U.S. grand jury in Houston. Among the
allegations is a claim that he bribed an Antiguan banking
regulator to ignore irregularities.  January Trial  Stanford, who maintains his innocence, is scheduled to be
tried on Jan. 23. At a hearing this week in Houston, defense
lawyers and U.S. prosecutors are asking a judge to determine his
mental fitness to stand trial. Stanford says he suffered severe
 memory loss  in a jailhouse beating. Prosecutors say he’s faking.  “Only 20 percent of Stanford’s victims are Americans,”
Edward Davis, one of the attorneys for Grant Thornton executives
Marcus Wide and Hugh Dickson, said in a phone interview before
today’s hearing. “This was not a U.S.-centric fraud, although
there were U.S.-centered parts. This was an offshore fraud.”  Dickson and Wide are seeking global control of Stanford’s
assets, he said, with no role for the U.S. receiver.  “It’s not like they found a bunch of new money,” Sadler
said before the hearing. “What are they going to do that will
put new money in the investors’ pockets?”  Recovery, Spending  Janvey has recovered more than $114 million in cash and
$96 million in assets while spending about $102 million winding
up Stanford’s operations and pursuing litigation, according to a
report submitted to Godbey last month.  “I don’t think the Stanford International Bank was
anything more than a front for a Ponzi scheme,” Janvey said at
today’s hearing. The operation wasn’t a bank and Stanford and
other officers ran it in the U.S., he said.  The Grant Thornton receivers said in a Dec. 7 online
briefing to investors said they recovered $3.2 million in
 Panama , obtained a freeze on real estate holdings worth
$70 million and were working to recover $9 million in assets in
 Colombia .  “Our costs will be significantly lower with significantly
higher assets,” said Davis, of Miami-based Astigarraga Davis
Mullins & Grossman PA.  Antiguan law requires his clients to set up an investor
distribution system, even if it duplicates the one that Janvey
establishes, Davis said.  Antiguan Estate  The Antiguan estate will be able to distribute more than
$300 million of Stanford’s European bank funds, which are
claimed by both receivers, Davis said. Custody of the funds, now
frozen at the request of the U.S. Justice Department, was
awarded to Antiguan control by U.K. and Swiss courts, as well as
proceeds realized from the sale of Stanford’s considerable
Antiguan real estate and resort properties, he said.  Stanford’s Antiguan bank “generated the money” through
its CD sales, Davis said. He called the financier’s U.S.
operations “the companies that spent the money.”  Opposing the Antiguan receivership’s bid for primacy, the
SEC filed papers Dec. 5 with Godbey, arguing that the alleged
Stanford  Ponzi scheme  was Houston-born.  “The evidence is overwhelming that Stanford’s fraud (and,
in fact, Stanford International Bank even if viewed in
isolation) was orchestrated from the  United States ,” the agency
said.  Center of Interest  Janvey and Dallas lawyer John J. Little, appointed by
Godbey to advocate for investors, agreed. In a court filing last
week, they said the center of interest in the Stanford case
ought to remain in the U.S.  “It is clear that the entire Stanford enterprise,
including SIB, was run from the United States,” they said.  So far, those claiming they lost money with Stanford have
received no payout.  “Millions of dollars have been spent litigating these
jurisdictional issues -- all at the expense of the victims,”
attorney Peter D. Morgenstern, a member of the Godbey-sanctioned
Stanford investors’ committee, said in letter to the  Justice
Department  last month.  The liquidation proceeding is In re Stanford International
Bank Ltd., 3:09-cv-00721, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of  Texas  (Dallas). The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 4:09-
cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston). The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank, 3:09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  