-- Allen Stanford Suicidal, Unfit for Trial: Doctor
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2011-12-21T18:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/stanford-doctor-says-financier-is-suicidal-unfit-for-trial-in-ponzi-case.html
R. Allen Stanford is suicidal and
may never recover sufficiently from a jailhouse beating to stand
trial next month on charges he ran a $7 billion  Ponzi scheme , a
doctor who examined him for the defense testified.  Defense lawyers and U.S. prosecutors argued for the second
day in federal court in Houston over Stanford’s mental fitness.
Stanford, 61, says he can’t remember family vacations, business
dealings or romantic encounters with women because of the attack
and because of anxiety drugs. The U.S. says he’s faking it.  Dr. Ralph Lilly, a neurologist, testified today that
Stanford sustained “a major injury that required major
surgery’’ in the 2009 inmate assault. Stanford is delusional and
believes the government is out to destroy him, Lilly said. The
doctor said he couldn’t predict when Stanford might be ready for
trial.  “He’s at risk for suicide,” Lilly told U.S. District
Judge David Hittner, citing an examination of Stanford this
month. “His memory is like a crossword puzzle that’s fallen to
the ground and doesn’t come together anymore.”  Lilly told the judge he didn’t know when or whether
Stanford would be able to go on trial.  “I can’t say in the next month or ever,’’ he said.  Further Treatment  Depending on how Hittner rules, Stanford will undergo
further treatment or face a trial Jan. 23 on charges of running
a Ponzi scheme that cost investors more than $7 billion. If
convicted, he could go to prison for the rest of his life.  Stanford has been imprisoned as a flight risk since his
June 2009 indictment on charges of defrauding investors through
a scheme built on allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Stanford benefited from eight months of treatment in
Butner, where he was successfully weaned from powerful anti-
anxiety drugs prescribed after the assault, Lilly said. The
lasting effects of the brain injury have left him depressed and
occasionally hallucinatory, Lilly said.  “He’s delusional, paranoid and he feels the government has
selected him to destroy him for whatever reason they may have,’’
Lilly testified. He said Stanford believes the U.S. wants to
“make money off his businesses’’ and has tortured him.  Prison Psychologist  Robert E. Cochrane, a psychologist at the Federal Bureau of
Prisons’ medical center in Butner,  North Carolina , testified
yesterday that Stanford failed every test designed to expose
fakers. His claim of complete retrograde amnesia, loss of the
memory of things that happened before the event that caused it,
is “remarkable” because the condition is so rare, Cochrane
said.  Lilly said today that Stanford is “absolutely’’ not faking
his condition and isn’t even aware of the extent to which his
mental faculties are impaired.  “His symptoms are characteristic of someone with a brain
injury,’’ Lilly said. “His prognosis is limited.’’  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 