-- State Lawmakers Can’t Find Common Ground Either: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2011-12-21T00:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/state-lawmakers-can-t-find-common-ground-either-peter-orszag.html
The political wrangling in the U.S.
this week over the extension of the payroll-tax holiday
illustrates once again the new era of hyperpolarization. The gap
between the two parties is wide, and few policy makers stand in
the middle. The traditional model of centrist legislating is
broken.  Rather than catch up with this reality, most  Washington 
commentators still yearn for the good old days of bipartisan
legislation driven by moderates. They believe that all we need
to get there is stronger national leadership. However, new
evidence from state legislatures shows that polarization is not
just an inside-the-Beltway phenomenon.  In the political science literature on polarization in
Congress, the big debate is about its cause (with widespread
agreement that gerrymandering is only a bit player). Has
polarization been driven by changes in the population or by an
increasing gap between the policy-making elite and the public?
This matters because, if the problem is simply with freelancing
national policy makers, fixing it should be straightforward:
Voters could simply elect different policy makers. If the cause
is a more polarized population, though, the solutions are less
clear and the problem is likely to be with us for a long time.  The strongest piece of evidence in favor of the blame-the-
elites view is the way legislators who share the same
constituents can have radically different points of view on
policy. In the 112th Congress, for example, 17 states are
represented by senators of different parties.  The senators from
mixed-party states represent the same people, yet often
represent them in substantially different ways. This implies
that legislators have the leeway to behave in a highly partisan
manner that could be out of line with their constituents’ views.  Population Sorts Itself  However, if legislators act more radically than their
voters think they should, then those voters should express
dissatisfaction. That has not happened, as Gary Jacobsen, a
political scientist at the  University of California ,  San Diego ,
has shown. At the same time, the American population is  sorting 
itself increasingly into Republican and Democratic
neighborhoods, and this, along with the segmentation of print,
online and broadcast media, reinforces polarization. This
dynamic suggests that an important cause of polarization in
Congress is polarization among the American people.  New studies of state legislatures provide another
perspective on the issue. As Nathaniel Birkhead, a graduate
student in political science at  Indiana University , has  written ,
“If polarization is driven primarily by forces within the
Beltway, we should expect to see that the trend of polarization
in Congress differs from polarization trends elsewhere.”  So what’s been happening to state legislatures? From 1996
to 2008, most states experienced striking increases in state-
level polarization, according to data assembled by the political
scientists Boris Shor of the  University of Chicago  and Nolan McCarty of Princeton. In fact, over that period, most state
legislatures polarized even more rapidly than Congress did.  State experiences varied, to be sure. The most dramatic
increases in polarization happened in  Arizona ,  Colorado  and
 California . Some states experienced no change in polarization to
speak of. And, in a small minority of states, legislatures
depolarized.  New Hampshire ’s did so most significantly.  But most legislatures became more polarized, and this
evidence tends to support the idea that Congress’s problem is
not unique. Shor and McCarty suggest that perhaps the blame-the-
elites view merely needs to be augmented with a state-level
component -- that legislatures grew more polarized because state
politicians, like those in Congress, have developed views that
are not in line with those of their constituents.  But as I wrote in an earlier  column , there is evidence that
the population itself is polarizing. In particular, increased
residential sorting by income (the decline of mixed-income
neighborhoods) correlates with increased residential sorting by
political party -- which in turn is linked to increased
polarization among voters.  Political Migration  Recent research explores how voters migrated from 2004 to
2008. Political scientists Wendy Cho of the  University of
Illinois  at Urbana-Champaign, James Gimpel of the University of
 Maryland  and Iris Hui of the University of California,  Los
Angeles , constructed a  new database  linking voting registration
with other variables and found that, even after adjusting for
age, income and other personal variables, political
considerations appeared to influence people’s migration
patterns. In particular, they found that “Republican migrants
show a clear preference for moving to areas that are even more
Republican in all states except  New Jersey  and  Pennsylvania .”
The evidence about Democratic migrants was more mixed.  Ultimately, the increasing polarization in American
politics probably stems from both causes -- our representatives
in Congress have more extreme views, and we the people also have
more divided views. I suspect, however, that as we gather more
evidence, most of it will point toward increased polarization in
the population itself.  To see why all of this matters, imagine the world a year
from today. After 12 more months of high unemployment and much
drama surrounding the European sovereign-debt and banking
crisis, a transition team in Washington will be preparing for a
new administration. Regardless of whether the winner is
President  Barack Obama  or the Republican challenger, he will
undoubtedly face a sharply divided Congress and will lack at
least one part of the three things needed for effective
legislating in the partisan era: the White House, 60 votes in
the Senate and the majority in the  House of Representatives .  In addition, he will face three fiscal policy challenges:
The Bush tax cuts will be expiring, the budget cuts triggered by
the failure of the supercommittee will be taking effect, and the
government will again be bumping up against the debt limit. Want
to see hyperpolarization in high definition? Just wait.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 