-- Sterlite, Hindalco Said to Win Higher Copper Processing Fees
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2011-12-22T05:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/sterlite-hindalco-said-to-win-higher-copper-fees-from-freeport.html
Sterlite Industries (STLT)  (India) Ltd. and
 Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL)  won a 13 percent increase in copper ore
processing fees from  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  for
next year, said two people familiar with the accord.  The two companies, which refine almost all of the nation’s
output, will charge the world’s largest publicly traded copper
producer $63.50 a metric ton to process concentrate into metal,
said the people, declining to be identified because the talks
are private. Refining charges will increase to 6.35 cents a
pound from 5.60 cents, they said.  Pan Pacific Copper  Co., Japan’s largest producer, won a
similar increase in fees from Freeport for next year, two
industry executives familiar with the matter said on Dec. 3.
Smelters in  Japan ,  China  and India are seeking higher treatment
and refining fees in anticipation of greater output as new
projects start production and strikes end at copper mines in
Indonesia, Peru and Chile.  “Higher copper fees and a weakening rupee will cushion
Hindalco and Sterlite from waning demand due to the economic
slowdown,” said Jatin Damania, an analyst at SBI Capital
Markets Ltd. in Mumbai, who has a “buy” rating for Hindalco.
“The increase in fees will have a positive impact on their
profitability.”  The  Indian rupee , the worst performer against the dollar
among Asian currencies and the so-called BRIC nations in 2011,
plunged to a record of 54.305 on Dec. 15 and is poised for a
third straight quarter of decline, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Mines to Restart  Workers at Freeport’s Grasberg mine in Indonesia agreed to
end a three month strike on Dec. 14. Miners at the Collahuasi
copper mine, a venture between  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  in northern Chile, last month agreed to end a strike over
job dismissals, while Grupo Mexico SAB’s unit in October began
talks with Peru’s government to restart its Tia Maria copper
project.  Sterlite and Hindalco, which will use about 30 percent of
their capacity for Freeport ore, are expected to seek more than
$60 a ton to process ore from Chilean producers this week, one
of the people said, without giving details.  Hindalco spokeswoman Pragnya Ram declined to comment about
next year’s fees, while Sterlite spokesman Pavan Kaushik didn’t
answer three calls to his mobile phone.  Sterlite fell as much as 2 percent to 89.4 rupees and
traded at 90.45 rupees as of 10:16 a.m. in Mumbai. Hindalco
declined as much 2.4 percent to 120 rupees. The benchmark
Sensitive Index fell 0.5 percent.  Prices Gain  Copper in  London  gained as much as 0.3 percent to $7,474.75
a metric ton. Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange
traded little changed at $7,461.75 a ton by 12:13 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Sterlite and Hindalco, which smelt concentrate mined mainly
in Chile,  Peru  and Australia, had won a 20 percent increase in
fees for 2011.  Treatment fees are expressed in dollars per ton of
concentrate received and refining fees in cents per pound of
copper in the ore. The fees are deducted from the price paid by
smelters to mining companies for the raw material.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  