-- Stock Pumping, Zell, MetLife, Aon, Lyondell in Court News
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2011-12-21T14:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/stock-pumping-sam-zell-metlife-aon-lyondell-in-court-news.html
Willie Gault, the former NFL wide
receiver and Olympic sprinter, was accused by U.S. regulators of
taking part in a scheme to artificially inflate the stock of a
medical-device company that he managed.  Studio City, California-based  Heart Tronics (HRTT)  repeatedly
announced millions of dollars in fake sales orders for its
heart-monitoring devices between 2006 and 2008, the Securities
and Exchange Commission said in a  complaint  filed yesterday in
the U.S. District Court in California.  The SEC also sued attorney Mitchell Stein, who controlled
most of the company’s business activities and hired promoters to
tout Heart Tronics stock on the Internet. Stein was named by the
Justice Department in a parallel criminal case, the SEC said.  Stein’s handyman and chauffeur Martin Carter, as well as
Gault’s co-chief executive officer J. Rowland Perkins, a founder
of Creative Artists Agency LLC, one of the largest U.S. talent
agencies, were also named in the SEC complaint.  Gault, 51, was installed as Heart Tronics’ president and
co-CEO in October 2008 to generate publicity for the company and
foster investor confidence, the SEC said. The defendants reaped
nearly $8 million by trading the stock, according to the
complaint.  “Stein took advantage of Gault’s celebrity to further prop
up the image of Heart Tronics as a successful enterprise,”
Stephen L. Cohen, an associate director in the SEC’s enforcement
division, said in a statement. “Stein secretly sold millions of
dollars in stock while peddling false claims of Heart Tronics’
lucrative sales orders, and has been living the high life off
his illicit proceeds with multiple homes, exotic cars, and
private jets.”  Jared Scharf, an attorney who represents Gault, Perkins and
Heart Tronics, said his clients denied accounts of falsified
sales. “The company intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously,”
Scharf said.  A phone call to Stein’s Woodland Hills,  California , law
firm wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Heart
Tronics, Inc., U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  Lawsuit News/Pretrial  Sam Zell Sues Shareholders Over Tribune Buyout He Engineered  Billionaire Sam Zell sued former shareholders of the
bankrupt publisher  Tribune Co. , claiming he should be paid along
with other creditors should a court rule the 2007 buyout he
engineered was a fraud.  The suit, filed by the Zell-controlled company EGI-TRB LLC,
defends the buyout as legitimate while also attempting to
preserve Zell’s ability to collect money should a court
disagree.  “If it is determined that the selling shareholder payments
represent fraudulent conveyances, EGI-TRB is entitled to recover
from such transfers or conveyances in an amount in excess of
$225 million,” Zell’s attorneys said in court papers filed in
state court in Chicago on Dec. 19.  Tribune, owner of the Los Angeles Times, the Chicago
Tribune, television stations and cable channels, filed
bankruptcy one year after Zell used borrowed money to buyout
shareholders for $8.3 billion.  Abigayle Pfeiffer, a spokeswoman for shareholder Robert R.
McCormick Foundation, didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail
message seeking comment about the lawsuit.  Pre-buyout creditors including hedge fund  Aurelius Capital
Management LP  claim the buyout was a so-called fraudulent
conveyance because it put so much debt on Tribune the company
couldn’t survive. Aurelius helped devise a strategy to file
dozens of lawsuits against shareholders in state court.  The case filed by Zell is EGI-TRB LLC V. ABN Amro Clearing
Chicago LLC et al. The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-
bk-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  NFL Sued by Retired Players for Brain-Injury Monitoring  The  National Football League  was sued by three retired
players seeking to establish a medical monitoring program for
brain injuries on behalf of all former players in the league.  Harry Jacobs, 74, Jerome Barkum, 61, and Tommy Mason, 72,
said in a complaint filed in Manhattan federal court yesterday
that they suffer from brain injuries as a result of repeated
blows to the head during their playing days. Jacobs’s and
Mason’s wives are also named as plaintiffs.  The retired players, who seek to represent all former NFL
players in the U.S., asked the court for a declaration that the
league knew or should have known that repeated head impacts and
concussions put the players at risk of developing degenerative
brain diseases later in life.  The players are seeking medical monitoring and unspecified
personal-injury damages. Suits making similar claims were filed
earlier this year in federal court in Philadelphia and state
court in Los Angeles.  “The NFL has long made player safety a priority and
continues to do so,”  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the league,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Any allegation that the NFL
intentionally sought to mislead players has no merit.”  Jacobs played linebacker-defensive end for 11 seasons with
the Boston Patriots,  Buffalo Bills  and New Orleans Saints,
according to Pro-Football-Reference.com.  Mason played 11 years with the  Minnesota Vikings , Los
Angeles Rams and  Washington Redskins . A kick-returner and
running back, Mason played in three Pro Bowls and was an All-Pro
pick in 1963, according to Pro-Football-Reference.  Barkum, a first-round draft choice of the  New York  Jets in
1972, played his entire 12-year career with the team as a wide
receiver and tight end, according to Pro-Football-Reference. He
made the  Pro Bowl  in 1973.  The case is Jacobs v. National Football League, 11-CV-9345,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lyondell Creditor Trustee Weisfelner Sues Over Transfers  Lyondell Chemical Co. ’s trustee sued investors in New York
state court, claiming that assets of the previously bankrupt
company were fraudulently transferred in the 2007 buyout led by
financier Leonard Blavatnik.  Lyondell shareholders realized an unfair premium in the
sale, according to a complaint filed Dec. 19 in New York State
 Supreme Court  by Edward S. Weisfelner on behalf of the LB
Creditor Trust. Weisfelner said about $12.5 billion went to
shareholders in the buyout, which was financed with “debt
leveraged against the assets of Lyondell,” leading to the
chemical maker’s 2009 bankruptcy.  “The $48 per share price paid to Lyondell shareholders
pursuant to the merger was a ‘blowout price’ that resulted in a
windfall to Lyondell shareholders and management,” according to
the complaint. “Prior to being put into play by Blavatnik,
Lyondell’s stock price had languished for years, struggling to
occasionally rise above $30 per share.”  Lyondell reorganized in 2010 by resolving most of its
disputes with creditors. Blavatnik and his company Access
Industries Holdings Inc. didn’t take part in a settlement that
included some of the other investors in the $22 billion buyout
in 2007.  Weisfelner filed a similar, second amended complaint in a
2010 case on Dec. 19 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan
against a series of investment funds.  Both lawsuits seek restitution for creditors.  The state case is Weisfelner v. Reichman, 653522-2011,
Supreme Court of New York (New York County). The bankruptcy
adversary proceeding is Weisfelner v. Fund 1, 10-4609, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  MetLife Must Defend Lawsuit Over Retained Asset Checkbook  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, must defend a
lawsuit by the beneficiary of a policy who claimed the insurer
paid $302,000 to the wrong person.  The suit was filed by Jose Herrera, who lived with his
wife, Maria Diaz, until she died in 2006. Diaz had been covered
by a U.S. program under which MetLife provided insurance to
federal employees. When Diaz died, MetLife paid proceeds of her
policy into a so-called retained asset account, in which MetLife
kept custody of funds while issuing a checkbook to the
beneficiary.  Herrera sued MetLife after learning that Diaz’s daughter by
a prior marriage had allegedly forged his signature to a claim
form and told MetLife to send the checkbook to the daughter’s
home. MetLife wouldn’t make payments to Herrera, the beneficiary
of Diaz’s policy, after the daughter allegedly forged Herrera’s
name to $302,820 in checks, according to the complaint.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in New York Dec. 19
rejected MetLife’s bid to dismiss the suit by Herrera, who said
MetLife failed to exercise “reasonable caution” before issuing
the checkbook. “Herrera simply claims monies allegedly due to
him by virtue of the contract between the government and MetLife
of which Diaz availed herself,” Kaplan said in an opinion.  MetLife is among more than 100 insurance carriers that earn
investment income on billions of dollars owed to life insurance
beneficiaries, Bloomberg Markets magazine reported last year.  John Calagna , a spokesman for the New York-based insurer,
declined to comment on the ruling.  “I’m pleased with the judge’s decision,” Eric Wertheim, a
lawyer for Herrera, said in a statement.  The case is Herrera v. MetLife, 11-cv-1901, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The appellate
case was Faber v. MetLife, 09-4901, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (New York).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials and Appeals  De Beers’s $295 Million Antitrust Settlement Affirmed by Court  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Philadelphia yesterday upheld
a $295 million settlement of a class-action, or group, lawsuit
involving  De Beers  SA, the world’s largest diamond producer.  The plaintiffs include U.S. jewelry makers, retailers and
consumers who bought De Beers diamonds from 1994. De Beers was
originally sued in 2001 for allegedly controlling distribution
and pricing for the diamond market in violation of both federal
and state antitrust laws.  The appeal centered on the certification of the plaintiff
class and the fairness of the settlement. A three-judge appeals
panel originally found certification inappropriate and rejected
the settlement approved by a district court judge.  The panel held in part that some of the indirect purchasers
-- retailers and consumers -- didn’t have valid state-law claims
because not all states allow indirect purchasers to bring
antitrust actions.  After a rehearing, the full appeals court yesterday ruled
that the class members had common injuries and raised similar
legal issues based on De Beers’s alleged actions. The judge who
wrote the original panel’s decision, Kent Jordan, dissented.  “It is very unusual to succeed in getting a class action
settled on that magnitude and then have the court throw out the
settlement,”      Howard Langer, a class-action lawyer and an
adjunct professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School
in Philadelphia, said in a phone interview.  Howard Bashman, an attorney representing the objectors to
the class, said in a phone interview that there were “strong
grounds” to appeal the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court.  “We are evaluating whether to follow that course,” he said.  De Beers -- while submitting a brief in the appeal didn’t
argue the case before the full appellate court -- was
represented by Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. Steven
Sunshine of Skadden didn’t return a call seeking comment.  In November,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  bought the Oppenheimer
family’s 40 percent stake in De Beers for $5.1 billion in cash.
The deal increased Anglo’s stake in De Beers to as much as
85 percent, the London-based company said in a statement at the
time of the deal.  The case is Arrigotti Fine Jewelry v. De Beers SA, 08-
02881, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  JPMorgan Must Face  Assured Guaranty  Unit’s Suit, Court Says  A  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  asset-management business must face
a lawsuit by a unit of Assured Guaranty Ltd., New York state’s
highest court ruled, upholding an appeals court’s ruling
allowing the suit to proceed.  J.P. Morgan Investment Management was sued in 2008 and
accused of mismanaging the investment portfolio of a special
purpose entity named Orkney Re II Plc whose obligations were
guaranteed by Assured Guaranty.  The  Court of Appeals  in Albany yesterday upheld a ruling by
an appellate court in Manhattan that common-law causes of action
for breach of fiduciary duty and gross negligence brought by
Assured Guaranty were not preempted by state securities laws. A
lower court had dismissed the complaint at the request of the
defendants.  “The purpose of the Martin Act is not impaired by private
common-law actions that have a legal basis independent of the
statute because proceedings by the attorney general and private
actions further the same goal -- combating fraud and deception
in securities transactions,” Judge Victoria Graffeo wrote in
the ruling.  JPMorgan will continue to defend itself against the claims
in the suit,  Doug Morris , a spokesman for the New York-based
bank, said in an e-mail.  “We believe that we acted appropriately at all times with
respect to the management of the client’s accounts,” Morris
said. “This is a decision related to the adequacy of the
pleadings and not to the merits of the claims.”  The case is  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  v J.P. Morgan Investment
Management Inc., 603755/2008, New York state Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts, Settlements, Pleas and Sentences  Aon Will Pay $16.3 Million to Resolve U.S. Bribery Probes  Aon Corp. (AON) , the largest insurance broker, agreed to pay
$16.3 million to resolve criminal and civil probes of possible
bribes paid overseas to get business.  Aon settled a civil enforcement action by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, agreeing to pay $14.5
million and denying wrongdoing. Chicago-based Aon also will pay
a $1.76 million criminal fine and signed a Justice Department
non-prosecution agreement that requires anti-bribery controls.  Aon subsidiaries made more than $3.6 million in improper
payments between 1983 and 2007 related to business in countries
including Costa Rica, Egypt, Vietnam, Indonesia, United Arab
Emirates, Myanmar and Bangladesh, the SEC alleged. The payments
led to $11.4 million in illicit profits, the agency claimed.  “Aon’s liability is not premised on an isolated instance
of misconduct,” Kara Brockmeyer, chief of the SEC Enforcement
Division’s Foreign Corrupt Practices Act unit, said in a
statement. “Rather, for years, Aon’s subsidiaries repeatedly
engaged in misconduct around the world.”  In 2009, Aon paid a 5.25-million pound ($7.9 million) fine
to Britain’s Financial Services Authority for not having
sufficient anti-bribery controls.  The  Justice Department  agreed to not prosecute Aon for
violating the FCPA. It cited Aon’s “extraordinary cooperation”
with the Justice Department and SEC, its “timely and complete
disclosure” of facts about improper payments in eight nations,
its “early and extensive remedial measures,” and the fine it
paid to the FSA.  “Acting with integrity is Aon’s core value and we embody
this in our commitment to the highest professional standards,”
said Greg Case, chief executive officer and president, in a
statement. “Aon has invested a significant amount of time and
resources in anti-corruption compliance and transparency to
greatly enhance our controls and processes.”  Amaranth’s $77.1 Million Manipulation Settlement Approved  A federal judge approved a $77.1 million settlement by
Amaranth Advisors LLC, the hedge fund that collapsed in 2006
after losing $6.6 billion on natural gas trades, of a lawsuit
brought by traders who accused it of market manipulation.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin, in an order Dec. 15,
approved the agreement, which was filed two days earlier in
Manhattan federal court by plaintiff’s attorney Christopher Lovell of Lovell Stewart Halebian Jacobson LLP. The parties had
reached a tentative agreement in October. A hearing on final
approval of the class-action, or group, accord is scheduled for
March 27, according to court filings.  In August 2009, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
announced that Greenwich, Connecticut-based Amaranth paid $7.5
million to settle allegations that the hedge fund tried to
manipulate natural gas futures three years earlier. In their
suit, the traders presented an expert who estimated damages at
$3.5 billion, court records show.  “The plaintiffs compromised to a tiny fraction of their
overall claim,” Stephen Senderowitz of Winston & Strawn LLP in
Chicago, a lawyer for Amaranth, said yesterday in a phone
interview. The settlement avoided the cost and risk of a trial,
and paves the way for investors to receive any remaining funds,
he said.  In April, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission issued a
$30 million civil penalty against Brian Hunter, an Amaranth
trader accused of manipulating the natural gas market in 2006.  Lovell didn’t return calls seeking comment on the
settlement.  The case is In Re Amaranth Natural Gas Commodities
Litigation, 07-06377, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan.)  Columbia Student Jose Perez Pleads Guilty in Drug Case  Jose Stephan Perez, one of five Columbia University
students arrested a year ago and accused of selling drugs on
campus, pleaded guilty to a felony count of drug possession.  The 21-year-old Atlanta resident pleaded guilty yesterday
in Manhattan before Justice Michael Sonberg of state Supreme
Court, who in October rejected a request to allow Perez into a
pretrial diversion program. Perez will be able to withdraw his
plea and plead to a misdemeanor charge if he completes 300 hours
of community service in a year and stays out of trouble, the
judge said.  Prosecutors said undercover officers, in a five-month
investigation nicknamed “Operation Ivy League,” spent $11,000
buying drugs including cocaine, marijuana, ecstasy and LSD-laced
candy, with most sales taking place in common areas and bedrooms
of three fraternities. Perez was accused of selling  Adderall , a
drug used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.  “We’ve very pleased,” Perez’s attorney, Peter Frankel,
told reporters yesterday. “But we also think that’s the
appropriate outcome. He is the only defendant who was charged
with selling his lawful prescription, not illicit drugs like
cocaine or ecstasy.”  Perez is the third of the five arrested students to plead
guilty in the case.  The case is People v. David, 00038N/2011, New York state
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  Boston-Area Pharmacy Graduate Guilty of Supporting Al-Qaeda  Tarek Mehanna, a pharmacy-school graduate, was convicted by
a federal jury in Boston of aiding al-Qaeda and lying to U.S.
authorities about his involvement with the group.  Mehanna, 29, who earned a doctorate from the Massachusetts
College of Pharmacy & Health Science, was found guilty on all
counts against him, including making false statements,
conspiracy to provide material support to a terrorist
organization and conspiracy to kill in a foreign country.  He became an operative for al-Qaeda after traveling to
Yemen in 2004 for terrorist training, prosecutors told the jury
at the beginning of the trial before U.S. District Judge George O’Toole in October. O’Toole set sentencing for April 12, and
defense attorneys said he could be imprisoned for life.  The defendant translated materials for terrorists from
Arabic to English, including an al-Qaeda manual called “39 Ways
to Serve and Participate in Jihad,” or holy war, according to
prosecutors. They also said he lied to government agents about
his reasons for going to Yemen. He wasn’t charged with planning
or trying to carry out any terrorist attacks.  Defense lawyers told the jury that the prosecution by U.S.
Attorney Carmen Ortiz violated their client’s right to free
speech under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  “We do not prosecute people for expressing their
beliefs,” Ortiz said in comments to the press after the
verdict. “Mr. Mehanna had plans; his intent was to cause
harm.” She added, “It is vitally important to prevent
incidents of terrorism.”  J.W. Carney, a defense attorney, said he will appeal the
verdict on the ground that the judge allowed the prosecutors to
show the jurors photos of the Sept. 11 attacks and images of
Osama bin Laden.  “What an appeals court will have to decide is whether the
real motivation for putting that before a jury is to scare them
and prejudice them,” Carney said in an interview. “I think our
jury was affected very negatively by that.”  The case is U.S. v. Mehanna, 09-10017, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  White Supremacist Gets 32 Years for Placing Bomb Near Parade  Kevin William Harpham, a 37-year-old white supremacist, was
sentenced to 32 years in prison for placing an explosive device
near the site of a Martin Luther King Jr. Day parade in Spokane,
Washington.  Harpham was arrested in March with planting the bomb near a
unity march held on Jan. 17, the U.S. Justice Department said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The device didn’t explode
and no one was hurt.  In September, Harpham, who admitted to being a white
supremacist, pleaded guilty to attempting to use a weapon of
mass destruction and attempted injury with an explosive,
according to the statement.  “Acts of hate like this one have no place in our country
in the year 2011, but yet, unfortunately, we continue to see
attempted violence in our communities due to racial animus,”
said Thomas Perez, assistant attorney general for the Justice
Department’s Civil Rights Division.  Harpham’s lawyer, Kailey Moran of the Federal Defenders of
Eastern Washington, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment on the sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Harpham, 11-cr-42, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Washington (Spokane).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 