-- Sugar Falls on Supply; Coffee Declines; Cocoa, Cotton Advance
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2011-12-21T21:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/sugar-futures-fall-on-global-supply-outlook-cocoa-gains-coffee-retreats.html
Sugar fell for the first time in
four sessions on speculation that supplies will climb as
harvesting accelerates in the Northern Hemisphere. Coffee
declined, while cocoa and cotton climbed.  Orange juice  slid.  Global sugar supplies will exceed demand by 11.1 million
metric tons in the season that started Oct. 1, up 13 percent
from a September estimate, Sucden, the trading arm of Sucres et
Denrees SA, said today.  Thailand ,  Russia  and the European Union
will have record crops, the Paris-based company said.  “Importing countries are also relying on increased
domestic production, resulting in a lack of demand on world
export markets,” Emmanuel Jayet, a Sucden analyst, said in the
report. “The nearly completed record crop in Russia, once the
biggest importer of raw sugar, is heralding these changing
fundamentals.”  Raw sugar for March delivery fell 0.7 percent to settle at
23.32 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .
The price, up 3.3 percent in the previous three sessions, has
dropped 27 percent in 2011 as demand eased and production
increased.  Arabica-coffee futures for March delivery dropped 1.3
percent to $2.199 a pound on ICE.  Cocoa futures for March delivery climbed 2.7 percent to
$2,244 a ton in New York. Earlier, the price reached $2,247, the
highest for a most-active contract since Dec. 14.  Cocoa Exports  Monthly exports from Ghana, the world’s second-biggest
grower, fell by almost a third since the season started in
October as shipping companies including Safmarine Container
Lines NV and A.P. Moller-Maersk S/A halted transportation
following a dispute on a port fee.  “Delays in  Ghana  are working to give cocoa a perk up,”
Sterling Smith, an analyst at Country Hedging in  St. Paul ,
Minnesota, said in an telephone interview. “There’s a little
bit of end-user coverage as these levels look pretty good.”  Ivory Coast  is the top exporter.  Cotton futures for March delivery climbed less than 0.1
percent to 86.85 cents a pound on ICE. Orange-juice futures for
March delivery dropped 0.8 percent to $1.632 a pound.  In London futures trading, cocoa gained, while refined
sugar and robusta coffee declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  