-- Swap-Trade Reports, Derivatives, Amaranth Settles, Ferrostaal: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-12-21T13:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/swap-trade-reports-derivatives-amaranth-settles-ferrostaal-compliance.html
Prices for swaps traded on so-called
swap execution facilities or exchanges will be delayed for 30
minutes under a rule approved by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  The commission voted 5-0 to approve a final rule for how
prices for trades will be made public, which depends on the type
of transaction and who is doing the trading. The regulation for
“real-time” price disclosures will put swaps subject to a
clearing requirement at an initial 30-minute delay, which would
narrow to 15 minutes after the first year. The rule also
provides for an initial 48-hour delay for end users of
derivatives to report prices.  The rule phases in the delays, starting no sooner than July
16.  The Dodd-Frank Act required the CFTC and the Securities and
Exchange Commission to increase transparency in the $708
trillion global over-the-counter  derivatives market , where
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.
The commission voted 3-2 on Nov. 19, 2010, to propose a 15-
minute delay for reporting the block trades of standardized
swaps.  Industry groups representing banks including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG  argued that
the proposal for a 15-minute limit -- meant as a window to give
traders a chance to hedge big trades prior to them going public
-- wasn’t enough time to protect them from competitors taking
advantage of their need to hedge.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
said it intends to register as a swap-execution facility.  Compliance Policy  NYSE- Deutsche Boerse  Offer Derivatives Fees Cap to EU  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse AG told antitrust
regulators they would impose a three-year ban on derivative-fee
increases should they approve their merger.  The exchanges would agree not to raise published trading
and clearing prices for derivatives on NYSE Euronext’s Liffe
exchange and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex market, Deutsche Boerse
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The remedy was sent
last week after the exchanges submitted a revised set of
proposals including the sale of NYSE’s Liffe single-stock equity
derivatives business to the European Union, two people familiar
with the situation said earlier in the day yesterday.  Officials are analyzing the exchanges’ previous offers, EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said yesterday. The
exchanges are trying to convince European regulators that
merging to create the world’s largest exchange operator won’t
stifle competition in derivatives and clearing.  James Dunseath, a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in  London ,
declined to comment. The companies sent the new remedy in a
letter to Almunia, Deutsche Boerse said.  The exchanges plan to meet European regulators to discuss
the revised remedies before the European Commission breaks for
official holidays tomorrow, the two people said. If the meeting
suggests the remedies are still insufficient, the exchanges will
continue to press their case, they said.  Before deciding whether to approve or block a deal, the
European Commission must consult competition agencies from the
European Union’s 27 nations. Commissioners from each EU country
must also vote on a decision. Companies can then appeal a merger
ban at the EU courts. The last day the commission can rule is
Feb. 9.  CFTC Votes 5-0 to Adopt Rule on Swaps Data Recordkeeping  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved a
rule requiring swap data repositories to keep digital
information about swaps immediately accessible during the life
of the swap and for five years after its termination.  The swaps recordkeeping rule, required by the Dodd-Frank
Act, passed with a 5-0 vote at a meeting yesterday in
Washington.  China to Amend Futures-Trading Regulations, Xinhua Reports  China will amend futures-trading rules to improve
government supervision, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday, without citing anyone. The State Council will publish
a draft of the proposed regulations today and invite public
comment, Xinhua said.  BOE to Apply New ABS Transparency Collateral Criteria From 2013  The Bank of England will require more information on some
asset-backed securities it accepts as collateral from January
2013.  The requirements will apply to small and medium enterprise-
backed corporate obligation securities, commercial mortgage
backed securities and asset backed commercial paper, the central
bank said in a  notification  published in London yesterday. The
requirements cover loan level information, transaction
documentation, transaction overviews, standardized monthly
investor reports and cashflow models.  The new rules will apply from Jan. 1, 2013, following which
there will be a 12-month implementation period. During this
time, securities not meeting the criteria will still be
accepted, with an additional 5 percentage-point “haircut”
applied each month they are not compliant.  “Additional haircuts will be added each month until Jan.
1, 2014, when transactions no longer meeting the criteria would
be made ineligible,” the central bank said.  Compliance Action  Further Euro-Bond Steps Urged by European Parliament Committee  A European Parliament panel urged further steps toward
joint bond sales by euro-area nations, highlighting growing
political concerns over the region’s two-year-old debt crisis.  The European Union assembly’s economic committee pressed EU
regulators “to come forward rapidly” with proposals tied to
the introduction of common euro bonds, which the German
government opposes. The non-binding resolution responds to a
Nov. 23 paper by the European Commission, the EU’s regulatory
arm, on options for joint debt issuance, also called “stability
bonds.”  “The prospect of stability bonds could foster stability in
the euro area in the medium term,” the committee said in the
resolution approved yesterday in Brussels and due to go to the
full 754-seat EU assembly early next year. The committee said it
is “deeply concerned by the continuous strains on the euro-area
sovereign bond markets reflected in widening spreads, high
volatility and vulnerability to speculative attacks over the
last two years.”  The idea of bonds sold jointly by the euro area’s 17
nations remains alive because unprecedented support by
governments and the  European Central Bank  have failed to stamp
out debt concerns that began in  Greece  in late 2009 and now
threaten Spain and Italy. The troubles led Greece to seek an
initial rescue in April 2010, pushed Ireland and Portugal into
aid programs over the ensuing year and prompted a second Greek
bailout in October.  For more, click here and click here.  BofA Said Close to Settling Countrywide Fair-Lending Probe  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is close to settling a U.S. Justice
Department probe into whether its Countrywide Financial Corp.
unit violated fair-lending practices, said two people with
knowledge of the discussions.  A deal may be announced as early as this week and will
include money to compensate Countrywide customers, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks were
private. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
acquired  subprime lender  Countrywide in 2008, and with it
billions of dollars in mortgage liabilities.  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender by
deposits, would be the biggest financial firm to settle a case
with the Justice Department’s new fair-lending unit. The DOJ has
extracted more than  $30 million  in compensation for loan
discrimination cases, including deals with  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Citizens Republic Bancorp Inc. (CRBC)   The Obama administration has increased scrutiny of banks to
prevent redlining -- excluding borrowers in low-income or
minority neighborhoods -- as well as pricing discrimination and
steering customers to products based on race or national origin.
The 1977 Community Reinvestment Act requires banks to make loans
in all of the areas they serve.  Before being acquired, Countrywide was the biggest U.S.
provider of subprime mortgages, a type of loan that regulators
have said was offered disproportionately to minorities. Xochitl
Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and Bank of
America’s  Dan Frahm  said they couldn’t comment on the possible
settlement.  Courts  Amaranth’s $77.1 Million Manipulation Settlement Approved  A federal judge approved a $77.1 million settlement by
Amaranth Advisors LLC, the hedge fund that collapsed in 2006
after losing $6.6 billion on natural gas trades, of a lawsuit
brought by traders who accused it of market manipulation.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin, in an order Dec. 15,
approved the agreement, which was filed two days earlier in
Manhattan federal court by plaintiff’s attorney Christopher
Lovell of  Lovell Stewart Halebian Jacobson LLP . The parties had
reached a tentative agreement in October.  “The plaintiffs compromised to a tiny fraction of their
overall claim,” Stephen Senderowitz of  Winston & Strawn P.C.  in
Chicago, a lawyer for Amaranth, said yesterday in a phone
interview. The settlement avoided the cost and risk of a trial,
and paves the way for investors to receive any remaining funds,
he said.  Lovell didn’t return calls seeking comment on the
settlement.  The case is In Re Amaranth Natural Gas Commodities
Litigation, 07-06377, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan.)  Ferrostaal Fined $183 Million by Court at Ex-Managers’ Trial  Ferrostaal AG was fined 140 million euros ($183 million)
yesterday by a Munich court in a bribery case related to the
conduct of two former employees.  The fine is the result of an agreement between the company,
prosecutors and the judges, court spokeswoman Margarete Noetzel
said in an e-mailed statement. The sanction was issued as part
of a verdict in the trial of two former company managers accused
of paying bribes in Greece and Portugal.  Ferrostaal  said  at the beginning of the trial on Dec. 15
that it was willing to pay the fine, which was the result of
“intensive negotiations.” The company said in a statement
yesterday that it would bear the consequences and pay the fine.  The two former company managers, identified only as Johann-
Friedrich Ha., 73, and Hans-Dieter Mue., 73, were convicted of
bribery, received suspended prison terms of two years and were
fined, according to the statement.  Prosecutors had been probing Essen, Germany-based
Ferrostaal, which manages the development of industrial and
petrochemical plants, since 2009 to determine whether it bribed
officials for contracts.  Ex-NFL Star Willie Gault Sued by SEC in Stock-Pumping Fraud  Willie Gault, the former NFL wide receiver and Olympic
sprinter, was accused by U.S. regulators of taking part in a
scheme to artificially inflate the stock of a medical-device
company that he helped manage.  Heart Tronics (HRTT) , based in Studio City, California, repeatedly
announced millions of dollars in fake sales orders for its
heart-monitoring devices between 2006 and 2008, the Securities
and Exchange Commission said in a  complaint  filed yesterday in
U.S. District Court in California. The SEC also sued Gault’s co-
chief executive officer, J. Rowland Perkins, attorney Mitchell
Stein, and Stein’s handyman and chauffeur, Martin B. Carter.  Gault, 51, was installed as Heart Tronics’ president and
co-CEO in October 2008 to generate publicity for the company and
foster investor confidence, the SEC said. Stein, who controlled
most of the company’s business activities, hired promoters to
tout Heart Tronics stock on the Internet. The defendants reaped
almost $8 million by trading the stock, according to the
complaint.  Jared Scharf, an attorney who represents Gault, Perkins and
Heart Tronics, said his clients denied accounts of falsified
sales. “The company intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously,”
Scharf said.  The SEC sued a total of six individuals, and Stein was
named by the Justice Department in a parallel criminal case, the
SEC said. A phone call to Stein’s Woodland Hills, California,
law firm wasn’t immediately returned. A phone number listed to
Martin B. Carter in Clewiston, Florida, was disconnected.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Heart Tronics, 11-cv-01962, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California ( Los Angeles ).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Chilton Says MF Global Client Funds Must Be Returned  Bart Chilton, a commissioner at the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, talked about the outlook for returning lost
money to former customers of bankrupt commodities broker MF
Global Inc.  Chilton spoke with Scarlet Fu and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  CFTC’s Gensler Says Agency to Propose Volcker Rule in January  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary
Gensler  said his agency may vote to propose the so-called
Volcker Rule in January.  The CFTC is the last of several U.S. financial regulators
to propose the rule curtailing banks’ proprietary trading and
their relationships with hedge funds. The rule is required by
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  “I would be hopeful that we would address ourselves to a
proposal -- possibly even in the first meeting of January -- of
the Volcker Rule,” Gensler told reporters at a meeting
yesterday in Washington.  Kroszner Says ‘No Magic Number’ for Capital Rules  Randall Kroszner, professor of economics at the Booth
School of Business at the University of Chicago and a former
 Federal Reserve  governor, talked about bank capital and
liquidity requirements.  The Federal Reserve will issue capital and liquidity rules
this week reshaping supervision of the riskiest, largest banks
and those with more than $50 billion in assets, a government
official familiar with the matter said. Kroszner spoke with Lisa
Murphy and  Michael McKee  on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Germany Appoints Elke Koenig to Succeed Sanio as BaFin Chief  The German government appointed Elke Koenig to replace
Jochen Sanio as head of the country’s financial regulator,
BaFin, effective Jan. 1.  “The financial markets are going through difficult times -
- a lot is in a state of transition -- so it’s of special
significance to have an experienced and proven personality at
the head” of BaFin, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in
an e-mailed statement. “This will strengthen the confidence in
Germany as a financial center.”  Bahrain’s AAOIFI Appoints Khaled Al Fakih as Secretary General  The  Accounting and Auditing Organisation for Islamic
Financial Institutions  appointed Khaled Al Fakih as its
secretary general, replacing Mohamad Nedal Alchaar. The Mananma,
Bahrain-based institution made the announcement in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Zuma Names Mokhatla as Acting Head of Special Investigating Unit  South African President Jacob Zuma appointed Nomvula
Mokhatla, the deputy national director of Public Prosecutions,
as acting head of the Special Investigating Unit.  Mokhatla replaces Nomgcobo Jiba, who was acting in the post
following the resignation last week of Willem Heath, the
Presidency said in a statement on SAPA PR today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 