-- Swiss Bankers’ Millionaire Dreams Fade
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2011-12-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/swiss-bankers-millionaire-dreams-fade-as-assets-margins-drop.html
When Werner Rueegg managed wealth
for clients of Credit Suisse Group AG,  Oswald Gruebel , who
became chief executive officer at the Zurich-based bank,
promised to make him rich.  “Ossie Gruebel told us: ‘To serve a millionaire, you have
to be a millionaire and I promise you I will make you a
millionaire,’” said Rueegg, 48, who has spent the last three
years of a 28-year career at  Bank Sarasin & Cie. AG. (BSAN)   Those days may be over with the average pay of Swiss
private bankers declining more than 6 percent to 245,000 Swiss
francs ($263,000) this year from 2008, according to data
compiled by  Boston Consulting Group .  The pay squeeze comes as profit margins for  UBS AG (UBSN) , Credit
Suisse and other Swiss banks decline in the wake of the
financial crisis and as a crackdown on  tax evasion  pushes
American and European clients to withdraw funds. Bonuses are
under pressure as assets under management drop and some wealth
managers are hiring staff to work on a commission-only basis.  “Compensation as a whole has taken a hit,” said Phil
Haviland, a London-based recruiter specializing in the Swiss
private-banking market. “It’s all about the net new assets that
can be brought in and the revenue you can get from these.”  Swiss offshore assets have declined by about a quarter to 2
trillion francs since 2007, which is contributing to a drop in
performance-related pay.  Credit Suisse (CSGN) , the second-biggest Swiss
wealth manager, reported an annualized gross margin -- the
amount of revenue earned on assets under management -- of 114
basis points in the third quarter, down from 131 basis points in
2007. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.  Bonuses Slump  Private bankers are usually paid a base salary plus a bonus
determined by a combination of the assets brought in from
existing or new clients and investment returns that contribute
to the firm’s revenue. In a good year, a bonus can double a
relationship manager’s total compensation, according to Peter Zuercher, who runs a branch of Zurich-based Adecco SA, the
world’s largest supplier of temporary workers.  Bonuses for Swiss private bankers slumped as much as 50
percent this year, said Stephan Surber, who recruits financial
professionals for the Zurich unit of Michael Page International
Plc. Surber expects further declines next year, adding that some
banks have stopped paying a signing-on bonus for new managers.  Swiss banks may lose about 1.1 billion francs in annual
revenue, or about 4 percent of the 2010 total, as clients
repatriate 47 billion francs of assets before tax agreements
with  Germany  and the U.K. come into force in 2013, according to
a Nov. 29 study by Booz & Co. The Alpine nation reached accords
with those countries this year to tax the  capital gains  and
investment income earned by holders of undeclared bank accounts.  London  Pressure  While Swiss banks struggle to contain costs as a stronger
franc erodes earnings in other currencies, bankers in London’s
financial districts expect bonuses to shrink by about a fifth
from last year as the sovereign-debt crisis crimps revenue,
according to a survey last month by recruitment firm Astbury
Marsden.  For senior London bankers, the decline in bonuses, was
partly countered by a 21 percent jump in base pay to 237,000
pounds ($367,540), Astbury Marsden said.  Some Swiss wealth managers are eliminating base salaries,
which start at about 100,000 francs and can be three times that
for senior staff, by hiring relationship managers who focus
solely on developing new business.  Commission Only  “There have been cases where private bankers are offered
consultancy roles on a commission-only basis,” said Gina Le
Provost, a recruiter with AP Executive in Geneva.  The median wage in  Switzerland  was 78,600 francs in 2010,
according to data compiled by the  Swiss Federal Statistical
Office . The country has the fourth-highest salaries in  Europe 
behind Denmark, Norway and  Luxembourg , the office said in a July
2011 report.  With wealth managers, including Credit Suisse and Julius
Baer Group Ltd., cutting jobs as profits are squeezed and fees
decline as clients trade less and shun riskier investments, the
performance of private bankers is under scrutiny, said Peter Damisch of Boston Consulting Group in Zurich.  “Banks will be more selective regarding relationship
manager hiring,” said Damisch. “More demanding clients,
difficult market environments, the need for more complex and
tailored solutions and regulatory changes raise the bar for
relationship managers.”  ‘Top Producers’  Most of Geneva’s banks and wealth managers expect profits
to be lower than last year, according to an October report by
the city’s financial industry lobby group.  While “top producers,” capable of working with the ultra-
rich and hunting for new assets by targeting “mass affluent”
clients, can still command good compensation, the environment is
getting tougher, according to Maurice Zufferey, who heads the
Swiss operations of recruiter  Spencer Stuart  in Zurich.  “Non-producers will not just be earning less,” Zufferey
said. “They will not be in a job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  