-- Swiss Panel Still Studying Measures to Weaken Franc, Widmer-Schlumpf Says
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2011-12-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/swiss-panel-studying-measures-to-curb-franc-s-gains-widmer-schlumpf-says.html
A Swiss panel from the government
and the central bank is examining options such as capital
controls and negative  interest rates  to curb the franc’s
strength, Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said.  “If the situation deteriorated further in the foreign-
exchange markets, we would have the opportunity to take certain
accompanying measures,” Widmer-Schlumpf said at a hearing in
parliament’s lower house in Bern yesterday. Among the steps
being considered are negative interest rates, a levy on
transactions and restrictions on the movement of Swiss and
foreign currencies. The panel is also looking at restrictions,
including a possible ban, on foreigners buying Swiss real
estate.  The Swiss franc has appreciated to record levels against
the euro over the last year, raising the risk of deflation and
threatening exports. That prompted the country’s central bank to
impose a limit of 1.20 francs per euro in September and the
government to lower its forecast for next year’s economic
growth. Basel, Switzerland-based freight forwarder Panalpina
Welttransport Holding AG said last month the franc’s strength
had a “significant” effect on its results.  ‘Don’t Want To’  “I would like to emphasize that we don’t want to implement
these measures,” Widmer-Schlumpf said. They “are being
examined so that, in case of need, everything has been
considered and we can make suggestions.”  The finance minister has made similar statements in the
past. On Dec. 7, she said at a hearing in the parliament’s upper
house that  capital controls  and negative interest rates “are
issues which are being examined.”  The  task force  consists of officials from the Swiss  finance
ministry , the economy ministry and the  Swiss National Bank , the
finance minister said.  The Swiss franc remains “massively overvalued” and should
continue to weaken, Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann
said at yesterday’s hearing.  He also called the Swiss central bank’s franc ceiling of
1.20 versus the euro a “necessary” measure.  “The purchasing power parity is at 1.35, 1.40,”
Schneider-Ammann added. It would be desirable for the  exchange
rate  to “move into this direction sooner rather than later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  