-- Syrian Opposition Calls for UN Meeting on Assad ‘Massacre’
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   A b d   A l h a m i d
-- 2011-12-21T11:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/syrian-opposition-calls-for-un-meeting-on-assad-massacre-1-.html
The Syrian National Council, an
opposition alliance seeking to topple President Bashar al-Assad,
called for a  United Nations ’  Security Council  meeting to address
alleged “massacres” and “large-scale genocide.”  State forces have killed 250 people in the past 48 hours in
the regions of Idlib, Homs and al-Zawiyah, the council said in
an e-mailed statement. The regions should be be declared “safe
zones,” it said.  Bloomberg is unable to verify the charges as the Syrian
government restricts foreign media access in the country and
places curbs on local journalists.  Assad has blamed the unrest on foreign provocateurs, and
his forces have used tanks, armored vehicles and artillery to
crush the uprising. The UN estimates that more than 5,000
civilians and army defectors have been killed in the unrest that
started in mid-March.  The government agreed this week to an  Arab League  protocol
to allow monitors into the country to verify compliance with an
agreement to halt the violence. The Dec. 19 signing came as the
Arab League moved closer to asking the UN to address the crisis.  Syria  agreed to the monitors after the Arab group agreed to
70 percent of the amendments sought by the government, foreign
minister Walid Al-Muallem said Dec. 19 without elaborating.  About 500 observers are set to deploy around Syria in
groups of 10, Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi said
yesterday in Cairo.  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27,
increasing economic and political pressure on Assad. Efforts by
the U.S. and  Europe , which have also imposed sanctions, to get a
condemnation of Assad’s crackdown at the  Security Council  have
been blocked by Russia and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  