-- U.K. to Push Ahead With Solar Subsidy Cuts Following Court Ruling
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2011-12-22T10:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-k-to-push-ahead-with-solar-subsidy-cuts-after-court-ruling.html
The U.K. government vowed to press
ahead with cuts to subsidies for solar power after the  High
Court  and a panel of lawmakers voiced opposition to the plan
affecting as many as 29,000 jobs.  “The current high tariffs for solar PV are not
sustainable, and changes need to be made in order to protect the
budget, which is funded by consumers through their energy
bills,” Climate Change Minister  Greg Barker  said in a statement
yesterday.  The High Court in  London  yesterday ruled the government’s
decision to cut a feed-in tariff for solar energy starting on
Dec. 12 was “unlawful.” Today, two Parliament committees
comprising lawmakers from the main parties said the incentive
reductions may have a “fatal impact” on the industry.  “This undermines confidence in  energy policy ,”  Tim Yeo , a
Conservative lawmaker who leads the Energy and Climate Change
Committee, said on BBC Radio 4. “The solar industry has to make
very long term investment decisions, and they do so on what they
think the government policy is. A retrospective change
undermines confidence, and they seek higher returns. It raises
the cost of capital and ultimately electricity bills.”  The court decision was a victory for companies including
Solarcentury Holdings Ltd., which challenged the plan to reduce
rates paid for solar power by as much as 55 percent before a
consultation with the industry finishes on Dec. 23. Lawmakers in
both the ruling  Conservative Party  and the Labour opposition say
cuts are necessary to prevent a surge in solar power from
jacking up electricity bills.  Timing of Cuts  The court’s decision throws into question when the subsidy
reductions will take effect. Barker said ministers were planning
an appeal that must be lodged by Jan. 4. The date for the cuts
to come into force may be pushed back by months or by only a few
weeks, said Clare King, a London-based renewable energy lawyer
at the law firm Osborne Clarke.  “The situation is still far from clear, and industry
players would be wise to sit tight until a new reference date is
set,” King said. “The lack of certainty is going to make it
difficult for solar companies, homeowners and investors to plan
for the future.”  The ruling opens the way for a court review of the
government’s subsidy plan that may prompt ministers to re-open
their consultation with industry executives, according to
Solarcentury, the U.K.’s largest solar company.  ‘Significant’ Impact  Delaying cuts even a few weeks would have a “significant”
impact on installers whose projects are nearing completion,
allowing a number of facilities to receive the higher rates,
Solarcentury Chairman Jeremy Leggett said in an e-mail.  “We encourage the secretary of state to accept the judge’s
very clear ruling, not plunge the industry into a further period
of uncertainty,” Leggett said. “DECC would have to make sure
any reference date has to be set at the end of the correct
statutory procedure.”  The U.K. started its program of solar incentives in April
2010, saying at the time that the premium rates would remain in
place until April 2012.  The government trimmed incentives for the biggest projects
on Aug. 1 to prevent a boom in installations. Then on Oct. 31,
ministers announced cuts for smaller, rooftop plants completed
after Dec. 12, four months earlier than the ministers had
previously indicated.  Solar Boom  The reductions are needed because a surge in installations
threatened the 867 million-pound ($1.4 billion) budget allocated
for feed-in tariffs through 2015. The tariffs are paid by
utilities, which pass the costs to consumers.  “Although perceived by the industry as a success, this
could be but a moral victory,” Ranmali Desilva, solar analyst
at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by e-mail. “A judicial
review would only confuse the issue and delay certainty, should
the government be forced to re-issue the consultation.”  Solar panel prices have  plunged  to 48 percent from a year
ago because of slower demand growth across  Europe  and rising
competition from Chinese manufacturers led by  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  Britain joins France, Germany and  Spain  in scaling
back incentives for the industry. Companies including  Sharp
Corp . said the decision undermines their investments.  “Ministers should have spotted the solar gold rush much
earlier,” said Yeo, the Conservative lawmaker. “That way,
subsidy levels could have been reduced in a more orderly way.”  ‘Sun Go Down’  Environmental Audit Committee Chairman Joan Walley, a
member of the Labour opposition, said “it doesn’t make economic
sense to let the sun go down on the solar industry.”  About 117,000 solar installations with 506 megawatts have
qualified for tariffs so far this year, more than 10 times what
was built during 2010, according to the energy regulator Ofgem.
Germany and  Italy  are expected to have connected more than 5,000
megawatts, New Energy Finance estimates.  “Everyone accepts that the tariff level for solar power
needs to be adjusted,” said Caroline Flint, a Labour lawmaker
who shadows Huhne. “But the government chaotic mismanagement
has put thousands of jobs and businesses in the solar industry
in jeopardy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  