-- Budget Deficit Narrowed More Than Forecast in November on Higher Revenue
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2011-12-21T11:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-k-s-budget-deficit-narrows-more-than-forecast-on-tax-revenue-cost-cuts.html
Britain’s  budget deficit  narrowed
more than economists forecast in November as  tax revenue  rose
and the government’s fiscal squeeze restrained spending.  Net borrowing excluding support for banks fell to 18.1
billion pounds ($28.5 billion) from 20.4 billion pounds a year
earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London
today. The median of 15 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was
a reading of 19.7 billion pounds. Tax revenue expanded 7.1
percent, while spending increased 0.8 percent.  The U.K.’s  Office for Budget Responsibility  cut its growth
forecasts last month, prompting Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  to borrow more and extend spending cuts to trim
the  budget deficit . The economic recovery has lost traction as
officials in  Europe , Britain’s biggest trading partner, struggle
to contain the sovereign debt crisis, and Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday the U.K. is not immune to the turmoil.  “It is clearly encouraging news for the chancellor,”
 James Knightley , an economist at ING Bank, said in an e-mailed
note. “However, we are concerned that the rate of improvement
could easily slow and possibly reverse given a deteriorating
growth outlook.”  In the first eight months of the fiscal year, the deficit
was 88.3 billion pounds compared with 98.7 billion pounds a year
earlier. In that period, government revenue rose 4.8 percent and
spending was up 1.9 percent.  Economic Outlook  U.K. bonds have benefited as Osborne pushes on with his
fiscal plan and Europe’s debt turmoil worsens. The 10-year gilt
was little changed today, with the yield at 2.08 percent as of
10:52 a.m. in London. It declined to 2.034 percent on Dec. 16,
the lowest on record.  The pound rose against the dollar and traded at $1.5735, up
0.5 percent from yesterday.  The OBR last month cut its growth forecast for 2011 to 0.9
percent from a previous projection of 2.5 percent. In his autumn
spending statement last month, Osborne raised his estimate for
the deficit to 120 billion pounds in the financial year ending
in March 2013, more than the 101 billion pounds he’d expected
previously.  The chancellor also extended the duration of his austerity
plan by two years from April 2015. The cuts are in addition to
80 billion pounds of reductions already planned.  Moody’s View  Moody’s analyst  Sarah Carlson  said yesterday that the U.K.
“faces rising challenges, which means that there’s a reduced
ability to absorb further macroeconomic or fiscal shocks.”
Moody’s rates Britain Aaa, and Carlson said Osborne’s commitment
to his deficit-reduction program is an “important contributor”
to the rating.  The U.K. Treasury said in a statement that the budget data
show the government’s commitment to sticking to its fiscal plans
even as the crisis in Europe worsens.  Europe bolstered its anti-crisis arsenal this week,
channeling 150 billion euros ($196 billion) to the  International
Monetary Fund  to help stem the region’s debt burden. The
 European Central Bank  will lend euro-area banks 489 billion
euros for three years, it said today, more than economists had
forecast. The move is the ECB’s latest attempt to keep credit
flowing to the economy.  Today’s report shows the deficit including government
support for banks was 15.2 billion pounds in November compared
with 18.4 billion pounds a year earlier. There was a public-
sector net cash requirement of 10.6 billion pounds, below the
cash shortfall of 10.3 billion pounds that was predicted by
analysts. Net debt rose to a record 977 billion pounds, equating
to 62.8 percent of GDP. That’s up from 57.5 percent a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  