-- U.K. Lawmakers Oppose Pro-Development Slant in Property Planning Guidance
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2011-12-21T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-k-lawmakers-oppose-pro-development-slant-in-property-planning-guidance.html
The U.K. government should drop an
assumption from planning guidelines that the default answer to
development proposals is “yes,” a panel of lawmakers said.  Ministers should also make other changes to their  National
Planning Policy Framework , Parliament’s  Communities and Local
Government Committee  said in a report published in  London  today.  The government published the guidelines in July, saying the
52-page document would provide a simpler framework for the
planning system than the existing 1,000 pages of policy papers.
The presumption in favor of development means that proposals are
supposed to be approved promptly unless they compromise specific
economic, social and environmental principles.  The words “significantly and demonstrably” should be
deleted from the policy framework where they are used to
describe the potential impact of a development, the panel said.
At the moment, there are several references in the document to
the fact that infrastructure or building work should be approved
“unless the adverse effects ‘significantly and demonstrably’
outweigh the benefits.”  “The way the framework is drafted currently gives the
impression that greater emphasis should be given in planning
decisions to economic growth,” Clive Betts, the opposition
 Labour Party  lawmaker who heads the panel, said in an e-mailed
statement. “This undermines the equally important environmental
and social elements of the planning system.”  Betts said the “default yes” to development “also
carries the risk of the planning system being used to implement
unsustainable development.”  The government held 12 weeks of consultations on the draft
policy framework, ending on Oct. 17, as well as asking the
committee to scrutinize it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 