-- U.K. Stores Brace for Most Insolvencies Since 2008 as Sales Weaken: Retail
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2011-12-21T17:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-k-stores-brace-for-most-insolvencies-since-2008-as-sales-weaken-retail.html
U.K. retail insolvencies may reach
the highest level in four years as weak Christmas sales leave
chains struggling to meet rent payments due this month,
according to restructuring firm  AlixPartners LLP .  “We are likely to see a number of retail collapses early
in the new year and it could include some much-loved names,”
Sanjay Bailur, managing director of the advisory firm’s U.K.
unit, said in an interview. The outlook is “worse than the last
three or four years.”  A disappointing Christmas season may be the nail in the
coffin for retailers who have been barely hanging on for years.
Many in sectors like value clothing, books, music, and toys
“have lost their focus and have ended up with too many
unprofitable stores, resulting in failed expansion plans, both
domestically and overseas,” Bailur said.  Thorntons Plc (THT) , a U.K. confectionery maker, fell the most in
at least 22 years today after saying annual profit will miss
estimates. Earlier this week, HMV Plc, the U.K.’s biggest CD and
DVD retailer with more than 250 stores and 163.7 million pounds
($257 million) of debt, said that insufficient sales may cast
“significant doubt” on its future. Outdoor clothing chain
 Blacks Leisure Group Plc (BSLA)  put itself up for sale this month after
shares plunged 95 percent in 2011.  Consumer Confidence   U.K. consumer confidence fell to the lowest level since the
depths of the financial crisis in 2009 driven by concern about a
financial recovery and the euro region debt crisis, according to
GfK NOP Ltd. U.K. retail sales slumped 1.6 percent in November,
the most in six months, according to the  British Retail
Consortium , as shoppers held out for discounts and cut back on
festive spending amid warnings of a looming recession.  Quarterly rents, which U.K. chains pay three months in
advance, are due on Dec. 25 for the majority of retailers.
Landlords and bank lenders anticipate that stores will have
lucrative Christmas revenue in the till by then, said Jonathan De Mello, head of retail consultancy at property broker CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc. Retailers who have had a tough
Christmas may not survive, he said.  Thorntons tumbled 39 percent to 23.25 pence in London. Both
HMV and Blacks fell to all-time lows on Dec. 19.  The  FTSE All-Share General Retailers Index (FARETG)  is down 16
percent this year, compared with a 9.2 percent decline in the
broader index. Game Group Plc is the worst performer with an 89
percent drop, followed by Mothercare Plc, whose chief executive
officer stepped down in October.  Debt to Equity  HMV and electronics retailer Game Group have the worst debt
to enterprise value -- the sum of equity and net debt -- of U.K.
listed retailers valued at more than 10 million pounds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That could leave
shareholders open to being “wiped out” if things go wrong,
according to  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in
London.  “The December quarter rent date will be a catalyst for a
lot of the retailers,”  De Mello  said. “It’s a foregone
conclusion in many respects that some retailers will pare down
stores, some will go into CVA and some will potentially cease to
exist entirely.” A CVA is a company voluntary agreement, where
creditors are offered compensation in return for ending leases.  “It will definitely be as bad as 2008 in terms of store
closures,” he said.  AlixPartners, which is advising Makro, a U.K. self-service
wholesale business owned by  Metro AG  of  Germany , said middle-
market clothing chains make up the majority of companies seeking
advice.  Woolworth’s, Peacock  In 2008, the 815-store Woolworth’s Group Plc chain was the
highest-profile casualty of the consumer downturn after 100
years in business. Barratts Priceless Group, a 191-store shoe
chain, went into administration -- analogous to Chapter 11
bankruptcy in the U.S. -- on Dec. 8 and  Sky News  reported
fashion chain  Peacock  may close 200 stores as part of its
restructuring. Billionaire Topshop owner  Philip Green  said he is
planning to cull about 250 of the  Arcadia Group Plc  stores.  “Most retailers have already done the basic ‘lemon
squeezing,’ cost reduction” after the 2008 slump that followed
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc., AlixPartner’s
Bailur said.  The focus now is reducing costs through more “intelligent
approaches” like adding more staff in-store to encourage
customers to trade up within ranges, increasing availability of
high turnover products and reducing supply-chain cost inflation.  Instead of pre-packaged administration plans, which can
damage the brand’s reputations and result in the wrong stores
being closed, he encourages renegotiating with landlords,
finding exit strategies for individual leases and assessing
demand for potential occupiers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  