-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Falls to Lowest in Almost Three Years
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-k-consumer-confidence-falls-to-lowest-in-almost-three-years-on-economy.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  fell this
month to its lowest level since the depths of the financial
crisis in 2009 as pessimism about the economy increased amid
continuing turmoil in the euro area, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  An index of sentiment dropped 2 points from November to
minus 33, the weakest reading since February 2009, the London-
based research group said in an e-mailed report today. A measure
of expectations for the economy over the next year fell 8 points
to minus 41, the lowest since January 2009.  “Optimism has not been lifted by pre-Christmas spending
and it is hard to see grounds for a recovery in confidence in
the near future,” Nick Moon, GfK Social Research managing
director, said in a statement. The decline in the economic
outlook “will make chilling reading for the government and
British businesses.”  Consumer confidence  is being undermined as European leaders
struggle to find a solution to the region’s debt crisis,
 unemployment  rises and some Bank of England policy makers warn
the country faces at least one quarter of contraction. Deputy
Governor  Charles Bean  said yesterday officials will “take
stock” of their current round of economic stimulus when it ends
in February and are ready to increase bond purchases if needed.  Policy makers expanded their asset-buying program by 75
billion pounds ($118 billion) to 275 billion pounds in October
and minutes of their December meeting to be published today will
show whether any voted for more stimulus this month. The minutes
will be released at 9:30 a.m. in London.  Recession  In an interview with the Evening Standard newspaper
published yesterday,  Bank of England  policy maker Ben Broadbent
said there’s a “material chance of a technical recession” in
the U.K., or two consecutive quarters of contraction.  Nationwide Building Society  said yesterday that its index
of  consumer confidence  rose in November from a record low.
Still, the index is almost 40 points below its long-run average,
“suggesting that consumers remain under pressure,” it said.  GfK’s measure of consumers’ view of their personal
financial situation over the next year remained at minus 10 in
December, while a gauge of whether now is the right time to make
major purchases declined 4 points to minus 31.  GfK surveyed 2,001 people between Dec. 2 and Dec. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  