-- U.S. Wins Philippines Liquor Dispute as WTO Upholds Ruling
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2011-12-21T18:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-s-wins-philippines-liquor-dispute-as-wto-upholds-ruling-1-.html
The  World Trade Organization  upheld
a ruling that Philippine taxes on imports of spirits such as
whiskey and brandy made by  Brown-Forman Corp.  and  Pernod Ricard
SA (RI)  are illegal, a victory for the U.S. and European Union.  The decision released today may help European and U.S.
companies boost their share of the  Philippines ’ $3 billion
liquor market. WTO judges in Geneva rejected the Philippines’
argument that imports such as  Jim Beam whiskey (FO) , Brandy de Jerez
and Southern Comfort don’t compete with locally produced spirits
and therefore different taxes based on the raw material used to
make the liquor should be legal.  The Philippines applies a lower  tax rate  on sugar and palm-
based drinks produced within the country. Levies on foreign
spirits in some cases may be almost 50 times higher than those
on domestic liquor, according to the EU. The Philippines should
revise its tax to meet its WTO obligations, a panel of judges
said in a  ruling  posted on the trade arbiter’s website.  “This is an important victory for American distilled
spirits producers and workers,” U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said today in a statement. “The Philippine tax system for
these products is discriminatory, plain and simple.”  Members of the Distilled Spirits Association of the
Philippines produced 66 million cases last year with gross sales
of almost 50 billion pesos ($1.15 billion), according to the
organization.  EU Exports Decline  The 27-nation EU, the world’s biggest liquor exporter with
sales exceeding 7 billion euros ($9.15 billion) last year,
shipped 16.5 million euros of spirits to the Philippines in
2010, down from almost 37 million euros in 2004, according to
the European Commission in Brussels.  Trade  between the two
economies was worth 9.1 billion euros last year.  “The discriminatory taxation system has led to a decline
of overall consumption of imported spirits of 1 percent since
2005, while consumption of local spirits has grown over 8
percent in the same period,” according to the commission.  U.S. distilled-spirits exports worldwide averaged more than
$1 billion a year from 2006 through 2009. Philippine imports of
liquor haven’t exceeded 5 percent of total sales of spirits in
the nation since 2003.  “The Philippines’ excise tax system is a textbook case of
discrimination against imported products,” Peter Cressy,
president of the Distilled Spirits Council in  Washington , said
today in a statement. “We urge the Philippines to take
immediate steps to bring its tax system into compliance with WTO
rules.”  The EU lodged its complaint in July 2009 and the U.S.
followed six months later. According to industry statistics
cited by Kirk’s office, U.S. distilled-spirits companies
contributed to more than $113 billion of economic activity and
more than 1.2 million jobs in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  