-- U.S. Faces Fitch AAA Downgrade By End of 2013 Unless Deficit Cuts Made
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2011-12-21T21:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-s-faces-fitch-aaa-downgrade-by-end-of-2013-unless-deficit-cuts-are-made.html
The U.S.’s AAA rating will probably
be cut by  Fitch Ratings  by the end of 2013 unless lawmakers are
able to formulate a plan to reduce the budget  deficit  after next
year’s congressional and presidential elections.  “Without such a strategy, the sovereign rating will likely
be lowered,” New York-based Fitch said in a statement today.
“Agreement will also have to be reached on raising the federal
debt ceiling, which is expected to become binding in the first
half of 2013.”  Fitch assigned a negative outlook on the U.S. in November
after a congressional committee failed to agree on budget cuts.
The rating firm forecast federal public-debt will exceed 90
percent of gross-domestic-product by the end of the decade
unless the government addresses rising health and social
security spending through tax increases or reductions in
expenditures.  “The debt situation is a slow moving train wreck,” said
Jason Brady, a managing director at Thornburg Investment
Management Inc., which oversees about $73 billion from  Santa Fe ,
 New Mexico . “The risks are apparent, but the benefits or
strengths are also apparent. The strength of the U.S economy,
the strength of the U.S financial system, is more apparent right
now.”  Downgrade Probability  The U.S.’s probability of a downgrade is greater than 50
percent over two years, Fitch said Nov. 28 in a statement.
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service said Nov. 21
that the so-called supercommittee’s inability to reach an
agreement didn’t merit downgrades because the inaction will
trigger $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts.  “The high and rising federal and general government debt
burden is not consistent with the U.S. retaining its AAA status
even with its other fundamental sovereign credit strengths,”
Fitch said.  Treasuries have returned 4.1 percent since the S&P cut the
U.S. to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The  S&P 500 Index  has gained 4.5
percent”  The 12-member bipartisan committee, created in August by
the Budget Control Act that raised the U.S. debt ceiling,
reached an impasse amid Democrats’ opposition to reductions in
programs such as Medicare and Republicans’ reluctance to
increases in  tax revenue .  “This is really the right thing to do, to talk about what
the problems are, talk about this not being on the right
pathway, but also recognize that this isn’t moving quickly and a
lot can change between now and a year or two years,” Brady
said. “The U.S. certainly has the ability to pay its debts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  