-- U.S. Joins EU in Push for Iran Oil Embargo in Effort to Stop Nuclear Plans
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2011-12-21T20:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-s-joins-eu-in-push-to-reduce-iran-s-sales-of-oil-over-nuclear-program.html
The Obama administration and
European governments are seeking help from Arab and Asian allies
to reduce  Iran ’s oil revenue in the dispute over its nuclear
program, while trying to avoid causing a surge in prices that
may threaten the global economic recovery.  The most wide-ranging effort to date to target Iranian
income, the strategy includes a push by  France  and Britain for
an embargo as soon as next month on imports of Iranian oil by
the 27 European Union countries. EU nations, the U.S. and Asia-
Pacific allies discussed possible measures in Rome yesterday and
vowed to increase pressure on Iran, the world’s No. 3 crude
exporter in 2010, to abandon a suspected nuclear weapons
program, according to an Italian Foreign Ministry statement.  The Obama administration sent high-ranking officials to
Saudi Arabia and Israel in the last few days to discuss
targeting Iran’s energy exports, and is developing plans to
implement congressionally mandated sanctions on its central bank
that complicate the international purchases of crude. The U.S.
is also urging  Japan , the No. 2 buyer of Iran’s oil, to reduce
its reliance on imports from the country and discourage refiners
from buying the crude by imposing tariffs, according to
diplomats and analysts who are in consultation with the
administration.  Oil Prices  “The ultimate goal is not to take every barrel of Iranian
oil off the market but to significantly decrease the revenue
Iran receives for its oil sales,” said  Mark Dubowitz , director
of the Iran Energy Project at the Foundation for Defense of
Democracies in  Washington , who has been advising Congress and
the administration on targeting Iranian energy revenues.  The prospect of a European embargo of Iranian crude helped
push oil prices higher. Futures for February delivery advanced
$1.45, or 1.5 percent, to settle at $98.67 a barrel today in  New
York .  Oil is Iran’s main source of income, earning the country
$73 billion in 2010 and supplying more than 50 percent of the
national budget, according to the U.S.  Energy Department  and the
 International Monetary Fund . The second-largest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after Saudi
Arabia, Iran exported an average of 2.58 million barrels a day
in 2010, according to OPEC.  U.S. officials say they want to target Iran’s oil earnings
to force the regime to abandon its nuclear work, or at least
reduce funding for missile and nuclear development and terrorist
financing. Iran already is under four rounds of United Nations
sanctions and separate economic and financial measures by the
U.S. and the EU.  Playing Down Sanctions  Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi on Dec. 17 played down
further sanctions, saying the world needs Iranian supply and
can’t make up the shortfall, the state-run Fars news agency
reported.  The U.S. is “encouraging all of our partners to do what
they can to wean themselves from Iranian oil,” State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said in Washington on Dec. 19. All
measures are being considered “in close consultations with our
allies and partners about protecting their legitimate interests,
their economic interests.”  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton met Japanese Foreign
Minister  Koichiro Gemba  in Washington on Dec. 19 and “discussed
new sources of oil that are coming online -- Iraq, Libya,
etcetera -- and about what we can do together to help partners
make that transition to more secure supplies,” Nuland told
reporters.  ‘Causing Damage’  Japan  gets 10 percent of its crude imports from Iran,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Gemba
told reporters he feared “there is a danger of causing damage
to the entire global economy if the imports of Iranian crude oil
stop.”  The U.S. is pressing Japan to impose a surcharge on
refiners who import oil from Iran, Dubowitz said. The idea is to
encourage refiners to seek cheaper crude from other nations or
force Iran to cut its prices.  An EU embargo as well as modest decreases in Japanese and
South Korean imports from Iran would leave remaining buyers,
including  China  and  India , better positioned to wring deep
discounts, Dubowitz said.  Already, Asia’s largest refiner,  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028) , known as Sinopec, cut January purchases from Iran over a
price dispute, according to media reports from China.  China, India, South Korea, and Turkey have increased
imports of Iranian crude this year, according to the U.S. Energy
Department.  International Strategy  Iran is advancing on elements of its nuclear program,
according to UN inspectors. The White House is concerned it is
within weeks of enriching uranium at a deep underground facility
near Qom, according to administration officials. Used to fuel
power plants and reactors, enriched uranium may be further
processed into atomic weapons material. Iran says its nuclear
program is for civilian use.  The International Atomic Energy Agency detailed nuclear
activities that have no purpose other than for weapons,
according to a Nov. 8 report. That is increasing pressure on
President Barack Obama from some in  Israel  and some Republican
presidential challengers to consider a military strike. The
drive for an embargo and sanctions is part of an effort to force
Iran to cooperate with international inspectors and drop the
suspect activities, and to forestall use of force, according to
diplomats who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the issue.  ‘Whatever Steps Necessary’  The U.S. shares Israel’s determination to stop Iran from
acquiring nuclear weapons, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said
on Dec. 19.  “If they proceed and we get intelligence that they are
proceeding with developing a nuclear weapon, then we will take
whatever steps necessary to stop it,” he told CBS News.  Gulf diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said
they have reassured the U.S. and  Europe  of their willingness to
increase production to offset the loss of Iranian oil in Europe.  Angola, Africa’s second-biggest oil producer, would
consider raising output “if asked” to help counter a curb in
trade of Iranian crude, said  Manuel Vicente , chairman of
Sonangol EP, the country’s state-owned oil company.  “As an OPEC member, we are subject to production quotas
and we have been producing under our installed capacity,”
Vicente said in an interview yesterday in Luanda, the capital.
“If we are asked to increase production, we will have capacity
to do so.”  Central Bank Sanctions  The U.S. congressional sanctions on Iran’s central bank,
which need Obama’s signature, will go into effect 180 days after
becoming law if the president determines the supply of crude is
sufficient to make up the loss from Iran. Obama is to make that
determination based on reports to be issued every two months by
the Energy Department, according to the legislation.  The legislation allows the president to waive sanctions for
national security reasons and permits exceptions for countries
that have significantly reduced purchases of Iranian oil.  “If you create a spike in the price of oil, they’re still
going to be able to benefit, because they’re selling their
oil,” said Dennis Ross, who until recently served as Obama’s
special adviser on Iran. The trick is doing this “in a way that
the Iranians don’t benefit from,” he said.  Limiting Price  The regime will benefit if its remaining buyers are forced
to pay higher prices, said Ross, who now works at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy. The key is to keep world  oil
prices  stable while leaving Iran with fewer buyers, he said.  The EU imported 450,000 barrels a day of Iranian oil from
January to June, about 3 percent of the  region’s needs ,
according to the International Energy Agency in Paris. The EU
accounted for 18 percent of Iran’s oil exports in the first half
of this year, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  If an embargo is agreed upon at an EU foreign ministers
meeting at the end of January, countries most affected will
include Italy, the No. 4 buyer of Iranian oil, according to the
EIA, and  Greece , which is suffering from a debt crisis and
buying Iranian oil on credit.  “The imposition of any new sanctions raises fears that
this won’t be the last,”  Rick Mueller , a principal with ESAI
Energy LLC in Wakefield, Massachusetts, said in an interview
yesterday. “The specter of increased tension with Iran will
continue to be a driver of oil prices.”  Business Difficulties  There are potential buyers, even though sanctions are
having an impact, he said. “It’s becoming more and more
difficult to do business transactions with Iran,” he said.
“We’ve recently seen that Indian buyers have had problems.”  Options to buy crude at $150 a barrel next December are the
most popular on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , with
outstanding contracts numbering 37,834 yesterday, according to
data from the Nymex. The number of options increased 11 percent
on Nov. 22 as the U.S., U.K. and Canada imposed new sanctions on
Iran’s financial system, including measures that may make it
more difficult for buyers to pay for crude.  Iran produced about 3.56 million barrels a day in November,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. That’s more than
the 3.12 million barrels a day of spare capacity available among
OPEC producers.  Spare Capacity  “You want to preserve spare capacity in the event of
shocks,” Ross said. “If there is a sense that there isn’t
spare capacity and you have a shock, then the fact is that
you’re going to be bidding up the price of oil anyway.”  U.S. Treasury Undersecretary David Cohen visited  Saudi
Arabia  and Bahrain this week to discuss sanctions on Iran, while
U.S. Undersecretary of State Wendy Sherman was in Israel last
weekend, where she was pressed for “crippling sanctions,”
including those on oil sales, according to Yigal Palmor, a
foreign ministry spokesman.  The U.S. “must act in a way that has the greatest impact
on Iran’s bottom line,” Cohen said in a testimony before
Congress on Dec. 1. “As we have learned from our sanctions
efforts to date, the key to achieving this goal is to bring
together an international coalition to work in concert.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  