-- U.S. Chamber of Commerce Said to Be Hit by China-Based Computer Hackers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-s-chamber-of-commerce-networkrs-said-to-be-hit-by-china-based-hackers.html
China-based hackers rifled the
computer networks of the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , stealing a
large amount of confidential e-mails and documents in what a
person familiar with the investigation described as a major
security breach of the largest U.S. business lobbying group.  The attack, which occurred in 2010, is part of a recent
wave of China-based espionage directed at U.S. companies,
business associations and lobbying groups involved in trade
policy associated with  China , according to the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  In November, the National Association of Manufacturers was
attacked by hackers who targeted the computers of four
executives who regularly communicate with members of Congress on
trade policy.  An initial security review suggested that the ultimate
target may have been the chief executive officers of NAM member
companies, which include large U.S. manufacturing firms doing
business in China, according to Jeff Colburn, NAM’s vice
president of  information technology .  The Chamber yesterday said communications with less than 50
of its members were affected by the attack and that the
organization has undertaken a lengthy investigation. Though the
members were notified, the Chamber said it hasn’t seen evidence
of harm to the organization or its members.  Chamber officials said they became aware of the intrusion
when they were notified by federal law enforcement authorities,
who have the ability to track data between victims’ networks the
hackers’ command-and-control servers.  The attack on the Chamber of Commerce was reported earlier
by the Wall Street Journal.  The  National Association of Manufacturers  was targeted on
Nov. 10 using sophisticated spyware embedded in an e-mail sent
to the organization’s lobbyists and executives. The forged e-
mail purported to be from a political reporter working for
Bloomberg News. The e-mail message concerned a purported story
about salaries the officials had earned at Capitol Hill jobs.  An attachment contained spyware designed to download onto
the association’s networks and steal e-mails, confidential
documents and other information.  An analysis by SpiderLabs, the Chicago-based security
division of Trustwave Corp., showed the spyware was developed on
a computer with a Chinese-language keyboard. The spyware has
been used in other espionage campaigns by China-based hackers,
according to Dell SecureWorks, the Atlanta-based security firm.  It is unclear whether the attack had been successful and
what, if any, information was accessed, Colburn said. A thorough
security review was under way, he said.  “We’re just so ill-equipped for this,” Colburn said,
referring to the sophistication of the attackers, who used the
name of a real reporter and crafted a query that would be
typical of the back-and-forth between the organization and
Washington reporters. “We’re taking the standard road to
protect against kiddie attacks or phishing stuff from
unsophisticated, random attackers.”  Among the e-mails’ targets was a senior vice president who
works on U.S. trade policy for the organization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in New York
at   michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 