-- U.S. Settles With Exelon Over $7.9 Billion Constellation Takeover Deal
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2011-12-21T19:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-s-settles-with-exelon-over-constellation.html
The U.S. Justice Department agreed
to let Exelon Corp. carry out its $7.9 billion acquisition of
 Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  on condition that Exelon sell
three electricity-generating plants in Maryland.  The department announced the agreement today shortly after
it filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in  Washington  alleging
the takeover would eliminate competition and lead to an increase
in wholesale electricity prices for consumers in Mid-Atlantic
states. The agreement must be approved by a federal judge.  “Competition in wholesale electricity markets is vital to
the economic well-being of consumers and businesses,” Sharis
Pozen, acting assistant attorney general for the department’s
antitrust division, said in an e-mailed statement. “These
divestitures will preserve that critical competition for the
benefit of electricity customers throughout the mid-Atlantic.”  Exelon expects to complete the transaction early next year,
Christopher Crane, who’ll become chief executive officer of the
combined company, said today in a statement announcing the
settlement.  The deal would create the largest U.S. utility owner and
power generator. Sale of the three Baltimore-area plants was
included in the initial takeover announcement by Chicago-based
Exelon on April 28 to reduce the combined company’s market
share in PJM Interconnection LLC, the largest U.S. power market.  Exelon on Oct. 11 announced additional terms for sale of
the plants had satisfied the market monitor of PJM.  Maryland  Accepts  Maryland’s governor and energy department also accepted
those terms as part of a Dec. 14 settlement. That state’s
utility regulator is scheduled to decide on the deal Feb. 17.  Exelon already has approval for the transaction from
regulators in  Texas  and  New York . It had asked the  Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission  for a decision by Jan. 5.  Exelon announced the takeover of Baltimore-based
Constellation in April. It will gain stakes in five nuclear
reactors and become the largest U.S. electricity marketer.
Exelon is the largest owner and operator of U.S. nuclear plants,
and owns electric utilities Commonwealth Edison in Chicago and
Peco Energy in Pennsylvania.  Constellation owns utility Baltimore Gas & Electric. Most
of its revenue comes from retail sale of electricity in states
that allow competition, a business assembled and expanded by
Chief Executive Officer Mayo Shattuck after the collapse of
energy trader Enron Corp. in 2001.  If completed, the deal will be Exelon’s largest
transaction. Exelon has tried unsuccessfully three times to buy
other power companies since 2003, and Constellation has been the
target of two failed bids. A $14.8 billion sale of Constellation
to NextEra Energy Inc., the largest U.S. wind-power generator
and owner of Florida’s largest utility, collapsed in 2005, with
NextEra citing interference by officials in Maryland.  The case is U.S. v.  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , 11-cv-02276, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 