-- Sales of Existing U.S. Homes at 10-Month High a Sign of Recovery: Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-21T19:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-s-existing-homes-sold-since-2007-revised-down-by-14-magnifying-slump.html
Sales of existing homes in the U.S.
rose in November to a 10-month high, showing demand may be
starting to stabilize following a plunge over the past four
years that was steeper than previously calculated.  Purchases  climbed 4 percent to a 4.42 million annual pace,
the most since January, the National Association of Realtors
said today in  Washington . The group revised down figures going
back to 2007 by an average 14 percent, putting them more in line
with other measures of demand.  “Perhaps signs of life are increasing for the housing
market,” said Ellen Zentner, a senior U.S. economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in New York, who forecast a sales
rate of 4.4 million for last month. “Housing is finally not
going to be a drag on economic growth in 2012. That’s not to say
that risks don’t abound. We know that there’s a substantial
shadow inventory of distressed properties that we’re still
waiting to come onto the market.”  Housing, which helped trigger the 18-month recession that
began in December 2007 as subprime borrowers defaulted, may be
steadying as builder confidence improves and construction picks
up. The NAR revisions also reduced the number of unsold houses
on the market, pushing inventory last month to the lowest level
in six years and indicating there may be less pressure on
property values in coming years even as more foreclosures loom.  Stocks fell, following yesterday’s rally, as Oracle Corp.
tumbled on disappointing earnings and optimism faded about the
 European Central Bank ’s plan to lend euro-area banks a record
amount for three years. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped
0.3 percent to 1,237.55 at 2:12 p.m. in New York.  Possible Recession  The Italian economy contracted in the third quarter,
signaling the country may have entered its fifth recession since
2001 as the government adopts new austerity measures that will
further weigh on growth. Gross domestic product declined 0.2
percent from the second quarter, when it expanded 0.3 percent,
national statistics institute Istat said in  Rome  today. It was
the first contraction since the final three months of 2009.  Japan ’s exports fell and the central bank lowered its
assessment of the economy for a second straight month as
weakening demand in Europe and  Asia  weigh on the outlook for
global growth. Shipments dropped a more-than-expected 4.5
percent in November from a year earlier, a Ministry of Finance
report showed today in  Tokyo .  Survey Results  The  median estimate  of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 5.05 million pace in November existing home
sales. Forecasts ranged from 4.38 million to 5.25 million, a
wider-than-usual range because some took into account
assumptions for the benchmark revisions and others didn’t.
October’s reading was revised down to a 4.25 million rate from a
previous estimate of 4.97 million, reflecting the NAR’s
benchmark updates.  Total purchases  were revised to 4.19 million for 2010, down
15 percent from a prior estimate of 4.91 million. Sales were
trimmed by 16 percent for 2009, by 16 percent for 2008 and by 11
percent for 2007.  “Before the revisions things were bad, now they are even
worse,”  Lawrence Yun , the group’s chief economist, said in a
news conference today as the figures were released.  Figures from other trackers of home sales showed a slower
pace of purchases compared with NAR, prompting the agents’ group
to revisit their data. CoreLogic Inc., a real-estate analytics
company, released a report in February showing that 3.3 million
existing homes were sold in 2010, less than the 4.91 million
initially tallied by NAR.  Independent Data  CoreLogic, based in  Santa Ana ,  California , monitors sales
figures through property records at local courthouses, while NAR
follows sales through the multiple-listing services used by
real-estate agents. The property-deed records contain “huge
statistical noise,” said Yun, making CoreLogic’s numbers too
low.  NAR tallies in recent years were overstated because the
consolidation of multiple listing services caused distortions in
the data, according to Yun. He said overestimates of direct
sales by owners and home builders’ use of the listing services
to sell new homes also helped inflate the data.  There were comparable downward revisions to inventory, and
median prices were little changed from prior estimates, the
report showed. That suggests the decline in property values from
the 2006 peak has done less to spur demand, said  Michelle Meyer ,
a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New York .  “The big take-away is that there was an even bigger gap
between affordability and housing demand, making it even more
difficult to trigger the rebound,” Meyer said in an interview.  Year-to-Year Gain  Existing-home sales, tabulated when a contract closes, rose
11 percent from the same month last year before adjusting for
seasonal variations. Annual sales peaked at 7.08 million in 2005
during the housing boom.  The number of previously owned homes on the market dropped
to 2.58 million in November, the fewest since May 2005, from
2.74 million the prior month, today’s report showed.  At the current sales pace, it would take 7 months to sell
those houses, a two-year low and down from 7.7 months at the end
of October. A range of seven months to eight months supply is
normally consistent with stable  home prices , NAR’s Yun said,
adding that he thought property values will probably climb in
“single digits” next year.  “The overhang of inventories in the housing market is
clearing more quickly than previously thought, and that could
lead to a firming up of home prices,” said Nomura’s Zentner.  Broad-Based Gain  Purchases climbed in all four regions last month, led by a
9.8 percent gain in the Northeast.  Sales of existing single-family homes increased 4.5 percent
to an annual rate of 3.95 million. Purchases of multifamily
properties, including condominiums and townhouses, were little
changed at a 470,000 pace.  The  median price  of a previously owned home decreased 3.5
percent to $164,200 from $170,200 in November 2010, today’s
report showed.  The Obama administration this month started a new version of
the federal Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP, after
the original plan helped less than a quarter of the people
targeted to lock in lower  mortgage rates .  Federal Reserve policy makers reiterated at a meeting this
month that they will keep the benchmark  interest rate  near zero
until at least mid-2013. The central bank in September decided
to reinvest maturing housing debt into new mortgage-backed
securities instead of Treasuries.  Some homebuilders said they see signs of optimism in the
housing market.  “November is a time that historically sales slow down,”
 Larry Sorsby , chief financial officer at builder  Hovnanian
Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , said on a Dec. 15 call with analysts. “And
this year we’ve not seen as dramatic a slowdown as we have in
recent prior years. The market feels a little bit better than we
would have expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  