-- U.S. Stocks Advance as Energy Rally Outweighs Oracle’s Tumble
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2011-12-21T22:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-as-ecb-eases-squeeze-in-bank-funds.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a second day, as gains in
energy and consumer shares helped the market recover from an
early drop led by disappointing results at  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  gained 1.4 percent after oil rose for a
third day as U.S. inventories declined the most in a decade.
Gauges of utility, consumer staples and health-care companies in
the  S&P 500  added at least 0.7 percent. Bank of America Corp.
advanced 1.2 percent after agreeing to a record $335 million
fair-lending  settlement. (BAC)  Oracle plunged 12 percent, the most
since 2002, as sales and profit missed analysts’ projections.  The S&P 500 increased 0.2 percent to 1,243.72 at 4 p.m. New
York time, after dropping as much as 1 percent earlier. The Dow
Jones Industrial Average gained 4.16 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 12,107.74 today. The Nasdaq Composite Index slumped
1 percent to 2,577.97. About 6.6 billion shares  changed hands  on
U.S. exchanges, or 17 percent below the three-month average.  “You have a tug-of-war between the bulls and the bears,”
Wasif Latif, vice president of equity investments at USAA
Investment Management Co. in San Antonio, which oversees about
$50 billion, said in a telephone interview. “The bulls are
saying it doesn’t matter if we get any kind of event in Europe,
you’ll have the U.S. economy holding a bit better. That’s
providing some floor. The ceiling is the fear that we could
still see an event in Europe.”  The S&P 500  swung (SPX)  between gains and losses today, following
yesterday’s 3 percent rally. It has fallen as much as 19 percent
from this year’s high on concern about Europe’s crisis. Since
Oct. 3, it has risen 13 percent on better-than-estimated U.S.
economic data and steps taken by Europe to tame the crisis.  ECB Loans  Earlier today, U.S. stocks followed Europe’s shares lower
as banks sought more funds from the European Central Bank than
economists predicted, reducing optimism that the debt crisis
will be contained. Oracle’s tumble dragged technology, the
largest group in the S&P 500, down 2 percent. Stocks rebounded
in the final hour of trading as nine out of 10 groups in the S&P
500 rallied.  Energy shares contributed the most for the gain in the S&P
500 today. Exxon Mobil added 1.4 percent to $83.12.  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  increased 1.7 percent to $105.43.  Gauges of companies  least-tied  to economic growth
outperformed the S&P 500.  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  gained
2.9 percent to $39.60 as the U.S. Justice Department agreed to
let Exelon Corp. carry out its $7.9 billion acquisition of the
utility company on condition that Exelon sell three electricity-
generating plants in Maryland.  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  added 3.2 percent
to $7.99.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  gained 4.5 percent to $4.88.  Record Settlement  An index of  financial shares (S5FINL)  in the S&P 500 increased 0.6
percent, rebounding from a 0.9 percent drop. Bank of America
rose 1.2 percent to $5.23 after agreeing to a record $335
million settlement of a Justice Department probe into fair-
lending lapses at its Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage unit.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  rallied 2.9 percent to $96.35. The world’s
largest sporting-goods company reported second-quarter profit
that topped analysts’ estimates as sales of running shoes surged
in  North America .  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  surged 10 percent to $13.78 after
reports  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  mulled a bid while
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  also considered buying the BlackBerry maker.  RIM “turned down takeover overtures” from Amazon because
it wanted to fix shortcomings independently, Reuters  reported 
yesterday. A Wall Street Journal article  said  Microsoft and
Nokia “flirted with the idea of making a joint bid” in recent
months. Both publications cited unidentified people familiar
with the respective matters.  Oracle Plunges  Oracle plunged 12 percent to $25.77. Business-software
companies are taking longer to close deals as companies gird for
slow economic growth in the U.S. and the possibility of a
recession in Europe next year, said Rick Sherlund, an analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc.  “The question is: Are negative headlines on the European
situation starting to affect decision making and will that
jeopardize the recovery?”  Kevin Shacknofsky , who helps manage
about $5 billion for Alpine Mutual Funds in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “The key thing about the weakness in
Oracle is that people were delaying making decisions investing
in technology. There’s a lot of work to do to solve the European
crisis. With sentiment as weak as it is, it’s a big problem.”  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the biggest
computer-services company, slipped 3.1 percent to $181.47.
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the largest computer maker, slid 1.8
percent to $25.44.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s biggest maker
of networking equipment, dropped 2.6 percent to $17.92.  Emerson,  KB Home (KBH)   Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  declined 5.4 percent, the most since
Sept. 30, to $46.97 after reporting November orders today that
were lower than analysts’ estimates.  KB Home lost 6.7 percent to $7.22. The Los Angeles-based
homebuilder that targets first-time buyers reported a decline in
quarterly profit and weaker gross margins.  Anyone expecting the so-called January effect to turn
shares of smaller U.S. companies into market leaders may end up
waiting in vain, according to Steven G. DeSanctis, a strategist
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “We do not think we will see a January effect occur in the
remainder of this month or next month,” DeSanctis wrote
yesterday in a report.  Smaller companies have only kept pace with larger ones
since the end of October. In past years, they rallied during the
period in anticipation of further gains in January. Price swings
linked to concern that the U.S. and European economies are
faltering explain why the effect is unlikely to surface,
according to DeSanctis, a small-cap stock specialist.  In January, small caps beat large caps 73 percent of the
time since 1926, according to his analysis of figures from the
University of Chicago’s Center for Research in Security Prices.
The percentage is the highest for any month of the year. Small
caps also had their best monthly performance in January, with an
average gain of 4 percent, DeSanctis wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  