-- Rest Rules May Rein in U.S. Airline Pilots Pushed Beyond Endurance Limits
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2011-12-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-s-orders-more-pilot-rest-while-exempting-cargo-carriers-1-.html
Revised U.S. pilot-fatigue rules
will be toughest on regional airlines that operate about half
the nation’s flights, according to a scheduling analyst.  Cost increases from the new rules will be “modest,” 3
percent to 4 percent for most regional carriers, Robert
Gerbracht of PIAS Inc., a Fairfax County,  Virginia , firm that
sells pilot-scheduling software to airlines, said in an
interview. Gerbracht helped the  Federal Aviation Administration 
prepare the rules released yesterday.  The potential for higher costs comes as American Eagle, the
regional unit of  AMR Corp. (AMR) , is reducing flights after  Fort
Worth , Texas-based AMR’s filing for  bankruptcy protection  last
month and  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCL) , according to a note this week
from Maxim Group LLC analyst  Ray Neidl , is facing a “high
probability” of bankruptcy.  “The ink isn’t even dry on this yet and people are
predicting the end of an industry,” Roger Cohen, president of
the Washington-based Regional Airline Association, said in an
interview yesterday. “How credible is that?”  The FAA rules, which take effect in two years, reduce the
hours that pilots can work and give them longer rest breaks.
They’re the first changes to pilot work rules since 1985.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood yesterday called them a
“landmark” response to calls for improved aviation safety.  The  rules  reduce the pilot work day to from 9 to 14 hours,
compared with the current 16-hour limit, according to the FAA.
Pilots will get at least 10 hours off between shifts to ensure
eight uninterrupted hours of sleep, the rule said. The current
minimum rest break is as little as 8 hours.  Pilots will also be guaranteed at least one 30-hour period
off duty each week, an increase over the 24-hour break, the rule
said.  Flight Limits  The rule will force carriers to hire more pilots and reduce
service, with the increased costs passed on to fliers in ticket
prices, some analysts said.  “In that sector particularly, we will see cuts because
it’s also more difficult to hire pilots today,”  William Swelbar , a research engineer at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , said in an interview. “There’s an increased minimum
of hours you need to get an airline pilot certificate.”  Mainline carriers such as  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  will be able to adapt to the rules more
easily than regionals because their labor contracts contain
restrictions on pilot hours, Gerbracht said.  Cargo airlines including  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  were exempted from the new rules.  Regional carriers such as  Memphis , Tennessee-based Pinnacle
and  Mesa Air Group Inc. (MESAQ) , based in Phoenix, operate short-haul
flights, which will be most affected by the new rules.  Some See Disruptions  Pilots flying two segments during a day will be allowed to
work as much as 14 hours, the rule says. Flight crews making
seven or more flights will be restricted to no more than 11 1/2
hours. If those flights occur late at night, they cannot work
more than nine hours, according to the rule.  Airline service to some medium-sized cities could be
disrupted,  Bob McAdoo , an analyst at Avondale Partners in
Prairie Village,  Kansas , said.  The FAA will require pilots to get at least 10 hours off
duty to ensure that they can get eight hours of sleep. Some
regional carriers fly into smaller airports at night and use the
same crews on the first flight out in the morning, McAdoo said.
It may not be possible to operate these flights without bringing
in a separate crew for the morning flight, he said.  Costs, Benefits  The FAA rule has provisions to give some flexibility to
airlines to minimize schedule disruptions. Airlines can appeal
to the FAA to operate flights not normally allowed if they can
demonstrate that they are safe, according to the rule.  The rules will cost passenger airlines $297 million over 10
years, the FAA estimated. Savings due to fewer accidents and
improved pilot health will be $247 million to $470 million
during the same period, the rule said. Airlines won’t need to
hire new pilots to comply, according to the FAA.  “It’s going to take the airlines a little bit of time to
settle in and really optimize their planning algorithms to make
it as efficient as they can,” Bill Voss, president of the
Alexandria, Virginia-based Flight Safety Foundation said. “But
I’m very confident that they can adjust to this very well.”  The rule is aimed at ending a small subset of airline
flights that were most fatiguing, Voss said. The vast majority
of flights won’t have to change, he said.  Costs Too High  The costs of imposing new restrictions on cargo carriers,
which operate most of their flights at night, was too high,
LaHood said in explaining why those airlines aren’t covered by
the rules.  The exemption is a “tremendous disappointment,” Lee
Collins, executive vice president of the Coalition of Airline
Pilots Associations, a Washington-based group representing five
pilot unions, said in an interview.  “They left out a huge segment of airline pilots,” Collins
said. “System safety has not been improved today.”  UPS, which operates a fleet of 216 aircraft and does short-
term leases or charters for 300 more, lauded the FAA’s decision,
Mike Mangeot, a spokesman for the firm, said.  “One size has never fit all when it comes to crew rest
regulations,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  