-- U.S. Company Credit-Default Swaps Gauge Declines to One-Week Low
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2011-12-21T22:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-s-company-credit-default-swaps-gauge-declines-to-one-week-low.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit
risk fell to a one-week low as data showed demand for houses may
be starting to stabilize and as European policy makers lent
three-year funds to banks, aiming to stem the debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 2 basis points to a mid-price of 124.5 basis points at
4:39 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. It earlier
today reached as low as 124.4, the lowest since Dec. 13,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  The measure declined after data from the National
Association of Realtors showed that sales of existing homes in
the U.S. rose in November to a 10-month high. The Frankfurt-
based ECB awarded 489 billion euros ($638 billion) in 1,134-day
loans, more than economists’ median estimate of 293 billion
euros in a Bloomberg News survey.  The U.S. data helped stoke demand for company debt, while
amid “light” trading volume,  credit derivatives  outperformed
cash bonds, according to Anthony Valeri, a market strategist at
 LPL Financial  in  San Diego , which manages $330 billion.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates, has declined from 132.1 on
Dec. 19, the highest this month, as investors wager that
European leaders may prevent turmoil in bond markets from
infecting bank balance sheets worldwide.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  