-- U.S. Default Candidates Hurt Little by Europe Woes, Moody’s Says
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2011-12-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/u-s-default-candidates-hurt-little-by-europe-woes-moody-s-says.html
The number of U.S. companies at
greatest risk of default held steady from last quarter signaling
that  Europe ’s debt crisis and slow growth in the world’s largest
economy had minimal effect on high-yield borrowers, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  The number of non-financial companies graded B3 or lower
with a negative outlook grew by 2 to 172 during the last three
months, according to a Dec. 19 report from the ratings firm.
There were 182 borrowers with those grades last year.  “There is relative stability in the rating universe,”
David Keisman, senior vice president at New York-based Moody’s
and an author of the report, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “There are issues in Europe and people are
discussing whether next year there will be a double dip, and the
default rate is just not showing that.”  Refinancing activity allowed many of the lowest-rated
creditors to push off debt maturities and avoid default this
year, Keisman wrote in the report.  The ratings company projects the U.S. default rate will
rise to 2.4 percent next year from 2 percent. A year ago the
measure was at 3.5 percent, according to the report.  Twenty-four companies were removed from the list this
quarter, according to the report. Ten were taken off because
they defaulted, five of which were bankruptcies including  AMR
Corp. (AMR) , the parent of  American Airlines . The remaining five
defaults were the result of distressed exchanges or
restructurings, according to the report.  Reader’s Digest Association Inc., DirectBuy Holdings Inc.
and  Associated Materials LLC  are among the 26 companies that
were added to the list this quarter.  Companies are added to the list if they have a probability
of default rating of B3 with a negative outlook or a probability
of default grade of B3 with a rating under review for downgrade,
or a probability of default rating of Caa1 or lower. A B3 rating
is six steps below investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  