-- Hungary Hit by Second Rating Downgrade to Junk on Premier Orban’s Policies
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2011-12-22T18:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/hungary-downgraded-to-bb-by-s-p.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s drive to consolidate power at the cost of delaying an
 International Monetary Fund  bailout prompted Standard and Poor’s
to become the second ratings company in a month to downgrade the
country’s debt to junk.  Hungary ’s sovereign-credit ratings were cut one step to BB+
from BBB-, S&P, which had rated the eastern European nation at
investment grade since 1996, said yesterday in a statement,
assigning a negative outlook. Moody’s Investors Service lowered
its assessment to Ba1, the highest junk grade, on Nov. 24, while
 Fitch Ratings  has assigned its lowest investment grade, BBB-.  Lawmakers are scheduled to approve changes to a draft
central bank law tomorrow and pass the bill next week, which the
 European Central Bank  said today may “undermine” monetary
policy independence. The IMF and the European Union cited the
draft for breaking off financing talks with Hungary last week.
IMF backing would bolster policy credibility, S&P said.  “S&P didn’t wait for the conclusions of the negotiations
with the IMF on a new program as a sign that the policy backdrop
has deteriorated substantially,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-
markets strategy at Societe Generale SA in  London , said today by
e-mail.  The European Commission hasn’t decided on whether to resume
financial aid talks with Hungary, the EU executive’s
representative in Budapest, Tamas Szucs, said in an e-mail
today. Earlier today, Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the
Commission, told reporters in Brussels that preliminary formal
discussions over an aid package will begin in January.  Debt Sale, Forint  Hungary sold 30 billion forint ($128 million) in 12-month
bills today, 10 billion forint less than planned, as the average
yield surged to 7.91 percent, the highest in almost 2 1/2 years.
The yield on Hungary’s 2022 bond climbed 41 basis points, or
0.41 percentage point, to 9.385 percent, the highest in a month.  The forint weakened to 307.43 per euro at 3:32 p.m. in
Budapest from a Dec. 20 close of 300.37. It’s lost 13 percent
since June 30, the worst performance among more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The forint fell to a record
against the euro last month and the government struggled to meet
its targets at debt auctions before the Moody’s downgrade.  Hungary’s five-year credit-default swaps, which measure the
cost of insuring state debt against non-payment, rose 43 basis
points to 617, a three-week high. They were the ninth-highest in
the world yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers.  ‘Unconditional Talks’  The central bank raised its  benchmark interest rate  to 7
percent on Dec. 20 from 6.5 percent, which was already the EU’s
highest. Policy makers said they may increase borrowing costs
further if risk perception and the inflation outlook deteriorate
“substantially.”  The government asked for IMF aid last month to ensure debt
financing next year as yields soared and S&P signaled its
potential downgrade. The Cabinet is aiming for an agreement in
the first few months of next year. The country is ready for
“unconditional talks,” Tamas Fellegi, the minister in charge
of negotiations, said Dec. 16.  “We believe S&P’s move may be followed by Fitch and rating
downgrades are likely to intensify pressure on the government to
make the required amendments to the constitution,”  Eszter Gargyan , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Budapest, said today
in an e-mailed note. “Even if talks are delayed until spring
2012, the government is likely to be pushed into a position
where it has to accept conditionality.”  ‘Unorthodox’ Measures  Orban shunned IMF aid after taking office last year to
protect what he called “unorthodox” measures from oversight.
Hungary will have the highest debt level and slowest economic
growth among the EU’s eastern members next year, the European
Commission  forecast  on Nov. 10.  The steps included the effective nationalization of $13
billion of private pension-fund assets and extraordinary
industry taxes to control the budget, which had a deficit of 182
percent of the Cabinet’s full-year target at the end of
November.  Hungary also forced banks to swallow losses on foreign-
currency mortgages. The measures may hinder economic growth and
are “likely to depress investment and job creation in the short
term,” S&P said.  Orban, backed by a two-thirds parliamentary majority that
allows him to unilaterally change the constitution, pressed
ahead with consolidating his power.  ‘Almost Total Takeover’  Ruling-party lawmakers ousted the chief justice of the
 Supreme Court , narrowed the jurisdiction of the Constitutional
Court, wrote a new constitution, replaced an independent Fiscal
Council with one dominated by the premier’s allies, created a
media regulator led by ruling-party appointees and chose a party
member to lead the State Audit Office.  The draft central bank law, which seeks to expand the rate-
setting Monetary Council, add another vice president and strip
the central bank chief of his right to appoint deputies, is part
of a government drive toward an “almost total takeover” of the
institution, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor said
Dec. 15. A separate plan to merge the financial regulator and
the central bank and demote the central bank president also
violates EU rules, Simor has said.  “Changes to the constitution and the functioning of some
independent institutions, including the central bank and the
 constitutional court , have undermined Hungary’s institutional
effectiveness,” S&P said. “The predictability of Hungary’s
policy framework continues to weaken, harming Hungary’s medium-
term growth prospects.”  ‘Serious Doubts’  The European Commission has “serious doubts” about the
central bank law and President  Jose Barroso  conveyed his
“strong concerns” in a letter to Orban, Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen,
a spokeswoman, told reporters in Brussels Dec. 20. The
Commission hasn’t received a response to the letter from
Hungary, Bailly said today.  The ECB today took issue with both the draft central bank
law as well as a bill ruling party officials plan to approve
next week, allowing them to demote the head of the central bank
to vice president of a combined institution with the financial
regulator.  “Three major revisions of the central bank law in 18
months are incompatible with the principle of legal certainty,”
the Frankfurt-based ECB said in a statement today.  Risk Assets  Investors are shunning riskier assets and demanding higher
yields as European leaders grapple with the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis, which started in  Greece  more than two
years ago and is threatening to infect weaker economies.  S&P is studying the outcome of an EU summit earlier this
month to streamline fiscal policies before deciding whether to
go ahead with its threat to cut the credit rating of 15 euro-
region nations, the company said on Dec. 9.  Hungary’s downgrade by S&P addresses the euro crisis,
rather than Hungary, the  Economy Ministry  said in a statement
yesterday, according to state-run news service MTI. Hungary is a
victim of “that struggle” and indirectly of “financial
attacks.”  “This decision by S&P is very visibly not based on an
evaluation of the facts about the Hungarian economy and
financial system, but is a form of pressure being exercised by
market players with an interest in strengthening the dollar
region and weakening the euro zone,” the ministry said,
according to MTI.  Orban plans to cut debt from 81 percent of economic output
last year and is seeking to keep the  budget deficit  within 2.5
percent of gross domestic product next year.  Economic Growth  Hungary’s economic growth may slow to 0.5 percent in 2012
from 1.4 percent this year, the European Commission said Nov.
10. Debt may fall to 75.9 percent of GDP this year before rising
to 76.7 percent in 2012, the EU’s executive branch said.  “S&P purposely ignored that there has recently been a
positive change in the gauges that serve as the basis of the
evaluation,” the Economy Ministry said.  Hungary needs “disciplined” budget policy, debt reduction
and the “revving up of the engines of growth” to shield the
country from the negative effects of the euro crisis, it said.  The government aims to complete as much of its 4 billion-
euro foreign-currency debt issuance plan as possible in the
first half of 2012, Laszlo Andras Borbely, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer of the State Debt Management Agency, told
reporters today. The state probably won’t issue Eurobonds before
completing IMF aid talks, he said. It doesn’t see “panic”
selling of Hungarian debt after S&P’s downgrade, Borbely said.  The government is also cutting spending and raising taxes
to save as much as $4 billion a year by 2013 as part of the so-
called Szell Kalman plan to overhaul the economy.  The implementation of the Szell Kalman plan, which includes
trimming welfare spending, making state administration more
efficient and putting in place policies that encourage
investment, may “dissipate or even reverse” downward pressure
on Hungary’s ratings, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  