-- Union-Election Rule Will Begin April 30, Labor Board Says
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2011-12-21T18:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/union-election-rule-will-take-effect-april-30-labor-board-says.html
The  National Labor Relations Board 
issued a rule that will lead to speedier U.S. union elections, a
measure fought by business groups and Republicans.  The regulation, which will take effect April 30, will
simplify union-election procedures and shorten the deadline for
balloting after employees request a vote. The board, which
resolves disputes between labor and management, adopted the
change in a 2-1 vote.  “This rule is about giving all employees who have
petitioned for an election the right to vote in a timely manner
and without the impediment of needless litigation,” NLRB
Chairman Mark Pearce said today in an e-mailed statement.  Republicans in the U.S. House and business groups such as
the  National Association of Manufacturers  have said the labor
board has created “ambush elections.”  The U.S. Chamber of
Commerce said it sued the board to block the rule. The U.S.
House on Dec. 1 passed legislation curbing the powers of the
agency on the union-vote rule.  “It will still deny access to a fair election process,
limit employer free speech, and restrict worker free choice,”
Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican and chairman
of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, said in a
statement. The board is “determined to advance an activist,
pro-union agenda at any cost,” he said.  The board’s actions will cut off free speech and the
ability of employers to educate workers before a vote,  Randy Johnson , vice president for labor policy at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, said in a  statement . With 95 percent of balloting held
within two months and unions winning in two-thirds of contests,
the rule aids unions rather than workers, he said.  “This rule has no conceivable purpose but to make it
easier for unions to win elections,” Johnson said.  Labor leaders have said the change won’t do much to help
unions as representation among private companies fell to a
record low 6.9 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  