-- Hunt for Da Vinci Battle Fresco Stirs Squabble: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2011-12-21T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/hunt-for-da-vinci-battle-fresco-in-florence-stirs-squabble-martin-gayford.html
A masterpiece by  Leonardo da Vinci 
hidden for 450 years behind a false wall in the center of
Florence, a clue hidden in plain sight that tens of thousands of
tourists passed by every year: It sounds like the plot of a Dan
Brown novel. Indeed, that’s what some people say it is.  They don’t mean it nicely. To make a comparison with “The
Da Vinci Code” is the rudest remark in the insult dictionary of
a Renaissance art historian. It’s a sign that the saga of the
search for Leonardo’s lost “Battle of Anghiari” is heating up.  In 1975, Maurizio Seracini noticed the words “Cerca
Trova” (roughly, “Seek and Ye Shall Find”) on a fresco “The
Battle of Marciano” (1563) by Giorgio Vasari. This painting is
one of several decorating the Salone dei Cinquecento in the
 Palazzo Vecchio , a room visited by most travelers to Florence.  For many years, Seracini --- a professor at the  University
of California  in  San Diego  -- has been attempting by various
techniques including radar and thermal imaging to detect a space
in the wall behind the Vasari fresco. He is, as it happens,
namechecked in “The Da Vinci Code.”  More recently, with the backing of the mayor of Florence,
Matteo Renzi, and financial support from National Geographic,
the quest has intensified.  At the end of November, Seracini and his team drilled six
4-millimeter-diameter holes in Vasari’s picture and inserted an
endoscopic probe into a narrow gap behind. They claimed to have
discovered traces of pigment in the cavity.  Scholarly Protest  Since then 300 scholars have signed a petition calling for
the search to be stopped. They object to such intrusive methods
being used on a 16th-century work of art and question whether
the Leonardo is underneath.  There are two points at issue. One is whether Leonardo’s
Battle might really be there. The answer seems to be, probably
not but just possibly, it might be. Many scholars believe that
Leonardo’s picture was on a different wall. The jury is still
out on that dispute.  Assuming that the position is correct, why would Vasari
have gone to the trouble of building a false wall to protect it?
It would have been an odd thing to do.  Jonathan Jones, author of “The Lost Battles,” an
excellent book on the picture and the companion piece
commissioned from Michelangelo, points out that Vasari once did
something similar. On another occasion, he erected an altar in
such a way as to protect, not destroy, a fresco by Masaccio
behind. The reason was, perhaps, that as a pioneer historian --
author of “The Lives of the Artists” -- he could not bring
himself to obliterate a monument of Florentine art. The Leonardo
would have come into the same category.  Peeling Away  A final consideration is whether there would be anything
left worth looking at. Leonardo used an experimental technique,
as he did on the “The Last Supper,” with similarly
disappointing results (which would seem to be why he left the
work unfinished). The “Battle of Anghiari” already was peeling
in the early 16th century, according to Vasari himself.  If after all these considerations a significant section
does survive, it would be sensational. Yet that would raise the
most difficult question of all: How to get it out from behind
that wall?  The Vasari fresco can hardly be destroyed or damaged, the
critics are right about that. It would be tantalizing indeed to
know the Leonardo was really there, and not be able to see it.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 