-- Uralkali Cuts Potash Output Target for 2012 to Buoy Prices
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2011-12-22T15:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/uralkali-cuts-2012-production-target-to-maintain-potash-prices.html
OAO Uralkali ,  Russia ’s biggest
fertilizer maker, will produce about 7 percent less potash next
year than previously planned as it seeks to support prices for
the crop nutrient.  The company reduced its forecast to 10.5 million to 11
million metric tons from a Dec. 7 estimate of as much as 11.8
million tons, Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner said
yesterday in an interview from Moscow on Bloomberg Television’s
“Last Word” with Caroline Hyde.  The Berezniki-based producer is seeking to buoy prices as
slowing global growth erodes demand for potash, a form of
potassium used by farmers to make plants more resistant to
drought. Canadian competitor  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. (POT) 
has also announced plans to scale back, reducing production at
two mines in Saskatchewan in response to declining consumption.  “This downgrade confirms our cautious view on the global
potash market,” Elena Sakhnova, a VTB Capital analyst in
Moscow, said by telephone. “We expect even more significant
output target cuts to support the prices.”   Uralkali  fell 0.7 percent to 235.40 rubles at the close of
regular trading in Moscow, before the start of the evening
session.  First-Quarter Slowdown  While the fertilizer market remains “strong,”  Uralkali (URKA) 
may experience a slowdown next quarter, Baumgertner said.  The CEO’s revised output forecast may still be too
optimistic, according to Sakhnova. Uralkali’s sales may decline
to 7.7 million tons next year, while prices in the biggest
markets hold steady, she said.  Uralkali expects to produce 10.8 million tons of potash in
2011, according to the company’s press office. Spot prices have
gained about 20 percent to 30 percent this year and are unlikely
to rise in the first quarter of 2012 because of market
instability, Baumgertner said earlier this month.  Belarusian Potash Co., Uralkali’s trading arm, set higher
prices for Brazilian customers in September. “Cautious”
clients have delayed fourth-quarter purchases until the first
quarter of 2012, Uralkali said Dec. 7.  In  Europe , the “uncertain economic situation” is
affecting sales, the company said at the time. Farmers in the
region may find it harder to borrow funds as the debt crisis
tightens credit, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Hyde in London at 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  