-- Must We Really ‘Turn Off All Portable Electronic Devices’?: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-21T00:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/must-we-really-turn-off-all-portable-electronic-devices-view.html
Few things try the modern soul like
 air travel . The endless and arbitrary security hassles. The
officious flight crews. Bag fees, shrinking seats, shrieking
infants.  Then, once you’re ready for takeoff, the verbatim  diktats 
about turning off portable electronic devices. This last
inconvenience has resisted scrutiny long enough.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  needs to determine
exactly how dangerous devices such as iPods, Kindles and
personal video games really are -- and be completely transparent
with the public about its findings.  The FAA agreed on Dec. 1 to permit American Airlines pilots
to use iPads in the cockpit, rather than paper flight charts and
manuals, even during takeoff and landing. Yet passengers are
still required to power down anything with an on-off switch.  Why the discrepancy?  The stated rationale is simply caution: The FAA says it
doesn’t know with certainty whether such devices, which emit
radio signals, can interfere with the plane’s instruments.
Although the agency says it conducted a rigorous study before
allowing the pilots to use their iPads, it hasn’t researched the
effects of a large number of passengers doing the same.  In fact, the last time the FAA commissioned a study on
whether passengers should be allowed to use electronic gadgets
was in 2006, before iPads existed. It  determined  then that there
was “insufficient information to support a wholesale change in
policies.” So current policy continues, in which the FAA
prohibits the use of any such devices below 10,000 feet, and
allows airlines to determine when to permit them otherwise. No
further studies are planned.  Significant Concerns  Mobile phones and BlackBerrys, which transmit strong
signals at frequencies that could theoretically interfere with a
plane’s communication and navigation equipment (and could
disrupt cell networks on the ground), are a different story, but
still instructive.  Their use is  banned  in flight by the Federal Communications
Commission. A  study  by IEEE Spectrum argued that such devices
“will, in all likelihood, someday cause an accident by
interfering with critical cockpit instruments such as GPS
receivers.”  That sounds alarming. But the study also found that, on
average, someone uses a mobile phone at least once per flight,
sometimes during takeoff and landing.  Through September , 6.5
million domestic flights had taken off in the U.S. this year,
carrying 480.5 million passengers. If  mobile phones  present a
legitimate danger, and passengers are using them on every
flight, we’re tolerating an enormous amount of risk.  Which leads to our more significant concern. No electronic
device has ever been proved to cause an accident, and turning
off your iPad during takeoff and landing would seem to be a
small price to pay to make sure that record remains intact. But
have you ever left yours turned on in your carry-on bag? No one
checks, and nothing happens to you. If the danger is real,
shouldn’t we start getting serious about preventing it?  After all, Transportation Security Administration agents
spend hours intrusively patting down old ladies, inspecting
tourists’ flip-flops and confiscating bottled water, but they
habitually wave through all manner of electronic gadgets.
Suppose a terrorist notices this putative gap in our security
and switches on all his hidden Apple products before he boards?  The idea seems absurd, but either the devices are dangerous
or they’re not.  Which is why it’s essential for the FAA to provide more
definitive information. The agency must realize that “portable
electronic devices” will continue to proliferate, and become
ever more powerful and less visible.  If they pose a real threat, we need to rethink our security
procedures. If they don’t, then please, for once, leave us in
peace.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 