-- Vanguarda Drops Third Day on Concern Banuelos to Sell More
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2011-12-21T20:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/vanguarda-drops-third-day-on-concern-banuelos-to-keep-selling.html
Vanguarda Agro SA  slid for a third
day on concern a dispute between its main shareholders will spur
billionaire Enrique Banuelos to continue unloading his stake in
the Brazilian farm company.  The stock fell 3.1 percent to 31 centavos at the close in
 Sao Paulo  and is down 69 percent this year, the second-worst
performance on the 68-member  Bovespa (IBOV)  index, which has fallen 18
percent in the period.  Disagreement over a debt-reduction plan proposed by
Banuelos’s  Veremonte  Participacoes SA led four of his executives
to resign from Vanguarda’s management and board last month.
Investor confidence in the company eroded further amid
allegations that other controlling holders engaged in insider
trading. Funds controlled by Banuelos cut their stake in
Vanguarda to 15.9 percent last week from 21.3 percent in
October, according to filings from Vanguarda Dec. 16 and
yesterday.  “It looks as if he’s going to sell, if not the whole lot,
a larger stake than was already announced,” said Felipe
Miranda, who helps oversee 150 million reais ($80.7 million) as
an analyst at Gradius Gestao in Sao Paulo. “It’s a very big
internal dispute. There are accusations of  insider trading .”  Veremonte Chief Executive Officer Marcelo Paracchini, who
resigned as Vanguarda’s chairman last month, declined to comment
in a telephone interview yesterday on whether the firm plans to
sell any more stock.  Complaint to Regulators  Juliano Leite Malara, a Vanguarda investor and member of
the audit board, filed a complaint with the securities regulator
after receiving a letter signed by Chief Executive Officer Bento
Moreira Franco and internal counsel Cristiano Soares saying
three controlling shareholders had traded stock during
prohibited periods before the release of relevant information.  Franco and Soares, in the letter obtained by Bloomberg
News, said that the shareholders traded during the blackout
period ahead of the release of third-quarter results on Nov. 14,
as well as before the Dec. 8 announcement of the 100 million-
real sale of two biofuel plants to Oleoplan SA.  Vanguarda said in an e-mailed statement from its external
press agency yesterday that it doesn’t comment on its
shareholders.  Brazil ’s securities regulator, known as CVM, has
received Malara’s complaint, according to its website.  Banuelos holds his stake in Vanguarda through the Vila Rica
I Fundo de Investimento em Participacoes and Tiradentes Fundo de
Investimento em Participacoes funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  