-- Virgin America Posts $3.3 Million Loss as Jet Fuel Costs Surge
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2011-12-21T15:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/virgin-america-posts-3-3-million-loss-as-jet-fuel-costs-surge.html
Virgin America  Inc., the low-fare
airline partly owned by U.K. billionaire Richard Branson, posted
a third-quarter loss as costlier jet fuel and accrued interest
expenses overpowered higher revenue.  The deficit for the three months ended in September was
$3.3 million, compared with a $7.48 million profit a year
earlier, the Burlingame, California-based carrier said today in
an e-mailed statement. The closely held company had $24 million
in unrestricted cash at the end of September, which doesn’t
include a $150 million debt offering completed this month.  Virgin America has added flights to Chicago and Puerto
Vallarta,  Mexico , to woo leisure travelers away from larger
competitors such as  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  Quarterly
earnings were hurt by an 86 percent jump in fuel costs, higher
payments on aircraft leases and labor as the carrier expands and
a 44 percent increase in accrued interest payments.  “The key difference between us and the rest of the
industry is that we were growing while others were shrinking,
and that puts pressure” on revenue, Chief Executive Officer
David Cush said today in an interview. New cities such as
 Chicago  are “ahead of expectations” and continue to perform
well in the current quarter, he said.  In addition to the $150 million debt facility, Virgin
America said it reached lease financing commitments for 13 new
Airbus A320 planes slated for delivery in the coming two years
and has covered aircraft capital requirements through the third
quarter of 2013.  Increasing Revenue  Virgin’s revenue rose 44 percent to $290.6 million for the
three months through September, while its fuel bill jumped to
$110 million. Jet fuel has surpassed labor and aircraft costs as
the biggest expense for many carriers.  The carrier dropped flights to Toronto earlier this year,
less than a year after beginning service to that city, because
it wasn’t profitable.  Virgin America, which didn’t hedge on fuel in the third
quarter, will begin fixed forward purchases in the coming months
to “take a little bit of the volatility out,” Chief Financial
Officer Peter Hunt said in the interview.  Virgin America, which started service in August 2007, has a
fleet of 46 Airbus SAS A320 jets and flies to cities including
 San Francisco ,  Los Angeles , Las Vegas,  New York ’s John F.
Kennedy airport, Washington and  Boston .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 