-- Vivus Shares Plunge After Diet Drug’s Ingredient Linked to Oral Clefts
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2011-12-22T21:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/vivus-drops-as-diet-drug-ingredient-affiliated-with-defects.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS) , maker of an experimental
weight-loss pill, plunged the most in 17 months after an
ingredient in the medicine was shown to be associated with oral
clefts in babies whose mothers took it in pregnancy.  Vivus dropped 17 percent to $8.68 at the close of trading
in New York, for the biggest decline since July 2010. The shares
of the  Mountain View , California-based company are down 7.4
percent this year.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  asked Vivus earlier
this year to use existing databases to determine the risk of
oral cleft in children whose mothers took topiramate. The drug
is used to prevent migraines and seizures, and is marketed as
Topamax by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ) 
Vivus’s diet pill, Qnexa, combines topiramate with the appetite
suppressant phentermine.  The analysis, dubbed Fortress, found the risk of cleft
palates or cleft lips was as much as 5.44 times higher for the
group in which mothers had taken topiramate alone or in
combination with other anti-seizure drugs in the first trimester
of pregnancy, Vivus said yesterday in a statement.  “This leads us to be cautious on the FDA approving a broad
label for Qnexa,” Thomas Wei, an analyst with Jefferies & Co.
in New York, wrote in a research note. “The data may even
affect Vivus’ limited indication filing, as the FDA may need to
consider the risk of  birth defects  in determining the strictness
of the risk management program to put into place.”  Oral Clefts  There were five oral clefts in the group of 1,740 children
whose mothers had taken topiramate alone in the first trimester
of pregnancy, for a prevalence rate of 0.29 percent, compared
with a rate of 0.16 percent in the group whose mothers had taken
anti-seizure drugs, including topiramate, before pregnancy,
Vivus said.  Simos Simeonidis, an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York,
said the data “look OK,” in a note to investors today. The
risk ratio of 1.88 to 5.44 times is “within the known range for
topiramate,” he said.  “We view the data disclosed as mostly in-line with
investors’ expectations and as ranging from neutral to
incrementally positive for Vivus,” Simeonidis said. He has a
“neutral” rating on the shares.  The company is preparing for an advisory committee meeting
expected in the first quarter of 2012, said Peter Tam, Vivus’s
president.  “The prevalence ratio for oral clefts in Fortress is
within the recently reported range for topiramate from several
large studies,” Tam said in the statement. “We have shared
these results with the FDA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  