-- Walgreen Profit Trails Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2011-12-21T14:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/walgreen-profit-trails-analysts-estimates.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, reported first-quarter profit that trailed
analysts’ estimates as a dispute with employee-benefit manager
 Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  drove customers to rivals. The shares fell.  Net income fell 4.5 percent to $554 million, or 63 cents a
share, in the quarter ended Nov. 30, from $580 million, or 62
cents, a year earlier, the Deerfield, Illinois-based company
said today in a statement. Analysts projected 67 cents, the
average of 23 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The standoff with Express Scripts, which prompted  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD)  to try to lure customers, and
a delay in the cold and flu season, hurt Walgreen’s profit.
While Walgreen reiterated that it doesn’t plan to be part of the
 Express Scripts  network beginning Jan. 1, the company said today
it remains open to “any fair and competitive offer.”  “Patients could develop new buying habits as they are
forced to move away from Walgreen to other retailers if no deal
is reached,” Tom Gallucci, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets
in  New York , wrote today in note to clients. “After working to
move their prescriptions to a new store, all patients may not
return to Walgreen even if they ultimately regain access to
Walgreen,” said Gallucci, who rates the shares “neutral.”  Walgreen fell 5.6 percent to $31.64 at 9:00 a.m. in New
York. The shares had dropped 14 percent this year before today.  Flu Shots  The contract with Express Scripts is valued at more than $5
billion in annual drug sales. The six-month dispute revolves
around how much St. Louis-based Express Scripts would reimburse
Walgreen.  Walgreen said the decision to end the Express Scripts
contract reduced per-share profit in the quarter by 2 cents,
including 1 cent because of a reduction in same-store pharmacy
sales. Walgreen gave 5 million flu shots in the quarter, down
from 5.6 million a year earlier, reducing profit by 1 cent,
according to the statement.  Revenue advanced 4.7 percent to $18.2 billion, matching the
average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales by stores
open at least a year rose 2.4 percent.  Even without the Express Scripts agreement, Walgreen
projected it will achieve 97 percent to 99 percent of last
year’s prescription volume in the fiscal year through August
2012.  CVS, based in Woonsocket,  Rhode Island , said yesterday the
end of Walgreen’s agreement to provide drugs for Express Scripts
customers may give it as many as 23 million prescription sales
and boost profit as much as 11 cents a share next year.  ‘Significant Opportunity’  The impasse “could present a very significant opportunity
for us,” CVS Chief Financial Officer Dave Denton told analysts
in New York. “We think many customers are more likely to move
to another major chain.”  About 43 percent of CVS stores are within one mile of a
Walgreen drugstore and 85 percent are within five miles, CVS
said.  With a third of its stores within a mile of Walgreen’s
locations,  Camp Hill , Pennsylvania-based Rite Aid “is certainly
going to do our best” to grab Walgreen customers, Chief
Executive Officer John Standley told analysts last week. He
declined to discuss advertising and other efforts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  