-- Wall Street Trading Revenue to Decline as ‘Year to Forget’ Ends
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2011-12-21T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/wall-street-trading-revenue-to-decline-as-year-to-forget-comes-to-an-end.html
Some of  Wall Street ’s biggest firms
signaled optimism in October after posting their worst trading
and  investment-banking  period since the financial crisis. Now,
analysts say the fourth quarter may have been worse.  Fixed-income trading revenue at U.S. banks may fall 12
percent from the third quarter, minus accounting adjustments,
while equities drop 10 percent and investment-bank revenue will
probably be unchanged,  David Trone , an analyst at JMP
Securities, wrote in a Dec. 16 report.  Some analysts had expected a rebound after the third
quarter was the worst for trading and investment banking since
2008, when the collapse of real estate markets contributed to a
worldwide credit crunch. Now many are looking ahead to 2012
after investors stayed on the sidelines amid concern that the
European debt crisis would lead to a global slowdown.  “We’re in a difficult environment,” Brad Hintz, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said yesterday on
Bloomberg Television’s “In The Loop” program. “I really don’t
think anyone’s going to be focusing on the earnings of these
firms. They’re really going to be focusing forward.” Hintz is a
former Morgan Stanley treasurer.  Twelve analysts cut  earnings estimates (GS)  for Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in the past four weeks and 14 trimmed theirs for
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Goldman Sachs, which gets the majority of its revenue from
trading, may post its lowest annual net income after preferred
dividends since 1998 and the least revenue since 2005,  Roger Freeman , a Barclays Capital analyst, said in a note titled
“Another Year to Forget.”  Trading Revenue  Trading revenue at the five biggest Wall Street banks --
JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Citigroup Inc.
and Morgan Stanley -- may drop from a year earlier for the sixth
time in seven quarters. Trading and investment-banking revenue
fell 47 percent in the third quarter from the first three
months, excluding accounting adjustments.  Richard Staite, an analyst at Atlantic Equities in  London ,
said a weak fourth quarter and the sovereign debt crisis in
 Europe  will “rapidly” turn market attention to the banks’
outlooks for next year.  “Goldman and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  will struggle to paint an
upbeat picture of 2012,” Staite wrote in a note this month.
“With no sign of a clear solution to the problems in Europe and
a deteriorating economic backdrop, it will be hard for the pure
investment banks to predict the timing of any upturn.”  Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein,
57, said last month that global growth will “snap back” faster
than most forecasters expect. He said he didn’t know when that
will happen.  JPMorgan’s Dimon  JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon , 55, said at an investor
conference this month that revenue at the investment bank will
probably be unchanged or down from the third quarter. He said
that the decline may be cyclical.  “I don’t think you should look at the business and say,
‘OK that’s permanent.’ It’s not permanent,” Dimon said on Dec.
7. “We service a lot of investors. Those investors are going to
have twice as much money 10 years from now than they have today
to invest. And they’re going to need to invest their money.”  Financial firms globally have announced plans this year to
eliminate more than 200,000 jobs. New York-based Morgan Stanley,
the sixth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets and owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, said last week it will cut about 1,600 jobs
in the first quarter of next year.  Compensation Declines  Firms are also cutting pay. Annual compensation on Wall
Street may fall 27 percent to 30 percent from a year earlier,
making it the lowest level since 2008, according to  New York- 
based recruitment firm Options Group. Bonuses on average may
drop 35 percent to 40 percent, Options Group said.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index (S5FINL)  has fallen 20
percent this year, led by Bank of America’s 61 percent plunge.
Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup have all fallen at
least 45 percent, while JPMorgan has dropped 24 percent.  Bank of America Chief Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  said
in October that the markets had been better that month than in
August and September. Morgan Stanley CFO Ruth Porat said the
challenging credit-markets conditions had “hopefully started to
moderate.” Porat and Dimon indicated the fourth quarter
environment would probably depend on macroeconomic developments,
such as progress from European leaders on responding to the
region’s debt crisis.  Average daily  equity-trading volume  on the largest U.S.
exchanges is down 11 percent from the third quarter. Dollar
volume of high-yield corporate bonds has declined 26 percent
from a year earlier, while volume of investment-grade bonds
dropped 7.5 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Sluggish Activity  “Despite a rise in equity prices, trading and investment
banking activity has remained sluggish so far in the fourth
quarter,”  Glenn Schorr , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
wrote this week in a note to investors. “With the usually
slower holiday season coming, we see little sign that activity
will pick up as we close out 2011.” He rates Goldman Sachs,
 Citigroup (C)  and JPMorgan as “buys.”  Trading volume, an indicator of performance, may not
correlate directly with firms’ revenue because banks make money
on changes in the value of the securities they hold and
transaction fees that may not be related to volume.  Spokesmen for the five banks declined to comment or didn’t
return requests for comment.  Banks’ trading-revenue decline may be mitigated by the lack
of inventory losses that were seen in the third quarter, Trone
said. Trone is the top-rated analyst covering JPMorgan this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Trading  The ten largest global investment banks saw combined net
losses of about $850 million in their credit-trading units
within fixed income in the third quarter, compared with positive
revenue of $2.7 billion a year earlier, according to industry
consultant Coalition Ltd.  Yields on global corporate bonds relative to similar-
maturity Treasuries rose 100 basis points to 263 basis points in
the third quarter, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. The average spread has risen 14 basis points this quarter.  Credit trading, along with mortgages, is “very weak,”
Staite wrote.  Interest rates  accounted for almost half of all
third-quarter fixed-income trading revenue, according to
Coalition data. Staite wrote that may stay the strongest area.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the New York-based investment bank
that’s been expanding its advisory and fixed-income businesses,
reported yesterday that trading revenue dropped about 31 percent
from a year earlier.  Trading throughout the year was held back by “investors’
reluctance to take risks in transactions in the face of abject
political and economic uncertainty,” Jefferies CEO  Richard Handler , 50, said during a conference call with investors.
“2012 is a new year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  