-- Wen Says China’s Slowing Growth, Elevated Prices Add to Policy Challenge
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-21T05:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/wen-says-china-s-slowing-growth-elevated-prices-add-to-policy-challenge.html
Chinese PremierWen Jiabao said
slowing growth and elevated prices are adding to the
difficulties the government faces in helping manage the world’s
second-biggest economy.  The nation will keep its export policies such as tax
rebates “basically stable” next year and the government will
mainly use fiscal spending to support “structural tax cuts”
and to improve people’s lives, Wen was cited as saying in a
 statement  posted on the central government’s website yesterday.
“The current economic growth momentum is generally sound, but
we are also facing many new situations and problems,” Wen said.  China  will maintain prudent monetary and proactive fiscal
policy next year and policies will be fine-tuned as needed in
accordance with the changing situation, the ruling Communist
Party said after an economic work meeting last week. A lingering
European debt crisis and a cooling domestic property market may
prompt the government to ease policy further to sustain its
expansion pace.  “This is a sign of policy initiatives to support growth
next year as the external environment remains weak while
domestic demand may suffer from slowing housing construction,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist at Credit Agricole
CIB in  Hong Kong . “China seems to be preparing for a prolonged
downturn in the U.S. and the  euro zone  by boosting domestic
demand and focusing on exposure to  emerging markets .”  Domestic Demand  Regions that are highly reliant on exports should try to
stimulate domestic demand and explore domestic or emerging
markets, Wen was cited as saying during a tour to eastern
China’s Jiangsu province.  The nation needs to “rectify” financial orders and banks
should address the problem of unreasonable fees and additional
conditions attached to loans because many enterprises are
suffering from excessive credit costs, Wen said, without
elaborating.  China’s gross domestic product expanded 9.1 percent in the
third quarter, slowing from the 9.5 percent in the previous
three months. Inflation eased to a 14-month low of 4.2 percent
last month from a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  Export growth slowed to the weakest pace since 2009 in
November, a development that Wen said reflects a “grim”
situation facing China.  The People’s Bank of China last month lowered the lenders’
reserve requirement ratio for the first time since 2008, freeing
cash to support the economic expansion as  Europe ’s debt crisis
damps overseas demand and the domestic property market cools.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  