-- Yale Football Coach Tom Williams Steps Down Amid Rhodes Scholarship Probe
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2011-12-21T15:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-21/yale-football-coach-tom-williams-steps-down-amid-rhodes-scholarship-probe.html
Yale University football coach  Tom Williams  resigned amid an inquiry into whether he lied about
being a Rhodes Scholarship candidate while attending  Stanford
University .  Yale, based in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , started looking into
the discrepancy after officials of the Rhodes Trust found no
evidence that Williams applied for the scholarship upon
graduating from Stanford in 1992, the New York Times  reported 
last month.  “I considered the opportunity, sought advice and was
encouraged to apply by faculty members and my coach Bill Walsh,
but I did not apply,” Williams said today in a statement.  “I am extremely proud of my academic, athletic and
coaching career,” Williams said. “If there was confusion
created, I take full responsibility.”  The discrepancy about his academic history emerged as a
result of stories about Yale quarterback Patrick Witt, who
withdrew his application for the Rhodes Scholarship last month
because the interview interfered with his final college game
against  Harvard University .  Williams told Bloomberg News in an interview on Nov. 8 that
he was a Rhodes finalist in 1992 as a senior at Stanford. He
said he skipped his interview to attend a free-agent tryout with
the  National Football League ’s San Francisco 49ers.  “I followed my dream to play NFL football,” Williams said
in November. “I have no regrets about it at all.”  NFL Experience  Williams, who turns 42 tomorrow, took over as Yale’s coach
in 2009 after two seasons as a defensive assistant with the
National Football League’s Jacksonville Jaguars. The first black
football coach in school history, he had a 16-14 record in three
seasons at Yale.  He was captain as a senior of Stanford’s 1992 team that won
a share of the Pacific-10 Conference championship and graduated
with honors as a history major, according to his  biography  on
Yale’s athletic department website. Williams is also listed as a
Rhodes Scholar candidate and a member of the 49ers’ practice
squad in 1993.  The Rhodes Scholarship, awarded by the trust, is the oldest
and one of the most prestigious international graduate
scholarship awards, granted each year to students who display
outstanding intellect, character, leadership and commitment to
service. Recipients are given the opportunity for postgraduate
study at the University of Oxford in  England .  “I wish to clear the record,” Williams said in offering
his resignation. “On the Rhodes Scholarship issue, I was
encouraged to apply by the Stanford Fellowship office, which
identified me ‘as the kind of student who demonstrates the
intellect, energy and commitment that the Rhodes selection
committees seek in their applicants.’”  No Contract  Williams also clarified his NFL playing experience today,
saying he participated in a three-day tryout camp with the 49ers
during the spring of his senior year.  “I did not sign a free agent contract with the 49ers or
participate in their summer training camp for signed players,”
said Williams.  Yale had a 5-5 record this season, ending with a 45-7 loss
to Harvard. Yale Athletics Director Tom Beckett called Williams
a “dedicated teacher and coach” in accepting his resignation
and said the school will immediately begin a search for
Williams’s successor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  