-- 
Hacking Officer Arrested on Leaks as Probe Nets 14th Suspect

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-19T17:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hacking-officer-arrested-on-leaks-as-probe-nets-14th-suspect-1-.html
A  London  police detective was
arrested for leaking information about the probe into phone
hacking at News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid, while the
department also said it detained a 14th suspect in that
investigation.  A 51-year-old detective was  arrested at work  yesterday for
misconduct related to unauthorized disclosure of information
about the phone-hacking investigation, known as Operation
Weeting, police said in a statement. He was suspended from duty.  Dan Evans, a former reporter at the News of the World, is
the 35-year-old man police said they arrested today on suspicion
of intercepting voice mails, according to a person familiar with
the situation who declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to discuss the matter.  “I made it very clear when I took on this investigation
the need for operational and information security,” said Sue
Aker, the Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner in
charge of the phone hacking probe. “It is hugely disappointing
that this may not have been adhered to.”  U.K. newspapers have on several occasions published details
of phone-hacking arrests before public announcements were made.
The  Daily Telegraph  and Sky News reported the detective’s arrest
was linked to information given to the  Guardian newspaper .  Both men have been released on bail, the police said.  Ken Macdonald  Earlier this year the Met police began an internal
investigation into corruption within the force after Ken
Macdonald, a lawyer for News Corp.’s board and former U.K.
director of public prosecutions, handed over what he said was
evidence that showed serious criminal offenses in News Corp.
documents he had reviewed. Paul Stephenson and John Yates,
formerly the two highest-ranking Met Police officers, have both
resigned over the force’s handling of the phone-hacking scandal.  Police renewed their investigation of claims journalists
and investigators at News Corp.’s now defunct News of the World
accessed private voice mails to get stories in January after
information from civil lawsuits indicated the practice went
beyond a reporter and private investigator jailed in 2007.  “A policeman as a source isn’t, in itself, a problem if
there is a public interest in the information,” Niri Shan, the
head of media law at Taylor Wessing LLP in London, said in a
telephone interview. “That’s the issue -- when is the line
crossed -- what is in the public interest and what should be
disclosed or kept confidential.”  Operation Elveden  The corruption probe, known as Operation Elveden, will
examine documents previously held by the  law firm  Harbottle &
Lewis.  Evans, the tabloid reporter arrested today, has been
cooperating in lawsuits against News Corp.’s U.K. unit brought
by victims of phone hacking. In February, he agreed to allow
interior designer Kelly Hoppen, one of the group of celebrities
suing the company, to search his computer for evidence, his
lawyer said at the time.  Rowena Cordrey, whose law firm  Farrer & Co.  has represented
Evans and News International in Hoppen’s phone-hacking lawsuit,
declined to immediately comment when reached by phone today.  Yesterday James Desborough, a former Hollywood reporter for
the newspaper, was arrested by appointment at a London police
station, according to the person familiar with the arrest.  Public outcry over the hacking scandal, including claims
journalists accessed the voice mail of a murdered schoolgirl,
led News Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  to close the News of the World and end his company’s 7.8
billion-pound ($12.9 billion) bid to take over British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  