-- 
Madoff Trustee Sues Lion Global, 6 Firms Seeking $172 Million Recovery

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-08-19T15:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/madoff-trustee-sues-lion-global-6-firms-seeking-172-million-recovery.html
The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm sued Lion Global Investors Ltd. and at least six
other companies to recover at least $172.8 million they
allegedly received from investments made with the con man by
Fairfield Sentry Ltd.  Irving Picard , the trustee overseeing the liquidation of
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, claims Fairfield, a
so-called feeder fund to the Madoff company, transferred
“customer property” to Lion Global, a Singapore-based asset-
management company; Quilvest Finance Ltd., a unit of Luxembourg-
based investor Quilvest SA; and five other entities, according
to filings in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  Seven complaints filed yesterday seek at least
$172.8 million for investors in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. Picard
demanded $11.5 million from  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , the United
Arab Emirates lender owned by Abu Dhabi’s ruling family. Picard
said he has the authority to take back the transfers as he works
to recover money for Madoff customers.  Picard, after targeting and sometimes settling with the
largest feeder funds, such as Fairfield Sentry, is pursuing
comparatively small amounts from investors who redeemed money
from the feeders before Madoff’s 2008 arrest. The trustee’s
settlement with Walter Noel’s Fairfield Sentry was approved in
court in June.  HSBC Ruling  The trustee last month lost the right to claim almost
$9 billion in damages from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and feeder funds
after a ruling by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who said
Picard was free to pursue bankruptcy claims. Madoff is serving a
150-year sentence in a prison in North Carolina.  Picard is seeking at least $50.6 million from Lion Global,
according to the filing. Lion Global’s lawyers are looking into
the lawsuit, Mae Wong, a spokeswoman for the Singapore firm,
said today.  Lion Global, through its joint venture with Fairfield
Greenwich Group, had sold about $45 million of the feeder fund
to investors, according to a December 2008 Singapore regulatory
filing.  Lion Global, which had S$28.7 billion ($24 billion) of
 assets under management  as of June 30, is 70 percent-owned by
life insurer  Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. (GE)  and 30 percent-owned by
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., according to its website. Great
Eastern is controlled by Oversea-Chinese, Southeast Asia’s
second-largest bank.  A call to Quilvest USA in  New York  seeking comment on the
lawsuit after regular business hours wasn’t immediately
returned. A call to First Gulf Bank wasn’t answered after
regular business hours.  The case is Picard v. Lion Global, 11-2540, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  