-- 
After Call for Regime Change in Syria, U.S. Must Lead Way: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-19T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/after-call-for-regime-change-in-syria-u-s-must-lead-way-view.html
President  Barack Obama  finally
called on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to step aside and
imposed new economic sanctions on the Syrian government. Both
are overdue.  The Obama administration should have taken those steps
weeks ago, when it became clear that Assad was determined to
kill as many of his own people as necessary to hang on to power.
Hopefully, the administration’s support for regime change in
Syria means that it will now lead a broad international effort
to isolate and weaken Assad’s regime. Without such a coalition,
and U.S. leadership of it, the slaughter in Syria will continue.  The new U.S. sanctions freeze Syrian government assets in
the U.S., prohibit Americans from engaging in transactions with
Assad’s regime, bar imports of Syrian oil into the U.S., and
prevent Americans from operating or investing in  Syria . Although
symbolically important, these steps will probably have limited
effect on Assad’s behavior or his ability to wage war against
his own people. The Syrian government has few assets in the
U.S., and cutting off American trade and investment will have a
limited impact on the Syrian economy. According to a senior
administration official, about 90 percent of Syria’s oil exports
go to  Europe .  To be effective, the sanctions will have to be replicated
by the  European Union ,  Turkey  and other major trading partners
with Syria. The European Union should act quickly to adopt them.
Multilateral efforts to prevent Syria from selling its oil would
be particularly effective. Petroleum accounts for up to a third
of Syria’s exports, the revenue from which accrues directly to
the regime.  An anti-Assad coalition will also have to include Arab
countries to prevent Assad from depicting attacks on him as
attacks on the Arab world. Putting together such a coalition,
and keeping it moving in one direction will not be easy. Only
the U.S. can do it.  So far, the Obama administration has tried to lower the
U.S. profile on Syria, perhaps reflecting fear of who or what
would come after Assad, or a naive hope that Syria’s dictator
could be pressured into enacting democratic reforms. Assad’s
brutality has now forced the U.S. to act. What Americans
perceived as caution, the people of the  Middle East  saw as
vacillation and a lack of commitment to Arab democracy. It is
time for the U.S. to act boldly to change that perception.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 