-- 
Hamptons Scene: DiMennas’ $5 Million Gift Builds History Museum

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/hamptons-scene-dimennas-5-million-gift-builds-history-museum-for-kids.html
The topic of conversation Thursday
night in one Hamptons household was how to talk to your kids
about Sept. 11.  “School starts the sixth or seventh, and then it’s the
anniversary,” said Diana DiMenna, host of the event with her
husband, Joe DiMenna, managing director at Zweig-DiMenna
Associates LLC. “We wanted to give people a chance to get ahead
of this so our kids aren’t traumatized.”  Seated on bamboo chairs in the living room, parents aired
their concerns in the company of Louise Mirrer, president of the
 New-York  Historical Society, and Kenneth Jackson, a history
professor at  Columbia University .  Robin Dubin Avram, a board member of the  Lincoln Center
Institute , said her children had trouble understanding why there
is hatred toward America.  “I don’t know,” responded Jackson. “History isn’t fair.
It doesn’t follow any internal logic.”  One parent suggested focusing on resilience, another on the
courage of New York’s firemen.  The event took place under the auspices of the DiMenna
Children’s History Museum, which will open on Nov. 11 at the
New-York Historical Society. It’s part of a 3-year, $65 million
renovation at the historical society.  The DiMennas made a $5 million gift to create the museum,
which will introduce children to historical figures including
 George Washington  and  Alexander Hamilton .  The main exhibition area takes children from the late 17th
century to the early 20th century. The events of Sept. 11 will
be represented by a fireman who appears on a timeline of  New
York City .  Little Tax Collectors  In the Hamilton pavilion, children can play a computer game
where they compete to collect taxes on whiskey and tobacco. The
object of the game, developed by  Unified Field , is to collect
the most taxes the fastest.  “You move through a historical map of New York,” said
Alice Stevenson, who started as director of the museum one week
ago. “There are citizens roving around you need to avoid --that
reinforces the idea that it was difficult to collect the
taxes.”  Stevenson said she is grateful to be working with Diana
DiMenna. “She knows every detail of the project, from micro to
macro. And she’s so enthusiastic. Every time I have a
conversation with her I’m ready to go back into the
battlefield.”  Diana DiMenna said she was involved in the museum as “a
patriot, a mother and a philanthropist.”  ‘Gigantic Hole’  “I’ve been to every planning meeting. I was thrilled to
roll up my sleeves,” she said. “The lack of a family museum to
learn about history was a gigantic hole in the cultural
landscape of New York.”  One of her visions is to hold programs like the one last
night, geared toward parents.  “It’s not just history teachers who teach history,” she
said. “We have to get our heads around talking about difficult
things.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 