-- 
Manchester United Said to Choose September to Start IPO Marketing Campaign

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-08-19T10:07:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/manchester-united-said-to-prepare-singapore-ipo-for-september.html
Manchester United  Ltd., the record
19-time English soccer champion, may start gauging investor
demand next month for a $1 billion initial public offering in
Singapore, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  The soccer club is scheduled to hold an analyst
presentation for the deal next week, according to the people,
who asked not to be identified because the process is private.
It hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as so-called
bookrunners for the IPO together with  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
the people said.  United has been examining ways to cut its financing costs
and raise money that could be used to expand its business. It
also wants to acquire players that can help it fend off the
challenge of clubs including Manchester City, owned by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan , a member of Abu Dhabi’s ruling
family, and Chelsea, owned by Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich.  Philip Townsend, spokesman for United had no comment.
United also picked BOC International Ltd., CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets,  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  and  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  as
co-lead arrangers for the offering, said the people.  The club’s U.S. owners, the Glazer family, bought the team
in 2005 for 790 million pounds ($1.3 billion). United spends
about 45 million pounds a year to service a 500 million-pound
bond. The bond, which matures in 2017, replaced bank debt
required for the purchase.  As much as 30 percent of the club will be sold in the IPO,
which would give the club an enterprise value, or the sum of its
stock and debt minus cash, of about $3.8 billion, said one of
the people.  Forbes magazine estimates the team is now worth $1.8
billion, while it was third behind Real Madrid and Barcelona in
Deloitte LLP’s list of the richest soccer clubs by revenue,
published in February.  United picked Asia as the listing venue as more than half
of its fans are based in the region. The club, which says it’s
the most-supported team in the world, has a global following of
more than 330 million, according to a club-sponsored survey. It
has fan clubs in Asian nations including Thailand and  Singapore 
with about 190 million followers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  