-- 
AngloGold, Gold Fields Face Court Battles Against Miners With Lung Disease

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-19T15:27:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/anglogold-gold-fields-face-court-battles-against-miners-with-lung-disease.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI)  are among South African producers threatened with
costly court battles as rights groups enlist thousands of former
miners with work-related  lung disease  for a class-action suit.  “We are doing the legal research and at the same time
identifying ex-gold miners who are potential claimants,”
Richard Spoor, a human-rights lawyer who has won settlements
worth millions of dollars from mining companies, said in a phone
interview Aug. 16 from Maseru,  Lesotho . “Our target is about
30,000 people before the end of the year.”  Spoor has allied with civil-rights groups to identify
potential plaintiffs, opening offices in Umtata in Eastern Cape
Province and Maseru, while planning others in areas that
supplied labor to South African mines. Several hundred former
miners have signed up without being approached, he said.  “A first draft of our application for certification of a
class-action lawsuit will be ready this week,” Spoor said. “It
will likely be filed out of the Johannesburg High Court.”  Spoor won a 490 million-rand ($68 million) settlement with
Gencor Ltd. in 2003 after the company was sued by South African
workers from asbestos mines it controlled. On March 3,  South
Africa ’s highest court cleared the way for him to seek damages
from gold companies by ruling that former miner Thembekile
Mankayi could pursue a 2.7 million-rand claim against AngloGold.  AngloGold Rejected  The court rejected AngloGold’s argument that Mankayi, who
died a week before the ruling, wasn’t entitled to seek damages
because he had already received a one-time 16,316-rand state
payout. Mankayi contracted silicosis and tuberculosis after
working at the Vaal Reefs mine, which AngloGold ran following
the company’s creation by  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  in 1998.  “We are talking to AngloGold about the Mankayi matter,”
said Spoor, who represented the former miner. “We are looking
for some kind of resolution on compassionate grounds. I went
down to see his family in the Eastern Cape a few weeks ago and
there is terrible hunger and hardship, small children who are
suffering. I am really trying to expedite a settlement.”  AngloGold, the third-largest miner of the metal, says it
complied with state regulations and isn’t liable for damages.
The company isn’t discussing any possible settlement,  Alan Fine ,
a spokesman, said yesterday by phone from Johannesburg.  Silicosis is caused by prolonged exposure to dust in mines,
leaving irreversible scar tissue in lungs and making it hard to
breathe. It also heightens the risk of contracting tuberculosis.  Negotiated Settlement  An estimated 196,560 former miners from South Africa and
84,240 from neighboring states working under a system of migrant
labor hadn’t been compensated for occupational lung disease,
according to a study published in 1998 in the Stockholm-based
Journal of Mineral Policy, Business and the Environment. Surveys
of long-serving gold miners who worked in South Africa put the
prevalence of the disease at 17 percent to 32 percent.  The government is calling for a negotiated settlement.  “My approach is that we’ve got to take the matter away
from the courts,” Mining Minister Susan Shabangu said in an
interview in Cape Town yesterday. Litigation is “not good for
the  mining industry . We have been engaging with all the parties.
I can’t say we are even close to a resolution.”  The number of gold miners in South Africa has fallen to
about 160,000, according to the Chamber of Mines, which
represents mining companies. That compares with a peak of
489,000 in 1983, Department of Mineral Resources figures show.  Shares Falling  “We’re working through all the processes,” AngloGold
Chief Executive Officer Mark Cutifani said on Aug. 4. “It’s a
manageable issue, but it will need government, the unions and
businesses to come together to find the right solution.”  Gold Fields, the fourth-largest producer of the precious
metal, said it’s assessing the potential effect of a claim. “We
are reviewing our current processes to determine what additional
measures can be taken to further mitigate the risks to employees
of contracting silicosis,” it said in an Aug. 11 statement.  Harmony Gold Mining Co.,  Africa ’s third-biggest gold miner,
said it’s unclear whether it can be held liable for damages.  “Claimants would need to provide evidence proving that
silicosis was contracted while in the employment of the company
and that it was contracted due to negligence on the company’s
part,” Johannesburg-based Harmony said in an Aug. 15 statement.
“No estimation can be made for the possible obligation.”  AngloGold fell 0.7 percent to 324.72 rand by the close of
Johannesburg trading, Harmony dropped 5.2 percent to 86.90 rand,
and Gold Fields rose 1.6 percent to 120.60 rand. The price of
gold in  London  gained 1.6 percent to $1,853.15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  