-- 
Anglo American Said to Weigh Counterbid for Macarthur Coal

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y ,   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-08-19T21:29:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/anglo-american-said-to-weigh-counterbid-for-macarthur-coal.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  is exploring a
bid for  Macarthur Coal Ltd. (MCC)  that would challenge  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU) ’s A$4.7 billion ($4.9 billion) offer for the Australian
miner, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Anglo American, part owner of the world’s biggest platinum
and diamond producers, is studying Macarthur’s finances, said
one of the people, who declined to be identified as the talks
are private.  Buying Brisbane-based Macarthur would give Anglo
steelmaking-coal mines in Australia as prices trade near a
record. Peabody and its bidding partner, ArcelorMittal, took
their offer directly to Macarthur shareholders after talks with
the board collapsed.  “Acquisition of metallurgical coal fits with Anglo’s
strategy,”  Peter Davey , London-based head of metals and mining
research at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by telephone. “They
have the firepower because they were a bit stingy on dividends.
Maybe they kept the money for this instance potentially.”  Anglo American doesn’t comment on speculation, said Emily
Blyth, a London-based spokeswoman. She also said the company
“does examine growth opportunities in our core commodity groups
across geographies.” Calls to Macarthur today weren't answered.  Macarthur rose 48 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $16.15 in U.S.
over-the-counter trading as of 5:20 p.m. New York time. Its
Australian stock fell 18 cents to A$15.32 in Sydney earlier
today.  Offer Snubbed  Peabody, based in St. Louis, and  ArcelorMittal (MT)  are bidding
A$15.50 a share. Macarthur directors had snubbed that offer
earlier, demanding A$18.  ArcelorMittal, based in Luxembourg, is Macarthur’s second-
biggest shareholder, with about 16 percent. Brokers including
RBS Morgans Ltd. have said a rival bid may include Macarthur’s
largest investor, Citic Group. Citic is receiving advice from
Macquarie Group Ltd., said one person familiar with the matter.  If successful, the Peabody group’s bid for Macarthur would
be the second-largest coal takeover this year, second only to
 Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) ’s $7.1 billion purchase of Massey
Energy Co. in June. This year has yielded almost 50 coal
transactions globally, with a combined value of more than $20
billion.  “We will see more of these kind of deals because large-cap
companies like  BHP Billiton , Anglo have a lot of cash,” Davey
said. “The recent shake-out in the market is bringing a lot of
opportunities for housekeeping in terms of buying out
minorities.”  Anglo American announced an interim dividend of 28 cents a
share on July 29. That compares with interim dividends of 25
cents last year and 44 cents in 2008. It didn’t offer any
dividend in 2009 during the global financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  at   jackiem@bloomberg.net . 