-- 
Apartment Loan Quality Worsens as U.S. Price Gains Outpace Growth in Rents

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-08-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/apartment-loan-quality-worsens-as-u-s-price-gains-outpace-growth-in-rents.html
The quality of new loans on U.S.
apartment buildings dropped in the second quarter, putting
multifamily properties at greater risk of price declines should
rent growth stall, according to a study by Chandan Economics.  The ratio of rental income to loan balances on high-rise
apartments fell to 8.7 percent from 9.7 percent a year earlier,
Chandan Economics said. So-called debt yield for securitized
loans on all types of commercial properties, including
apartments, rarely fell to less than 12 percent during the four
decades through early 2006, before plunging as the market
peaked, according to Toronto-based debt-rating company DBRS.  Apartments and central business district office buildings
in large coastal cities have led the early stages of a recovery
in U.S. commercial real estate as investors seek stable, income-
producing properties. Debt yield has declined because property
values have risen faster than rents, Chandan Economics said.  “In effect, apartment and office borrowers are encumbered
with more debt for every dollar of cash flow their properties
produce, heightening downside risks should property values
adjust or cash flow decline,” Sam Chandan, founder of the New
York-based real estate research firm, wrote in today’s report.  In  New York ,  Washington  and  San Francisco , where property
prices have rallied the most, apartment debt yields fell to 7.5
percent in the second quarter from 8.6 percent a year earlier.  Office buildings had a similar increase in prices and drop
in yields. Their debt yields fell to 9.7 percent from 9.8
percent in the first quarter and 12.1 percent a year earlier,
Chandan’s research shows. In New York, Washington and San
Francisco, they dropped to 7.8 percent from 8.1 percent in the
prior quarter and 10.3 percent a year earlier.  Beginnings of Recovery  The rebound in values has encouraged more lending, Chandan
said. Signs of a slippage in loan standards contributed to
upheaval during the past month in the $600 billion market for
commercial mortgage-backed securities as investors demanded
greater collateral protection in a $1.5 billion sale of property
bonds by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  The
underwriters were forced to cancel the sale, adding to concerns
that sent borrowing costs to their highest in more than a year.  With apartments, values are rising higher than the cost to
build as many Americans sour on homeownership and lease instead,
pushing rents higher. Apartment-mortgage purchases by the
government-owned finance companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
also help keep apartment-borrowing costs low, Chandan said.  ‘A Bubble?’  “A lot of people bought into the premise that multifamily
is the place to be, that fundamentals are going to be strong,”
said Chuck Burd, who oversees about $8 billion of assets as
chief investment officer of the U.S. unit of Bentall Kennedy, a
Toronto-based real estate investment company. “Is it a bubble?
I think if it were another property type, I’d say yes.”  Bentall Kennedy has been among those betting that demand
for rental housing will remain robust for the foreseeable future
as echo boomers, the children of  baby boomers , favor urban
lifestyles and shun homeownership after witnessing the plunge in
housing prices. The company turned to building rental units in
cities including  Seattle  as prices for existing apartment
buildings surpassed replacement costs.  “In the current cycle, this is probably the most
interesting investment opportunity,” Burd said. At the same
time, “cap rates in many markets may have reached their low
point,” he said.  Capitalization rates fall as property prices rise. Cap
rates, which measure the yield on an investment, are calculated
by dividing net operating income by purchase price.  Mortgages Studied  Chandan examined $89.4 billion of loans made between the
first quarter of 2010 and the second quarter of 2011, including
loans made by banks, life insurers and lenders whose mortgages
were pooled into securities. New mortgages backed by U.S.
office, apartment, industrial and retail properties with
original principal balances of $3.5 million or greater were used
for the study.  Before founding Chandan Economics in June,  Sam Chandan  was
global chief economist at Real Capital Analytics Inc., a
property research firm in New York. He also has been chief
economist at Reis Inc. He teaches real estate finance and
managerial economics at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   ketzel@bloomberg.net  