-- 
Apotheker Sets Biggest HP Strategic Bet in Oracle Rivalry: Tech

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-08-19T20:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/apotheker-sets-biggest-hp-strategic-bet-in-rivalry-with-oracle-corp-tech.html
Leo Apotheker ’s sweeping overhaul of
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  steps up rivalry with his longtime foe
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   Hearkening back to his two-decade career at  SAP AG (SAP) ,
Apotheker plans to spin off Hewlett Packard’s personal-computer
business and dive deeper into business software with the $10.3
billion purchase of Autonomy Corp.  With the plans announced yesterday, Apotheker, 57, makes
good on pledges to expand in cloud computing and aims to
challenge Oracle and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in
more profitable products aimed at corporations. Business
software delivered a 19 percent operating margin last quarter,
more than triple the amount for the PC unit due to be
jettisoned.  “There’s focus on storage, services, security and
networking,” said Pat Becker Jr., a  fund manager  at  Portland ,
Oregon-based Becker Capital Management, which holds Hewlett-
Packard shares among $2.2 billion under management.
“Apotheker’s lining up the company to succeed there, and PCs
just don’t fit. The lessons he learned at SAP have kicked in.”  Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto,  California , dropped
$5.91, or 20 percent, to $23.60 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange, the biggest decline since 1987. The company also
issued sales and profit forecasts for the current quarter that
missed estimates.  “I’m lowering the Q4 guidance to be realistic about where
we are and the challenges we are facing,” Apotheker said
yesterday on a conference call. “I know our investors don’t
like to be in this position and neither do I.”  Autonomy Purchase  The company agreed yesterday to buy Autonomy, the second-
largest U.K. software maker, for $42.11 a share, or $10.3
billion. Autonomy offers programs for data analysis and its
 customers  include Coca-Cola Co., Nestle SA and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The purchase is Hewlett-Packard’s largest since the $13.2
billion acquisition of Electronic Data Systems Corp. in 2008 and
Apotheker’s biggest deal since becoming CEO. In February, he
orchestrated the purchase of data-analysis company Vertica for
an undisclosed price.  Autonomy, based in Cambridge,  England , jumped 72 percent to
24.52 pounds in  London . Before today, the stock had declined 5.1
percent this year.  Hewlett-Packard also said it’s discontinuing products that
run WebOS software, which it acquired last year in the $1.2
billion purchase of Palm Inc. The operating system, which powers
smartphones and tablet computers, fell short of “internal
milestones and financial targets,” Hewlett-Packard said
yesterday.  ‘Repeatable Revenue’  With the shift, Hewlett-Packard “separates out a lower-
return business from a higher-return business, and you’ll end up
with one that is a better business long-term,” said Don Yacktman, founder of Yacktman Asset Management Co. in Austin,
 Texas , which oversees $11 billion and holds Hewlett-Packard
shares. “Software is a more repeatable revenue stream.”  Apotheker, who hails from  Germany  and speaks five
languages, rose through SAP’s sales and marketing operations,
becoming sole CEO in 2009. He was ousted from Walldorf, Germany-
based SAP, the top maker of business-management software, in
February 2010.  His tenure as CEO was blemished by an attempted price
increase during the recession that rankled consumers and by a
clash with German unions on plans to cut jobs. He resigned after
presiding over the company’s first revenue decline since 2003 as
customers delayed software purchases.  He joined Hewlett-Packard in November after  Mark Hurd 
departed as CEO amid a scandal over a personal relationship with
a company contractor. Hurd now is a co-president at Oracle.  TouchPad Disappoints  As he assumed control of Hewlett-Packard, the company faced
slowing revenue growth and increasing competition in cloud
computing, the delivery of software and storage over the
Internet. He vowed to buy more companies with software
expertise, improve product quality and boost spending on
research and development.  While Apotheker is following up on his software pledge,
he’s backtracking on efforts to make the WebOS operating system
a viable competitor to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   WebOS has been suffering, Hewlett-Packard said yesterday.
The business had an operating loss of $332 million in the fiscal
third quarter on sales of $266 million, chief financial officer
Cathie Lesjak said on a conference call. Losses would have
widened if the business continued, she said.  “We have better ways to use that capital,” than trying to
revive WebOS, Apotheker said in an interview yesterday. “Sales
of HP TouchPads were not meeting my expectations.”  ‘Sharpen the Focus’  In the PC business, competitors’ tablets have cut into
sales and consumers are changing how they compute, Apotheker
added. “We want to sharpen the focus of HP.”  Apotheker is exiting WebOS products just a month after the
company named Palm’s former CEO Jon Rubinstein to head of
product development and innovation for the personal systems
group, which includes PCs, tablets and smartphones.  Apotheker said in March that all of the company’s PCs will
feature WebOS, a shift away from machines that only run
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows operating system.  “He’s decided he just can’t win that war,” said Maribel Lopez, founder of Lopez Research in  San Francisco . “If he’s not
going to be in devices on the PC side, it makes no sense to be
in devices on the phone side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  