-- 
Asian Currencies Fall This Week, Led by India’s Rupee, on Slowdown Signs

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-08-19T09:34:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/asian-currencies-fall-this-week-led-by-india-s-rupee-on-slowdown-signs.html
Asian currencies fell this week, led
 India ’s rupee and  South Korea ’s won, as U.S. data added to signs
the global economic recovery is losing steam and  Europe ’s
worsening debt crisis bolstered demand for dollars.  Asia  Pacific stocks slumped for a fourth week as investors
favored safer bets than emerging-market assets. U.S. reports
published yesterday showed  consumer confidence  is the weakest
since March 2009, existing home sales dropped in July and
jobless claims rose more than economists forecast. Taiwan
released second-quarter gross domestic product data late
yesterday, joining China, South Korea,  Hong Kong , Malaysia and
Singapore in reporting the slowest expansions since 2009.  “The risk of recession has increased and we do expect some
further monetary stimulus from the U.S.,” said Roy Teo, a
foreign-exchange strategist at ABN Amro Private Bank in
 Singapore . “It’s hard to predict the turning point as to when
the European policies will calm the market and until they do so,
the dollar will be supported and Asian currencies could come
under more pressure.”  The won weakened 0.7 percent to 1,097.55 at the 3 p.m close
in  Seoul  from a week ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rupee slid 0.9 percent to 45.7475 per dollar
before local markets were closed for a holiday today. China’s
yuan fell 0.1 percent to 6.3930. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia
Dollar Index, which tracks Asia’s 10 most-used currencies
excluding the yen, lost 0.2 percent.  Forecasts Cut  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 2.3 percent this week,
headed for its lowest close since September 2010. Morgan Stanley
and Deutsche Bank AG lowered growth estimates for  China , Asia’s
biggest economy, this week and Citigroup Inc. cut its
projections for U.S. expansion.  Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said Aug. 17 that
trade growth will slow in the second half as austerity measures
cool demand in Western nations. The won led declines in regional
currencies today, sliding 0.8 percent, as Financial Supervisory
Service Governor Kwon Hyouk Se asked insurers to refrain from
paying dividends and boost capital in preparation for a
potential crisis.  The Singapore dollar slipped 0.1 percent to S$1.2128 this
week. The government cut its 2011 exports forecast on Aug. 10,
after shipments shrank in July for the first time in three
months. The Monetary Authority of Singapore said local money
markets are functioning in an “orderly manner” even as short-
term interest rates fell into negative territory this month.  Thai Growth  “Global events are going to play a bigger role over the
short term,” said Su Sian Lim, a Singapore-based strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The odds are that MAS is
going to leave its policy settings untouched” and maintain an
appreciation path at its policy review in October, she said.  Thailand ’s baht gained 0.1 percent to 29.86 per dollar,
snapping a run of three weekly declines, before reports next
week that are forecast to show economic growth gathered pace in
the second quarter and exports rose by the most since June 2010.  Gross domestic product increased 3.6 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, following 3 percent growth in the
previous three months, and exports climbed 33 percent in July,
based on the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  The Bank of Thailand will lift its benchmark  interest rate 
by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.5 percent on Aug. 24,
according to nine of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One
predicts no change.  “The solid economic growth is still intact for Thailand
while the new government’s policy is supportive for domestic
consumption,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a currency trader at Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “However, there continue
uncertainties over the global economy and that limits movements
in the baht.”  Elsewhere,  Malaysia ’s ringgit gained 0.8 percent this week
to 2.9785 and Taiwan’s dollar weakened 0.2 percent to NT$29.076.
The Philippine peso was little changed at 42.643 while
Indonesia’s was also steady at 8,563.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  