-- 
Asian Stocks Decline a Fourth Week as Growth Concern Deepens

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-19T23:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/asian-stocks-decline-a-fourth-week-on-global-growth-concern-european-debt.html
Asian stocks fell, with the regional
index declining for a fourth straight week, as the global stock
rout continued amid signs the world economy is slowing and
Europe’s debt crisis will damage the banking system.  Honda Motor Co., the Japanese carmaker that gets about 83
percent of sales overseas, slipped 5.3 percent in  Tokyo .  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest computer-memory
chipmaker, tumbled 21 percent in  Seoul  after Dell Inc. lowered
its sales forecast for this year.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s
biggest lender by market value, dropped 2.9 percent on concern
the worsening debt crisis in Europe could freeze interbank
markets and cut off funding. An index of  Japan ’s 30 biggest
companies hit a record low.  “Everything that’s going on is just eating away at
investor confidence,” said Matt Riordan, who helps manage
almost $6.6 billion in Sydney at Paradice Investment Management
Pty. “Business confidence is tailing off and global growth
slowing, and Europe’s debt situation appears to be getting worse
and worse without any coordinated policy response. The worst
case is that you go back to a 2008-type financial crisis.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 2 percent this week to
119.53. Stocks have fallen 14 percent in the past four weeks as
investors took fright after a deadlock in the U.S. congress
brought the government to the brink of default, economic reports
showed the world’s biggest economy is slowing and concern grew
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis will spread.  Citigroup Inc. cut its forecasts for U.S. growth on Aug. 18,
while Morgan Stanley lowered targets for stock indexes in
Indonesia and Singapore after data showed American jobless
claims and consumer prices rose and a measure of manufacturing
and existing home sales contracted.  Exporters Drop  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average decreased 2.7 percent.
Carmakers and electronics manufacturers dropped after the yen
appreciated toward its post-World War II high of 76.25 against
the dollar reached on May 17, hurting the outlook for export
earnings. The Topix Core 30 index, which includes Panasonic
Corp., Honda and Nomura Holdings Inc., hit its lowest in at
least 22 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s No. 1 exporter of consumer electronics,
fell 2.1 percent to 1,594 yen.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
biggest carmaker, lost 1.8 percent to 2,768 yen. Smaller rivals
Honda dropped 5.3 percent to 2,403 yen, while Nissan Motor Co.
sank 5.8 percent to 653 yen.  Rating Lowered  The strengthening yen and slowing U.S. economic growth
prompted Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to lower its rating on the
Japanese automobile industry to “neutral” from “attractive.”  South Korea ’s Kospi Index dropped 2.7 percent.  China ’s
Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.3 percent while  Hong Kong ’s Hang
Seng Index slipped 1.1 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
lost 1.7 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index fell 4.1 percent this week
as Morgan Stanley cut its outlook on the MSCI Singapore Index to
a 5 percent loss from a 22 percent gain, saying the city is
likely to be the “most significantly impacted” by slowing
global growth among Southeast Asian nations.  Global stocks have lost more than $7.3 trillion in market
value since July 26 as concern grew the U.S. may enter a
recession as two rounds of government asset-purchases and
record-low  interest rates  fail to entrench an economic recovery.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s pledge last week
to keep interest rates near zero until mid-2013 was
“inappropriate policy at an inappropriate time,”  Charles Plosser , president of the Fed Bank of Philadelphia, said on Aug.
17 in a Bloomberg radio interview. Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said the central bank shouldn’t enact policy to protect
stock investors. Both dissented from the Fed’s Aug. 9 decision.  Central Bankers  The MSCI World Index climbed 28 percent through May 2 from
Aug. 27, 2010, when Bernanke told an annual central bankers’
symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , that the Fed would do all it
could to ensure a continuation of the economic recovery.
Bernanke will speak at the annual conference next week.  “There’s a total lack of confidence in policymakers’
ability to defuse the situation,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-
based strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages
almost $100 billion. “Fear is breeding fear now.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 13.2 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a decline of 10.7 percent for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 19.1 percent by the Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at
11.98 times estimated earnings on average, compared with 11.3
times for the S&P 500 and 9.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  Technology Companies  A gauge of information technology companies led the drop
this week among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index. Seven of the sub-indexes declined, while three rose.  Computer-memory chipmakers tumbled after Dell, the world’s
second-largest maker of personal computers, projects growth of 1
percent to 5 percent this year, down from a previous range of 5
percent to 9 percent amid lackluster demand from consumers and
market-share gains by Apple Inc.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s biggest supplier of
computer-memory chips by sales, fell 3.8 percent to 680,000 won
in Seoul. Smaller rival Hynix Semiconductor plunged 21 percent
to 15,600 won and Japan’s  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  dropped 11 percent
to 457 yen in Tokyo.  Credit Crunch  Financial stocks declined following losses in European bank
shares as the chief economist at Sweden’s financial regulator
said his country’s lenders must do more to prepare for a
worsening in Europe’s debt crisis that could freeze interbank
markets and cut off funding.  HSBC Holdings lost 2.9 percent to HK$65.20 in Hong Kong.
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest publicly
traded lender, dropped 1.4 percent to 352 yen in Tokyo.
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest lender by
market value, declined 5.4 percent to A$45.96.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  has been holding talks
with Europe’s biggest lenders on concern that the sovereign debt
crisis may lead to funding problems, the Wall Street Journal
reported on Aug. 18, citing people it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  