-- 
Asian Agri Seeks $100 Million for Palm Oil Fund as Malaysia Land Runs Out

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-08-19T04:58:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/asian-agri-seeks-100-million-for-palm-oil-fund-as-malaysia-land-runs-out.html
Asian Agri Capital, a Singapore
private-equity firm that focuses on early-stage plantations, is
seeking to raise $100 million to invest in  palm oil  and other
tropical commodities in Southeast Asia and  Latin America .  The Pacific Agriculture Fund will invest more than half of
the money in palm-oil plantations in  Peru , where the United
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime has been supporting the
cultivation of the crop and other commodities to provide former
coca-growing farmers with sustainable incomes, said Bill
Randall, managing director of Asian Agri. The manager, which has
two earlier funds, will continue to invest in Malaysia, the
world’s second-largest palm-oil producer, he said.  Malaysia could run out of land to grow palm oil by 2020 and
 Indonesia  by 2022 because of “aggressive plantings” over the
past decade and environmental concerns, according to an April
report by Nomura Holdings Inc.  Malaysia  and Indonesia are the
two largest growers of palm oil, crushed from an over-sized
pineapple-like fruit and processed into oils used in cooking,
packaged foods and in toiletries such as shampoo.  “We will invest a significant amount of our assets in Peru
as opposed to Southeast Asia because there are just a lot
opportunities there,” Randall said in an interview.  As the global population expanded 85 percent in the past
four decades, demand for edible oils rose almost ninefold. Palm
oil climbed to 3,967 ringgit ($1,328) on Feb. 10, the highest
level in almost three years as global demand outstripped supply.  Asian Agri’s fund is targeting returns of 40 percent to 60
percent when it hands money back to investors in three to five
years, Randall said. It plans to list the companies it invests
in within the first two years of their operations, he said.  Edible Oil  Asian Agri’s first fund gained 104 percent after fees and
expenses last year, benefiting from investments in  Asian
Plantations Ltd. (PALM) , a palm-oil producer listed on  London ’s
Alternative Investment Market, Randall said.  Asian Agri  had invested in Asian Plantations, which grows
palm oil in Malaysia, and helped it to list in 2009. Asian
Plantations’ market value has increased to about 101 million
pounds ($167 million) from 20 million pounds when it first
started trading.  “Nobody can produce edible oil cheaper than a palm oil
plantation in the tropical belt,” said Dennis Melka, joint
chief executive officer of Singapore-based Asian Plantations.  Asian Agri, which has applied to change its name to Pacific
Agri Capital, plans to invest about 70 percent of its new fund
in Peru and other Latin American countries and the rest in
 Southeast Asia , said Randall, who lived in  Venezuela  as a child
and speaks Spanish. It will make complimentary investments in
cocoa and rubber plantations in Latin America and plans to open
an office in  Colombia  this year, he said.  Oil vs. Narcotics  The Pacific Agriculture Fund, which has raised more than $8
million from small family offices and friends, is seeking to
attract capital from institutional investors in the U.S. and
Latin America, said Zack Kembar, a director of Asian Agri.  Asian Agri is teaming up with local palm-oil companies in
Peru that are seeking capital to expand, Randall said. The  UNODC 
is supporting co-operatives in the Andean nation, which last
year rivaled Colombia as the world’s largest producer of cocaine
after a government eradication program failed to stem rising
cultivation of coca, the raw material used to make the drug.  “Palm oil has made money consistently for 30 years for its
growers,” said Asian Plantations’ Melka. “I tell people that
it’s the most profitable crop that humans can grow outside of
narcotics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  