-- 
MasterCard Upgraded by S&P on ‘Excellent Profitability’

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-19T17:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/mastercard-rating-upgraded-by-s-p-on-excellent-profitability-.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s second-
biggest payments network, had its  credit rating  raised  by
Standard & Poor’s, which cited the company’s “excellent
profitability” amid a weak economy.  S&P upgraded Purchase, New York-based MasterCard’s long-
term counterparty rating by one level to A- from BBB+ and didn’t
change the firm’s short-term A-2 rating, the ratings company
said in a statement today.  MasterCard Chief Executive Officer Ajay Banga is expanding
the firm’s presence in emerging markets through acquisitions
while more customers choose plastic over cash for their
purchases. Under Banga, 51, who has declared a “war on cash,”
MasterCard has posted $3 billion in profit since the beginning
of 2010.  “The upgrade reflects the company’s excellent
profitability and robust cash-flow generation through the
economic cycle,” S&P analyst Vikas Jhaveri said in the
statement. “The company has maintained a conservative financial
profile during the past several years and continues to build its
capital base.”  MasterCard gained 36 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with a 14 percent increase for San Francisco-based  Visa
Inc. (V) , the biggest payment network. S&P’s 500 Information
Technology Index, which tracks the performance of 75 stocks,
fell 9.1 percent.  S&P said it may lower MasterCard’s ratings if the company’s
future profitability was threatened by “regulatory actions”
and litigation tied to new rules under the Dodd-Frank Act that
reduced the amount banks can charge merchants for debit-card
transactions.  MasterCard and Visa set the fees on the transactions, known
as interchange, and pass the money to card-issuing banks,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  