-- 
Latin America’s Best Bonds Get Lift From Faltering U.S. GDP: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-08-19T16:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/latin-america-s-best-bonds-get-lift-from-u-s-mexico-credit.html
Mexican peso bonds are posting the
biggest rally in  Latin America  on speculation slowing economic
growth will keep inflation near a five-year low and prompt the
central bank to cut interest rates.  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark notes due in 2024 sank 95
basis points, or 0.95 percentage point, in the past month to a
record 6.03 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yields on similar-maturity Colombian peso bonds slid 41 basis
points, while those on  Brazil ’s benchmark local securities
maturing in 2021 dropped 77 basis points.  Mounting evidence the expansion in the U.S. is in peril
prompted traders last week to bet central bank Governor Agustin Carstens will lower the key lending rate as soon as February to
shore up economic growth. Weakening demand from the U.S.,
 Mexico ’s biggest trading partner, helped reduce annual inflation
in Latin America’s second-biggest economy to 3.55 percent last
month from 3.64 percent in July 2010.  “There’s fear in the markets about the deceleration in the
U.S.,” Alejandro Padilla, a debt strategist at Grupo Financiero
Banorte-Ixe, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.
“In Mexico, we have inflation at contained levels.”  Mexican bonds are also benefiting from the rally in U.S.
Treasuries, Padilla said. Peso bonds have the highest
correlation to Treasuries among Latin American government debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on 10-year U.S.
notes plunged 82 basis points in the past month to 2.06 and
touched a record low of 1.9735 percent yesterday.  ‘Considerably Slower’  The  Federal Reserve  pledged last week to keep the benchmark
U.S. interest rate, an overnight lending rate among banks, near
zero until at least mid-2013, saying growth in the world’s
biggest economy is “considerably slower” than anticipated. The
 U.S. economy , which buys 80 percent of Mexico’s exports, will
expand 1.75 percent this year, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s economy grew 3.3 percent in the second quarter
from a year ago, down from a 4.6 percent pace in the January-to-
March period, the national statistics institute said today. The
median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
the economy to expand 3.6 percent.  The yield on futures contracts for February, known as TIIE,
fell to 4.72 percent on Aug. 11, indicating traders expected the
central bank to lower the rate that month from a record low 4.5
percent. Yields on the contract have since risen to 4.75
percent. Before pricing in a rate cut, traders delayed bets for
an increase 17 times this year. The central bank last cut the
rate on July 17, 2009.  Banco de Mexico is the only central bank from a major Latin
American country to keep  interest rates  unchanged in the past
year.  ‘Felt Confident’  Kieran Curtis, who helps manage more than $3 billion of
emerging-market assets at Aviva Investors in  London , said he’s
been buying longer-term Mexican peso bonds since March as a bet
the central bank would keep interest rates unchanged.  “The growth re-pricing that we’ve seen in the last eight
weeks is more important than just the U.S. Treasury yields,”
Curtis said in a telephone interview. “We felt confident that
the Mexican bonds were the place to be. It worked out well.”  Press officials at Mexico’s central bank didn’t immediately
return telephone calls seeking comment.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  fell three basis points
to 178 at 12:54 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  ‘Overdone’  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 12.2503 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose nine basis points yesterday to 146, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The plunge in Mexican bond yields means the notes have
little scope to rally further unless U.S. data deteriorates
further, said Pedro Tuesta, a Washington-based Latin America
economist at 4Cast Inc.  “This adjustment could be a bit overdone in the sense that
the market tends to react very aggressively to this news,”
Tuesta said in a telephone interview. “Most of the damage has
already been done.”  Growth Outlook  The central bank last week cut its growth forecasts for the
next two years while keeping inflation estimates unchanged.
Mexico’s gross domestic product will expand as much as 4.8
percent this year, the central bank said on Aug. 10. It
previously forecast expansion of up to 5 percent.  Policy makers projected consumer prices will rise at an
annual rate of 3 percent to 4 percent. The annual inflation rate
touched 3.04 percent in March, the lowest level since May 2006.  “Aside from the good inflation metrics, the probability
that  Banco de Mexico  will extend this period of stable rates is
very high,” Eduardo Avila, an economist with Monex Casa de
Bolsa SA in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview. “The
possibility has opened for a rate cut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  