-- 
Australia Faces Destabilizing Commodity Cycles, Bloxham Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-19T02:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/australia-faces-destabilizing-commodity-cycles-bloxham-says.html
Australia ’s rising trade with  China 
means commodity price swings will be more destabilizing for the
nation’s economy than in the past, HSBC Holdings Plc’s Sydney-
based Chief Economist Paul Bloxham said.  Demand from China, which supplanted  Japan  as Australia’s
biggest export destination in 2009, also has the largest effect
on global commodities, he wrote in a report today titled: “Does
Australia Have a Resources Curse? The Challenges of Managing a
Mining Boom.”  “Being tied to a single source of income is risky as
changes in that source of income do significant damage to the
economy,” said Bloxham, previously an economist at the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia.  Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for global growth this year,
citing an “insufficient” response to  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis, weakened confidence and the prospect of fiscal
tightening. The New York-based bank predicted an expansion of
3.9 percent, down from a previous forecast of 4.2 percent growth.  “A significant global downturn, particularly one that
affected China and commodity prices, is a key risk to Australia
and would likely see a substantial cut to the RBA’s cash rate,”
Bloxham wrote.  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens has kept the benchmark rate
unchanged at 4.75 percent, a developed-world high, for the past
eight meetings to gauge the impact of high borrowing costs and a
strong currency on parts of the economy outside resources.  Soaring Currency  The Australian dollar reached $1.1081 on July 27, the
highest since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983. The
currency has fallen 6.6 percent since that peak and traded at
$1.0350 at 12:23 p.m. in Sydney today.  Private gauges in recent weeks showed the nation’s services
industry has contracted for three straight months, manufacturing
has shrunk for four of the past five and construction has
weakened for 14 consecutive months.  The so-called two-speed economy has prompted economists
including Bloxham to debate whether Australia is suffering
“Dutch Disease,” whereby companies extracting natural
resources are prosperous while industries such as manufacturing
are wiped out.  “While we find evidence that non-mining sectors have
weakened, we are not convinced that there is irrecoverable
damage being done,” Bloxham wrote.  “Importantly, as yet, we haven’t seen greater divergence
across industries than is historically normal for Australia,”
he said. “We also have, as yet, not seen substantial layoffs in
the affected industries or capital stock shrinkage.”  ‘Need to Shrink’  HSBC estimates that Australia’s mining investment boom is
so big that, “in order to make way, other parts of the economy
need to shrink to their smallest share of the economy ever.”  “Increased dependence on commodities means that cycles in
commodity prices will be more destabilizing for the Australian
economy than in the past,” Bloxham wrote. “A recent example is
the global financial crisis, which saw a very sharp decline in
commodity prices, substantially reducing incomes in Australia
and weakening the fiscal position.”  To help contain resource-fueled inflation, Stevens boosted
borrowing costs in seven quarter-percentage-point steps from
October 2009 to November last year, the world’s most aggressive
round of rate increases as the global economy emerged from the
financial crisis.  A government report last month showed the RBA’s two
preferred measures of annual inflation accelerated to 2.7
percent in the second quarter, compared with a gain of about 2.3
percent in the first quarter. Consumer prices rose at an annual
pace of 3.6 percent, the most since 2008, the data showed.  Bloxham said that suggests rates will need to rise.
HSBC’s central case is for a 25 basis point increase before the
end of the year and another 50 basis points in 2012. The
sovereign debt risks in Europe “are a key tail risk to this
outlook,” Bloxham said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  