-- 
Austria Says Finnish Collateral Deal May ‘Blow Up’ Greek Rescue

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-08-19T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/austria-says-finnish-collateral-deal-may-blow-up-greek-rescue.html
Finland ’s efforts to get collateral
in exchange for new emergency loans to Greece could “blow up”
the rescue plan endorsed by euro leaders last month,  Austria ’s
Finance Minister Maria Fekter said.  The northernmost euro member on Aug. 16 reached an
agreement with the government in  Athens  requiring Greece to
deposit cash in a state account that Finland will invest in AAA
rated bonds. The bilateral arrangement needs approval from other
euro members, the Helsinki-based Finance Ministry said.  “The Finns have negotiated with the Greeks that they get
20 percent of collateral in cash from the other member states,”
Fekter told reporters in Vienna yesterday. “If every country
demanded 20 percent, the entire package would blow up.”  Finland’s collateral demands were included in a July 21
agreement by euro-area leaders to provide a new 159 billion-euro
($227 billion) aid package for  Greece  and grant broader powers
to the region’s rescue fund. At the summit, AAA rated Finland
fought for extra assurances it won’t lose money on its backing
for the European Financial Stability Facility. The July 21
agreement needs to be ratified nationally.  Austria and the Netherlands, both rated AAA, and Slovenia
and Slovakia yesterday said they will seek deals similar to the
Finnish one. Finland said it’s open to broadening the
arrangement to include more countries. Fekter said she contacted
Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen the day after the
Nordic country announced its deal to air her views.  Financially Unviable  “We have negotiated this model between the two countries,
we’ve sought to find a model that these two countries can agree
on,” Urpilainen said in an interview yesterday. “This is what
happened. Finland doesn’t oppose extending collateral to other
countries.”  The Nordic country “was commissioned to establish a
concept for all of  Europe ,” Fekter said, adding that Finland
has struck a deal “that is at the expense of all the other
countries.” Collateral demands from all contributing euro
members would make the package “financially unviable,” she
said.  Fekter said euro members whose banks have limited exposure
to Greece should have a greater right to demand collateral as
part of a new aid package. The proposal was spelt out in a
letter to other euro-area finance ministers yesterday, she said.  Bank Incentives  Euro members’ right to collateral from Greece should be
restricted if their banks contribute to the rescue package
because such lenders are already being offered incentives to
take part, Fekter said.  The 109 billion euros in new public aid to Greece include
35 billion euros of “credit enhancements” linked to a plan for
private creditors to contribute through bond exchanges and
rollovers. In addition, 20 billion euros of the public aid will
be used for a buyback of Greek debt.  Part of the new bailout is a plan under which banks can
swap their Greek  government bonds  into new securities that are
collateralized.  France ’s  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, Dutch ING Groep NV and
 Germany ’s Commerzbank AG are among banks who said they will
participate in the swap and may therefore benefit from the
collateral. So far, no Finnish or Austrian bank has signed up to
the plan, according to a  list  published by the IIF.  The collateral agreement “allows Finland to participate in
the Greek loan,” Finance Minister Urpilainen said Aug. 16.
“Without this arrangement, Finland won’t participate,” she
said, adding that the “next weeks are very decisive in that we
will see how other countries will respond to this collateral
arrangement.”  Harald Waiglein, a spokesman for the Austrian  Finance
Ministry , said yesterday efforts to secure collateral deals are
unlikely to delay the implementation of measures agreed July 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  