-- 
Lawyer Tied to Galleon Insider Trading Case Gets 36-Month Prison Sentence

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-19T21:38:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/lawyer-tied-to-galleon-insider-trading-case-gets-36-month-prison-sentence.html
Jason Goldfarb, a New York attorney
who passed inside information about mergers and acquisitions to
ex-Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi Goffer , was sentenced to three
years in prison.  Goldfarb, 33, today apologized to the court for his crimes
and said he hadn’t pocketed the $32,500 he was paid for the
tips. Goldfarb, his lawyer and parents said the money went
toward his mother’s medical care after she was diagnosed with
cancer. His attorney, Michael Soshnick, asked that his client be
sentenced to community service rather than time in prison.  “I stand before you a broken man,” Goldfarb said in
federal court in  Manhattan . “I make no excuses for my conduct.
Nobody can or will punish me more than I can punish myself. I’d
like to speak at law schools and colleges to discuss the
mistakes that I have made,” he said.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  told Goldfarb that he
was imposing a prison term because the defendant was a lawyer
who broke the law and because  insider trading  was a serious
crime that, for the sake of deterrence, must be punished.  “He was a very significant and active participant in the
criminal conduct,” Sullivan said. “His role was more than a go-
between described by Mr. Soshnick. And, he actually facilitated
the misconduct of other lawyers as well.”  Inside Tips  Goldfarb pleaded guilty to passing information from two
attorneys at Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP regarding
transactions their firm was working on. One was his former
college roommate, Arthur Cutillo. The other was Brien Santarlas.  Prosecutors from the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
said a term of 46 months was warranted, citing the fact that
Goldfarb recruited the attorneys into the scheme. U.S.
sentencing guidelines called for a term of 37 to 46 months for
Goldfarb, court records show.  “The picture that has been painted was of Mr. Goldfarb who
engaged in this conduct only out of necessity and desperate
circumstances,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe said.
“But it is very different from the picture that emerges from
the wiretaps and telephone calls.”  In an unusual move for a sentencing proceeding, Sullivan
asked Tarlowe to play an excerpt from a February 2008 wiretap
used at Goffer’s trial in which Goldfarb boasts that he would
“press” and “drill” Cutillo and Santarlas for tips about
deals the  law firm  was working on.  ‘Talking Millions’  “We’re talking millions,” Goldfarb said. “Every one of
us should be set for life within a year or two if things are
played right.”  Sullivan noted the scheme went on for more than a year and
that Goldfarb on another wiretap spoke of the potential gains
they’d see from Goffer getting a job at Galleon because of the
fund’s volume of trading.  Goffer was convicted of all 14 counts against him in June,
in the second trial of defendants charged in a nationwide
investigation of insider trading at  hedge funds . Goffer’s former
boss, Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , was convicted of
insider trading in May. Prosecutors are seeking a sentence of
more than 24 years when Rajaratnam is sentenced Sept. 27.  Cutillo, who pleaded guilty in January, was sentenced to 30
months in prison in June. Santarlas, who pleaded guilty and
testified at the Goffer trial, hasn’t been sentenced.  During his guilty plea, Cutillo admitted that he and
Santarlas leaked information about transactions involving 3Com
Inc. and Axcan Pharma Inc.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 