-- 
Baidu Investigates Claims It Didn’t Check Advertiser Credentials

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-08-19T10:05:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/baidu-investigates-claims-it-didn-t-check-advertiser-credentials.html
Baidu Inc.,  China ’s most valuable
Internet company, began an internal investigation after state-
owned  China Central Television  claimed it didn’t verify the
credentials of advertising customers and their products.  Baidu started a “companywide” probe and stopped working
with some external sales agents, Vice President Wang Zhan said
in an interview with CCTV yesterday. Baidu will correct flaws in
its business processes, Wang said. Baidu spokesman Kaiser Kuo
confirmed the interview and declined further comment today.  Baidu has declined more than 10 percent in New York trading
since Aug. 15, when  a CCTV report  said the Beijing-based company
sold listings on its search engine to unaccredited advertisers.
The program may pose a “short-term revenue impact” for Baidu,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said this week.  Wang apologized to Baidu users who were affected by “false
information,” he said.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts fell 6.7 percent to
$128.77 in New York trading yesterday. The stock has declined 14
percent since Aug. 15, underperforming Chinese Internet rivals
including Sina Corp. and NetEase.com Inc.  The CCTV program alleged that undercover reporters
circumvented Baidu customer and product screening checks to
obtain paid listings on the search engine by presenting fake
business licenses. Baidu fell short of undertakings made in 2008
in response to earlier criticism by the broadcaster of the
company’s sales practices, according to the report.  Baidu accounted for 75.9 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the second quarter, rising from 75.8
percent in the previous three months, according to research
company Analysys International.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s share dropped to
18.9 percent from 19.2 percent, the researcher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  