-- 
Bank of America Aims to Save $5 Billion With Project New BAC

-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-09-12T14:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/bank-of-america-said-to-seek-20-cut-in-consumer-unit-costs-with-job-trims.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, expects to cut about $5 billion in costs
annually by 2013 under Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s plan to bolster profit and the company’s stock.  Implementing the first phase of the overhaul starts next
month, with evaluation of commercial and investment banking
scheduled for completion in April, Moynihan said today during an
investor conference in New York. Moynihan’s plan, dubbed Project
New BAC, included a management shakeup last week that elevated
Thomas K. Montag and David Darnell to co-chief operating
officers and left  Sallie Krawcheck  and  Joe Price  without jobs.  “We don’t have to be the biggest company out there, we
have to be the best,” said Moynihan, 51. “We can get out of
things we don’t need to do, make the company leaner, more
straightforward, more driven.” He didn’t specify how many jobs
would be affected.  Bank of America advanced 12 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $7.10
at 9:58 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
best showing in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . The  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based company already ceded the title of largest
home lender to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and slipped to No. 2 in
deposits at midyear behind New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   As of June 30, Bank of America still ranked as the largest
employer among U.S. lenders with about 288,000 people. San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo, which has the largest branch
network, and New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are next largest,
with more than 260,000 employees. JPMorgan, the most profitable
 U.S. bank , had about 250,000 workers.  Pressure on Moynihan  The first phase of Project New BAC focuses on consumer
banking, credit cards, home loans and technology, Moynihan said.
The effort will shave about 18 percent from the company’s $27
billion in consumer-related expenses, he said.  “When you take Phase 1, and combine with Phase 2, we feel
comfortable we’ll get back to the 55 percent efficiency ratio we
talked about in March,” Moynihan said.  Moynihan has sought to bolster capital at the bank and
confidence among investors after a 54 percent slide in the stock
since he became CEO in January 2010. His tenure includes posting
a record $8.8 billion quarterly loss, committing $30 billion to
clean up faulty mortgages and selling at least $40 billion of
assets and preferred shares.  Profit is under pressure mainly because of losses, legal
costs and writedowns tied to the 2008 takeover of subprime
lender Countrywide Financial Corp. At the same time, revenue is
shrinking as the  U.S. economy  slows. Moynihan has said that
because the bank is one of the biggest consumer lenders, its
fortunes are closely tied to  home prices  and the jobless rate.  Project Planning  About four dozen of the bank’s top executives met last week
to review Project New BAC, named after the company’s stock
ticker symbol, with the earliest cuts likely to target  consumer
banking  and support staff such as human resources, a person
familiar with the plan had said. Moynihan told investors on Aug.
10 that money saved from the initiative “will be both material
and substantial,” which the bank needs as the economy slows and
new federal regulations cut revenue.  The multi-month effort behind Project New BAC is a way of
“reengineering your processes, particularly appropriate for a
company that’s a product of mergers and integrations,”
according to Alastair Borthwick, co-head of global capital
markets and a participant in the planning.  Too Much Information  For example, the managers found that the company’s internal
financial reporting has “a high degree of frequency, a high
degree of completeness, and a high degree of detail,” Borthwick
said in an Aug. 31 interview. “What we’re asking is, can we
live with fewer, smaller, less-detailed reports across the
entire firm?”  Borthwick realized in his own European equity business that
he was getting daily reports describing what had happened that
day. They were so “extremely well-written” and “incredibly
precise” that he figured someone was spending an hour or more a
day on them. From his desk at One  Bryant Park  in  New York  one
July day, he hit reply-all after getting his daily report and
requested that the notes stop or say simply that nothing
material had happened, or be written periodically only if there
were important news.  If “I and my colleagues can live with 20 percent less
reports, and the 20 percent less time spent on those activities,
then it allows your finance teams to get after higher-value-
added activities.”  Stock Slide  Bank of America fell 48 percent this year through last
week, the worst performance in the Dow average and 24-company
KBW Bank Index, as investors focused on costs tied to the
Countrywide takeover and speculated the firm may issue new
shares to boost capital. Last month, American International
Group Inc. added to the woes, suing to recoup at least $10
billion in losses on mortgage bonds. Bank of America said AIG
was to blame and that the New York-based insurer was an
“informed, seasoned investor.”  Such disputes “will take a lot longer -- and it’s in our
best interest to have it take longer,” Moynihan, who has a law
degree and served a stint as general counsel, said in a Sept. 6
interview. “You have to chop away at them, as the legal teams
will do. It’s going to stay with us for a long time because it’s
not in our best interest to do something there until we chop the
cases down and get people to be more realistic.”  Job Cuts  In an Aug. 18 memo, Moynihan disclosed 3,500 job cuts that
will affect operations across the firm and include as much as 5
percent of the investment-banking unit, or about 600 people, two
people with knowledge of the plans said last month.  “This obviously is a challenging time for our company in
the markets, and for our shareholders,” Moynihan said in the
memo. “I know it is tough to have to manage through reductions,
but we owe it to our customers and our shareholders to remain
competitive, efficient and manage our expenses carefully.”  Bank of America leaders had been “fighting a different
battle” before, and that was to gain scale, Moynihan said in
the interview. His predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , spent more
than $130 billion assembling a company with leading positions in
deposits, credit cards, mortgages, investment and corporate
banking and  wealth management . The firm had $2.26 trillion in
assets as of June 30.  One of Moynihan’s decisions -- to get out of managing
private-equity investments gained in the 2009 acquisition of
Merrill Lynch & Co. -- has saved millions of dollars a year, he
said. Moynihan said he was following a blueprint for asset sales
he gave to directors in 2009, as Bank of America directors were
interviewing candidates to succeed Lewis, who resigned at the
end of that year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  