-- 
Bank of America CEO Moynihan Says Expect 3,500 Job Reductions This Quarter

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-08-19T16:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/bank-of-america-ceo-moynihan-says-to-expect-3-500-job-cuts-this-quarter.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender, will eliminate about 3,500 jobs this quarter to
focus “on what we can control” amid market turmoil, said Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan .  Some workers already were informed of the dismissals, which
are in addition to 2,500 reductions made this year, Moynihan
said yesterday in a memo to senior managers. Cuts will affect
operations across the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm and
include as much as 5 percent of the investment-banking unit, or
about 600 employees, said two people with knowledge of the plans.  Moynihan is under pressure to reduce expenses at the bank,
whose market value has plunged by about half this year. He’s
booked about $30 billion in costs tied to home loans since
replacing  Kenneth D. Lewis  in 2010, mostly because of the 2008
takeover of subprime lender Countrywide Financial Corp. At the
same time, revenue is shrinking as the  U.S. economy  slows.  “Clearly, Bank of America has more wood to chop” in terms
of job reductions, said Jonathan Hatcher, a Jefferies Group Inc.
credit strategist specializing in lenders, who added the revenue
pinch will force companies to become more productive with fewer
people. “Unfortunately, we’re going to see further cuts at
other banks.”  Project New BAC  The 6,000 job cuts disclosed so far this year, representing
2 percent of the firm’s approximate 287,000 workers at the end
of 2010, precede Moynihan’s expense-trimming effort called
Project New BAC, he said in the memo. That initiative may result
in deeper job cuts than the one announced yesterday, said one of
the people. The lender may eliminate at least 10,000 jobs, the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing an unidentified person.  Scott Silvestri , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on that figure. Managers will meet for a final review of
the first stage of Project New BAC in early September, Moynihan
said in the memo. The company is first examining cost-cutting
opportunities in the consumer-banking operations, including
deposits, mortgages and credit-cards, as well as support staff
including human resources, before tackling costs in the firm’s
corporate and investment banking units, one of the people said.  Bank of America fell 3 cents to $6.98 at 12:24 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The lender has fallen 28
percent this month through yesterday, compared with the 21
percent decline in the 24-company KBW Bank Index.  Tough to Manage  “This obviously is a challenging time for our company in
the markets, and for our shareholders,” Moynihan, 51, said in
the memo. “I know it is tough to have to manage through
reductions, but we owe it to our customers and our shareholders
to remain competitive, efficient and manage our expenses
carefully.”  The 50 largest banks around the world announced almost
60,000 job reductions through the first week of August, the
fastest rate since 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. HSBC Holdings Plc said this month that its target was
to reduce 30,000 positions, the largest announcement this year.
Companies are restructuring businesses to improve profitability
as the U.S. economy stagnates and regulators push firms to hold
more capital.  Still No. 1  Even after the job cuts announced yesterday, Bank of
America would remain the biggest employer among U.S. banks. San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo and Co., which has the largest
branch network, and New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are next
largest, with more than 260,000 employees each at the end of
June.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the most profitable  U.S. bank , had
about 250,000 workers.  Bank of America must “adjust to reality -- with weaker
revenues and weaker margins, they’ve got to cut costs,” said
John Wadle, the Hong Kong-based head of regional banks at Mirae
Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. “The investment-banking business is
weak because of very unstable financial markets, and the flat
yield curve will make margins more difficult.”  Job cuts in Bank of America’s investment banking and
trading division run by Thomas K. Montag are part of an annual
review of his workforce, said one of the people. The business
has been trimming staff in the U.S. while bolstering headcount
overseas, Moynihan has said.  Merrill’s Help  The investment bank and wealth management units acquired in
the 2009 acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co. have propped up Bank
of America. The two divisions generated about $4.7 billion in
earnings in the first half of this year, while the overall
company posted a $6.8 billion loss on $20.7 billion in second-
quarter mortgage charges.  “While the markets reflect many economic factors we cannot
control, we must stay focused on what we can control,” Moynihan
said in the memo. “Over time, higher net income and a rising
stock price will surely follow.”  Bank of America had $68.9 billion in non-interest expenses
in 2010, a 7.7 percent increase from the year before, excluding
a one-time credit-card unit writedown and merger costs. The
firm’s handle on expenses wasn’t “good enough,” and costs may
be cut by $1.5 billion a quarter, Moynihan said this month.  The CEO has sold more than 20 assets or units amid investor
concern that mortgage losses may force him to raise capital to
comply with new international capital standards. He has
repeatedly said that the firm will not need to issue new stock.
The divestitures raise cash and reduce assets deemed risky by
regulators.  Credit-Card Sale  This week, the bank agreed to sell its Canadian credit-card
unit to  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  for C$7.5 billion in cash, while
releasing C$1.1 billion in liabilities, and said it will exit
the U.K. and Irish card markets. That may result in more
dismissals if Bank of America can’t find a buyer for those
European units, with a combined $19 billion in credit-card loans
and more than 4,000 employees.  The lender is also in talks to sell real-estate investments
held by its Merrill Lynch unit to Blackstone Group LP for as
much as $1 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said
earlier this week.  “We have important work to do to continue putting
Countrywide’s legacy mortgage issues behind us, and building the
capital we will need to meet new regulatory requirements and the
market’s expectations in coming years,” Moynihan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  