-- 
Barclays, Impala in Talks With Zimbabwe on Ownership Law

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m ,   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-08-19T16:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/barclays-impala-platinum-in-talks-with-zimbabwe-government-on-ownership.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  said they’ve received letters from Zimbabwe’s
government regarding submissions made to meet a requirement to
sell half their local units to black Zimbabweans.  London-based Barclays, U.K.’s second-largest lender by
assets, and Johannesburg-based Impala didn’t disclose details of
the letters. The state-controlled Herald newspaper reported
today that Indigenization Minister Saviour Kasukuwere had
written to the two companies and several others giving them two
weeks in which to produce plans on how they will dispose of 51
percent of their Zimbabwean units or risk losing their operating
licenses.  “We remain in ongoing dialog with the ministry,” Barclays
said in an e-mailed statement today. “Our submission is
confidential.”  Zimbabwe has the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome
reserves after South Africa. Other companies that were given the
same demand by Kasukuwere, according to the newspaper, were
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Zimplats Holdings Ltd., Duration Gold
Ltd.,  Caledonia Mining Corp. (CAL) ,  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ,  British American
Tobacco Plc (BATS) , Nestle SA and Cargill Inc.  Standard Chartered, which employs about 800 staff at
branches in the country, has submitted plans to the government
“and we’re waiting to hear back,” Tim Baxter, a spokesman for
the lender, said by telephone from London today.  Economic Gunpowder  Zimbabwe’s central bank has “no immediate or foreseeable
intention” to withdraw operating licenses of bank’s in the
country, Governor Gideon Gono said in a statement on the bank’s
website. The bank could not “speak for’” other industries, he
said.  People should refrain from “tendencies toward firing
harmful verbal economic gunpowder” that may damage the
financial industry and harm the southern African nation’s
economy, Gono said.  Kasukuwere wrote to  Zimbabwe  Mines Minister Obert Mpofu
requesting him to cancel Caledonia’s license to operate Blanket
gold mine because the company didn’t meet requirements on
indigenization, the Toronto-based miner said in a statement
today. Caledonia said it hadn’t received a response from
Kasukuwere since submitting a “comprehensive” proposal to him
on May 9.  Zimbabwe issued a March 25 decree giving foreign companies
45 days to explain how they will sell 51 percent of their assets
to citizens of the country. The decree followed approval of the
Indigenization and Empowerment Act.  About 700 companies have submitted their indigenization
plans to the government, the Herald said on Aug. 1. If accepted,
the companies have five years in which to dispose of their
shares, according to the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  