-- 
Billionaire Batista’s MPX in Talks on Colombia Coal Deals as Demand Rises

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-08-19T20:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/batista-s-mpx-in-talks-for-coal-contracts-from-colombia-unit.html
MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , the energy company
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , is negotiating
supply contracts to sell coal from its Colombian unit as it
prepares to start production by the end of next year.  MPX is talking to possible customers in  Asia ,  Europe  and
the U.S. and expects to announce the contracts in the first half
of next year, Chief Executive Officer Eduardo Karrer said late
yesterday in an interview in Rio de Janeiro, where the company
is based. Output from its open-pit mine is set to start in the
fourth quarter of 2012, he said.  “We have expectations of having thermal coal of very good
quality, which would guarantee us steady sales of these products
in the international market,” Karrer said, declining to name
the companies involved in the talks. “Colombia will increase
its coal exports by a lot.”  MPX, the only one of Batista’s five publicly traded start-
ups whose shares have risen in Sao Paulo trading this year, is
exploring for coal in the Colombian province of La Guajira and
plans to produce 35 million tons by 2020.  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  are
expanding capacity at nearby Cerrejon, the world’s biggest open-
pit coal mine for exports, to 40 million tons a year by 2015 as
part of a $1.3 billion investment.  Brazil, Chile Demand  MPX also plans to export its  Colombian coal  to Brazil and
Chile, which would help integrate the Latin American economies,
Karrer said. “The international market is growing at a rate
that can absorb the production increases,” he said.  Demand for coal is rising as China and  India , the world’s
fastest-growing major economies, produce more electricity and
steel, prompting companies to increase output amid near-record
prices. Thermal coal may average about $130 a ton this year, up
from $98 a ton last year, Morgan Stanley said July 26.  MPX is working to finish feasibility studies for its open-
pit Cañaverales mine and will decide on the investment before
the end of this year, Karrer, 50, said during the interview. The
company, which will have a 150-kilometer (93-mile) railway link
to its own port, is also doing the seismic studies for its
underground mines and expects to have a first reserves report as
early as year-end, he said.  “We are moving in the exploration stage, in the railway
and port engineering and we are also moving in the licensing
process,” Karrer said. “Our plan of 35 million will elevate
the company to become one significant miner.”  Shares of MPX closed unchanged at 35.50 reais in Sao Paulo
trading today. The stock had jumped 45 percent this year,
compared with a 24 percent decline for Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  