-- 
Biden Talks Trade With Coca-Cola, China CEOs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-19T04:07:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/biden-talks-trade-market-access-with-coca-cola-china-ceos.html
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  met
with about 20 U.S. and Chinese business leaders in Beijing today,
including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  Chief Executive Muhtar Kent, to discuss
how to improve economic relations.  U.S. companies in China say their profits are growing and
that the issue captivating political debate in  Washington  over
the value of the Chinese currency isn’t as important as market
access and a level playing field. Almost one in five respondents
in an American Chamber of Commerce survey published in March
said the biggest risk they faced was a stronger yuan.  “Our members do not think currency is the top issue in our
relationship,” said Erin Ennis, vice president of the U.S.-
China Business Council. Bigger concerns are “level-playing
field issues,” like opening up the Chinese market to U.S.
exports and protecting intellectual property.  Biden told Vice President Xi Jinping in a private meeting
yesterday that  China  must address its undervalued  exchange rate 
and remove import barriers so that the U.S. can continue an open
trade and investment relationship, according to administration
officials who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity.  “Our exports to china have been increasing even as we’ve
been growing our business inside China,” Caterpillar Inc.
President Richard Lavin, who was at today's meeting, said in an 
interview last week. Still, Lavin said he’s concerned that Chinese
competitors are given access to U.S. markets while U.S. 
corporations face challenges.  Overseas Growth  Lavin said the company is growing “aggressively” in China.
The Peoria, Illinois-based company, the world’s largest
construction- and mining-equipment maker, posted increased
profits and sales in the second quarter, largely due to growth
overseas, the company said July 22.  Caterpillar’s revenue from China almost doubled last year
to $3.3 billion from $1.9 billion in 2009. The company and its
dealers have almost 20,000 Chinese employees in China working at
16 manufacturing facilities and the company is either breaking
ground or has already started construction on almost half a
dozen more.  With elections looming next year, President  Barack Obama  is
under pressure at home to keep pushing the Chinese to raise the
value of their currency to damp imports and make U.S. exports to
China more competitive. China’s trade surplus surged to $31.5
billion in July as exports rose to a record.  “The trade deficit with China continues to leap so it’s
definitely not a problem that is fixing itself,” said Thea Lee,
deputy chief of staff at the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor
union. “With the economy in dire need of jobs” getting China
to revalue the yuan could “create potentially millions of jobs
in a very short period of time.”  Yuan Revalued  According to a June study by the Washington-based  Economic
Policy Institute , which looks at issues affecting low- and
middle-income workers, if the yuan and satellite currencies were
revalued to their equilibrium levels, U.S. gross domestic
product would grow as much as 1.9 percent and as many as 2.25
million U.S. jobs would be created.  Protection of intellectual property will be another issue
facing U.S. business that will be raised in the meeting, said
Tony Su, corporate vice president and president of DuPont
Greater China.  “We have a rising concern about IP protection,” Su said,
adding that it is an especially important consideration for his
company, the biggest U.S. chemicals maker by market value and
second-biggest seed producer in the world. “The government can
be an example to industry that stealing technology will be
punished by law.”  Sales and profit for most European and U.S. businesses
operating in China rose last year, according to surveys
published earlier this year.  Coca-Cola  Atlanta-based Coca-Cola yesterday announced plans to invest
$4 billion in the world’s fastest growing economy over three
years from 2012. First-half sales in China were running at
double the rate of 2010, the company said in a statement.  Seventy-eight percent of EU companies said they had a
“significant rise” in sales last year, compared with 50
percent in 2009, according to a survey of 598 EU companies doing
business in China published in May. Seventy-one percent said
they reported higher profit in China last year, up from 43
percent a year ago.  The performance and perception of EU companies dovetails
with that of U.S. businesses in China. In a report released in
March, more U.S. businesses said they were profitable last year
even as they became increasingly pessimistic about the Chinese
government’s commitment to improving  market access , the American
Chamber of Commerce in China said.  Very Profitable  Seventy-eight percent of member companies surveyed by
AmCham said their China operations in 2010 were very profitable
or profitable, the highest proportion in survey results dating
back to 2002, the Beijing-based chamber said in its annual
business climate survey.  For U.S. companies doing business in China and exporting
their products, yuan appreciation can hurt their sales. The
AmCham China survey of its members found that 17 percent said
yuan appreciation was the greatest risk facing its organization.  Both the U.S. and EU chambers said the biggest challenge to
doing business in China was concern that the regulatory
environment was increasingly arrayed against them in favor of
state-owned Chinese companies.  EU companies believe that China’s government is
increasingly discriminating against foreign-invested companies,
according to the survey. Forty-six percent expect China’s
government to have policies that discriminate against foreign
companies in the next two years, up from 36 percent last year.  Licensing Process  In the AmCham survey, seventy-one percent of the
respondents said China’s business licensing process
discriminates against foreign companies, according to the survey.  According to a list released by the White House the
following representatives from U.S. companies are attending
today’s meeting in Beijing: President and CEO General Electric
Co. Greater China Mark Hutchinson; JP Morgan Chase & Co.
Chairman and CEO for China Zili Shao; President for Dupont China
Tony Su; General Motors China Inc. President and Managing
Director Kevin Wale; Group President Caterpillar Inc. Richard
Lavin; CEO Corning Inc. China Eric Musser; Founder/Executive
Chairman of Acorn International Inc. Robert Roche; CEO Chindex
International Inc. and Chairman of the Board of United Family
Hospitals Roberta Lipson and Chairman of Board of Governors of
AmCham China Ted Dean.  Yesterday, Biden had private meetings and a dinner in his
honor hosted Xi. Later today, he’ll meet with Premier  Wen Jiabao 
and President  Hu Jintao . The administration says the primary
purpose of the visit is for Biden to get to know Xi, who is
expected to become the next president of China in 2013.  --Kate Andersen Brower and Michael Forsythe. Editors: Ben
Richardson, Paul Tighe  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Beijing at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  