-- 
Biden Says U.S. Safe Investment as Chinese Express Confidence in Economy

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-19T16:09:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/biden-says-u-s-safe-investment-as-chinese-express-confidence-in-economy.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  told
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  that China has nothing to fear when
it comes to its investment in U.S. Treasuries.  Biden and Wen both expressed confidence in the U.S.
economy, with the Chinese premier saying its stability “is in
the interest of the whole world.”  “We appreciate and welcome your concluding that the United
States is such a safe haven because we appreciate your
investment in U.S. Treasuries,” Biden told Wen yesterday in
Beijing, where he was on the second day of a nine-day trip to
 Asia . “I want to make clear that you have nothing to worry
about in terms of their viability.”  While Biden’s trip was scheduled before the first-ever
downgrade of  U.S. debt  by  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5, the issue
has been prominent in the public discussions between the vice
president and Chinese leaders. A day after S&P cut U.S. debt to
AA+ from AAA, China’s official Xinhua News Agency said the U.S.
government must realize it can no longer “borrow its way out of
messes of its own making.” China is the biggest single foreign
creditor of the U.S. with $1.17 trillion in holdings.  Biden said the U.S. will “take care” of U.S. Treasuries
“not merely because China owns 8 percent of them, but because
the Americans own 85 percent.”  Wen told Biden that during his trip he has sent a clear and
vital message that has reassured the Chinese people regarding
the safety of Treasuries.  Back on Track  Wen said “in spite of the difficulties facing the  U.S.
economy  at present” he believes that the U.S. can weather the
economic downturn and “get its economy back on the track of
healthy growth.”  Concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis and a global economic
slowdown has pulled the Standard & Poor’s 500 index down 16
percent from a three-year high on April 29. The MSCI All-Country
World Index has dropped 17 percent during the same period. The
 S&P 500  fell 0.3 percent to 1,137.83 at 11:18 a.m. in  New York 
after rising as much as 1.2 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  lost 41.47 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,949.11.  Yields on 30-year bonds were little changed at 3.41 percent
and headed for a weekly drop of 31 basis points, the most since
tumbling 49 basis points in December 2008. Yields on 10-year
notes increased four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
2.11 percent at 9:44 a.m. in New York, according Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  Lack of Confidence  “There’s a total lack of confidence in policy makers’
ability to defuse the situation,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-
based strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages
almost $100 billion. “Fear is breeding fear now.”  Biden’s counterpart Xi Jinping, the man most likely to
replace Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in 2013, said yesterday that
China and the U.S. need to work together to restore confidence
in the face of an “intensified” upheaval of the global
economy.  In his public statement, Wen told Biden: “It’s
particularly important that you sent a very clear message to the
Chinese public that the  United States  will keep its word and its
obligations with regard to its government debt. It will preserve
the safety, liquidity and value of U.S. Treasuries.”  China’s Treasury holdings of $1.17 trillion, while down
from their high of $1.18 trillion in October, have increased for
the past three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Meeting With Hu  After Biden met with Wen at the Leadership Compound, he met
with Hu at the Great Hall.  Biden told Hu that President  Barack Obama  asked him to come
to Beijing “to reaffirm our absolute total commitment to a
strong and enduring positive relationship with China.”  Administration officials said much of Biden’s trip is meant
to strengthen his relationship and understanding of Xi as Hu’s
likely successor. The two will leave Beijing today for Chengdu
in southwestern  China .  Tomorrow Biden will make remarks about the U.S.-China
relationship at Sichuan University in Chengdu. Afterward he and
Xi will visit Dujiangyan, a city in Sichuan Province that was
badly hit by an earthquake in May 2008. The two will visit a
high school there that was rebuilt after the quake. In the
evening, they will have a private dinner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Beijing at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 