-- 
Biden Tells Wen ‘You Have Nothing to Worry About’ Over Debt

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-19T09:22:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/biden-tells-wen-you-have-nothing-to-worry-about-over-debt-1-.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  told
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  his government doesn’t need to worry
about the safety of Treasuries as the world’s biggest overseas
holder of U.S. debt.  “U.S. Treasuries we’re going to take care of very closely,
not merely because China owns 8 percent of them; Americans own
85 percent,” he said when the two men met today in Beijing,
where he is on the second day of a tour of China. “Very
sincerely, I want to make clear you have nothing to worry
about,” Biden said, adding he and Wen shared an “absolute and
mutual confidence in the  U.S. economy .”  Wen had earlier told Biden he had sent a clear message to
reassure the Chinese people regarding the safety of Treasuries.
Biden’s trip follows the first ever downgrade of  U.S. debt  by
 Standard & Poor’s , which said political divisions in  Washington 
were preventing the country from tackling its fiscal deficit.  “I have absolute, unequivocal confidence in the strength
and vitality and the growth of the American economy,” Biden
said. “No one’s ever made money betting against America.”  Biden’s comments came as global stocks fell on concern the
U.S. economy is faltering and Europe’s debt crisis will spread.
The MSCI All-Country World Index declined 1.5 percent at 8:59
a.m. in  London  and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index slumped 2.5
percent, extending yesterday’s 4.8 percent plunge. S&P 500 Index
futures dropped 1.6 percent. Crude oil fell 3.3 percent in  New
York  and gold topped $1,850 an ounce for the first time.  Confidence  “There’s a total lack of confidence in policy makers’
ability to defuse the situation,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-
based strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages
almost $100 billion. “Fear is breeding fear now.”  Biden’s counterpart Xi Jinping, the man most likely to
replace Chinese President Hu Jintao in 2013, earlier said  China 
and the U.S. needed to work together to restore confidence in
the face of an “intensified”  upheaval of the global economy.  A day after S&P on Aug. 5 cut U.S. debt to AA+ from AAA,
China’s official Xinhua News Agency issued a warning: “The U.S.
government has to come to terms with the painful fact that the
good old days when it could just borrow its way out of messes of
its own making are finally gone.”  Before Biden spoke Wen told him: “It’s particularly
important that you sent a very clear message to the Chinese
public that the  United States  will keep its word and its
obligations with regard to its government debt. It will preserve
the safety, liquidity and value of U.S. Treasuries.”  Haven  While S&P’s downgrade led to a roller coaster week for U.S.
stock indexes and sparked a global equity selloff, investors
snapped up Treasuries on signs of slowing growth and a widening
debt crisis in  Europe .  The yield on generic 10-year government debt fell to a
record low 1.97 percent yesterday and has dropped almost 30
percent since S&P said it may cut the U.S. rating on July 14.  China’s Treasury holdings of $1.17 trillion, while down
from their high of $1.18 trillion in October, have increased for
the past three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We appreciate and welcome your concluding that the United
States is such a safe haven and we appreciate your investment in
U.S. Treasuries,” Biden said.  After Biden met with Wen at the Leadership Compound, he met
with Hu at the Great Hall.  Biden told Hu that President  Barack Obama  asked him to come
to Beijing “to reaffirm our absolute total commitment to a
strong and enduring positive relationship with China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Beijing at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  