-- 
BMW Executive Expects Mercedes to Start 2012 as Top Seller

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-08-19T19:15:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/bmw-executive-expects-mercedes-to-start-2012-as-u-s-top-seller.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW,
on a pace to become the top-selling luxury auto brand in the
U.S. this year, will probably be outsold by  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz early next year, a top executive said.  Updated C-Class compact Mercedes models will go on sale
later this year and probably make that brand the top seller in
the first quarter while BMW is still selling older 3-Series
models, said  Jim O’Donnell , head of BMW U.S. operations. As a
result, Mercedes may lead in deliveries for a few months, he
said.  “In the first quarter of next year, I would say Mercedes”
will be No. 1, he said. “Mercedes going into 2012 in the first
quarter will be in a strong position. Over the course of the
year, we still should be ahead of Mercedes.”  The new 3-Series, which reaches dealers in April, will help
produce a BMW-brand increase of 12 percent to 15 percent next
year, he said. The Munich-based automaker expects to be pursuing
back-to-back years as the top luxury brand in the market.  BMW’s U.S. sales rose 13 percent to 135,114 through July,
placing it 5,182 vehicles ahead of Mercedes.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus  brand deliveries fell 19 percent to 102,549
through July as the automaker copes with inventory constraints
from the March earthquake and tsunami. Lexus has been the top-
selling luxury brand in the U.S. for the past 11 years.  The results exclude Daimler’s Sprinter vans and Smart cars
and BMW’s Mini brand, which aren’t  luxury vehicles .  BMW is “on pace” to become the U.S.’s top selling luxury
brand this year, said  Ian Robertson , BMW’s top sales executive,
told reporters today in Carmel,  California .  Slower Growth  Sales growth globally will probably be “slightly lower”
in the second half of this year, he said, because of model
changeovers and questions about worldwide economic stability.  “I don’t think any of us can underestimate what’s
happening on the economic front,” he said. “The word that we
would use is that we are ‘cautious.’”  BMW’s success this year has been driven by the redesigned
midsize 5-Series line, introduced last year, and X3 sport-
utility vehicle.  The automaker delayed the introduction of the base 5-Series
until this quarter as part of its effort to put a new four-
cylinder engine in the vehicle, O’Donnell said. The all-wheel-
drive version should further fuel BMW’s growth.  Trailing Goal  While sales are up for BMW, the brand is about 3,000 short
of its projected goal for the year so far, O’Donnell said.
Shortages of the X3, X5 and all-wheel drive 3-Series and
5-Series cars have caused lost sales, he said.  “Worldwide, the demand for all-wheel driving is
increasing,” he said. “We’ve been surprised by the success,
particularly in  Europe , and we’re not getting the share that we
anticipated, so we’re suffering.”  O’Donnell, 61, is retiring from BMW this year as part of
the company’s mandatory age-60 retirement program, he said.  The brand’s sales in the U.S. are “reasonably”
consistent, Robertson said.  “We’re bringing models into the U.S. that are strong
models right now,” he said today in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  