-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Fall as Growth Concern Overshadows Inflation

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-08-19T21:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/brazil-rate-futures-fall-as-growth-concern-overshadows-inflation.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell as traders bet a slowdown in global
growth may help central bank President Alexandre Tombini tame
inflation without increasing borrowing costs.  Yields on the contract due in January 2013 fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 11.46 percent, a 40 basis-
point decline from the previous week. The yield earlier rose as
much as 11 basis points after data showed consumer prices rose
more than expected in August.  Investors overlooked the jump in inflation to maintain bets
the central bank may lower  interest rates  this month after the
 Federal Reserve  pledged to keep its target lending rate near
zero until at least mid-2013 and  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the
top U.S. credit rating. Brazil’s economy shrank in June for the
first time since 2008, and Tombini said yesterday that the
central bank will have to reassess the impact of global growth
at the next monetary policy meeting.  “The DI is reacting to the external environment,”  Solange Srour , chief economist with BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos in  Rio
de Janeiro , said in a phone interview, referring to Brazil’s
interest-rate futures contracts. “The Brazilian central bank is
looking at the global scenario, as other central banks are.”  Volatility gauges surged worldwide today after Citigroup
Inc. cut forecasts for U.S. economic growth and concern
intensified that the global expansion is weakening.  Brazil ’s inflation quickened for the first time in four
months to a faster-than-forecast 0.27 percent through mid-
August, the government statistics agency said today.  “With this worse IPCA-15 result, Brazil should break the
upper limit of the inflation target this year,” said Alessandra Ribeiro, an economist at Tendencias Consultoria Integrada in Sao
Paulo. The central bank is targeting inflation of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  The real was little changed today and gained 0.8 percent
this week to 1.5996 per dollar, its first weekly gain in three.
It fell 0.7 percent yesterday to 1.5991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net 
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  