-- 
Brazil’s CPI Surpasses 7% for First Time Since 2005

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-08-22T11:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/brazil-s-consumer-prices-rose-faster-than-forecast-in-august-on-food-costs.html
(Corrects July IPCA-15 figure in second paragraph of story
originally published Aug. 19.)  Brazilian inflation accelerated for
the 12th consecutive month and exceeded 7 percent for the first
time since 2005, undercutting bets that policy makers will
reduce interest rates this year.  The inflation rate, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose
to 7.1 percent in the 12 months through mid-August from 6.75
percent the previous month, the statistics agency said in a
report distributed in  Rio de Janeiro  today. Prices gained 0.27
percent from the previous month, compared with the median
forecast of 0.19 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 38 analysts.  “Food surprised with a strong acceleration,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltda. in
 Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “It shows that
service prices are still high and refutes the argument that the
central bank will cut rates in August or October.”  Carlos Hamilton, the central bank’s director of economic
policy, said today that monthly numbers tend to be volatile and
that the bank stands by its forecast that inflation will slow to
the 4.5 percent mid-point of its target range next year. Yields
on the  interest-rate  futures contract due in January 2013 rose
one point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.12 percent as of
12:32 p.m. New York time.  Food prices gained 0.2 percent through mid-August, after a
decline of 0.39 percent in the previous month, the statistics
agency said. The cost of household goods climbed 0.66 percent.  Inflation Target  “Core inflation indicators have shown a certain
moderation, as has full inflation,” Hamilton told reporters in
the southern city of Porto Alegre. “We believe that, looking
ahead, this is likely to continue, in line with our expectation
that inflation will slow to the target next year.”  Hamilton added that Brazil’s jobs market is showing signs
of the “expected moderation in activity” and that credit
growth will slow to about 15 percent by the end of the year,
from 20 percent in the year through June.  Investors are betting that the central bank will cut
borrowing costs by 0.5 percentage point this year, and are split
on whether they will cut rates this month, according to
Bloomberg forecasts based on interest rate futures.  Yields plunged yesterday after central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said policy makers will reconsider the global
economic outlook amid increased concern that worldwide growth is
slowing.  Global Growth  Tombini said on a conference call yesterday that policy
makers may “reassess” their earlier view that slower global
growth will have a “neutral or ambiguous” effect on Brazilian
inflation during their Aug. 30-31 meeting.  “We have a monetary policy meeting at the end of this
month, and surely the global environment that has become more
challenging recently as well as the economic activity indicators
that we have seen in  Brazil  will all be taken into account when
we consider the next steps for monetary policy,” Tombini said
in the call with journalists.  Tombini has raised the benchmark interest rate at all five
of its policy meetings this year, to 12.5 percent, to try to
cool the economy.  Brazil’s economic activity shrank in June for the first
time since December, 2008. Job growth in July was lower than all
10 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Industrial
production fell 1.6 percent in June, the second-biggest drop in
output since 2008, and business confidence in the second quarter
fell to its lowest level since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in  Porto Alegre  at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net . 