-- 
BSkyB Control Over Pay-TV Hurting Market, U.K. Competition Commission Says

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-19T07:58:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-19/bskyb-control-over-pay-tv-hurting-market-u-k-competition-commission-says.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
the U.K.’s biggest pay-television provider, has too much control
over pay-TV movie rights, the  Competition Commission  said.  The commission was asked by the U.K. government to look
into the allocation of the movie rights, and provisionally found
that BSkyB’s control over the paid TV market has lead to higher
prices and reduced choice for subscribers, it said in a
statement today.  BSkyB has exclusive first rights to play releases from
major Hollywood studios and the Isleworth, England-based
company’s size has made it difficult for smaller rivals to bid
against it, the commission said. Possible remedies include
restricting the number of studios that BSkyB may license or
making the licenses less exclusive, the commission said. BSkyB
could also be forced to acquire and resell movie content created
by rivals, the commission said.  “At the heart of the problem is Sky’s strong position in
the pay-TV market, with twice as many subscribers to pay-TV as
all other traditional pay-TV retailers put together,” the
commission said in the statement. “Having more subscribers
increases further its advantages when bidding in the next round
for pay-TV movie rights, and so it goes on.”  The investigation may not be completed until early 2012,
spokesman Rory Taylor said in an interview. At that point, the
commission will be able to make legally enforceable orders to
address any competition problems, and BSkyB will have the
opportunity to appeal any decision, he said.  “BSkyB continues to believe that no regulatory
intervention is required and that consumers benefit from high
levels of choice, value and innovation across a wide range of
providers,” the company said in a statement on its  website .  News Corp. (NWSA) , based in  New York , owns 39 percent of BSkyB and
abandoned a takeover bid for the company last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  